## REFLECTION v01
---
family: F1
voice_mode: teacher
mechanism_emphasis: automatic

The grief of this decade does not come in a single wave for a single loss. It comes in layers, some of them named and some of them not. My father died last year and that grief has a shape I can locate. But beneath it, arriving in the same period, is a grief for my body — the one I had in my thirties, the one that moved without the particular negotiations that my fifty-year-old body requires, the one whose reliability I took completely for granted. And beneath that, arriving without announcement, is the grief for the marriage as it was — not as it is, which is good enough and real — but as it was in the early years when we were building something rather than maintaining it. And beneath all of that, a grief I am still trying to name: for the self that got buried in the service years, the self that existed before she became so thoroughly defined by what she was for other people.

The mechanism of midlife grief is the layering. Losses arrive in proximity to each other, not because the universe has scheduled a particularly brutal season, but because this is the decade when multiple systems that have been running parallel to each other begin to register their changes simultaneously. The body changes. The parents age toward decline. The children move toward independence. The marriage enters its middle chapter. The career reaches its midpoint. Each of these is a loss of a prior state even when it is also, in some cases, a gain. And the nervous system is not designed to process simultaneous multi-register grief. It processes the acute loss at the front, while the quieter losses accumulate beneath it, unacknowledged and therefore unresolved.

What I notice is that the unprocessed layers surface at strange moments. I am not weeping for my body at my father's grave. But somewhere in the grieving of my father I am also touching the grief for all the other things in this decade that have changed permanently, and the cumulative weight is heavier than any single loss would explain.
---
層疊的哀傷所付出的代價，是正常哀悼過程中允許接觸記憶的能力。單一損失的哀悼有其階段、移動方式和最終轉化為可以與日常生活共存的形式的方式。然而，層疊的哀悼則以不同的方式運行。要處理的線索太多，無法乾淨地處理。處理某層哀傷會擾亂另一層。當我伸手去觸摸對父親的哀悼時，發現對身體的哀悼也在那裡，還有對三十多歲未能成為自己的自我的哀悼，以及沒有正式結論就悄悄結束的友誼的哀悼。這些層次相互複雜化。由於總是有一種新的哀悼在另一種哀悼之後等待著，因此它們無法乾淨地通過階段。

代價還包括能量。哀悼是代謝上昂貴的過程。被否認的哀悼、被延遲的哀悼、沒有名字或明確對象到來的哀悼——這種類型尤其昂貴，因為它需要能量卻不提供承認後的哀悼最終提供的解決方案。我已經在身體裡攜帶著哀悼，緊繃地壓迫著胸骨後方的位置，在那種不是由於睡眠不足造成的疲憊中，攜帶了比我自己意識到更長時間。

現在我最坦誠承認的代價是對我的快樂能力的影響。未解決的哀悼很難與真正的愉悅共存。它會滯留在愉悅之中，以一種微弱的調子在主要調之下稍微削弱它。我不完全能夠全心投入生活中美好的事物，不是因為這些美好事物不夠多，而是因為對那些已經改變、結束或被埋葬的事物的哀悼沒有得到足夠的空間去流動和轉化。
---
