0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about advanced practice. Advanced practice is perfect practice. Practice is perfect practice. Advanced practice is the practice that leads to complete liberation, to enlightenment. Now, there's advanced teachings all around. I was reading a Tibetan book about the advanced teachings. And the advanced teachings are there. the advanced teachings. And the advanced teachings are there, and they're interesting, if you're a beginner.

0:00:57
But unless you can do the advanced teachings, they won't work. They won't work at all. So what's necessary is advanced practice. So in this Tibetan book, So, in this Tibetan book, it would say something like, see that nirvana is in the finite. And so you would look around and say, oh. And to see that, you would have to be advanced, in a very advanced stage of your spiritual practice.

0:01:36
stage of your spiritual practice. Otherwise, it's just what you would see is just some concept. You are like, oh, let me try and guess or think. You can't see past your ideas or concepts because what is nirvana anyway? And of course it's in the finite. And what does that even mean? So when you start thinking about or start seeing the advanced teachings, So when you start thinking about or start seeing the advanced teachings, there's many stories of advanced teachings. You can't actually attain enlightenment unless you can do advanced practice. Now, advanced practice begins with Samadhi.

0:02:25
So Brahmananda, famous yogi, So, Brahmananda, famous yogi, student of the great Ramakrishna, he said that there's two parts of the spiritual path, the beginning and then the advanced. Beginning is before samadhi, where you're sitting there meditating and trying. And samadhi is where you go into a perfect state of meditation. perfect state of meditation. Samadhi is stopping thought completely. There's no sense of self, no thought of no thought, completely beyond the physical world, physical awareness, and merging your mind with eternity. There's a place in life, in There's a place in life, in the universe, where everything comes from, where everything intersects, and that's a place called nirvana.

0:03:30
Nirvana is not somewhere out there, but it's somewhere in your mind. And when you meditate, you stop thought, you can come to that place, you can merge your mind with the place where all things come from. That quiescent, blissful, ecstatic essence of all things. And in merging your mind with that, that's what we call enlightenment. what we call enlightenment. Or Samadhi is the state of enlightened mind. So in sitting meditation you can go into this enlightened mind by merging your mind with eternity. And in that experience you gain wisdom, you experience bliss.

0:04:24
bliss for a timeless time. You are one with everything. You are all being, all of creation. You are eternity itself, unmanifest. And that's Samadhi. That's an experience of meditation. that's advanced practice. It's to be able to meditate and go into Samadhi. Now there's also more advanced Samadhi called Sahaja Samadhi, which means that you're... that's what a Buddhist master is in Samadhi all the time. So not just a sitting experience of enlightenment, but outside of a sitting of enlightenment, but outside of a sitting practice, it's enlightenment all the time. Very, very powerful state. But advanced practice begins with just being able to go into Samadhi in your meditation practice.

0:05:33
So instead of sitting there and thinking and struggling and all the stuff that a lot of beginners do in meditation, you know, all the stuff that a lot of beginners do in meditation, it's to sit down and to stop thought perfectly and completely. And then that's advanced practice. That's where advanced practice begins. But advanced practice extends into your whole life, your whole way of being. being. Someone who is advanced in their spiritual practice, they overcome desire and fear. They are no longer plagued by these things. So they just kind of... and it's not like a, you know, when you first hear about overcome desire and fear, you start going, okay, so and, okay, so maybe I should lay off the potato chips, and things like that.

0:06:31
You start to go, oh yeah, okay, you start to reason it out and go, well, maybe you start planning and thinking. But there's some very, very, very deep desires and very, very deep aversions that you have in there. thing, you know, that karma from past lives that really kind of makes a very fixed structure of your being. You've got social conditioning from this lifetime. You know, there's all sorts of things that push your mind towards desires and aversions.

0:07:13
But But when you're advanced in practice, then you just intuitively stay away from desire and aversion. Or you stay away from desire and you will overcome aversion. It's not something you have to think about or reason. It's just automatic because you see the truth. because you see the truth. So with fear, fear isn't a real thing. It's an illusion. It's an illusion because one sees things incorrectly.

0:07:51
You see life in a wrong way and therefore you see a separation, you see something that can harm you, but that's not true. Life has given you life. The universe has given you life. There's nothing to be afraid of if you understand it. Life has given you life. The universe has given you life. There's nothing to be afraid of, if you understand it, if you see it. So, when you see the truth, then something that used to make you fearful doesn't cause fear anymore. It's just not there.

0:08:17
You don't have to say, oh, okay, now I'm going to be brave and overcome my fear. Fear doesn't occur. That's advanced practice. That's advanced practice. But desire, you've kind of figured out, hey, if I do that thing, if I want something, if that's within my being, that I want a relationship, or money, or something, or fame, if that's within your being, you realize that it always creates suffering. You just figure it out. you just figure it out. You know, that's why Buddha would say, you know, an enlightened person would rather drink molten lava than think a thought of desire.

0:08:59
Because they have figured out that it causes more pain than death by molten lava. You know, lava shots. So, So, you know, you just figure, you come to know the truth of life. You figure out what works and what doesn't work. There was a man, he goes into a department store, and he goes over to the counter and there's this beautiful woman, and she said, what can I help you with, sir?

0:09:33
What's your desire? I would desire to take you on a romantic trip around the world, go to Paris, go on a cruise over here, Italy, everywhere wonderful. Run away from my family, my wife, take all my retirement money and blow it on just this one amazing trip with you. And then he said, What I need is underwear and socks." Even though he has that desire, he would recognize that if he did that, it would not be as constructive for his life. There is a stronger dharma for him to be with his family, raise his kids, have a retirement. So we just figure out, like your spirit figures out, wow, if I want to go do that thing, it's just going to be crazy.

0:10:31
It'll be unbalanced. And drawing myself towards that, I draw myself into unhappiness. So we let go of desires. They just don't make sense at all. And then you have no problem, you have no aversion. And then you have no problem, you have no aversion. You just walk through aversion. It's not even there anymore. So, this is the operating system of a person stuck in illusion. A person stuck in self. A person who is not advanced in their practice. not advanced in their practice.

0:11:15
When you're advanced in your practice, you see that everything in life is sacred. You see that everyone is God or Buddha or whatever you want to call it, eternity. And you respect that. life, seeing that everything and everyone is enlightenment, and your life becomes very bright and beautiful. You become harmless through that awareness, and advanced practitioners harmless. They don't hurt other people. They see everyone as holy, and in that etiquette, see everyone as holy and in that etiquette, they cannot do anything to harm another person. An advanced practitioner is unattached. They don't fix to a state of mind. They don't fix to an idea of self. They have no more self-description. They don't fix to people, or places, or things They have no more self-description.

0:12:27
They don't fix people, or places, or things in their lives. They don't say, oh, I've got to have this watch, or this car, or this person. They just say, well, if it's meant to be, if it's God's will, it will be here. And if it's not God's will, then it won't be. If it's God's will for this thing that I have that I'm enjoying to go away, then it will go away. And I'm okay with that. That's advanced. Because if you're like, no, I want it, I want to keep it, that's what imbalances your spirit. That's a beginner's practice.

0:13:09
Advanced practice is just trusting life and accepting whatever life brings you. and accepting whatever life brings you. There's a famous Zen story, a true story, of a monk, a Zen master, and a woman has a baby, and she doesn't want to say who the father was, because I think her family wouldn't like it, who the father actually was, so she said it was the Zen master who got her pregnant. So the family brings the baby to the Zen master who got her pregnant. So the family brings the baby to the Zen master and says, Oh, I can't believe you did this. Now here, you have to raise the kid.

0:13:46
So the Zen master takes the baby, and goes, Oh, okay. And then the Zen master raises the kid. So he's like six or eight or something. And, you know, Zen master loves kids, raises him right, teaches him Buddhism and stuff. him right, teaches him Buddhism and stuff. And then when he's like six or eight, the family comes back and says, ah, we found out the truth. She actually had the kid with this guy and now they're married, so we'll take the kid back. And Zen Master goes, oh, okay. So no problem accepting what life gives you, and no problem putting a lot of energy into putting a lot of energy into everything that life gives you, and when it's time to go, you just let it go. Letting it go. Now, in advanced practice, you also gain a tremendous kind of control.

0:14:43
Yeah, it's a great thing. You get this thing where your will is no longer your will. Your will, you co-create Your will is no longer your will. Your will, you co-create the universe. You use the will of being instead of the effort of the self. So the self is like sitting there with elbow grease, doing all sorts of things. And that's the self trying to force things. So it's self force versus divine will. things. So it's self-force versus divine will. So in advanced practice you gain this kind of a divine will, and it's a divine will that you just have the intent to follow the Dharma, but things work out so that things having control over your time, life, and mind.

0:15:43
Everything comes together. You're not running around being frantic, trying to do something that's not working, and feeling out of balance. You might be doing a lot, but it all falls into balance. The time works out. Your life works out. Your mind works out. Not that you have to do any special additional planning. works out. Not that you have to do any special additional planning, it just happens because you're advanced in practice. There was a lay practitioner and his Buddhist master said, now I'm going to give you the advanced teachings. He's like, well what do I got to do? He's like, you got to do Whoa, what do I got to do?" He's like, you got to deal with these meditations, and you got to spend all this time doing it.

0:16:30
And he's like, I can't do that, I have a business, you know, I got the family over, you know, it's like the in-laws are visiting, you know. He's like, and also, I can't meditate for more than 15 minutes, because I got a pain in my back. And then I just sit there, and then I just think about the pain in my back the whole time. there and then I just think about the pain in my back the whole time and then the master says, you have to do it so that you can be enlightened. So the man goes home and he just sits there and he's like, I have to be able to do the advanced teachings, I want enlightenment more than anything else. So he kind of taps into that divine will and then the next day he gets an offer for his And then, the next day, he gets an offer for his business.

0:17:18
Someone wants to buy his business from him for a lot of money. And he's like, oh great, now I can sell my business because it will free up my time. This is great. And now I have a lot of money, I don't have to work. Perfect. And then, so he's sitting there and his family comes over and starts bugging him. The in-laws are there and everything. the in-laws are there and everything. And then he just keeps trying to meditate. And then the family goes, yeah, we're gonna go visit some other family across the country.

0:17:49
We're gonna bring your wife and the kids and in-laws. Everyone goes. And he's like, oh, perfect, isn't it? So they all go away. And then he's sitting there and his back hurts. And he just says, I gotta be, I gotta sit here. And it hurts and it hurts. back hurts, and he just says, I gotta be, I gotta sit here, and it hurts and it hurts, and then stops hurting. That's the story. But that's what happens.

0:18:16
You need to have, you need to have certain things in your life. If you're an advanced practitioner, everything that occurs in your life works for your advanced practice. everything that occurs in your life works for your advanced practice. And some people, you know, it's selling the business and getting rid of the family and the back pain. For some people, it's just, you know, it's working in the world. It's just that the way that you're going to work in the world is going to be, like, successful and balanced and balanced, versus you might have had a period in your life where work was hectic and crazy and tiring and draining. It won't be that anymore. You'll get control of your life and your time and your mind. Now, how do you get to advanced practice? By doing by doing beginning practice and intermediate practice.

0:19:19
That's what leads to advanced practice. So that means that you meditate. And you meditate as best you can, earnestly. You have to really push your meditation. You have to focus on mindfulness to the best of your ability. to the best of your ability, you've got to figure out your mind and how it works. So Buddha said, early on in his practice, before his enlightenment, he said, Wow, I realize that I have some thoughts that hurt, that cause suffering, that cause bad feelings. And then he said, And then I have some thoughts that don't hurt.

0:19:59
So he said, Okay, first thing I'm going to do, I'm not going to think any of those thoughts that hurt anymore. He said, okay, first thing I'm going to do, I'm not going to think any of those thoughts that hurt anymore. And he had a tremendous amount of personal power, from that moment on he never thought a negative thought again. But you have to, you've got to dope that out in your own mind. You've got to figure out what doesn't work and stop doing it. You got to, and you have to practice to get the strength of mind to be able to focus on mind to be able to focus on positive things. So that leads to the advanced practice. And compassion is a beautiful vehicle for being mindful, directing your mind to things that are bright and beautiful and helpful. Selfless giving is a beautiful way to direct your being Selfless giving is a beautiful way to direct your being to refinement that leads to the advanced practices.

0:21:00
It's nice to help out your spiritual organization. We can do all sorts of things. Set up administration, security, teaching. security, teaching. These are all ways that when you have the intent to help in your spiritual organization, it's charged with power. And when you do it, it's something that's very beautiful for you. I remember there was a time where my teacher would come once a month this hall that we were renting and we set, we decorated the hall and we're like oh yeah we're gonna have a cool meditation with our teacher and so we we went kind of like all out just decorating like crazy and you know we made, I don't know why, it was just so fun and we made little fish on like I mean all sorts of things there's like there was a big ocean theme going on fish, I mean all sorts of things. There was a big ocean theme going on. And he's all, oh good, happy fish. But that was a very powerful lesson to me actually. Because when you're doing something for your enlightened teacher, there's an inner dialogue. You're learning something by pushing your intent and your awareness towards helping, towards supporting towards helping, towards supporting the Dharma. So that was very, very beautiful.

0:22:32
And all the things that we do, you know, when you're doing your yoga, you're refining your mind, you're developing tremendous impeccability and learning to be selfless in your work. These are powerful ways to refine the self, and you must refine the self to get to advanced practice. Now advanced practice, it isn't, it's not that much different than beginning practice. It's all the same. So in beginning practice, you're given certain tasks, In beginning practice, you're given certain tasks, certain things that you're focusing on.

0:23:18
And the thing is that what you want to do is you want to do it to the best of your ability. You want to be earnest. You want to care about it, love it, be excited about it. If you're doing that as a beginner, then you will do excellent when you get advanced. when you get advanced. It's kind of like, you know, like a white belt. A white belt comes to the karate class and is excited, learning this new thing, it's just the art, it sounds so beautiful and fun, they just love it. And then, when they're a black belt, they're going to still have that same excitement, they bring the same excitement to the art, They bring the same excitement to the art.

0:24:02
It's just that they're learning different things. In the beginning, you learn beginning things. In the advanced, you learn advanced things. But if you bring a good attention, if what you observe is that you bring a good, positive attention to your beginning tasks, your intermediate tasks, and your advanced tasks, then the pathway tasks and your advanced tasks, then the pathway to enlightenment opens and you attain liberation. So that's why wherever you are, even if it's your first day, your first meditation, your first dharma talk, you always bring your best to the pathway to enlightenment, and that is the way to master the pathway to enlightenment. master the pathway to enlightenment.

0:24:51
Enlightenment is not impossible. The advanced practices are not impossible. They're very possible. So we just work on always bringing our best. If you always do, you always refine. You always refine yourself, become stronger, and you'll succeed. In our lineage, we have the teacher, the enlightened teacher. Now, for most people, unless they've been enlightened in many past lives, a teacher is very important for advanced practice. Because if you try to do it by yourself, you know, read some books, You know, read some books, see a few gurus here and there, just try to figure it out yourself.

0:25:43
You probably will only achieve a beginning or intermediate state of practice, because that's what you can glean yourself. But an advanced teacher can bring you into the advanced practices by showing you the you into the advanced practices by showing you the subtleties, things that were not apparent to you, things that you couldn't see because your karma blocked you. So they can see, and they can bring you into that. In our school, the teacher does it through transmission. So the teacher empowers you. They actually lift you into states of mind where you can lift you into states of mind where you can see spiritual truths. They'll take you from your karma, where you think you know everything, and then they'll show you something very, very high, beyond your karma.

0:26:40
And this is the entrance into the advanced practice, because the self, by itself, can't get to the advanced practice. Because the self, by itself, can't get to the advanced practice. It is through this complete transference, empowerment, where someone who knows, who is enlightened, who knows the advanced practice, can share the knowledge of the advanced practice. Advanced practice is not in words. Advanced practice is not in words. I told you I read the Tibetan books. They said the words. Anyone who reads them probably doesn't work for them.

0:27:26
You have to be an advanced practitioner, which comes from transmission. There are stories of these transmissions. stories of these transmissions. Like in Zen, sometimes a teacher will give a koan, and in that koan, the student receives not just a riddle, but they will also receive a state of mind. The teacher will pose a question, and that will be a transference of state of mind. transference of state of mind. And then when the student comes up with the answer, then they have liberation. They did this in Karma Yoga. Milarepa is posed with a task. You've got something to do, build a tower. And in the process of building the tower, he's given also spiritual direction, a transmission of teachings. Thereby, doing the Karma Yoga, Thereby, doing the Karma Yoga, you are able to transcend self to advanced states of mind, advanced practice.

0:28:35
So, a teacher knows how to engage a student who's ready, and give them direction, spiritual direction, spiritual awareness. direction, spiritual direction, spiritual awareness. But the student has to be ready. So if you come in and you're all excited, that's great. You're the white belt. But you have to refine yourself through meditation, mindfulness, and yoga, so that you're ready. Because the secret teachings, the advanced teachings, are subtle teachings. There's sometimes no words. There's sometimes a funny riddle or a task to do. But it's where you have to refine the self so that the teacher can show you something subtle.

0:29:35
The subtle truths of life. subtle truths of life. That's and then and then that way the teacher is like okay now I can actually show you something. I could actually teach you the most important things when you're ready and you get ready through meditation, earnest effort, succeeding in your yoga, your mindfulness, your compassion. And it is compassion. And it is by being excellent in beginning practice that you can become excellent in advanced practice. Okay, thank you.

