0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about spiritual protection and psychic self-defense. self-defense. This is an important subject because on the pathway to enlightenment you change and you grow and you face people and forces that seek to control you that seek to take energy from you.

0:00:48
take energy from you. On the pathway to enlightenment, as you gain greater spiritual power and luminosity, it becomes attractive to some people, and they want to get that power from you. So it's kind of like if you're walking down the street kind of like if you're walking down the street and you don't have any bags, you're not carrying a wallet, a thief wouldn't be interested in you. However, if all of a sudden you're walking down the street holding a big bag of money, then the thief might say, hey, all of a sudden you look really interesting. So this is what happens on the pathway to enlightenment. You is what happens on the pathway to enlightenment.

0:01:38
You gain power and light and then there are those who seek to take it from you. So psychic self-defense is just maintaining the integrity of your mind and your awareness field. Having your own energy, mind and your awareness field. Having your own energy, not having someone take it from you, not having someone influence your awareness field in a negative way, in a limiting way. So psychic self-defense is purely maintaining your power, maintaining your luminosity.

0:02:24
So in the world there are two types of people. There's wolves and sheep. The sheep are the victims of the wolves. And the wolves are people who seek to feed off of the sheep. to gain power and happiness at the expense of others. So wolves will either fight you for an opportunity to get what they desire, or they will feed off of you. They'll try to take power from you. And in both cases it And in both cases, it limits you. You're either pushed away from something positive and strong, or you're a victim to them. So, wolves, they very often will kill and destroy anything in the way of their desire. destroy anything in the way of their desire.

0:03:43
Wolves are people of power. Now, we don't often run into wolves. Not often. You run into, you know, an angry person. Let's say you're in the office, you're working with a co-worker who's angry. Maybe that person is up for, you're both up for a promotion and you get it, or you're about to get it, and that person's angry and fighting with you about it. Well, in that case, yeah, there's still some psychic self-defense that you have to do, That's a regular person and not necessarily a very powerful wolf. A powerful wolf would be someone who is able to make powerful changes.

0:04:37
Politicians are sometimes wolves, lots of them. They will act off of people's fears and desires. They'll point out, you're afraid of this. They'll point out, you're afraid of this, you need that, you want that, and I'm the one who's going to get it for you. But the politician basically is just empowering themselves through the other people. So wolves tend to be people with power. A minor wolf will be the person you're arguing with at work. So we have to learn ways of working with the wolves. Now the most important way of dealing with someone with power, we're talking about someone with more power than you, right?

0:05:38
Because if you go into a fight and than you, right? Because if you go into a fight and you're much better than your opponent, it's not much of a fight. It's easy for you. So that would be the person in the office. But when you face someone more powerful, stronger, then having a greater skill set of Self-defense is is important so the first and foremost way that we Strengthen our defense is through awareness It's the same as in It's the same as in self-defense in the physical.

0:06:29
If you're walking down the street and you're unaware, you might walk right into a group of gang members and be hurt. You might not see someone who's looking to rob someone, and then you make an easy target. target. When you lack awareness, you become an easy target. So the first and foremost thing in self-defense of any sort is awareness. When you look down the street and you see a shady character hanging out by the alley, then you can cross the street or go the other way. And just because you saw that, you're able to stay away from harm. So awareness stay away from harm. So awareness is the key. The second important thing is to not have accessible desires and fears, because a wolf will play off of those. They'll say, oh, you're You're easy to anger, and that's how they can unbalance you.

0:07:39
They go, oh, you want something. They can unbalance you. So they can feel it. They can feel it in you. And whether they're, you know, let's say they're, the wolf is the CEO of a competitive company, right? The wolf will feel your attention. the wolf will feel your attention. And if there's fear in you, anger in you, desire in you, they'll be able to find that and find a way to off balance you in terms of your personal power.

0:08:15
And then they can take you out. It's kind of like a judo person. They grab another person. As soon as they feel attention, they know how to turn and switch and throw the person. They know how to turn and switch and throw the person So they find they find that way and they find it by finding where you're out of balance The third way that we deal with these kinds of wolves is through Discipline We develop greater and greater personal power we develop greater and greater personal power.

0:08:52
So when our Judo is strong, then it's much, much harder for them to throw us. Even if they're far better than us, when we become stronger, we're better at handling the throw. Now, we develop our discipline primarily through meditation. In meditation, your mind becomes strong. meditation. In meditation your mind becomes strong. You gain personal power, mental clarity, and awareness. And through developing your concentration and focus, you're able to deal with all sorts of onslaughts from the wolves of life. So this is the primary way. However, than from the wolves of life.

0:09:38
So this is the primary way. However, we also will focus on developing ourselves in in many ways so that we're able to deal with the wolves in practical ways. So for example, learning martial arts. When you learn martial arts, then you actually become When you learn martial arts, then you actually become strong against the wolves that would maybe attack you or try to rob you on the street.

0:10:13
And that gives you a kind of power. When you're in your career, you develop your career to be very, very strong. You develop powerful skill sets and tremendous business acumen. skill sets and and tremendous business acumen and Then when you're dealing with the wolves in the workplace and in business you become strong and more capable of working with them and Then we have ways of Power for dealing with the wolves and these ways of power with the wolves. And these ways of power come from mental awareness, come from knowledge of energy and dimensionality.

0:11:02
Very simple practices. When you feel that, when you have the awareness that a wolf is coming at you, that their attention is on you. You can practice a mental technique with the navel chakra that pushes them off for a period of time. What you do is you focus on your navel chakra and you see through your mind's eye a bright white light in the navel. white light in the navel. And then you feel that that white light is generating all around your body, all around your aura, a flame, flames completely surrounding you. Now this is an effective technique because it is a powerful technique. It is connecting the navel technique. It is connecting the navel chakra, the place of spiritual power, with a dimension of protective energy, of a protective fire, and it surrounds your whole energy body. Now, when you think of something, your mind, your awareness field touches it. So, when you're your awareness field touches it.

0:12:27
So when you're thinking about positive things, strong things, like you're thinking about Buddhas, Bodhisattvas, you're thinking about having a successful, positive, strong life. When you're thinking about the Dharma, your mind is constantly touching those things, and you're filled with life. filled with life. However, when someone is trying to affect you with power, they will be thinking about you. They'll be feeling you out and focusing on you. And their mind will touch your aura. It touches your energy body. And when your energy body is connected with this dimension, then there's these... it feels like flames. So they touch it and like flames, so they touch it and they go, oh this is hot, and then they back off. So this is an effective means when you are sensing that someone is, that a wolf is focusing on you.

0:13:29
Another way of understanding self-defense is through martial arts. arts. So, for example, in Wu Wei Do, it's a very effective art of understanding how to break power. So, whenever someone's force is there, in Wu Wei Do there are techniques to drop their force. And all the Wu Wei Do techniques are techniques of awareness, of Wu Wei Dou techniques are techniques of awareness of how to feel force, subtle force, physical force, and how to make small, very simple shifts where the power of the opponent attacking is completely gone, completely flattened. So my teacher used to do demonstrations of martial arts So my teacher used to do demonstrations of martial arts because he was a martial arts master.

0:14:30
And what he would do is he would only work with his black belt students. And he would have them come over and say, okay, try to get me or try to kick me or punch me or something. And when you would come to try to attack him, sometimes he would touch you, sometimes he wouldn't even touch you, he would just project energy. Sometimes he would touch you, sometimes he wouldn't even touch you, he would just project energy.

0:14:54
And you would be, the next thing you know, you're on the ground. You're like, what happened? And the feeling that you have is you're going towards him, you intend to touch him or grab him or something. And even if you have strong martial arts, these are all black belts, The moment he projected this energy, it's a small shift, and you have no more will at all to continue the attack. Your whole body just gives up on the will to attack. And then you're on the ground. But we find this in physical attack, in subtle physical attack, when the wolves are coming at you. If you're aware through martial arts, aware through having a clear mind in meditation, you're able to find these ways of making these small shifts, very subtle shifts, small shifts, very subtle shifts, where the person's will to attack is gone, and their power is flattened. So these are a couple simple understandings of psychic self-defense.

0:16:18
Now there's another kind of wolf. It's still a wolf, but it comes over to the sheep, you over to the sheep, you know, like instead of coming running in chasing the sheep it kind of like walks in smiling wagging its tail saying oh I'm not a problem yeah don't worry about me I'm I'm barely a wolf I'm I'm cool and then it comes over and buddies up with the sheep and it's like hanging out with the sheep and like, well, he's not barking at us, chasing us, he must be okay. And then they get you. So we can call this the soft wolf. Soft wolf approach. Now, the soft wolf is a trouble You can face the hard wolf, an opponent who's trying to hurt you, and you can be like, ah, no way, I'm going to push back. But then the soft wolf comes over, and you're like, oh, it's okay, we're buddies.

0:17:27
The soft wolf wants to be your friend, and sometimes is. Or your parent. Or your husband. Or your brother or sister. or your husband, or your brother or sister. So the soft wolf always has to be close. And the soft wolf is close inwardly. That is, through some kind of attachment. The soft wolf gets energy from you by getting a rise out of you. A lot of people who are soft wolves, they love you.

0:18:00
A lot of people who are soft wolves, they love you, but then they're also a soft wolf. They also get a rise out of you. They're able to push your buttons and get you angry. And then they get some energy out of that. A lot of families operate this way. They are soft wolves to each other. So, they will, you know, it's through attachment where they can get you angry, if they can get sadness, if someone can get fear. All of these ways are ways where they're able to access energy from you. And people do this all the time, it's very, very common, but it's a place where spiritual seekers can lose a tremendous amount of energy.

0:18:48
where spiritual seekers can lose a tremendous amount of energy. So we have to be careful of the soft wolf. And what you've got to do is you just have to analyze your life and just say, all right, so where am I losing energy? With whom that I am interacting with interacting with, do I lose energy? And then you have to be able to change that. You have to move away from places where you lose energy. If you stay in situations where you lose energy from people, then you will forever be diminished. So you can consider the soft wolf like a vampire. a vampire. They keep you because they want to keep feeding off of you. And then they just keep taking energy, keep taking energy. And you're constantly being drained of energy, but you don't break out of it. So most people don't break out of it. They stay in situations, in relationships, they keep dealing with the same people in the same way, and they realize relationships, they keep dealing with the same people in the same way, and they realize they're losing a lot of energy. Now, the soft wolf gets energy from that, right? And when you get that energy, or when they get that energy, they go, okay, this is what life is like, I'm happy with this. But it's such a bad situation. So the spiritual seeker has to break out of those situations. They have to change them so The spiritual seeker has to break out of those situations.

0:20:26
They have to change them so that they don't lose energy. Either get away or modify the relationship so that you don't lose energy. This is a very, very simple and basic thing. And spiritual seekers tend to find themselves dealing with soft wolves in the beginning of their study. It happened for Buddha. Soft wolves in the beginning of their study it happened for Buddha Buddha was at at home in his kingdom and Everything was great Everyone loved him. He was good at everything. It was having he had, you know had everything he could ever want and and basically he had a bunch of soft wolves around him and Eventually he had to get out. He he just left he said I have to break he had to get out. He just left. He said, I have to break this connection because this connection is keeping me down spiritually. So he left. And then that's when his spiritual practice became powerful and that's how he became liberated. If he had stayed in the never been enlightened. So we have to be careful of the soft wolves. So sometimes you don't know when you're interacting with the soft wolves, but you have to analyze things. And if you ask yourself deep down inside, you'll know what is powerful for you and what is and what is draining for you. Your being knows for sure. It's just that a lot of times you think about it too much, or you reason it too much. For figuring out where you lose energy with people, it's more of a feeling, of an intuition. And it's an easy one to find. You just say, what about this person? How do I feel? And then you'll know. If you think about it, And then you'll know. If you think about it, then you could start saying, yeah, but they're really nice. I mean, they are smiling at me a lot.

0:22:33
Even though I feel horrible after hanging out with them. So you got to just trust your feelings. You know, reason is a good thing. Thinking is a good thing. But it's one vehicle for understanding life. It's one vehicle for understanding life, and you might have five other vehicles, but if you're only using one, you might not be using it for the right thing. You might have a station wagon that's good for going and picking up groceries, but it's not so good for off-roading.

0:23:07
Maybe the Jeep is better for that, right? So we wanna use our facilities for understanding properly, are facilities for understanding properly and then understanding where you lose energy the best vehicle for that is Intuition is just feeling and then that way you're able to see correctly In this way kind of the heart sees Sees more clearly than the mind So So you've got to get rid of people like that. If somebody is really, really draining in your life, they'll take you off the pathway to enlightenment.

0:23:45
So you've got to either just get away from them, or you've got to change things. But you've got to do it. This is a very, very difficult thing, because nobody changes relationships and stops talking to people who they're accustomed to talking to. talking to people who, you know, they're accustomed to talking to. Nobody does that. Everyone's a creature of habit, stuck in those karmas. But if you want to become powerful, if you want to become more luminous, you've got to get away from the soft wolves. I remember, so my teacher was a master healer.

0:24:29
He healed students of cancer, all sorts of diseases, blindness. Whenever someone, whenever any of his students had trouble health-wise, he would always talk with them. He would always send them to regular doctors, you know, just so that they had more understanding them to regular doctors, just so that they had more understanding of the illness. But then he would always heal them. So he was a master healer. And I was around him many times when he was healing people. And he would tell them everything about their illness. Like, here's what your illness is, specifically, and here's the path of how it's going to get specifically, and here's the path of how it's going to get better. You know, tomorrow you'll notice this, in a week you'll notice this, and in two weeks it'll be gone.

0:25:21
These kinds of things. This is what he would say. But he, but very often he said the cause of illness is a person. A person that they were close to in life. He said that unless you're in a very severe environmental place that causes illness, that things like all sorts of illnesses, cancers and everything, is caused by vibrations from other people and vibrations of people that you're close to. So he very often drew that point as the place where an illness started. that point as the place where an illness started. People get, they do this thing we call lining you out.

0:26:11
They get a line of energy on you, and that line of attention has energy from them that touches your aura, and that can negatively affect your energy lines. And over time, if they get lots of ideas about you, lines. And over time, if they get lots of ideas about you and stuff, this will create disturbances in your subtle physical body that can then result in physical illness. So we have to be careful about being open in our heart to people who cause damage to to us. So, you know, this is the world that you start to become aware of. But then you can't be too weird about it. You can't get paranoid. When you start to think about psychic self-defense, that's when you go, oh my gosh, people are lining me out. Oh my gosh, I'm going to get sick, or I don't know, you know, all this stuff is happening. But if you get stuff is happening. But if you get paranoid, then you end up going into a fear mode, and then you end up making yourself more accessible to getting hurt. So you have to be balanced and positive, and just develop a clear mind, develop personal power, and with this awareness develop personal power, and with this awareness you'll be stronger.

0:27:42
It's kind of like if you take a karate guy, right? This guy's learning karate and he starts learning about all of these defenses and sees all these different attacks, and then if he gets paranoid he'll walk down the street and then, you know, he'll walk past some old lady and he'll think she's gonna kick at him and he'll be like blocking. Oh my god! Wait, okay. Or he might just hit her, right? hit him and he'll be like blocking. Oh my god! Wait, okay. Or he might just hit her. Right? Because he thinks that everything could be an attack. Everything could be an attack. So a lot of people when they learn psychic self-defense because it's mental, they start going, ha ha ha ha, and everything. And that's silly. Yeah. The monks sitting together are going, hmm, don't try to get a line on me. Don't try going hmm don't try to get a line on me don't try to line me out You're lining up my begging bowl You lined out my robes. I mean it can get ridiculous So so we just you know move forward in a positive way So as Buddhists Buddhists. We seek not to be a sheep, because sheep are fed on, right? And we don't seek to be a wolf, because wolves are mean. They will push people down so that they can get what they want. And that brings horrible karma. It doesn't make you happy. So we don't want to be a sheep or a wolf.

0:29:12
happy. So we don't want to be a sheep or a wolf. We want to be victors. We want to be victorious. And being victorious is being enlightened. Being victorious is rising above it. Being victorious is dealing with the wolves in a very, very enlightened way. So we don't in a very, very enlightened way. So when a wolf is coming at us, we're not trying to hurt them. When a wolf is attacking us, even if they're more powerful than us, and it's really hard, and we're in a lot of pain, and they've taken advantage of us, and even if they knock us down, is at the best in the way of Aikido. In Aikido, they attack us, and we try to put them down without hurting them. We try to take their energy, not expend a lot of energy, and use it so that you can stop their attack.

0:30:22
We care about ourselves not getting hurt, not getting hurt, but we also care about the attacker not getting hurt and not accruing worse karma by hurting us. So we really seek a way of compassion. And even if the attacker beats us up and puts us down and hurts us and steals from us, we continue to regard continue to regard them in compassion. So this is very important for the Buddhist way of dealing with the wolves, dealing with people who try to hurt us. You know, there was a time where Buddha was teaching in a place called Deer Park, and he taught there for many, many, many days. Park and he taught there for many, many, many days. And a Hindu who heard his teachings and saw some of the students in his community of Hinduism leave and go and study with the Buddha, he got angry and he got jealous and he was mad. So he decided that he was going He decided that he was going to go and attack the Buddha.

0:31:40
He wanted to kill the Buddha. So he knew that Buddha was always going to this one place to do teachings every day. And then he decided to go there with a knife. And he went in with a knife. And Buddha had awareness. and Buddha had awareness, he had some spiritual seeing that this guy was going to be there that day. And then the guy came and Buddha didn't show up. Then the guy left and after the guy left, Buddha shows up. And then he hears that the Buddha came, so he does the same thing the next day. Buddha doesn't show up, guy leaves, Buddha shows up.

0:32:25
And then the next day, same thing happens. shows up and then the next day, same thing happens. And then the guy was, he kind of had anger fatigue. He was really mad. He kept showing up with a knife because, you know, that was his original plan, but he wasn't so mad anymore. And then finally Buddha saw that it was the right time and he shows up and the guy's all like sitting there with his knife. And then Buddha teaches about nonviolence.

0:32:48
And then Buddha teaches about non-violence. And when he teaches about non-violence and the beauty of letting go of anger and violence, then the guy sees it, sees the truth. And then he drops the knife and then at that moment became a Buddhist monk. So we seek to have such victories. So we seek to have such victories. When someone wants to kill us, we are intelligent and we have awareness and we handle the situation the best we can in a great pragmatic way. And then we always seek to bring enlightenment. Yes.

0:33:32
Now, sometimes you're in a sangha, sometimes you have spiritual friends, right? In a sangha, sometimes you have spiritual friends, right? And even though you've got good spiritual friends, sometimes they hurt you. Sometimes they get mad at you. Sometimes, whatever, you know, the worst thing comes out of them, and you get hurt. So this is an important consideration. Because you could say, oh, I've got to fight even my friends. I've got to fight even my friends. But you don't. Once you've gone through understanding all of your relationships in your life and you know where things are powerful, where things drain your energy, you'll realize that, let's say, you have certain friends who are positive friends 90% of the time. Or you're in a saga where your interactions with people generally are powerful and uplifting.

0:34:24
saga where your interactions with people generally are powerful and uplifting. And then you say, okay, so a good friend or a spiritual brother or sister, once in a while, they hurt me. When that happens, we practice compassion. We accept that we get hurt sometimes, that we get hurt sometimes. But we also see that the relationship is a powerful and positive relationship overall. And then we can accept that we're not in a horrible state as a victim, that once in a while people make mistakes, and that it hurts sometimes. And then that's when we practice compassion. It's like in the dojo. When you're in the dojo, When you're in the dojo, you're practicing punching and kicking, and one day, one of the guys in the dojo might punch you really hard and maybe even break your nose or hurt you somehow, right?

0:35:24
And it was wrong, and it was bad, and it hurt you. Well, that happens sometimes. However, 99% of the time, everyone in that dojo, you're working on it, you're sparring You're working on it, you're sparring with people, you're developing yourself. Your power is going up, your discipline is going up. And once in a while you get hurt. When that happens, you don't get mad, you don't fight back, you just accept it and practice compassion. Compassion for the guy who just broke your nose. It's powerful, but this is the way of the warrior.

0:36:00
You never become strong in self-defense by getting hurt once and running out of the dojo. never become strong in self-defense by getting hurt once and running out of the dojo. You stay forever weak. So we accept our spiritual friends, even when they hurt us, we practice compassion. We know that we become stronger in the relationship with them. powers of protection in the universe. So another aspect of safety, protection, defense is the awareness of these powers. These are wrathful energies, wrathful dimensions, wrathful divinities. they exist and when we have awareness of them, we can bring those powers into our lives. Some of the wrathful divinities are Bodhisattvas, those who seek compassion for all beings and beings. And then these wrathful ones, these protectors, they bring a tremendous strong energy. And it's an energy that's capable of dealing with the most nasty, powerful wolves Pala means protector. And there are a number of these protector beings. Some of them are Bodhisattvas like Vajrapani, Mahakala. And some of them, some of the protectors are not Bodhisattvas. They're just, you might just say, it's like having a watchdog, right? And that dog, a watchdog, right? And that dog, if something gets near, just barks, and then it scares people away.

0:38:05
So it's kind of, there are these beings, they have power, they have awareness, and they're all protective. So there's a study of the awareness of those powers and divinities, and by being able to access them, knowledge of them. In Tibetan Buddhism, they meditate on them. You bring that energy into your life and it also creates a very, very strong means of protection for the Dharma. Now, when you are connected with these dimensions and some magical things happen, And the magical things that happen are, you stay safe. You might get into a car accident and total your car. However, you're not hurt at all. And so there's these, just by serendipity, weird things happen that keep you safe. There's like magic when you're connected to these dimensions.

0:39:12
when you're connected to these dimensions. And they're very real, these divinities. Very real. And to some degree, everybody who enters the pathway to enlightenment with a pure heart enters into these protecting energies, these protecting divinities. So when your heart is pure, when you seek enlightenment completely, a light of protection comes around you. And this is the way, the way of the Buddhist monk, the way of the seeker of enlightenment. It is to face the difficulties of the world, difficulties of the world be intelligent be a victor be compassionate and just because of the purity of seeking enlightenment you enter into a universe a world a divinity of protection Okay, thank you

