0:00:00
I'd like to talk about the secret to Buddhist yoga. The secret to Buddhist yoga is quite simple. The secret to Buddhist yoga is quite simple it is seeing the light of eternity in impeccable attention to the transient world Now Buddhist yoga is the process of Looking past the finite the finite Looking beyond the physical and moving your attention To the light of eternity to the truth of life Buddhist yoga is the essence of spiritual practice it brings you into a condition of brings you into a condition of balance and peace in life.

0:01:19
So it is by the secret that we come into this balance. Because all too often, when people engage in spiritual practice, they get confused. They get thrown off. They can't see past the transient. thrown off. They can't see past the transient. They can't see past the physical world. Most people, even in spiritual practice, they see the transience of life. They see things as good and bad, dead or alive, win and loss, and they're caught up in seeing life this and they're caught up in seeing life this way. And when you perceive life as good and bad, you like good and you don't want bad. So when you get something you consider to be good, then you're happy.

0:02:21
And then when something bad happens, you're unhappy. you're unhappy. It creates suffering. So this is an experience where we're affixed to the transience of life. And in that experience, there's always going to be ups and downs, happiness, sorrow, but ultimately, there's a spiritual dissatisfaction. There's a suffering a spiritual dissatisfaction. There's a suffering of one's being because you're missing the truth of life. So we have to see past it. When you're always focused on the things of the transient world, it blocks out the light and you don't see life in its eternal truth. and you don't see life in its eternal truth. Life is completely transient on the surface, yet if you're really counting on the things on the surface for your happiness, then it destroys your happiness.

0:03:32
I mean, you can just probably think about some times in your life where you've had in your life where you've had things that you thought really, really, really mattered at the time. Things where you spent a lot of energy, where you really, really pinned your happiness on an outcome. And then now you can look back at it and say, oh, that was completely useless. It could be a job. You're like, oh, I've got to get this job. I went to this interview.

0:04:03
I want to get this job. You're like, oh, I've got to get this job. I went to this interview, I want to get this job. That will make me happy. That will fix all my problems. And then you don't get the job. And then you get another job. And then you say, okay, well, that didn't work out. But look, I'm still here. Things are still going on.

0:04:24
affixed all this desire to get that one job. It was a waste of energy. I got unhappy because I didn't get it. But yet life goes on. So that's where we affix, we actually give importance to certain things that are not inherently important. that are not inherently important, but we create that importance. And then it works out, we're happy, it doesn't work out, we're unhappy. But then it changes, because that's the way that the transient world is.

0:05:07
So what you focus on, you become. Perceive life gives It creates the the realness of life in the transient so if you say you know, this is important to me you'll pin all your hopes on and Then life doesn't necessarily always work out the way that we want to so it becomes a cause for suffering very often Even if we get the things that we want suffering very often. Even if we get the things that we want, it turns into something new, and then we want something else. Desire never ends. So if you desire something and you get it, then there will be some satiation after a period of time, you'll desire something else. There's no end to that game. So when you're caught up in this, in the transience So when you're caught up in this, in the transience of life, pinning your happiness to the good things and trying to run from the bad things, you will always be in a condition of suffering.

0:06:24
You know, I'm doing spiritual practice to make my life better, to make my life stronger, so that I can have the things I like and get rid of the things I don't like. You see, we create this mental model of the world. Everybody does. Everyone creates a view of this would be good in life, this would be bad in life. This would be good in life. This would be bad in life. This is what I want. This is what I don't want. And then, when you're faced with a change in that model, something doesn't work out, suffering.

0:07:05
Something works out, limited happiness. But Buddhist yoga is the process of undoing that. It's the process of turning that on its head. undoing that. It's the process of turning that on its head. So in Buddhist yoga you would have this idea, I want to do this, I don't want to do that, and then Buddhist yoga would make you face what you don't want to do, and throw away what you want to do. Because your model that you create of what you want to be happy, it for complete suffering. And then Buddhist yoga is the way to show you beyond that suffering. It shows you that the self's definitions are limited, and that you can do the opposite and break past the self's definitions and see life in a more eternal view. But in Buddhist yoga, more eternal view. But in Buddhist yoga you do this again and again and again, because the self keeps on creating desires, a new model of what you want and what you don't want. So you have to really start to see the way through, see that there's something more more eternal in your experience. So seeing something more eternal is seeing a deeper truth and experience than the the drama that's unfolding before your eyes. So let's say you go to a horror movie and the horror movie is scary and And the horror movie is scary and horrible and terrible.

0:08:52
It makes you feel bad and afraid and everything, right? But at the same time, you're there on a date with someone you love very much. Now, that changes everything. You can have this horror film unfolding before your eyes, but be completely focused on love. focused on love. So this is the way that we kind of take a step below the drama of life, a step deeper than the transience, into a greater truth. And then you find that you have a totally different experience. But spiritual practitioners are very often learning meditation Spiritual practitioners are very often learning meditation, mindfulness, Buddhist yoga, in order to make their lives better, to get the things that they want, and to stay away from the things they don't want.

0:09:53
But this is just... it's madness. It doesn't actually bring liberation. It actually brings more trouble. It doesn't actually bring liberation. It actually brings more trouble. When you start to meditate, when you start to do yoga, when you start to practice mindfulness, your mind becomes stronger, you gain more personal power, you become aware of additional dimensions of life. And if you're still acting in a way of desire and aversion, then you're just going to suffer. desire and aversion, then you're just going to suffer. You're going to have a harder time.

0:10:32
You're going to be more sensitive, so you're going to come across things that make you that you don't want, and it'll hurt you more. Because you say, oh, I'm more sensitive, and now that thing bothers me ten times more. Yes, because it bothers you. There's a thing that bothers you, so it'll bother you more. you have to be able to look through that model. Meditation, yoga, mindfulness, these are practices not to make yourself get what self desires, not to keep you away from what self is averse to. It's to bring you beyond that.

0:11:12
is just elevated and empowered through Buddhist yoga, then it creates a greater a greater degree of self, which is greater degree of anguish and suffering. But really the secret is not to do that. It's not to make a stronger, bigger, bigger, brighter, richer, self, right? More famous. Million Twitter followers. Not to do that because that just creates more trouble. Like if you take somebody, you know, and that this person for some reason they just keep, every time you let them, they keep running into a wall. They say, oh there's a wall, I'm going to run running into a wall. They say, oh, there's a wall, I'm going to run into it. Now, if you take them down to the gym, they do some weightlifting and squats, then they might become much stronger, and then they could have much more ability to run into that wall.

0:12:21
They'll smash themselves against the wall even harder than before, and then they can than before and then they can actually do some damage. So a lot of spiritual seekers actually are taking these practices and enhancing the self but that's not spiritual practice. Enhancing the self only hurts the self and only hurts more. So if in your spiritual practice you see that in your work, in your yoga, in your meditation, in your mindfulness, your interactions You see that in your work, in your yoga, in your meditation, in your mindfulness, your interactions with other people. If you see that you're more irritated, if you see that you're more reactive, if you see that you have a harder time, it's because you are operating in this way of self.

0:13:08
You've got to get beyond the self. The self is what creates all of your suffering. The self is what creates all of your suffering. It's this idea of, I am this, separate from that, I need this to be happy, I've got to keep away from that to be happy. That's the description of a limited ego, right? But you have to get beyond that, because if that's your description of life, you're always going to be suffering. of life are always going to be suffering. So the secret to Buddhist yoga is to actually move past that.

0:13:47
That's the description of suffering. That's the description of self. And beyond that, there's something bigger. Beyond the self, there's more. Now of course there's physical pain in life. Now, of course there's physical pain in life, but the deepest pain, the deepest suffering in life comes from mental anguish, disturbing emotions. It's the spirit being unsettled. Spiritual pain is the deepest pain. But Buddhist yoga also helps with physical pain, because you come to understand life. life. When you see the big picture, when you're aware of the eternal luminosity of being, then even the physical pains come into a different perspective. So if you had a little glass of water and you put a big spoon of salt in it, and then you drink the water, it's like I might like it, but most people say, oh, it's so salty.

0:14:55
But then if you take the same amount of salt and you go over to Lake Michigan and pour it in, stir it around, right? And then if you drank from the lake, you would not notice the salt at all. So there's always some salt in life. There's always some pain in life. There's always some salt in life. There's always some pain in life. There is pain, a certain amount of physical pain.

0:15:21
But when you have a broad mind, when you have a great understanding, then the pain's not so bad. And then pain is also your ally. So if you know how to use pain properly, it actually empowers you to be stronger. You can take that spoonful of salt You can take that spoonful of salt and go over to a big pot of soup, put it in the soup, mix it around. It makes the soup taste better. So pain is really an ally. You can use it constructively.

0:16:00
and of being, then pain is not a huge limitation. You know, it depends what state of mind you're in. If you're just sitting there, kind of like, oh, I hurt my toe, and it hurts, and you're just focusing on that, then that pain is everything in your awareness. But if you've got other things that you're worrying about, But if you've got other things that you're worrying about, like you've you stubbed your toe and it hurts, but you're also being chased by a tiger You're gonna not think about that pain so much. Right? So that just shows you you can change your state of attention you're going to worry about something else, but when you have the perspective of the luminosity of eternity then also eternity, then also you're looking beyond the pain.

0:16:54
You're not so stuck in the limitation, the complete focus of pain. So that works for the physical body's pain as well. But the greatest pain, as I said, is spiritual pain. It is that the soul being cut off from truth. the soul being cut off from truth. And from that comes mental suffering and emotional suffering. So we seek to move out of a small view, out of a finite view, out of a self view, to an infinite view, an infinite way of seeing and being. Now, it's like there's a hexagram in the I Ching called abundance. And this is a very, very important lesson that Buddhists talk about all the time.

0:17:53
Now, when someone gets this, they roll the I Ching and they get this abundance, a normal person, they say in the I Ching, will say, a normal person, they say in the I Ching, will say, yay, I'm going to get all this money and food and stuff. I'm going to get stuff, yay. So a normal person would say, yay, I'm going to get stuff. A wiser person would say, oh no, even though I'm going to get stuff now, it's going to change because that's the way life is, and then I'm going to lose the stuff I get.

0:18:25
So this is the nature of life. So this is the nature of life. If you're just going with the flow, you're happy when it happens, but then if you know the truth about change, you know that you're going to suffer later, so then you get abundance and then you're sad. This is the ups and downs of life. However, they say the sage, the enlightened one, recognizes that when there's abundance, that it's gonna come and it's gonna go, and there's no reason to be extremely happy about it coming or extremely sad about it going. You just, if it's here, it's good. If it's not here, you're fine with that as well. Now this is a very important Buddhist consideration, because Buddhist considerations, because all these Buddhists talk about this all the time.

0:19:16
They're like, oh yeah, so don't get too happy about stuff, and don't get too sad about stuff, and if you get too happy, you're gonna get too sad. So they go, so they say, just try to be even. And most Buddhists, when they talk about this, they don't know what they're talking about. Their idea is to be bored about about. Their idea is to be bored about life. Really, they're just like, oh yeah, don't be too excited. And then something happens and they're just all, oh, whatever. So it's really important to really recognize that there's a deeper truth to these teachings, and that is not to be caught up in it's good and it's not to be caught up in its good and its bad, but not to be disassociated from life.

0:20:11
What we do is we direct our mind to eternity. We direct our mind to the light of truth, of eternal being. And when we are focused on that, focused on that, the transient world falls into a balance. The ups and downs are fine. The good things are fine. The bad things are fine because our spirit is connected to this ecstatic, infinite knowledge of eternal being. of eternal being. Now, that light, we can call it the Dharmakaya, enlightenment, that light is beyond good and bad. When you experience that light, it is the truth of life, the truth of being, it's eternal consciousness, and it's beyond the duality of the transient world.

0:21:12
the duality of the transient world. And when you experience that light, then the good things and the bad things, the ups and the downs, the wins and the losses, are in balance, because you're connected with eternity. And duality comes together in eternity. The places where we see things are completely separate, they are together in that light. So then, if our spirit is in that light, then we see the bad things and the good things, and they are both that ecstatic light. bad things. That's not the way to succeed. The way to succeed in yoga is to really focus on that inner light. And then when your mind resides there, then when the good things happen, you're going to have a good time. And when the bad things There's no suffering.

0:22:28
This is the secret to Buddhist yoga. So when we're looking at our lives, we have to really push beyond our desires and our aversions to see a greater light. And then in that light, our desires and aversions disappear. our desires and aversions disappear. They're no longer there. Now, you can't miss the point. A lot of spiritual seekers, they want to run away from the world because they say, the world of desire and aversion is suffering. So they say, I'll just go into a cave, or I'll just withdraw from life as much as I can and just focus on spirit. But that doesn't work.

0:23:34
That's still aversion. So a lot of people, they want to not act, or they want to, yeah, they want to run away from life. A lot of spiritual seekers want to run away from life. They think that by running away from the things that people do in the world is the way to find life. But they're still acting in aversion. Oh, yeah, I don't want to work because there's, you know, look at people when jobs, they always stress out. So I'm going to run away from having a career. If you do that, and you think that you've sorted life out, you're just acting in aversion. You just can't handle working. You don't want to. You have an aversion towards it. You haven't figured that out.

0:24:24
because a strong yogi can work impeccably and be successful in their work. And so many spiritual seekers, they just want to run away. They say, no, no, no, I don't want to do that. They go, oh, that's all physical world and not spiritual. And they are just acting in aversion. I remember a Zen master I used to hang out with, Su Nim, he had monks and he said, all of my monks are of course outside of the world, they're not working, but their attention is like a strong professional. So he didn't let his monks pull their attention in a way that was running away from life. He actually taught them to not run away from life.

0:25:24
A lot of spiritual people will run into spiritual practice because it gets them out of something they don't want to do. a monk I knew in Thailand. So he was supposed to run his father's business, but then he decided to become a monk because he didn't want to do all the work. And he was just like, oh, this is a much easier life. And yeah, it is, but it's still aversion. So it's really important to recognize there's no way, there's nowhere to run. Even if you're sitting in recognize, there's no way, there's nowhere to run. Even if you're sitting in a cave, if you're running from life, if you still have aversion, no matter what spiritual practice you do, you're just adding to self, you're adding to aversion, you're following desire, you're not breaking through to a deeper truth, which is beyond what you want, what you don't want.

0:26:23
So, the secret and the wonder of The secret and the wonder of Buddhist yoga is to face what you want and what you don't want, and to go beyond it. Not to continue to act in the way of desire and aversion, but to go beyond it. Going beyond it. You've got to see the real truth. The real truth. It's got to be real. You know, so many people get caught up in doing things, and they think that what they do is good, and they think that what they're avoiding is good, and they think that other things are bad, and they don't see it the way it really is.

0:27:06
You gotta get it right. There is a truth. There are ways to reach it, but when you're acting in self, But when you're acting in self, you're always acting in a way where you won't reach it. There was a Taoist master. He had two disciples. And he was a famous Taoist master, and he said, I'm going to have you guys learn the way of the Tao through work. through work. And then I'm going to come back in a number of years and I'm going to make one of you my successor. So go out and do whatever you want, but see the Tao, come to know the Tao in your work.

0:28:00
opens many temples, many monasteries, many libraries, and is working to promote Daoism. The other one lives in a cave and just has a little vegetable patch and tends to his vegetables. and tends to his vegetables. So years and years later the master comes back and they get together and then the Taoist master says, okay what have you done? And the first disciple says, oh I've created this monastery and this ashram and this temple, this and that. And then he's all, okay. And then he says to the and that and then he's okay and he says to the other one what have you done and he said I have tended to my vegetable patch and then the Taoist master says ah you are my successor to the vegetable disciple to the vegetarian and and then the other the other disciple says but why I've done so much more promoted much more. I promoted Taoism in such a stronger way. I did so many more things." And the Taoist master says, well, you know, everything that you've done, you've done in the world. And what the other disciple has done has been in the Tao. You might go out and build something, something, but if you're doing it in a way of self, you're never going to break free.

0:29:44
You can do something simple or complex, but if you do it in a way where you're going past the transient to see the truth of life, it could be a vegetable patch, and you'll break from your desires and your aversions and you'll see the truth of life. So, you know Krishna, Krishna said you have to act. Right in the Bhagavad-Gita. He said if you don't act, you know people want to run away or they want to not do spiritual practice right or something or they have certain ideas of what they want to get away from in life and They have certain ideas of what they want to get away from in life.

0:30:28
And Krishna said, if you don't act, that is also an action. So you should act in a way of enlightenment. And when you act in the way of enlightenment, then there is an outcome that brings you past self. But when you don't act, if you're trying to run away from the world, then you're still But when you don't act, if you're trying to run away from the world, then you're still blocked. Because inaction is also a karma. So we seek to move past the ups and downs through meditation. Really, that's the essential practice in Buddhist yoga. When we meditate, in Buddhist yoga. When we meditate, we have thoughts that go away, and then it brings us into the luminosity of life. We go past our ideas, past our fears, past the self. Little by little, we come to experience a greater truth. Your life Your life transforms through meditation.

0:31:39
That's where we come most directly to see this eternal light, the Dharmakaya. We come to see it in meditation and it transforms our life. Little by little we're able to see that light in everything that we do. See beyond the transient, the ups and downs, the things that we see are as good and bad, and then we see that everything is that light. and then we see that everything is that light. And we put that to work in our lives. You can't run away from life, enjoy life, but see eternity in all things. That means when good things happen, yeah, it's not bad to enjoy it.

0:32:20
When bad things happen, you can see the light in that too. Things change. And beyond that change, there is that perfection. things change and beyond that change there is that perfection. So we see through meditation that we come to a still point where all things come together. There's no reason to run, there's no reason to avoid we see that greater truth and luminosity in all things. And when we are aware of eternity, then in the transient, there is a balance. So that means that when you're connected with eternity, even though you're in the transient world, the things that you do tend to work out.

0:33:12
the things that you do tend to work out. You're better, stronger, more successful. The work that you do is brighter. Sure, there's ups and downs, but when you're connected with eternity, that starts to manifest, even in the physical world, in the transient world. So this is the secret to Buddhist yoga. the secret to Buddhist yoga. It is connecting with light, the eternal light of being, and not being so caught up in the transient world, but putting it into action, making it real in our experience, so that it actually brings us into luminosity instead of dissatisfaction. Okay, thank you.

