0:00:00
Tonight, I'd like to talk about the non-doing of meditation. Meditation is not an action. It is also not a halting of an action. Meditation is non-doing. It is a self-effortless ceasing. effortless ceasing. The problem is that your mind is so accustomed to doing that non-doing becomes difficult. Even though non-doing is the natural way of your mind.

0:00:50
It's like you're on a It's like you're on a long journey to get somewhere. And on the journey, you go through many trials, many adventures. And then when you finally get to your destination, you realize that you were already there. a bunch of extraneous stuff. It's taking a long journey to a place that you are already at. But while you're doing, that's your experience. While you are doing, you're going on the long journey. You're going through many trials, tribulations, many adventures. But then, once tribulations, many adventures. But then, once you finally get to the destination, you'll find that you're already there. So you could have skipped all the doing, if you were able to do the non-doing. I'll give you an example of doing. It's hard to understand what doing For example, you create the past.

0:02:06
You create your personal history. You say, I came into the world on this one day, and then I had this experience, and then I went to this school, and then at a certain time I went to another school. At a certain time I went to another school. You know, we just string together a history. This is a doing. When this history is not true, it's not truth. It's just the doing of an adventure. An adventure called your life. But these things aren't true.

0:02:48
These things aren't true. You were, at one point, in a different condition of consciousness, but now you're in a completely different condition of consciousness. You're in this moment, and so now this is all that is real. The past is not real, unless you create it, unless you're doing the past. the past. So you might say, but no, you know, I got this scar on my knee when I was 12, so that proves that there was a past. But that's not true. Just because you have a scar on your knee now, you have a scar on your knee now. You exist only here in this only here in this moment. And then you might say, well, I have a picture of myself when I was six. See, that's me. And I would say, no, that is not you. That is a picture of a small person that looks maybe a little like you. Could be a distant relative. But it's But it's not true. You create the past. You string things together. But the truth of the moment is that awareness, consciousness, is only right here, right now, arising in this And all other things that we string together are creations, they're illusions that we make.

0:04:34
See, that's a doing. We make change by seeing opposition. We see ourselves as separate. We see yin and we see yang. We see good and we see bad. and we see yang, we see good and we see bad, and we create change in our mind. From this mindset, from this description of the world, we are doing, we are creating. And we're not seeing that creation. We're not seeing that if we are in the moment, that change in the That change in the moment is changeless. And that reality is beyond change.

0:05:20
This perfect, eternal, luminous consciousness. And in that luminous consciousness there is change. A changeless change. therefore, to confound your doing mind with gibberish. But it means something. The teacher sees a place outside of the doing mind and then speaks to the doing mind in a way that that points the doing mind outside to non-doing. Like in Zen koans, there was a Zen monk who goes to a Zen master and he says, Zen master, please, I want to know Buddha. Then the Zen master goes, oh, okay, I see. He sees just the doing mind, how that monk is thinking about it.

0:06:24
this, just the doing mind, how the monk is thinking about it. And then the Zen Master says, okay, so then if you come across the Buddha on the path, then kill Buddha. And then the Zen monk is like, what? I want to know Buddha. Buddha is good. And you tell of the doing mind. Outside of the doing mind is meditation. Meditation is stopping thought. We go from a condition of being a self to a condition of being in union with all being. It's kind of like if we sit here and listen to our internal dialogue, we'll hear ourself like if we sit here and listen to our internal dialogue, we'll hear ourself saying things, we'll understand it, and it'll make sense. But if we heard every sound, every inner dialogue, everything at the same time, it would all turn into white noise. And it would sound And we would transcend the self, and we would enter an ecstatic union with all things, outside of doing.

0:07:50
Doing is where we make a self. When you stop thought, there's no self there anymore. There's no worrying, there's no desire, there's no fear, there's no thinking about tomorrow, There's no fear, there's no thinking about tomorrow, creating the past. All there is is luminous, eternal consciousness. So we seek non-doing. different places of power. And he would demonstrate non-doing. And when he would demonstrate this, he would go through, he would open up to endless dimensions. and power, and he would completely stop doing. And just by sitting with him, by looking at him, you would be able to see what non-doing is.

0:09:04
Maybe we'll practice a little bit of non-doing. I can stop doing. I can stop doing while I'm talking as well. I go into Samadhi, an enlightened state of consciousness beyond self. And just by bringing your attention to me, when I do it, you can feel the on doing. You can feel the eternity of non-doing. So, when you have a teacher who can non-do, then you're able to, little by little, have experiences beyond doing. doing, you feel, you see, you apprehend where the teacher is going beyond doing. You start to figure it out, you start to get a way to access it. Because the self is so conditioned It can't see outside of doing, unless you have special help.

0:10:56
Many people just do meditation. They say, oh, I want to do meditation. I'm going to learn a meditation technique. And then they do the meditation technique, which is they sit there and they try to conquer meditation. They try to strive in meditation. to strive in meditation. They get frustrated with their meditation. They have some good experiences in meditation. But most people are doing meditation. And that's where the self, the self of doing and halting doing, yin and yang consciousness, is approaching meditation, and you sit there and think and focus and our self do self-consciousness in meditation.

0:11:47
And this is way too much effort. It's the wrong kind of effort. It's like there's a joke I heard. How many scoundrels does it take to screw in a light bulb? there's how many scoundrels does it take to screw in a light bulb? The answer is 100. One to start screwing it in, another to kick out the ladder, another point and laugh, another to take a picture, another to steal the camera and put the picture on the internet, and put the picture on the internet, or, you know, it just goes on and on and on.

0:12:31
The scoundrels are trying to do one simple thing, but they just add so much mischief to it. So most people, when they're meditating, they're using incorrect effort. That's not a self-effortless ceasing. It's using energy and tension in all the wrong ways, in a way of doing. Meditation is done in not doing. But that's not saying that you just sit there and space out, or you sit there and go to sleep. your attention has to be very, very strong, your mind has to be very, very strong, your focus and concentration have to be very, very strong. Otherwise, you won't be meditating at all.

0:13:26
So, it's not that you don't have to have strength and focus, concentration. It's that you have to bring forth proper focus and concentration in a non-doing way. And it's not an impossible task. This is something that we learn in wu-wei-do. In wu-wei-do, we learn non-doing. In wu-wei-do, we're trying to take down an opponent, and we learn a way of non-doing. And we just do it, and it just works. It seems like magic. And I suppose it is magic, but all of life is magic. And so, in wu-wei-zhou, it's not that we don't focus, it's not that we're being weak. We're not overusing our muscles.

0:14:37
We're not under-focusing. With the proper attention, proper focus, we can see with a good teacher, it's not that difficult. You just do it in a certain way, and then you see that power work. And that's non-doing. certain way and then you see that power work. And that's not doing. So we bring that same awareness to meditation. When we meditate, we have to have the right focus. We have to engage the moment completely with our attention. And then it's very simple to let go. It's for that, to not do. And then you go away, into light, and you experience that ecstatic union. Now a lot of spiritual practitioners are just sitting around beating themselves up all the time on the spiritual path. They're struggling and fighting, and not very happy struggling and fighting and not very happy about it.

0:15:42
My teacher gave an example of an old Monty Python routine. It was a skit where there's a boxing ring and they call out the champ. And then this guy comes to the corner and then, you know, they say, this is his name and he's a champ. Then they call out the contender. his name, and you know, he's a champ. Then they call out the contender. And then he walks across to the other corner. And then he says, yeah, okay, and this is his name, and stuff. And then they start the fight, and he starts just kind of like dancing around, and he starts punching himself. And then he switches to the other side, and dances around, and starts around and starts punching himself. So this is kind of funny, but this is really, it really looks like what a lot of people do in self-discovery. They're just struggling with themselves all the time. They're judging their meditation, they're not happy with their meditation, they're not happy with something in their life, and they're just struggling. So we want to make and they're just struggling. So we want to make sure that in meditation, though we're bringing tremendous concentration and focus, we're bringing a very, very strong effort, that it's not that struggle against the self. There's a certain flow, there's a certain There's a certain effortlessness that brings you beyond self.

0:17:18
So we seek in meditation to find that effortlessness. Meditation is non-doing, but we also have other practices where we learn non-doing. And these practices might include what looks like a lot of doing. doing. So, for example, we might develop a computer programming career. Now, learning computer programming, there's a lot to it. There's a lot to do. But we learn to do it done. And we might do, we might create a business, and creating a business is a tremendous amount of work. There's a ton that goes into it. Martial arts, compassion, these are all ways undo our doing mind. So these ways are structured practices. There is doing involved, but it is kind of like what Ramakrishna says, if we have a thorn stuck in our hand, we'll take another thorn to be the instrument to take it out, and then we throw both of the thorn to be the instrument to take it out, and then we throw both of the thorns away.

0:18:54
So you have a conditioned doing mind. So through these structured practices, you will undo the doing mind, and then you'll be able to see beyond doing, and then you'll be able go from description of the world, that is very doing, to a description of the world where you can see through doing. And then we come back to meditation. And in meditation after practicing all of these disciplines, you're able to let go. You're able to stop you're able to stop doing. And one moment of non-doing brings you into that luminous consciousness. It's like, you know, Buddha said that beings, humans, people are a flowing stream.

0:20:01
Now, people usually sit at the bridge Now, people usually sit at the bridge and look down at the stream and say, oh, there's the stream, from that fixed point of view. But Buddha said that we're not the person watching one fixed point and watching the water run. We are the water. Our mind is the water running. So, we see that in meditation we are fluid, we are in the moment. People try too hard in meditation in the wrong ways, and then they have frustration. You should never judge your meditation.

0:20:48
Judging a meditation just gets you caught up in doing. It gets you frustrated. It gets you in that boxing ring with yourself. Rather, you should enjoy meditation. Meditation is beautiful. It is a reflection of life and it is the doorway to truth. The best thing to do is to enjoy meditation. The best thing to do is love meditation. meditation. Instead of trying to, you know, get somewhere, have some expectation, get mad at yourself when you don't reach anything, the best thing to do is to love meditating, love meditation. If you love meditation, that's non-doing. That's the way beyond the self and the self thriving and striving, fixing and doing.

0:21:42
Just loving meditation is the fastest way to non-doing. Thank you.

