0:00:00
Tonight, I'd like to talk about light. Light is truth. Truth. It is the extant reality of being outside of concept or ideation. So that's the trick. It's to get outside of concept. Concepts and ideas to understand light. Light is simply God. But if you exist in a kind of dual view of being, you'll accept the concept of light and God, rather than seeing the truth, which is light is God. Because Because if you say, oh, light is God, got it.

0:01:18
I got that. I have an idea of what light is, I have an idea from books and church of what God is, and therefore I'm ready to go. I got this thing. a concept of light and a concept of God, then we completely miss the truth of light and God. When I'm talking about light, I'm not talking about physical light, photon waves and particles. I'm talking about spiritual light. about God, I'm not talking about a definition of some guy sitting on a throne somewhere up in heaven, amongst the clouds. I'm talking about God, that which is the essence of all So, when we talk about light in spiritual practice on the pathway to enlightenment, we're talking about the essential energy, consciousness, the vital truth of all existence truth of all existence and being. The origin of life, the origin of the universe, who we are. This is light. Now, light is something that in Buddhism is very essential to understand.

0:03:12
Buddhism is very essential to understand Because it is the essence of Buddhism When Buddha was described in the Sutras He was described as being luminous of having a Golden Aura around him many dimensions of light coming from him golden aura around him, many dimensions of light coming from him. And when he spoke of the truth of life, the Dharma, the pathway to attaining enlightenment, his disciples would say it brought light and illumination.

0:04:00
brought light and illumination. So in Buddhism, all of the essential aspects of teaching bring you to the essential awareness of being, which is light. The words can only direct the mind the concepts of self to come into a direct awareness of the inner light which is Enlightenment Now it wasn't just Buddhism, but also Taoism Christianity Christianity, Islam.

0:04:55
In fact, saints from every religion, every spiritual practice, talk about experiencing light. They come into an awareness of light through spiritual practice or contemplation, devotion. or contemplation, devotion. They talk about their awareness of God, the Divine, as being a luminosity. So I remember I was visiting Siena, Italy, when I came across the Duomo there, big church. there, big church. And when I walked in front of this church, I saw light and I knew that there had been someone enlightened there, someone who had had very profound enlightening experiences there. And I thought, wow, this is amazing. So later on I looked, I looked up who had founded that church and it was So later on I looked I looked up who had founded that church and it was a st. Catherine And st. Catherine when she speaks of God she says That God is a supernatural light that illuminated her heart illuminated her being in waves of light being in waves of light. And I say, aha, that makes sense to me. Or St. Francis of Assisi.

0:06:41
He doesn't say that he saw God and God told him to do stuff. He says, when he talks about his awareness of God, he said that brother son illuminated him. That you know, in Saint Benedict, there's a lot of Christian saints who talk about God as a light, an illumination, a brightness, that light, there's wisdom, ecstasy, joy. So rather than a lot of the dogma in Christianity, I like to look at the really illumined saints, the ones who had direct awareness of the divine, and the way that they describe it is always very, very much an awareness of some kind is always very much an awareness of some kind of light. But it's the same in Taoism. In Taoism, they talk about three essential lights. One is a purple light, one is a white light, and one is a gold light.

0:08:00
The purple light is known to be the highest light of the world, of being, of incarnational being. So, they like to go into that light because it's like, they say it's like heaven. But then there's something beyond heaven, which is the white light and the gold light. which is the white light and the gold light. And the white light and the gold light are experiences of the Tao, which is something beyond the physical world. And in in mystical Taoism, they meditate on these lights.

0:08:46
And in different practices in Taoism, they have Taoist qi dang, breathing exercises. and different practices in Taoism. They have Taoist qigong, breathing exercises. They're breathing exercises where they'll kind of mix Chinese medicine with this philosophy. So they'll bring into breath, through breath and concentration, they'll bring in the dimensions of these white lights or these gold lights, and they'll bring it into energetic pathways in the body.

0:09:12
Energetic pathways in the body so it's a way of Connecting to these divine dimensions through awareness of breathing and awareness of the body Hinduism the Vedanta for for ages Have been talking about the light the light about the light. Krishna in the Bhagavad Gita was talking about how he is the light. How from him all things are created and from him all things are destroyed. And in the essential in the essential radiance of his being, there's no beginning, middle, or end for all of these beings.

0:10:12
There is just the eternal truth, the source of life, which he calls light. Whether you're Buddhist, Taoist, Christian, Hindu, all of these great saints, all of these enlightened masters, always talk about light, these dimensions of light, these ways of seeing the physical world to the essence of life, which is called simply light. So light ends up being, in our practice, a focus. We seek that light beyond ideas. We seek the light the light of eternity, the light of enlightenment. And we seek it in meditation. Meditation is the fastest way to see the light. Once you stop thought in meditation, then you experience the light, luminosity, immediately, spiritual light.

0:11:36
immediately, spiritual life. So in stopping thought, you have this spiritual experience, and it will feel, it will be an experience similar to what all the saints describe, which is the truth of life beyond self, the divine enlightenment is luminous, bright, light, light that gives ecstasy and wisdom. So the first place where we find light is in meditation. We also find light in studying with someone who is enlightened. A teacher who knows that light, who is that light, can share that awareness with you. awareness with you. So when Buddha is described, he is described to be equal to the light.

0:12:37
Having realized the truth of life, the eternal essence of being, that light is truth, one becomes that light. There's no separation. One becomes that light. There's no separation. One doesn't have an idea of being separate. One is able to see completely the union of their being and that light. That is called enlightenment. So Buddha being awakened to the truth was one with the light.

0:13:12
with the light. And in the physical world, a teacher who is enlightened can share awareness of the light. So his students talk about seeing thousands and thousands of rays of light emanating from his heart or from his third eye. And when they are touched by the light, it illuminates them When they are touched by the light, it illuminates them and shows them power, wisdom, the truth. So in many ways, in many descriptions, Buddha's disciples talk about how during his talks, in his teachings, they would see light, they would see gold light, that light would touch gold light, that light would touch them, that light would give them knowledge, that light would give them, would show them the Spirit's way to truth. So a teacher is able to do this. My teacher was very, very powerful in showing us these ways to light.

0:14:24
these ways to light. He always showed it in his direct being, just as described with the Buddha, where you would sit with him and then he would open up all of these, what he called dimensions of light. There are many, many, many dimensions of light. There's not just one light. The Taoists talk about the purple, the white and the gold, but with my teacher, to talk about the purple, the white, and the gold, but with my teacher, there would be thousands of dimensions of white light, thousands of dimensions of gold light, in any given moment. And enlightenment, nirvana, is one merging with light. is one merging with light. It's the self going away and being in the light, to be the light.

0:15:21
This is enlightenment. My teacher would open up dimensions after dimensions and bring us into a step-by-step journey into light in a structured way. in a structured way. And that way we're able to journey forth into seeing truth in a greater and greater degree. So my teacher was very structured in giving us a pathway to accessing truth. in giving us a pathway to accessing truth. And so I am also able to use these dimensions of light and to bring my students step by step through this structure of seeing truth in many dimensions and ultimately to the enlightened experience experience of understanding the truth of your own being.

0:16:34
And I do it because I've been through the training with my teacher. It's kind of like in martial arts. In martial arts, you have some capability, some strength, some power. But after you go through the training, you gain a greater degree of power and technique. So, I have a fifth degree black belt. But before I had a fifth degree black belt, I was fast and had some capability of just fighting, just naturally. naturally. But going through my training in martial arts, I gained a lot more power and awareness that I can then use to teach my students. So I've learned from my teacher many, many, many powerful ways of using dimensions of light that are amazing. It's been a great dimensions of light that are amazing. It's beyond what most people experience. See, most people experience, and if they go and seek the light themselves, they want to know God, they want to know truth, they want to be enlightened, they'll only be able to see so much or be aware of so much. They're bound by their karma. They're caught up in ideas and concepts. So Ideas and concepts So they can only go so far But when you have the fifth degree black belt there, they can show you so much more Than you ever knew was real or possible So these are the dimensions of light the dimensions of light that bring you into a greater degree of mastery and awareness of truth and awareness of truth. But you got to see beyond what you think is real. And that's what the process does. I remember one thing my teacher would do. He would take us out into the desert. And he said, okay, so you guys see the stars, and the stars are bright.

0:18:48
And he says, and you see that the space in between is dark. And then he said, all right, just let me show you what enlightenment is. And so you're sitting there, and then the space turns gold. The space becomes light. And it's a very powerful thing to transform your awareness beyond that dualistic view your awareness beyond that dualistic view of stars are bright, space is dark, into a place where both are gold light, all there is is gold light. See, beyond the ideas of good and bad, to win and loss, life and death, there is light. But little by little, you have to see it. So experiences like that experience with my little, you have to see it. So experiences like that experience with my teacher in the desert is an experience that shows you the way beyond concept, light and dark. Even awareness, you say, of course space is black, of course the star is bright. But in truth, beyond that, beyond that idea, beyond that awareness. This awareness is born of self-awareness in duality.

0:20:07
But beyond that, there is light. There's only light. Beyond what you're afraid of, and what you desire, beyond the suffering of pain and difficulty in life, there is an ecstatic light ecstatic light of reality. So this is what we come to see. This is what we come to be aware of in spiritual practice, because the awareness of the eternal light, the spiritual light, the enlightened nature of existence, the out of suffering, good and bad becomes gold light. The suffering that we are focused on in this world disappears and we're focused on eternity, light. And in that light there's ecstasy, there's bliss, there's wisdom. In the truth of life, the dissatisfactions, the actions, the limitations of the transient world disappear. And there's only an awareness of the ecstatic flow of existence.

0:21:28
So this is what we seek in our practice. This is where we get to in our practice. in our practice. We get past the aches and pains of the self and into a direct awareness of reality. And this is light. Okay, thank you.

