Tantric mysticism is a way to become aware of and experience The universe as unity It is a way to see that in the great diversity of all things, there is an essential dimension of oneness. Tantric mysticism is made up of both Tantra being that discrimination of seeing opposites come together and be complements. So instead of seeing man and woman, day and night, life and death as complete opposites, we can see that there is a unity in that they are one and complement each other.

In mysticism, we experience alternate planes of reality through the development of power and application of these bands of awareness in our lives. And we see through this process that there's no one way, there's no one description of the world. There's many ways that are life. Tantra and mysticism We can see the over overall oneness of life tantric mysticism is a Combination it's where these two things come together, and there's there's a synergy and in this synergy they these two different ways of of awareness of life. They act as catalysts, creating new dimensions of enlightened awareness.

So they come together. There's the playfulness of mysticism. There's the adventure of mysticism, but also the precision and the discipline of mysticism. And at the same time, there's the beautiful surrender of Tantra, a complete openness and love and seeing of unity of Tantra. So these come together and expression of enlightenment, a new pathway to enlightenment. In Tantric mysticism, we measure our spiritual awareness. We measure it through the angstrom of the world. We see that in our physical lives, things get better. We start to develop and cultivate ourselves in the physical world, and we see that in the physical world something's happening. But it's correlated to our spiritual cultivation. There was once a monk who went to an enlightened master, and he said, But I'm not experiencing Samadhi. What do I do?" And the Master said, Well, the problem is that your mind is still cluttered.

You have to unclutter your mind through mindfulness. And then you'll be ready for Samadhi. So the master says, look, we have a bunch of large stones here. Any time that you notice a negative thought in your mind, take one of the stones and walk up to the top of the hill there and just put it down. And then that way you will be able to have an appreciation for what's happening in your mind.

So then the monk goes, okay. So the monk spends the first couple of weeks just going up and down the mountain, carrying these big stones. And then after a while, not so much, not so much. And then after a while, just once or twice a day, and then one day, he doesn't go up the mountain at all. And then the master comes over and says, now you're ready, sit down and meditate with me. So they sit down and meditate and then the monk goes into Samadhi for the first time.

So this was a way of measuring, measuring what was going on in the mind through the physical world. The monk was able to see if he had to go up and down the mountain a lot, that there was a lot going on that was out of balance in his spirit. And then when he was able to see that he didn't go up at all, it gave him some greater spiritual awareness. It showed him what was going on in his spirit. And then he was able to, because of the physical world and his spiritual practice, he was able to go into Samadhi. In Tantric mysticism, we accept everything as magic. We look for the magic and wonder in all things. We never want to limit experience. And even when we see things that we don't understand, we still look for the magic in it, because there's magic and God and eternity in all things. And in tantric mysticism, that is what we're seeking. When the Europeans They saw the Native Americans and most of them just thought that they were like animals.

They didn't think they were... they called them savages. That they were barely human. And that was because they had a view of self. You are not like me. You don't see anything good about it. So you're a savage, you're bad. But there were some who saw the Native Americans and saw magic in what they did. They saw their music, their art, their poetry, they learned their languages, their dances, their religions, their cosmologies, and they saw that in this totally alien new dimension of life, with these totally new people, that there was magic, that there was something wonderful to be seen. So when we look at new situations and new things that come up in our lives, we always look at it in a way where we see the magic.

We don't want to just look at it and see the self. That's the opposite of Tantric mysticism. In Tantric mysticism, we develop ourselves in many dimensions, and we can't be closed to dimensions that we don't understand. And by developing ourselves in many dimensions, we become stronger and more aware of the unity of all things. For example, we meditate together. We develop a discipline of meditation. And in practicing meditation, we see light. We see more spirit. And then we do mindfulness. And in practicing mindfulness, we see more spirit. And then we develop our spirit in work. In our work we see more spirit. Now, when we are mindful, it helps our meditation. When we meditate, it helps our mindfulness. When we work, it helps our work. So all of it, we see it all as coming together. Everything that we do, even the laundry, you know, even the commute, everything that we do, we see it as spirit, and it all supports everything else that we do. In Tantric mysticism, we refine ourselves.

It's like the little Russian dolls. There's a big Russian doll, you open it up, there's a smaller one inside. So that bigger ego goes away, and there's a smaller one, a more refined one. And maybe you could say it's the magic Russian doll, like it gets more luminous as you go in. Then you take another layer off. Another smaller self is in there. Another more luminous self. And you keep going, and keep going, and keep going. There's a refinement of the self in this process. But truly, with Tantric mysticism, you really can't say what it really, really is. Like, I can't say, oh, here's how you do it. This is what you do. It's not something that you can really...

It's something that you can't really know. And the self voice tries to know everything, but you can't know everything. And part of tantric mysticism is yielding that need to know and letting life flow. So, you can't know everything. Contract mysticism is something you can't know. It's something that you can experience, but you can't know. And if no one told you that now, no one told you that. So there's a great awareness of etiquette.

Etiquette is the way of contact mysticism. And the way that you develop this etiquette is first of all, you have a desire to. You say, okay, I really want to learn this thing, this sense of life, this way of life, this etiquette of life, etiquette of consciousness. And then you try, you meditate, you do the things that you're supposed to do, you do the things that you're not supposed to do, and you seek in every experience greater consciousness. The best way to learn is to have a teacher who is a master of tantric mysticism. It is because by being with that teacher you will learn the etiquette. So when I teach, I teach through talks, videos, audio talks, books, meditation seminars, trips trips to sacred places of power, in the deserts, the mountains, the oceans.

I also teach through going to the movies, going out to dinner, dancing. ways that I teach, and when I teach, I'm teaching Tantric Mysticism. It is a way, it's an energy, it's a consciousness. And by experiencing these forms of my teaching, you experience it. This is where you get that hint, you have the spiritual insight. You say, oh, something in your spirit is informed about what this way is. And then it works. So Tantric mysticism. All right, thank you very much.

