0:00:00
Tonight, I'd like to talk about enlightenment, my favorite subject. Enlightenment is the suffusion of the mind with infinity It is the province of wisdom It's the heart's connection to eternity Enlightenment is the perfect awareness of life without any mental modifications It is the spiritual unity of It is the spiritual unity of consciousness. In Tibetan Buddhism, they call it the Dharmakaya, the clear light of reality. in that the essence of life is some spiritual light.

0:01:20
You can look at anything and if you see its essence, even if it's a bad thing, you consider it bad, but if you see its spiritual essence, it's an unobscured light. And reality, meaning the truth, meaning the truth, what actually is the greatest essential truth of life. Enlightenment is an experience. It's a path that we transcend ourself. ourself. See, on the pathway to enlightenment, you start off somewhere, and then you move along to a higher and greater awareness of the infinite.

0:02:24
consciousness that is blissful and ecstatic. Now, in a lot of religions, for some reason they get really upset about that part about enlightenment. They say, well, enlightenment can't be so happy and pleasurable. Yeah, enlightenment feels really good. It's very blissful. really good. It's very blissful. It's a very beautiful experience. But in a lot of religions, they say, no, no, no, no. It must be something like very stern and can't feel good. Otherwise, So in religions, they have a big problem with understanding the truth of enlightenment. That yes, it's profound, but it's also very, very happy.

0:03:26
It feels good. There's nothing in enlightenment that doesn't feel good. In physical pain, there's an awareness of eternity. So that awareness of eternity outweighs the transient awareness of pain. And that awareness of eternity is always a great bliss. So in religions they say, no, you can't be happy. Enlightenment doesn't exclude anything. Enlightenment doesn't exclude anything. In religions they say, oh no, no, no, there's all these things to exclude.

0:04:09
You've got to exclude money, sex, mean people, you've got to exclude pork, there's all these things to get rid of. But in Enlightenment, all those things are part of the universe. All those things are part of the universe. And the universe doesn't hate itself. The universe doesn't have a problem with everything that exists. It's only judgments that create that. Ideas. So religions create ideas about enlightenment.

0:04:44
Concepts about enlightenment. Ideas and concepts completely cut you off from enlightenment. Enlightenment being the union of finite consciousness with eternal awareness. The ideas that people say, the books that you could read, they're all limited. limited. Limited in being that one's interpretation, even if it's an enlightened person telling you, one's interpretation becomes an idea. But enlightenment is beyond all ideas, beyond all concepts. It is liberation from even those limited forms of even those limited forms of awareness, to a greater consciousness of eternity.

0:05:47
So, religions create all sorts of barriers to enlightenment, even Buddhism. Buddhism was built on the teachings of an enlightened master, Buddha. the teachings of an enlightened master, Buddha. But nowadays in Buddhism, they say, they really think only Buddha could be enlightened. Oh, he had some arhats, some enlightened students. Well, they were with him, so back then, that's possible. They still study what he taught, but they don't believe that He didn't create enlightenment for a modern day person.

0:06:30
They think that whatever he taught only created enlightenment for him, and for some lucky people he got to teach. But the teachings of enlightenment that Suddha taught are real. And if you follow them, if you practice them, they lead to enlightenment. Enlightenment liberation from suffering So it's kind of funny right, you know these days the concepts in Buddhism Cut you off from the enlightenment that was originally taught Yeah, there's a There's a Thai monk Ajahn Chah, who I I believe was enlightened Ajahn Chah, who I believe was enlightened from his books.

0:07:20
And all of his students just really struggled with that. Because he said, I'm an Arhat. And this is Theravada Buddhism. And all of his students were like, oh, but everybody else in the whole Thailand Buddhism thing says, no one can be enlightened except a Buddha. the Buddhism thing says, no one can be enlightened except for Buddha. So they just block off these possibilities out of these ideas.

0:07:48
And then they end up in illusion, greater illusion. Now, Buddha said that he was awake. He called enlightenment being awake. So after he sat under the Bodhi tree and became liberated, So, after he sat under the Bodhi tree and became liberated, he started walking over to a place where he knew there were some of his old friends that he wanted to teach them, the pathway to enlightenment. He came across a wanderer on the road, and the wanderer saw that there was something about him. So, the wanderer said, what are you?

0:08:24
Are you like a god or something? Then Buddha said, no. Are you like a god or something? And then Buddha said, no. Then he said, are you a man? Buddha said, no. And then he's like, what are you? Like some sort of magical spirit? No. Well, what are you?

0:08:40
Buddha said, I'm awake. I'm awake. Liberation, enlightenment, is waking up. Your spirit awakens to the truth. waking up. Your spirit awakens to the truth. You see beyond the finite. You see eternity. And in that experience, you're no longer all of the limited forms in the physical world. You are passing through those forms, but you are enlightened. So this condition of being So, this condition of being awake means that you're out of illusion. Illusion is believing the limitations that you're in. Just seeing the transient experience of the finite world and thinking that that's it.

0:09:31
Seeing the karmas of the limited self and thinking that those are concrete. that those are concrete, but waking up is seeing beyond all of that. And when you see beyond all of that, when that's your awareness, then you see that the limitations were all not real. When you can see beyond life and death, you no longer fear death. This is Buddha's concern. His suffering was that he didn't want to die. He said, wait a minute, I shouldn't die. I've got to solve this problem. And he solved this problem by becoming liberated, seeing beyond the concept of death, and seeing his eternal being that is beyond life and beyond death. So then, this is a condition he called waking up.

0:10:33
Now, Buddhism for someone who's... or the pathway to enlightenment for someone who's not enlightened yet is a journey, a journey on a pathway, a method, a structured path path to this condition of being awake, being enlightened. And in this experience, you learn things, you go higher and higher. So it's kind of like going up a mountain. You learn how to get higher. You make progress. You get brighter. You go up higher, you get a more beautiful view. And this is a path, a journey, an experience.

0:11:18
Your life is the pathway to enlightenment. Your life is the journey to being awake. In everything that you experience, you bring an awareness of truth. You try to see in every finite experience eternity. You bring a greater perspective. eternity. You bring a greater perspective. You're seeking in every moment to see that infinity. This is the path. This is what gives us a... where we stretch our awareness field to become aware of things that we weren't before. We start to see greater dimensions We start to see greater dimensions of love and compassion in our life. We start to see greater dimensions of empowerment in our life, greater dimensions of spirit and illumination by walking this path in every moment, seeking enlightenment.

0:12:22
On the pathway to enlightenment, we have friends. We have friends. We call it the Sangha. It is an organic fellowship, a company of seekers following that pathway to enlightenment. And working together, we're stronger. This is a truth of the universe. There's a great reflection of enlightenment There's a great reflection of enlightenment in the unity of the spiritual seeker. And when we are working with others in the Sangha, we see them, we see people do things that we couldn't do, and it inspires us. We see someone have a good meditation. We feel it. We're aware of it, and it inspires us.

0:13:12
We're aware of it and it inspires us. We see someone do well in yoga, well in their lives, be empowered, have a greater degree of compassion. And whenever someone does that in the group, it teaches everybody else in the group. So this is why we're in a group together. Also on the path, the pathway to enlightenment, Also on the the path the pathway to enlightenment There's a teacher The teacher is the enlightened teacher, right? So we call it the three jewels of Buddhism There's the Dharma which is the truth There's the Sangha and then there's the teacher the Buddha the enlightened one and the the teacher Is is enlightened and knows the way to enlightenment, and can help you and share with you the way to your liberation.

0:14:11
So the teacher is someone who is very essential for someone seeking liberation, because otherwise one would be so confused in the illusion of life confused in the illusion of life without proper discrimination, that they would never be able to really achieve enlightenment. They would always be fooling themselves, because they'd always be in a state of mind, looking at things incorrectly. Enlightenment is not a state of mind. There are very, very high, beautiful states of mind, and some people reach them, and they call them enlightenment, but enlightenment goes beyond states of mind.

0:14:48
and they call them enlightenment, but enlightenment goes beyond states of mind. And beyond states of mind, there is perfect seeing of truth. In a state of mind, there's always some sort of obscuration. So it's in that clear light of reality where truth in its essential Seek to work with a teacher, someone who sees the truth, who is in that Dharmakaya, clear light of reality, so that they can actually show you the way beyond your blind spots, beyond your limitations of vision. And then they help you. Now, a teacher of enlightenment always challenges you, because to you, what they ask you to Now a teacher of enlightenment always challenges you, because to you, what they ask you to do is impossible.

0:15:43
Because you find limitation. You say, wait, that's not possible, I can't do that. What are they doing to me? So the teacher will tell you to do something, and you say, it's just impossible, can't do it, don't want to. Something in you will just push you away. Something in you will just push you away. And that's because that's your limit. A limit of awareness. A limit of consciousness.

0:16:10
But the teacher sees right through it. It's not a limit. It's just something you haven't done before. So in third grade, when you're learning math, you might not have gotten to long division or fractions or something, right? or something, right? So then when you're given some new math course, you're like, oh my gosh, this is impossible. It seems like it's not possible because you didn't learn it before. But as you go through it, step by step, like in learning anything, anything new, in the beginning, but as you go, you actually see that you overcome those limitations. You can overcome any limitation in life if you approach it properly, with the right awareness.

0:17:08
So the teacher gives you challenges, and Latin teachers are very challenging, and yet these Enlightened teachers are very challenging. And yet, these challenges are the way through limitation, the way higher. They are your pathway to enlightenment. So it's important when you come to the pathway to enlightenment that you come with open hands instead of clenched fists, swinging, all fists and elbows. fists, swinging, all fists and elbows. So when you come to enlightenment, you want to be open. You don't want to have ideas and concepts. You don't want to cut yourself off and say, no, no, no, I'm not going to listen to this teacher.

0:17:55
Or I'm going to listen a little bit, but I'm not going to do it. You have to really have a level of commitment to the practice, where you'll be open to trying something, even though everything in your mind says, no, it's impossible, it's impossible. Yeah. There's a great story about a seeker who wants to go to an enlightened master, wants to go to an enlightened master and he wants to learn from him. But the enlightened master says, this is Babaji actually, the enlightened master says, no, no, no, I don't know how you found me, but I'm not taking any students.

0:18:42
And then the seeker says, oh please, please, please, I'll do anything. And then Babaji goes, oh, anything? And then Babaji goes, Oh, anything. Okay. He's like, Let's walk over to this cliff here. Okay, jump off that cliff and then I'll teach you. And then the guy jumps off the cliff. But there was no cliff.

0:19:04
This was something in his mind. So where his body would say, Oh, no, this is the end of me. would say, oh no, this is the end of me, right? He went beyond that. He had overcome something. It was an illusion that he overcame. And then he was able to get the enlightened teachings and become enlightened. So sometimes when you're given these teachings, you'll be grabbing on to all sorts of things. Your ego is like fighting for its life. You think you're going Your ego is like fighting for its life. You think you're gonna, you know, the teaching might be something like, you know, practice compassion, you know, or something like that, or practice meditation every day, you know, something simple. But you're like fighting like someone's telling you to jump off a cliff. That's the way that the ego sees the teachings. The ego says, The ego says, no, I can't handle it. It's impossible. But of course it's possible.

0:20:07
Now all limitations are in the mind. And if you give yourself that opportunity to open your hands so that the light of enlightenment can fill you, then you'll see that these dark illusions go away, that were impossible. So you have to have a love of truth or a drive for liberation. And that's got to be something in your heart that gets you through every challenge. Because there will always be challenges. Now someone who succeeds on the pathway to enlightenment, everything. They face desire, fear, attachment, limitations of personal history, delusion, confusion, hardships with people, places, things, everything. You face everything. To become enlightened, you overcome life in its essential form. So all the things, physical physical pain, violence, all of these things you can solve in your heart. And you face these things, you know, step by step, in a structured way with the teacher, but you overcome you experience the liberation of all of those limitations. See, there's got to be that trust in the universe. You know, the universe made you. It sustains you. It's going to kill you. That's what friends are for. The universe is your best friend.

0:22:00
So, this is the universe. There's nothing else but the universe. So why are you afraid of it? So you have to overcome all these fears and trust life. You gotta throw yourself, your desires and your dramas into the clear light of reality with that trust, with no reaction. that trust with no reaction, that's selflessness. And it's not just an idea, but it's at your core consciousness. And that's the pathway to enlightenment. Now, everything is enlightenment.

0:22:46
There's nothing that is not enlightenment. The universe is everywhere and the universe is enlightenment. that is not enlightenment. The universe is everywhere and the universe is enlightenment. Everything's enlightened. Everyone's enlightened. You're enlightened. This is true. Or your enlightenment. This is true. Everything's enlightened. However, what we call enlightened is the awareness of your enlightenment. So, if someone's sitting there being angry and If someone's sitting there being angry and confused, they're completely cut off from the awareness of their eternal side. Enlightenment is within all things. But when we have a limited awareness of it, we don't see it in anything.

0:23:36
So what we call being enlightened is moving along that pathway to enlightenment, going past limitations of self again and again and again, to the point where you see greater, to a greater and greater degree. You see that enlightenment within you, that great light of eternity. You see it in you more and more as you go higher and higher. So enlightenment is completely erasing limitation of self. And then all there is, is eternity. Which includes life and death. Which includes infinity and the finite. It's all there.

0:24:24
It's all there. And there's no separation. In the Maya and the illusion, you also see Nirvana, enlightenment. There's no difference. You come to this awareness by seeing the enlightenment in you. And that's when you're enlightened. Now, when you're looking at life through states of mind, sometimes you think you're enlightened. So sometimes you might say, okay, I've been working on this for a while, or for whatever reason, I think I'm enlightened. Da da da da! And it's really important to know, how do you know when you're enlightened?

0:25:12
Because sometimes people do drugs and think they're enlightened. It's true. People have said, oh yes, I did this drug and I became enlightened. And of course, when you take drugs, you might feel really good. So they go, oh yeah, that good, the pleasure part, yes, the ecstasy. I was on ecstasy, feeling ecstasy. So there's a good part like that. I was on ecstasy, feeling ecstasy. So there's a good part like that. But in drugs you lose discrimination.

0:25:43
You lose the ability to see truth. You might feel good, but your actual awareness of truth decreases. So drugs usually don't get you there. Egos. And then they go, I'm enlightened. I've got the amulet of intergalactic oneness to prove it. I made it myself. You know, I'm wearing a robe. So some people go through some giant ego trips. They might have had a nice meditation, but then what they're doing is, the ego is going But then what they're doing is, the ego is going from a certain place to a new idea of itself.

0:26:33
And this new idea is enlightened. Not really enlightened, but the enlightened self-idea. And then, that's just egotism. They're like, woohoo, I became enlightened, yahoo, I'm better than you, I did it first, I'm awesome. Right? And they'll tell you that. I did it first, I'm awesome. And they'll tell you that. And you go, oh, okay.

0:26:54
And that's very humble. So people get confused because they don't know. How would you know? I remember my teacher had a student who thought he was enlightened. thought he was enlightened. And the student just was like, OK, great. I'm enlightened. Fantastic. So he went over and said, so I'm enlightened now.

0:27:26
And I got to go and do my own thing. So I'm going to go off and do this and do that. I'm going to do what you taught, but better by myself. you taught but better by myself. And my teacher was able to, you know, give him a correction. Show him where his ego was. Because even though he thought he was enlightened, he wasn't. He was having a giant ego reaction. I call it the brown belt syndrome. So this tends to happen somewhere in karate So this tends to happen somewhere in karate between the green belt and the brown belt where you think you know everything And you say, oh, okay. No, I got it. I know what this is all about Then you start going around teaching people the wrong things It's kind of anything but you need that you need that correction from the teacher If you run away from the teacher you never get the correction If you run away from the teacher, you never get the correction.

0:28:29
And then you just end up cycling around as that green belt or brown belt. You don't go higher. You don't see what's higher. So luckily, this student got the correction because he didn't go off and do his own thing. It's such a wonderful Western idea, right? I want to go off and do my own thing. But it's a very strong reaction of egotism. So when you're in the dojo, and you're like, I'm a brown belt now, I'm going to go and start my own dojo. I've got a fifth degree karate teacher here.

0:29:12
Karate teacher here. However, I think Me me me me me I go off and build my dojo Get students and teach them everything that I know. It's just a Limited view now on the other hand Enlightenment is real So if you're really looking for authentic looking for authentic spiritual progress, you will not follow the self, and you'll stay in a place where there's growth. So even if you get your black belt in the traditions of martial arts, you usually don't just say, Black Belt's a dojo, because I got my Black Belt, and now I'm going to start something called, you know, my Kwando or something.

0:30:13
Yeah, so usually you, even when you're enlightened, you know, this is within all lineages, if you're enlightened and you still have an enlightened teacher, you can learn more. an enlightened teacher, you can learn more. So if you've got the enlightened master, then you get your first degree black belt in enlightenment, you usually want to become more enlightened. The moment you become enlightened is the moment where you can actually learn the cooler things. So it's just a very Western way of, I'm gonna get me my enlightenment so I can go do what I want.

0:30:48
I'm going to get me my enlightenment so I can go do what I want. It's funny. But that's how Westerners approach it. And enlightenment is real. Even if you were enlightened, if there was someone more enlightened anywhere in the world, you'd want to follow them. In the time of the Buddha, there was a Brahmin master, and he was liberated. a Brahmin master and he was liberated Primary like an Arhat primary enlightenment and He had a student He had many students but one of his students went over to see Buddha and He saw Buddha and he immediately became a stream winner the first attainment of enlightenment of enlightenment.

0:31:38
Just in one... You know, he'd been studying with this Brahmin enlightened teacher for years and years and years and years, but he just got stuck. He didn't get higher. And he goes and sits with Buddha once, becomes a stream winner. And then he comes back and he says, hey, that guy's definitely higher than you. So then the Brahmin master says, okay, let me see. Brahman master says, okay, let me see. So he goes and sees Buddha, and then he says, yes, he is. And he says, and I want to learn more, even though I'm myself at a level of primary enlightenment, I want to learn more.

0:32:17
This guy can teach me many, many things that on my own, I wouldn't get to. So then this enlightened Brahman gets all of his students and says, hey, I recommend Then this enlightened Brahmin gets all of his students and says, Hey, I recommend you guys study with him, not me anymore. So if you seek enlightenment, you always look for the highest enlightened being that you can find. You don't settle. Any place where you let yourself stop, where you settle for limitation, then you're stuck with that. settle for limitation, then you're stuck with that. But if there's an opportunity to get higher, take that opportunity because it gives you a greater illumination, a greater degree of infinite consciousness. Enlightenment is endless. You could be liberated and then there higher liberations and higher liberations and higher liberations.

0:33:16
A lot of people say, well, got it, done it, that's it. Enlightenment is not one samadhi. So, sometimes people say, okay, I meditated for years, I had a samadhi experience, which is what we would call God-consciousness, an enlightened state of mind. what we would call God-consciousness, an enlightened state of mind. But true liberation is even beyond that. So you go into this beautiful, amazing state of mind, there's intergalactic oneness, and everything's amazing. And it's kind of like you're in a dark room, and then you turn on the light, and you see everything in the universe. But then you come back out of that light and back into the dark room. Now you know a lot of things. You know there's a come back out of that light and back into the dark room. Now you know a lot of things.

0:34:05
You know there's a bookshelf in the corner. There's a door over there. You know where the bathroom is. It's good, right? You know a lot of important things. You know where the kitchen is. Very important. So you find out a lot of good things. But a lot of people will say, I had a Samadhi, now I'm enlightened. But true liberation could take thousands and True liberation could take thousands and thousands of lifetimes of practicing. What my teacher called a very integrated enlightenment was something that would take a long time. He went into samadhi for thousands and thousands of hours before he said he had an integrated enlightenment. before he said he had integrated enlightenment. So powers are also not indicative of enlightenment.

0:35:00
So sometimes, you know, Jesus walked on water and he was enlightened. However, there are some other people who just learned to walk on water. to walk on water. If someone saw a guy walking on water, they'd be like, oh my God, he must be Jesus. But no, he might be a jerk who learned how to walk on water. It's true. Learning those kinds of things are powerful, but they don't mean that the person has gone beyond self.

0:35:36
that the person has gone beyond self. It might mean that they actually have a lot more self. They might think they're very special because they can do that. So there was a story of a guy in Buddha's time, he was walking on water and he said, hey Buddha, let's go talk about the Dharma over on that lake. He's all like, me and you can walk out there, it'd be super cool and everybody would think we're neat.

0:36:00
He's all like, me and you can walk out there, it'd be super cool, and everybody would think we're neat. And then Buddha says, instead of that, how about we do it in the sky? And then Gaia goes, I can't fly, but I can walk on water. Buddha's like, get out of here. This is just the self. Yeah, so we really seek to be selfless. Seek to be selfless. Seek to be selfless. Seek to be selfless. And the place where you, you know, if you're wondering if you're enlightened, the place where you find it is you have perfect, pure meditations, stop thought completely, go into Samadhi in every meditation.

0:36:45
Then you're probably very, very, very close. But then you also have to look further. No desire, very very close. But then you also have to look further. No desire, no fear, no self. The self that you used to have, all that personal history, it's gone. You're just witnessing transient. You know, Don Honero would say that you're a slave to power, and that means that you have no personal will, you don't have a desire to do things, you just follow So, meditation is that key to enlightenment. We must be able to see the truth. You have to stop thought, go into sabbati. But you have to be able to stop thought to see the truth. Because through every state of mind There's some obscuration, but once you can stop thought Then there's no state of mind. You go beyond it so you just got to have an opportunity to get outside of a personal viewpoint to have an eternal viewpoint and Then you can measure life And then you can measure life.

0:38:27
So if you stop thought, then you see the truth. That'll be your ruler. Then when you come back in, and if you can carry that ruler from enough times going in, then you can measure things in life. It's like when you go scuba diving. Because of refraction, things look 25% bigger. So I always have big fish stories. So I always have big fish stories. Like, oh, that was a giant fish! You know, a giant fish!

0:38:56
So everything's magnified. So when you go underwater, you see incorrectly, compared to when you're out. And you say, wow, things were bigger. You see it differently. That's just like a state of mind. In different states of mind, you see life completely differently. But how do you know? states of mind, you see life completely differently. But how do you know?

0:39:17
Because if you're like, oh, my hand is this big, and then you're in a different state of mind, oh, my hand is this big. You don't know. You really can't see truth. So we meditate and then we can see truth. We meditate and we find this inner ruler. And we go, ah, now I know something. So you're on land, you measure something. You go underwater, but you bring So you're on land, you measure something. You go underwater, but you bring that ruler, and it's a different dimension, you see things differently. And then you go, wow, that thing looks really big. Oh, it's only that big. All right, got it.

0:39:49
So then you know something. So you have to be able to have that way of seeing truth, that discrimination of what's real, what's true, for meditation. In meditation, we're able to transcend thought and go into the dimensions of light. And these planes of light, they are beautiful, and they're very, they're kind of on the shore of nirvana. structured dimensions that we follow in order to progress on the pathway to enlightenment. Because by going through these different dimensions you get different purifications, you gain wisdom, you're illuminated. So sometimes it might be you go into powerful states when you're focusing on the navel and then you're empowered. You might focus on the heart and then you might have a And then you're empowered.

0:40:49
You might focus on the heart, and then you might have a connection with light, love, purity. You focus on the third eye, and you gain wisdom. And in this process, you're illuminated and purified. You go higher and higher, brighter and brighter. And then finally, this is a beautiful method, a beautiful structure. And then finally, you go beyond the planes of light, or you could say you merge with And then finally you go beyond the planes of light or you could say you merge with the planes of light and infinity and nirvana and That which is your eternal side and in that experience you're enlightened Okay, thank you

