0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about the mystics explanation. In Buddhist mysticism, we order our lives and reorder our lives again and again and again. It's a constant fluctuation. But it's not misconceived. It's a change that always creates a greater balance. greater balance. So again and again and again we'll take our lives in every single way, our career, our closets, and we'll order them and then we'll reorder the closet becomes more clean. So we order our lives outwardly, in terms of career, diet, mindfulness, well no, mindfulness more inwardly, but the physical aspects of our lives. the physical aspects of our lives. I mean like really like cleaning our room, cleaning our closet, the way that we dress, the way that we interact with people.

0:01:52
We refine these aspects of our lives so that they're more balanced, more positive, stronger. That's ordering our lives. And then once you order it one way, then you'll reorder it. That's ordering our lives. And then once you order it one way, then you'll reorder it to a higher way, a stronger way. You'll say, oh, okay, now when I talk to people at work, I don't feel horrible. And then you say, well, let me bring it to the next level, where I lift people up at work. The way that I talk to them, the things I talk about, let me make it stronger and more powerful. the way that I talk to them, the things I talk about.

0:02:26
Let me make it stronger and more powerful for them. So that's reordering. We also order and reorder our inner life. And that's the way that we think about ourselves, the way that we... Mindfulness. So we see what's going on in our thoughts, So we see what's going on in our thoughts, in our feelings, and then we say, wow, our thoughts and feelings are running amok. Let me direct my thoughts and my feelings in more positive ways.

0:03:05
And then we see we create a greater order. And then we say, wait, I want to bring it higher. Let me do something better. Let me direct my thoughts to something better all the time. better. Let me direct my thoughts to something better all the time. Like compassion. When you practice bodhicitta, when you do compassion, you're directing your mind to a very, very high place in all ways. And that's a reorder. When we learn compassion, we're learning a reordering of the self. Because usually reordering of the self, because usually we only have a teeny little bit of compassion. But when we reorder our awareness, we direct our minds towards compassion all the time.

0:03:49
We learn a discipline of compassion. So we're learning in Buddhist mysticism ways of making our lives brighter, stronger, in stronger, and the physical brighter and stronger in our mind. And these are the ways that we develop ourselves. Now we have a lot of practices, a lot of disciplines, a lot of awarenesses that help us to get to these places, to make these changes. to make these changes. It begins with a practice of transforming your description of the world. This is what the mystics explanation is. transformation of your description of the world to higher and brighter and more powerful descriptions.

0:04:58
So we begin with, at some point you realize, I think the world is like this. You might be 12, you might be 18, you might be 84, and you might realize, wait a minute, this is what I think the world is like. This is what I think the world is like. And when you think that, when you realize that, you see your state of mind. You see your conditioned karmic awareness. You see what you think the world is like. However, that description is not complete. It is just what you've been given. It is just what you've been given.

0:05:40
So an analogy is a house. So most people have a house, let's say. They're given a house because of their karma. Just get stuffed into some house. And then when they're in that house, they go, oh, okay, this is the house. They don't change it very much. they don't change it very much. They might change the furniture and the drapes every decade or so.

0:06:11
They go, oh, it's not the 70s anymore. We have to get those new retro 80s, you know, I don't know. No more 70s shag rug. We got to get the 1980s cool drapes. I don't know what they have. the 1980s cool drapes, I don't know what they are. So the same house exists, and yet the house doesn't change very much. People will live their whole lives with the structure of the same house.

0:06:43
Change furniture a little bit here and there, every decade. And that's about it. And that's about it. But what we do, is we make tremendous changes in the house. The house being the self, the house being your way of looking at life. It's your description of the world. And you say, okay, this is my house. Instead of just changing the carpet, okay this is my house instead of just changing the carpet doing a little paint we do something else we are going to break down a wall and open up the kitchen to the dining room that makes a change and then we do big we do more changes we say oh we're gonna put in a pool we're gonna add a jacuzzi we're We're going to add a pool.

0:07:38
We're going to add a jacuzzi. We're going to add an entertainment room. We're going to add a workout room. We're going to add a music studio. We add all of these things from our practices, our disciplines. We learn that there's greater things to do. And when we learn about those things and we add them, then our house, our description And when we learn about those things, we add them, then our house, our description of the world, gets bigger, brighter, stronger. We have more function, more capability, that we add from our spiritual discipline into our description of the world. So we change our lives in practical ways, We change our lives in practical ways and in spiritual ways that make our lives brighter.

0:08:38
And this is what we call the mystic's explanation. explanation is that you look at the world one way, and that that's only a limited way. And our explanation as a mystic is that there's other ways, and that those other ways are useful, that those other ways are powerful, that those other ways are beautiful. And we venture into understanding and experiencing those other ways and experiencing those other ways, so that our lives become stronger, higher. This is the mystic's explanation. Now, the way that we do it is through the first attention and the second attention. The seen world and the unseen world. the seen world and the unseen world.

0:09:40
So we say, how do I change? I look at the world a certain way. How do I change? We have to realize that, first of all, the way that you see the world in the beginning is from only one view, which we call the first attention. And then we have to understand that there's something called the second attention. The first attention is the world of thought, the world of reason. It's the world where you perceive everything that's perceivable from the human mind. Physical, a noun, anything that you can think of. and anything that you can think of, right?

0:10:26
Person, place, thing, and everything else that you can think of. Everything that you can perceive from the point of awareness of a human being is the first attention. It's what you had for lunch, it's your 401k, you know, it's the car you're driving, 401k, it's the car you're driving, it's the pillow you're sleeping on, everything. Everything. Now there's something beyond everything. There's something beyond everything that you can think of. Every thought, every idea, and that's what we call the second attention.

0:11:12
call the second attention. Beyond what the human mind can perceive is a great ocean of awareness. We call it the second attention. Now, once you experience the second attention, the unseen world, you experience unlimited awareness. This is what we see. The first unlimited awareness. This is what we seek. The first attention is the world of thought. And thought is good. This is why we develop ourselves in thought. But what our spirit really, really, really is drawn to is the second attention. That place where we go beyond self, beyond thought, beyond this physical world, and we experience tremendous beyond thought, beyond this physical world, and we experience tremendous luminosity. Because the second attention is beyond the boundaries, the limitations of self.

0:12:15
There's no definition. So when we experience the second attention, we experience light and spirit, and it's tremendous. It is what we seek, ultimately, beyond self. So there's the first attention, the world that everybody knows about, and they're all working within. Then there's the second attention. It's what we start to learn about. In meditation, we start to reach second attention. In stopping thought, thought is the first attention.

0:13:00
In stopping thought, we connect to the second attention. So it's simple. Stop thought, and you experience that which is beyond anything in the physical world, anything in the first attention, anything that you can think of. Anything in the physical world, anything in the first attention, anything that you can think of. When you stop thought, what you think of disappears and there's magic. The second attention is the world of magic. It's unstructured, it's completely open and free, it's luminous and eternal. It is the world of spirit. It's luminous and eternal.

0:13:39
It is the world of spirit. And in our experiences of the physical, there's a limitation. You think, I am this, I have this idea, I have some cool ideas, but eventually they're just ideas. beyond the self Is the second attention that we experience in spiritual union in? meditation in awareness of the transcendental and in that experience There's brightness, there's light We go beyond all limitations of the self so when we're So when we're practicing the spiritual transcendence, the spiritual disciplines, we have both the first attention and the second attention. That's why we practice strong focus That's why we practice a strong focus on career development.

0:14:56
You have to have a strong first attention. And that's why we practice a strong focus on meditation. You have to have the second attention. If you're all first attention, you're just physical and totally stuck in the world. If you're all second attention, like a lot of new age spiritual people, If you're all second attention, like a lot of new age spiritual people, you're just a flake. You're a spaced out freak. That's cool. But it doesn't help you. So the key is balance. You have to have balance in your life. You have to be tremendously focused on the physical world, powerful and balanced in the physical world.

0:15:36
focused on the physical world, powerful and balanced in the physical world. But you also have to be tremendously focused on your spiritual life, on compassion and meditation. And that's what is going to make it happen for you. If you're into just the physical, you're not going to have spiritual experiences. you're not going to have spiritual experiences. And if you're just into the spiritual, you'll just have spaced out, weird spiritual experiences. I would recommend maybe just playing Nintendo. I mean, it won't do anything for you, right?

0:16:19
So the thing is, you have to have first attention, very strong. And you have to have second attention, very strong. And you have to have second attention, spiritual practice, very strong. And that's how you become powerful on the practice. Now a lot of people are very afraid of the second attention. Most people in this world are just afraid of the second attention. They say, Whoa, we sense that there's something out there. We call it, we're God-fearing people. And God-fearing people are afraid of God. And God is the second attention.

0:17:01
God is nirvana, God is infinity. And so if they're afraid of it, then they start building up barriers to God. Best thing to do about God is just be afraid. The best thing to do about God is just be afraid. I'm like, no! God's all right. God's unknown, and people are afraid of the unknown. But if you understand God, then God's your self. God's your best friend, your spiritual friend.

0:17:36
Many people are afraid of God in our world, the majority of our world. They're afraid of the unknown. So they want to run away. They want to say, oh, God's something powerful, but God is something specifically I'm afraid of it. And the thing is, there's no reason to be afraid. to be afraid. There's a reason to open your heart and open your mind and understand God. And then there's no reason for fear. There's, in understanding eternity and understanding God, there's just more light.

0:18:21
You experience this in meditation. In meditation, the more you stop thought, the more you see light. The more you stop thought, the more you see light. The more you see light, the more you go past self, you see in your own experience, you feel better. Something in you gets brighter and stronger. You say, this is good. Should I fear God? Because the more I go towards God, I feel more complete. I feel more illuminated. I feel more complete. I feel more illuminated. No.

0:18:54
It's just the mind of the tonal cannot accept God. Science is tonal. Science rejects God completely. It's like, I can't see it. I can't measure it. It doesn't exist. God doesn't exist. And you look at what science is. Science is teeny. God doesn't exist. And you look at what science is. Science is teeny, a teeny little description. They can't even describe everything. Only what they can describe, which is just a little bit. And then you say, you think that's God?

0:19:26
No, no, no, God's bigger than that. You can ask a car mechanic. You're like, all right, so there's God. And they go, oh no, God doesn't have a carburetor. Oh no, God doesn't have a carburetor. I guess they don't have carburetors anymore. God doesn't have a transmission. Well, or maybe a part of God has a transmission. So the way that they would describe life is only in the way of looking at life that they can only see because of their understanding.

0:19:56
But come on, anyone can feel beyond the carburetor and the transmission. can feel beyond the carburetor and the transmission. Anyone can feel beyond science. Science is cool. It describes certain things, but not everything. Thought is tonal, and we want to develop thought and be strong in thought. But thought is completely limited, and that's what we learn in meditation. completely limited. And that's what we learn in meditation. When we meditate, we sit there, we stop thought, we become still.

0:20:33
The moment that you stop thought, you disappear, science disappears, carburetors, transmissions disappear, and you experience tremendous light, something beyond thought. second attention, enlightenment, God, that which is beyond self. And when you experience that, you have a great, beautiful fulfillment. Like it's a spiritual experience. I mean, I can't, it's not something that you can describe. It's something that is true. It's a truth beyond self. So this is what we seek. This is what we seek. The first attention, strength there. The second attention, strength there. There's a balance. And in this balance we create a way of transcending the house we were given. We can break down a wall.

0:21:36
we were given. We can break down a wall. We can add a room. We can add a floor. We can add a swimming pool. So, this is the way that we make the changes. Through awareness in the first attention and the second attention. This changes what we call our description of the world. The mystic's explanation is the changing of the world. And the mystic The mystics' explanation is the changing of these descriptions. My house only has a living room, a bedroom, a bathroom, and a kitchen. Well let's add a room. Let's add a second bedroom. Well now my house has two bedrooms. It totally changes the capability of the house.

0:22:24
bedrooms. It totally changes the capability of the house. Let me add a pool. It totally changes it. This is what we do. We change the descriptions. And the way that you change the description of the world is by changing the self completely. There's a great story from Tibet. There was a Buddhist monk who was very advanced. He great story from Tibet. There was a Buddhist monk who was very advanced, and he was sitting in a cave meditating, and then finally his master comes over to him and says, he saw that he had a hang-up. Now, this monk, he was like, oh, women and money are bad. I've learned that as a Buddhist since I was a young boy. And then the master comes over and says, I've learned that as a Buddhist since I was a young boy. And then the master comes over and says, hmm, you know what I need you to do?

0:23:21
I need you to dress up like a woman, to pretend that you're a woman, to be a beautiful woman, and to marry a rich man. And he said, there's a specific rich man I want you to marry. But there's a specific rich man I want you to marry. This guy had lots of wives. And so this monk said, you're crazy. And the master said, no, this is what will make you enlightened.

0:23:54
So and the master was enlightened. So the monk said, I guess this is what I got to do. So the monk said, I'm gonna do it somehow. So, the monk said, I'm gonna do it somehow. So, this monk, you know, did the work on his own. He figured out how to walk like a woman, talk like a woman, crap like a woman. No, is that not a thing? Okay, if it looks like, smells like, and tastes like, smells like and tastes like.

0:24:27
I don't know. Anyway, so he ended up totally changing himself from this monk that was sitting in a cave and being probably pretty filthy to being a fancy lady. And then he went to this wealthy merchant and he eventually married in. I mean, this guy had lots of wives, so he's like, oh, there's another one. Okay, you can come in. So he was, this monk was getting along with all the other women and totally transformed himself.

0:25:12
and totally transformed himself. Even though he had a problem with money before. And then he was living in a fancy, beautiful mansion. And he had a problem with money before. And he found it to be wonderful. Because this was his enlightened teaching. From his teacher. And, you know, he... I don't know if he got initiated. I don't know if he got initiated, but he did everything that was required.

0:25:50
And then after that, his teacher came over and he said, And that's it. That's all you had to do. And then he was able to then leave there without the hang-ups of the self. He's able to transform his description of the world from, I don't like women, I don't like money, to, women and money are okay. And he realized that. And that's powerful. and he realized that. And that's powerful. So this is what we do. We go from places of limitation, or kleshas, where we have a hang-up about something, and then we go beyond it.

0:26:43
And we go beyond it by going through it. You don't run away from it. it. Running away from it is what's going to create more problems. But we work our way through it. When we work our way through it, we become strong. You can't run from life. Buddhists always say, run away from desires and fears. Wait, no, no. They say, push away right? And yeah, and be careful of fears. But if you want to be powerful, you go through the desire, not that you do the things that the self would require happiness and fulfillment from, Face those things those desires and fears and you're unmoved Your spirit is not bothered you come to a place where you say no. No, no, I'm going to be mature now. I'm ready I'm ready to not like have to chase And have to run And you say okay, and that's where you become strong otherwise, you're always in a Otherwise, you're always in a limitation of consciousness.

0:28:08
So this is how we make this change from our description of the world. We face different aspects of life. In the early Chinese Kung Fu practices, a similar practice, where they said, hmm, we have a serious situation. It's life or death. Like, this clan is going to fight us. Or, you know, or this warlord is going to come through here. Warlord is going to come through here and we have to be strong fighters Right now our description of the world is that we're a one-way so the master would say to a Promising student not any student just the most powerful student you got to change You can't be who you are now what you got to do is you're going to learn what you got to do is you're going to learn the tiger. You're going to learn the white crane.

0:29:21
You're going to learn the praying mantis. I don't care what it is, you're going to learn, I don't care if it's a bug or a tiger, you're going to learn this little bug's fighting spirit. praying mantises kill each other. And so it's like, you're going to learn what this, their state of mind, their awareness. You're going to go from you, and you're a loser, you're going to go from you to this And the praying mantis is powerful. They are kings in their species. They're warriors. They're great. I guess a tiger would just step on them.

0:30:19
But usually they don't mix. It's a dimension. So, when you learn the Mantis Fist, what those students did was they looked... First it was a master who opened the door, and then those students looked at that, they looked through the self to a little teeny bug that they could step on, and they found And they found great power, tremendous power. So they transformed their description of the world from, I am a human who can do this, to, let me look at something that's a bug, a mantis. This is a praying mantis, it's a little bug, but it has a point of view.

0:31:12
This is a praying mantis, it's a little bug, but it has a point of view. In its world, it kicks. And then you see where it's coming from. You change your assemblage point. And then the people who learned the mantis fist became tremendous fighters. White crane. fighters. White crane, it's just a bird, but the crane fighters became tremendous. So this is because they transcended their description of the world, and then they learned the martial arts. They learned the awareness and the power of something different, another dimension. Now, it was said that Bodhidharma created the first teachings of animal forms.

0:32:19
So, Bodhidharma came from India, and then he didn't get along so well with all the Buddhists in China. get along so well with all the Buddhists in China. So he went into a cave and he meditated by himself for nine years. And that's where he reached complete enlightenment. He was enlightened before, but he became an enlightened master, nine years sitting in a cave. But every once in a while, sitting in that cave, he would be attacked by wild animals. So he be attacked by wild animals. So he was like, what am I going to do? So he got attacked, they stole some of his food, he went hungry for a while, but then he started to watch the animals. And he's like, oh. And he saw their awareness. He saw outside of himself. the powers that they had. And then he said, oh, okay, now I know if I face a bear, if I face a tiger, I could face them with their awareness. And, you know, bears and tigers kind of don't want to face each other very much. They want weaker beings. But he faced them with their own attention. He went beyond himself to a higher description of the world, and he was more capable of fending them off. And then when he went to Shaolin, he taught the Shaolin monks the fighting animal forms, which was different descriptions of the world.

0:34:00
So Shaolin monks are Buddhist mystics. They will go past the self, beyond the self. And it's a tremendous transcendence. So this is what we do. Now, enlightened teachers bring you beyond the self. They bring you beyond your description of the world, new descriptions. your description of the world, new descriptions. And that's powerful. So Bodhidharma did that for the Shaolin monks. I like to point it out that Buddha did that for the Buddhist monks. In the there were 500 enlightened students, 500 arhants.

0:34:55
And nowadays, we have the same teachings. There are like, you know, you get this one sutra that says, Buddha taught this, this and this, and in that one teaching, five monks became enlightened. And now, all these Theravada Buddhist monks read the same thing, and nothing happens. Ayurveda Buddhist monks read the same thing and nothing happens. So, and a teacher makes magic happen. So, Buddha taught these teachings and they were so filled with power and light, they brought people from their description of the world beyond into descriptions of enlightenment. and then the monks became liberated. This is like my teacher. This is like me.

0:35:45
My teacher didn't just say words. If I just read the words that my teacher said, it would be confusing, backwards, upside down, and boring. it was his living enlightened presence. And that's where magic happens. So I love this with Theravada Buddhism. I read what the Buddha said, and I see enlightenment in it. But I look at Theravada Buddhists, and they read the same words, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, and they're bored, and they believe only enlightenment existed 2,500 years and they're bored, and they believe only enlightenment existed 2,500 years ago, was Buddha and maybe his arhats, and it doesn't exist anymore.

0:36:34
You ask any Theravada Buddhist, anyone enlightened? They're like, oh no, no, no, no. And they say, anyone who says they're enlightened is lying. Was Buddha lying? Was his arhats lying? I mean, why would he teach this if it's lying? Right? I don't know. Anyway. How would he teach this if it's lying? Right? I don't know.

0:36:52
Anyway. So, they just lost the plot. It got covered over with their description of the world. Their description of the world is Buddha was enlightened. I see this even with a lot of students of my teacher. My teacher was enlightened. He taught his students to be enlightened. He taught his students to be enlightened. He gave us the enlightened, advanced teachings.

0:37:18
Some of us did it. But a lot of my teacher's students say, He was like a god, Buddha, amazing, and I can't be. I'm like, well then what was he teaching us about? Why would he teach us about enlightenment? Were those teachings false? Were those teachings false? No. You're just stuck in your description of the world. And everything that he pointed to forever, every teaching of enlightenment points you beyond your description of the world.

0:37:53
So this is what we do. This is the way. So, when we are on the pathway to enlightenment, we have to realize that the pathway leads beyond the self. It leads beyond every description that we have. But when we follow it, we see that things work. things work. In our school, we have a tremendous support. It's a methodology, it's a structure. It is in the first attention, there is a connection with the second attention. And that means that through certain practices, when you do physical things that are good, when you do physical things that are good, spiritual things that are good, match it.

0:38:58
So we have disciplines like our careers, our business projects, our business yoga projects, martial arts, music. music. These things that we develop as spiritual disciplines, we call them yoga. A place where we have union. Union of the first attention and the second attention. Of the seen world and the unseen world. They come together. So we see that in these practices of developing your career, when your career goes up, when your career goes up, because in the structures, these invisible structures in yoga, we make a balance.

0:39:45
When your career goes up, your spirit goes up. First attention, second attention. You do well in your yoga. It's a very profound shift in your spiritual practice. So we develop ourselves in balance, practice. So we develop ourselves in balance both in the physical world, the first attention, and the spiritual world, the second attention. All of our structures of spiritual discipline have that balance. So it gives us a really wonderful way to see how we develop. And the see how we develop. And the development is real.

0:40:31
It's very powerful. So this is how we develop ourselves. This is how we follow the mystic's explanation to transform our lives from looking at ourselves limited way to an unlimited way and to a way that connects with our lives, our physical lives, and creates a great transformation, ecstasy, and happiness. Okay, thank you very much.

