0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about the Bhagavad Gita. Translated to mean the song of God and it is one of the classic teachings of enlightenment in the Vedic and Hindu teachings So on the pathway to enlightenment At some point we find ourselves stuck At some point, we find ourselves stuck. In the beginning, there's inspiration, you see light, there's great change, transformation, growth. You get lots of new beautiful views of eternity.

0:01:10
And at some point, you find yourself stuck. you find yourself stuck. You find yourself kind of recognizing limitation, illusion, but not moving past it. It becomes a barrier to your advancement. And even though you recognize the illusion, Even though you recognize the illusion, for some reason you just don't want to let go of it. You find that the thing you're attached to, that illusion, is something you just can't let go of.

0:02:00
even though everything logically makes sense to let go, just something in you won't do it. This is a place that we all get to on the spiritual path. A place where, beyond reason, something in us cannot let go of an attachment, of an idea, of a desire, of an aspect of self. We just can't let go of it. an aspect of self, we just can't let go of it. So the Bhagavad Gita is help for that time. It is a teaching for the period where you're stuck and something in you just doesn't let you let go and go further.

0:02:48
So it's a very powerful teaching. So it's a very powerful teaching. It's a teaching that helps in an ultimate sense because it brings you from that critical point of being fixed to letting go, to being able to drop the self, even the deepest aspects deepest aspects of self-clinging and open yourself to the truth, to the Dharma. So in the story, Krishna, who is an enlightened master, is giving a Dharma talk. giving a dharma talk, he's speaking with Arjuna, the seeker of enlightenment. And they're on a battlefield, they're at the Battle of Kurukshetra. And it just so happens that Arjuna gets stuck, and Krishna has to give him this teaching. So, a Dharma talk on a battlefield. Some people prefer a nice meditation hall, a Buddhist temple, but with Krishna, battlefields are good. So, at this battle, Arjuna finds himself in a dilemma, Arjuna finds himself in a dilemma because he's a warrior and he's had many battles and been very successful, but when he comes out onto the battlefield here, he looks across to see the enemy and he sees friends, he sees family, he sees teachers.

0:04:45
He's like, hey, these are people I've grown up with. In fact, his grandfather was on the other side. grown up with. In fact, his grandfather was on the other side. So it's friends and family on the other side of the battlefield. And so this was a dynastic war and just for some political reasons, the sides were split and the powers that be had to fight and he found himself on one side and looked across at the other and said, hey, we have Thanksgiving hey, you know, we have Thanksgiving together, you know? So it's like, whoa, what's going on? So, so he looks at the situation, and he says, oh, there's no way I'm going to go and fight grandpa. And I'm not going to go and fight my old teacher and, you know, my old friends and stuff. So he, he just, he, he becomes dejected. And he says, No, I'm, you know, even though I'm, You know, even though it's my duty to do this, and it's my profession, my job, and everyone expects me to lead victory, I just can't.

0:05:47
So he says, I'm not going to fight. Now he's sitting there with Krishna, and Krishna has a different way of looking at it. So let's look at the big picture. Let's take this dilemma and show you the pathway to enlightenment. Now the pathway to enlightenment is to see the truth past the transient. So Krishna says We are all one. We are all dead and we're all alive. There's no separation. There's nothing that you can do to change life. There's nothing you can't do. There's nothing not to do to change life. When you see a conflict with going out and performing your duty, then you're seeing the transient. You're attached to illusory views, where beyond the illusion is truth, perfection, and eternity.

0:07:12
So it's kind of like when you look at the surface of the ocean, you're only seeing a very, very, you know, small part of what the water is. You're seeing like a 1%, 99% of the water is beneath the surface. So you have to know the depths, because if you're only aware of the surface, then you can go wrong. There Because if you're only aware of the surface, then you can go wrong. There was a man driving down a country road, and he comes to this big, long puddle, and there's a farmer standing by. He's just standing there, and he says to the farmer, Hey, you know, do you think I can get through this puddle?

0:07:59
Is it too deep? And the farmer says, Oh, no, I should be fine. And the farmer says, oh no, it should be fine. So the man drives his car into the puddle, and it's very deep, and his car goes in and gets submerged. And he has to actually crawl through the window to get out. And he says to the farmer, he's like, why did you tell me to go through there? It was very deep. And then the farmer says, well, it only came up to chest height on my ducks. tight on my ducks." So if you only know the surface, you don't know the depths. And this is what Krishna was talking about. You're looking at the surface of things. And if you don't know what's below, then you don't know the truth. At the surface, everything might might be different than what's below. So he was showing Arjuna the way past his dissatisfaction, his way past the impossibility of his situation. And this was to see the depths of life, 1% view the transient view the limited view So he says to him it you know, it's all about Transients versus eternity and In an eternity, there's no problem. It's clay figures and straw dogs So let's say that there's little clay figures.

0:09:40
You've got some clay, you make these little figures, and you set them all up, and then somebody... and you really like them because you become... you're like, this is what they are! And then somebody comes over and takes one of the figures and smushes it, and that form is gone now. That particular form that was so special to you, you really like that form of that clay figure, you really like that form of that clay figure, it's just gone. And now it's something you can't even see anymore. But it was once something. Now it's not. I mean, sure, it's still clay, but it's not that form. And then the person squashes another one, and another one, and you're like, hey, all of my beloved clay figures that I saw in a certain form, that I thought The beloved clay figures that I saw in a certain form, that I thought were so wonderful, they're all now nothing.

0:10:35
So this could create great consternation for someone if you believe only in that form. But if you take all those little clays and you smush them back together and reform them, they could be different forms. them, they could be different forms. It goes from a state of something particular back to its essential quality, which is a lump of clay, to another figure that is particular. This is the way life is. So Krishna explains to Arjuna, this is the way life is. You're alive in your particular This is the way life is. You're alive in your particular way, and then when you're dead, you go back into your essential form, the light, the source beyond all transient forms, and then you are then put back into another particular form.

0:11:32
So it's not so bad. You actually don't go away. The things that you're sad about, that you get upset about, that you're sad about, that you get upset about, are just particular forms. But the essence of all things remains the same. There's no sense in getting all riled up about someone squashing your particular form. Because the essence of your being is still there. It doesn't go away. It can't. It doesn't go away. It can't. It is eternity itself.

0:12:06
So, the straw dog. This is something that Lao Tzu says. He says, dog. And a straw dog is something that in agrarian China, they would have a sacrifice of a straw dog. Not a real dog, one made out of straw that looked kind of like a dog. And it was something that would promote a good crop. promote a good crop. And it was like, you know, something hallowed to the gods. And that way, you know, this was something. But if you had a dog, and a few of you do, and then somebody wanted to sacrifice your dog so that you could have some good broccoli that year, you might be like, no, don't do it. Right? Stop. But if you recognize that But if you recognize that it was just a straw dog, it's not, you know, it might be your straw put into the form of dog, then you go, okay, I don't have to worry about the straw dog, it's not my real dog. The real dog is your eternal nature. The straw dog is the transient form. So if you can recognize the So if you can recognize the transience of all of life, you can see that that straw dog, it's no burning it, sacrificing it, there's no problem with it.

0:13:49
It's just a straw dog. So this is the recognition of that which is eternal and that which is transient. So, Krishna taught Arjuna the primary yogas. The yoga of devotion, the yoga of action, and the yoga of wisdom, discrimination. And in following these yogas, these pathways to unity through different forms, you move you move from the awareness of the surface of life to the depth of life. You see what's beneath the surface. And this is something that changes your view and gives you greater awareness. surface of life, when it's just straw dogs and clay figures getting smashed, and that's all that you're aware of, is the transience, then there is great suffering. But through the practice of yoga, you're able to see the depths, you're able to see something beyond the transient. And in that awareness beyond the transient, you see that there's truth, that there's eternity, that there's enlightened consciousness beyond the ups and downs, ins and Arjuna meditation. And in meditation you go beyond this vision of the transient completely to awareness of eternality. He showed Arjuna his eternal form.

0:16:00
Arjuna a vision of his enlightenment. So he said, okay, I know you're all caught up in this dream, but let me show you a greater truth beyond the dream. And in seeing that greater truth, he saw eternity, saw everything. He saw different forms and awarenesses. He saw the divine within awarenesses, he saw the divine within Krishna, he saw the terrible forms of the Harukas, and he, even in facing those wrathful forms, saw that life is destruction, life is creation. all of eternity at once exists and every reality comes from the same source and therefore Krishna's teaching was that Go kill your friends and family Krishna said, they're already dead and they're forever alive.

0:17:20
They are straw dogs. They are clay figures. They all come from the same source. They cannot be destroyed. You can't do anything except for your duty. you come to a higher awareness of truth. If you don't do your duty, you don't come to a higher awareness of truth, and you always see things as problems, and you suffer. So, what you're doing on the battle of Kurukshetra, is you're destroying illusions.

0:18:00
And this is what we learn, this is what supports us And this is what we learn. This is what supports us in getting beyond these barriers and obstacles to our own enlightenment. We learn that when we're stuck holding on to illusions and can't let go, that we have to do something. We have to take action. And that what we have to do is we have to do something in a way of Dharma, something in a way of Dharma, following the pathway to truth, that will kill our illusions, they will defeat our illusions. So this is that spiritual battle that happens for Arjuna to feed in his mind these illusions. And then he can follow the Dharma and see a greater truth. So it's very, very powerful. This is a very powerful teaching.

0:19:05
Now I remember hearing a couple Theravada Buddhist monks talking about the Bhagavad Gita. monks talking about the Bhagavad-Gita and they were saying, this is horrible. They said, this just gives you any excuse to do anything. Just go do something horrible and say, well yeah, it's eternity anyway. And then in Theravada Buddhism, there's like in the Vinayanas, there's like all these rules, like all these rules, can't do this, five precepts, you can't do that. Like five precepts, number one, don't kill people, right? And Krishna's saying, yeah, it doesn't matter. They're already dead. So this is a very, very, very high teaching. Krishna was an avatar. He was a very, very high being. All of life is He was a very, very high being.

0:20:03
All of life is enlightenment and in anything, even the most horrible, difficult, craziest things there's enlightenment. There's enlightenment in IKEA, in Tesco. So there's enlightenment everywhere. powerful mind of enlightenment to show you the path through IKEA. So you could be there on a Sunday afternoon with Krishna and Krishna will say, here's how you become enlightened here. Now you know another enlightened teacher who can't see the way has a different way says, oh got to get out of IKEA, go off to you know the beach and then we can talk about enlightenment there. So that's why go off to the beach and then we can talk about enlightenment there.

0:20:52
So that's why meditating in the Buddhist temple, following certain teachings, brings enlightenment. But Krishna was so profound, his awareness of liberation in any experience was so profound that he could show Arjuna the way out of dissatisfaction right there in an impossible situation. satisfaction right there in an impossible situation. But in every impossible situation, there is enlightenment. So that's why it's so amazing. This is a teaching for us. We find ourselves in impossible situations with our work, with our feelings, with our lives. Sometimes we're stuck and the things that are impossible are illusions.

0:21:42
And it is our job, our work, to defeat the illusions. And the way to defeat illusions is to take action. This is what Krishna teaches. He says, take action. Follow your duty. It is karma yoga. You have something to do. Follow your duty. It is karma yoga. You have something to do. It's your work. Do your work. And if you do your work with impeccability and selflessness, then you will go to a higher state. You will see beyond the illusions.

0:22:20
When we're doing yoga, karma yoga, we sometimes see something and say, We sometimes see something and say it's impossible. I can't do this you know the the the difficulties too great or the goal is too lofty and When we when we see that We're seeing an illusion. It's a barrier to success and Then we say no, I can't make those sales. No, I can't make that product But then when you when you go forth with impeccability and selflessness in your action, then You find that you go beyond those illusions you slay and defeat those illusions you go on to a greater truth and Lots of things might stand in your way Opponents stand in your way. It's opposition to success and stand in your way. It's opposition to success. And opponents and opposition are ultimately illusions, but then they're also allies. So a very difficult opponent is very good, because when you take action to defeat that opponent, then you're raising up a greater amount of chi, greater amount of power, so that you of Chi, greater amount of power, so that you can defeat that opponent.

0:23:42
And when you defeat that opponent, you become stronger and brighter, and you see that that opponent was not a barrier, but something that made you stronger, so that you can defeat any opponent. This is, at first the opponent is a barrier, you can't, but when you take action with selflessness is a barrier. You can't. But when you take action with selflessness and impeccability, you succeed. And you see that barrier is not there anymore, and you are higher and stronger because of it. Sometimes fear is your opponent. Fear is your opposition. And that is a very opponent. But even when you have fear, you can use fear. Your opponent is your ally. So it was Liu Xiao, a general commentator from Xuanzi's Art of War. And this general said, And this general said, when I first went into battle, I was afraid, very afraid.

0:24:59
And the enemy was terrible and ferocious. And I was so afraid, I used my fear to defend my life. And I won. I did not die. life. And I won. I did not die. I defeated my enemy. And then the next time, I had fear again. And I defeated my enemy. But after you do that a number of times, you might know from martial arts, after you've faced this terrible thing and used fear to defend yourself, after a little while, After a little while, you say, oh, guess what? I don't need to be afraid anymore because I've faced something that was frightening and I've survived and I've been the victor.

0:25:49
So you've used fear to overcome fear. So it's not that the difficulties that pop up in our work are impossibilities. that pop up in our work are impossibilities. They are teachings for us to defeat illusion through taking action. And for Arjuna to defeat illusion in his mind, he had to see the illusion of his friends, he had to see the illusion of his friends, of his family, of his teachers. And he had to say, this is an illusion, and I'm going to go and fight it.

0:26:37
I'm just going to do my duty, do my karma yoga. And by doing that, he was elevated. So we have to really recognize that when we see impossibilities, really recognize that when we see impossibilities, they're not impossible. If you follow the Dharma, no matter what drama you're in, it leads you to a higher awareness and greater success. Now we find greater success in being impeccable. We work with great care, concern, we hassle the details, we seek with great care, concern, we hassle the details, we seek to have the best outcome, we seek to win, and by doing this, we make our minds strong, and we have better outcomes, we have stronger karma yoga.

0:27:33
It's important to work with impeccability, Because if you don't fully engage the task, the moment, your work, then your mind is sloppy. And when your mind is sloppy, you don't gain wisdom, you don't gain power. So you have to bring your strongest attention and impeccability to everything that you do. to everything that you do. Driving, cleaning, meditating, your karma yoga project. You have to bring your best to your meditation. You bring your best. And by doing that, you are elevated. There was once a Buddhist monk in China, and they had fields, vegetable fields. in China and they had fields, vegetable fields, and the monks would have to go out and harvest the vegetables.

0:28:34
Now, this monk didn't have a very impeccable attention to his work, so he would go out into the field and he's got a little basket and he's collecting vegetables, but one of the senior monks would go by and see that he left a lot of the vegetables there and they would just kind of rot. by and see that he left a lot of the vegetables there and they would just kind of rot. And then he's like, hey, you know, when you're harvesting the vegetables, bring them all.

0:28:58
Be very careful. Look carefully, do your job well. And the monk's like, oh, whatever. He goes back out and just like finding some vegetables, doesn't really look at everything. So this is reported to the abbot of the monastery. And the abbot calls him in and he says, the abbot of the monastery. The abbot calls him in and he says, Why don't you do a good job with your work in the fields? And he says, I don't know. That's just work. What I really want to do is I want to meditate and I want to like, you know, read the sutras and I really want to go for enlightenment.

0:29:30
So then the abbot says, yeah, but that's this is the secret teaching. Enlightenment is out there in the fields. enlightenment is out there in the field and then the monk goes aha thank you thank you master he runs out to the field with his back and he fetches all the vegetables checking everything doing everything precisely because he wants to make sure that he doesn't leave the enlightenment behind so he does everything with a tremendous attention he's like is that enlightenment oh no So he does everything with a tremendous attention. He's like, is that enlightenment? Oh, no, that's a zucchini So he's like, you know being very very careful and conscientious and then after doing this again and again and again, he's perfected his attention his impeccability and then he has a Samadhi a experience of enlightened realization because he had perfected his impeccable attention he had perfected his impeccable attention.

0:30:28
So we always seek to do our work with this perfection. Now sometimes when you're impeccable, you still lose. You can run out there in the battle and say, I've defeated the illusions, and then someone kills you with an arrow. Oops! you know, kills you with an arrow. Oops! So, it doesn't map. You have to be... We're not seeking the results of our actions, not seeking the fruits of action. We only seek to do our work perfectly. Yeah, we have a goal. Our goal is to kill the enemy, right? Sell the software, sell tapestries, right? right?

0:31:13
Sell the software. Sell tapestries, right? So we're like, we have very, very, very strong goals. That's our duty. That is, that's what we're there to do. That's our karma. That's our pathway. Karma yoga, it's our pathway to truth. So we're out there to do that. But even if we fail to do it, if we do it with impeccability, we ascend.

0:31:37
We go up into a higher awareness. we ascend, or we go up into a higher awareness. And ultimately, on the pathway to enlightenment, through this taking action, through karma yoga, you succeed at everything. By sitting in the light, in meditation, the luminous brightness of eternity, brightness of eternity the transcendental light When when you meditate and sit in that light you will become Transformed the self of limitation that illusion falls away and you grow Into you become in that light The being you need to be to succeed in the task you need to be to succeed in the task. It's where this is the secret of transformation.

0:32:34
It is to be posed with the problem, having the duty, and then when you meditate and you see that eternal view of Krishna, enlightenment itself, in that light you transform to be able In that light, you transform to be able to succeed in the goal. And you will be faced with every goal, with every obstacle, and in that light, you become successful in everything. You're able to conquer the world with that light. the ultimate teaching of Krishna and the Bhagavad-Gita Okay, thank you

