0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about the spiritual crossroads. We're all on a journey through life. And different journeys go different places. You could say that one's experience through life is their journey. Their journey of life. But their journey might be a journey of just karma. A journey of very limited physical experience and awareness. experience and awareness. There's other journeys. There could be a journey of truth, a journey of selfless giving, of selfless love, a journey of compassion. And this journey for that individual high state of consciousness, a realization of a greater truth in life.

0:01:18
This is a more enlightened journey. So we seek these higher journeys, the higher road in our journey of life. Along these journeys, there are sometimes what we call spiritual crossroads. And these are very powerful and significant opportunities for transformation, for elevation. So it's a very important aspect of the spiritual path that you have these spiritual crossroads. that you have these spiritual crossroads. Without the spiritual crossroads, you are always stuck at a certain level of awareness. Now, a spiritual crossroad is a significant event that corresponds with truth, that brings you to a greater truth, that exposes a higher that exposes a higher way, a higher wisdom, a higher love. And these spiritual crossroads are not an everyday affair.

0:02:41
They're very, very, very powerful. And they transform your life completely. So, the first spiritual crossroad is interest in truth, interest in enlightenment. So many people are completely uninterested in enlightenment. money, relationships, houses, cars, work, power, all sorts of things. They're interested in the physical world and what you can gain in the physical world, what happiness there is to be found in the physical. The majority of the people on the planet have that interest. have that interest. So they don't even come across the first spiritual crossroad. Because, or maybe if they came across it, they didn't see it.

0:03:52
They're unaware that there's anything useful to be found in enlightenment. You could sit down with someone and tell them all the wonderful, powerful, You could sit down with someone and tell them all the wonderful, powerful, amazing, bright experiences that you've ever had with spiritual practice and they could just say, it doesn't mean anything, it's meaningless, it's useless, it's all fake, it's all a dream. But you, in your experiences, knew that they showed you something greater than this physical world. they showed you something greater than this physical world. This is that you have crossed the first crossroad.

0:04:36
The first spiritual crossroad is an interest in truth, an interest in life. And this interest transforms your life. It brings you into the spiritual world. the spiritual world. You might start by finding a book and saying, wow, that book, there was something spiritual in there that showed me something. Not just intellectually, you feel something, you become aware of some truth from that book, or maybe it's seeing a teacher. You sit there, you have an experience, and you say, wow, there's something to this, I and you say, wow, there's something to this. I feel something. And then you grow more and more interested by following a step further, a step further, and you become more aware of the truth. And then you've crossed the crossroad. So a crossroad is where you get where you get to a point on your path where you see you can make a change. You come to the crossroads and you can go forward the same way that you've been going. You can take a right or you can take a left. Now, one of the ways leads to a higher truth. If you keep going the same way you've been going, then you'll get the same result. So you go, no, been going, then you will get the same result. So you go, no, I'm just going to keep going straight. Same thing. There's no transformation there. You just stay. But maybe to the right, there's a way to a higher awareness. And maybe to the left, there's a way to a lower awareness.

0:06:21
Some people will make mistakes when they come to the crossroads. They'll think that they're when they come to the crossroads. They'll think that they're going to a higher way, but they actually go a lower way. Some people do this with the spiritual path. They have an interest in the spiritual path, but then when they're making that change, they go the wrong way. They might get very, very interested in the lower occult, in interested in the lower occult, in magic and spells and getting power over people.

0:06:55
And even though there's some power in that, and it's magical and it's not the physical world anymore, it is a way that obfuscates the truth. You can't see purity. You go into a heavier self, one with more powers and interests and occult magic and things like that. But you actually lose elevation when you go that way. But it seems kind of similar. It's like, oh wait, I found out there's this magic world. I could just sit there and practice compassion, learn Bodhicitta, do selfless giving and meditate. do selfless giving and meditate, or I could meditate and practice occultism. So those are two different ways.

0:07:44
So always on the path, when you come to the crossroads, there's an opportunity to go up, but there's also the opportunity to go down. There's also the opportunity to stay the same. Staying the same, a lot of people like to stay the same. A lot of people like to stay the same. They're comfortable with where they get. They're like, alright, I'm here, I'm comfortable, I like myself, I cherish my ego. If they want to go higher, then they choose the right direction, and they change their path. But if they're drawn into another experience, the opposite of what will take you higher, then that is a direction to take too.

0:08:24
the opposite of what will take you higher, then that is a direction to take too. So there's, on the crossroads, there's a chance, a chance to get higher. But then there's also a danger, a danger that you might get lower. And then of course there's the ability to just lock in on the self and say, nope, when the ability to just lock in on the self and say, Nope, when I see these other options, it makes me want to be myself. It makes me want to be the same even more. So those are the three options on any crossroad. So interest in the spiritual path is the first thing. Once you have interest, then you can go to the second crossroads.

0:09:12
have interest, then you can go to the second crossroads. The second spiritual crossroad is finding an enlightened teacher. Interest in the path is where you might see lots of different teachers, ones that are exoteric, ones that can tell you information. They've They've got some wisdom, but they basically have, they're not liberated yet. They're not, they don't have the inner teachings. And those teachers are fine, but they really only bring you to the first crossroads. They can't get you beyond that. Crossroads is where you find an enlightened teacher. And this is very, very rare. So most people aren't even interested in the spiritual path and truth, but to come across, to be interested and to come across an enlightened teacher is very rare.

0:10:22
There are not very many enlightened teachers. teachers, and the enlightened teachers have a sort of etiquette towards who they work with. Eternity will present to them the right student at the right time. So if you come across the enlightened teacher, and if the enlightened teacher accepts you a student, that is crossing the second spiritual crossroads. And then it's an exciting, wonderful thing, hopefully, for the student. Because what's brought you to having an enlightened teacher is very good karma. Very good karma from past lives. good karma from past lives. And in this lifetime you might see that everything's gone sideways, that everything seems to be difficult or hard, but if you've gotten accepted as a student by an enlightened teacher, it means that you've had very, very high karma in past incarnations.

0:11:32
And then when you become a student, there's the period that I call the moon lighting, the period that I call the Moonlighting, Honeymoon, that's it, the Honeymoon period. And during the Honeymoon period, everything's really exciting, ecstatic, and wonderful, it should be. And that's where you're just discovering the pathway to enlightenment, the esoteric discovering the pathway to enlightenment the esoteric side the the magic the mysticism and It's it's just there's just great enthusiasm So that is you know where you're You've crossed the second crossroad. So these are very very significant Stations in spiritual study stations in spiritual study. Now, the next crossroad is establishing yourself as a practitioner.

0:12:43
So this is where you become a computer programmer. You develop your career to a point of professionalism, you develop your career to a point of professionalism, to a point of impeccability. So, this changes your life. This is where you get a black belt. A black belt in martial arts. It changes your life. It changes your attention, your awareness, your focus. where you really establish yourself in the basic practices of the system. So if we were in the Shaolin Monastery, you came in and you would start learning Kung Fu. And establishing yourself as a Shaolin monk means being excellent in Kung Fu, like a black belt level in Kung Fu. So when you're establishing yourself, So, when you're establishing yourself, you're getting your black belt. So you got your yoga rank up to a black belt.

0:13:47
Your career's in order, your mindfulness practice is in order, you've read the right books, you're doing all the practices, you're doing your martial arts, your black belt in martial arts. All of this is the establishment of the self. This is the third crossroad. establishment of the self. This is the third crossroad. Now, there's three different types of students. One type, the first type, has a great deal of purity and heart. The second has power and wisdom. And the third type is selfless and just does it. So the first type, they tend to be not as powerful. And they tend to struggle in the third crossroads more. struggle a little bit more learning to get their career in order. But they'll be really happy. They're like, oh yeah, I'm doing this, but they'll struggle a little bit with these things, struggle with martial arts. And then you come to the second type, which is powerful and focused, good intellect, has developed their personal power and their knowledge over many incarnations. And they tend to do extremely well. Sometimes they're more powerful, so they do extremely well in martial arts. Sometimes they're extremely knowledgeable, very strong intellect, and they do extremely well in career development. So they have an ability there.

0:15:36
career development. So they have an ability there. And then there's the more advanced one, who, whether they have a strong intellect or not, they just apply themselves completely and succeed. So these three types over finding interest in the path, it's all the same. They all have the same Finding interest in the path, it's all the same. They all have the same ability. Getting the teacher, according to their karma, they have the same ability. But then when you get to the third crossroad, this is where it sort of changes. This is where the one with the good heart tends to have a little bit more of a struggle.

0:16:24
to have a little bit more of a struggle. But even getting a teacher, it happens differently. I remember there was one of my teacher's students. She was interested in spirituality. She read some books and saw some other teachers. Then she went to, she was just drawn to a lava tube cave on the big island of Hawaii. a lava tube cave on the big island of Hawaii. So she went there and she lived in this cave for three years. And she was one with a big heart. And then one day she felt this amazing, amazing beautiful love.

0:17:15
That was the highest spiritual experience she'd ever had. And then her heart told her, go to LA tomorrow. So then she walked out of the cave and got on a plane, got off of the plane in LA, and then she saw a poster for meditation classes. a poster for meditation classes. And then when she saw the poster for meditation classes, she had that big heart feeling. Big, beautiful heart feeling. And then she said, ah, this is where I got to be. Versus somebody who just would logically say, hmm, I would like to master meditation. So I see that there's a meditation class, and I'm going to go there So I see that there's a mass meditation class and I'm going to go there and apply myself That's more intelligent and it's a Vajrayana class and I'm very interested in Vajrayana I've read a book on Vajrayana and Vajrayana is very practical for me to learn because of this this and this So they make they'll come to the crossroads in different ways, but they'll both be successful in it being interested in spirit And also in finding a teacher interested in spirit, and also in finding a teacher.

0:18:29
But then the third crossroads, this is where we have to develop power. So someone with a big heart has to really develop power. And it could be challenging. But that's the third crossroad is where you become impeccable. become impeccable, a Buddhist monk, a professional spiritual practitioner. This is where your life gets very, very strong. The next crossroad is where you enter the intermediate study. study. And this is where you become a yogi. A yogi is one who develops themselves through developing a business. And in the creation and development and success of the business, success of the business, they see a higher degree of awareness and attainment in their own experience. So this is where we will find a product idea, build it, work on it, develop it, make that business successful. And in yoga, as you create awareness, you create And in yoga, as you create a physical success in your creation in the business, you will see a corresponding upliftment in your spiritual awareness, in your personal power.

0:20:21
So as you push your company up to be strong, also in the second attention, in the spiritual up to be strong. Also in the second attention, in the spiritual unseen world, you're pushing your attention higher than it's bent. We create a mechanism in the esoteric world that makes a connection in that yogic business with your spiritual awareness. It is a very profound spiritual awareness. It is a very profound technique and practice. It's what we call turbo on the spiritual path when you do yoga. It makes things go much, much, much faster. but in the intermediate level, we practice the yoga of compassion, bodhicitta. So this is where we start to learn not just basic mindfulness, but we learn how to be selfless and compassionate. And we practice bodhicitta, awareness of the suffering of other people, the willingness, awareness of the suffering of other people, the willingness, the desire to free them from their suffering. And also we seek to give people the awareness of light, the experience of light. We give our light to people so that they can be enlightened. So it's a process So it's a process of learning Selflessness awareness and compassion Now the intermediate Path that we meet here at this crossroad This could take years of practice For some people it's very very very very difficult to understand compassion it takes understand compassion. It takes working on it again and again and again. Little by little, the heart opens. Little by little, the awareness of compassion opens in your mind until you see a tremendous light in compassion. Compassion transforms all suffering into wisdom and light.

0:22:48
into wisdom and light. But sometimes it takes a lot of practice. It could take years of study to figure this out. Or it could take one day. Depends on you. Depends on how badly you need to be compassionate. Same thing with businesses. The businesses are things that Successes are things that, you know, if you've never developed one before, you work on it and you work on it. You perfect yourself through perfecting your business. And then eventually you'll succeed. Absolutely without a doubt. And so you just have to keep trying. Maybe it takes a long, long, long time.

0:23:33
Or maybe it just takes a day. So, it's dependent on your awareness. This is the power of the intermediate path. At this crossroads, you have to truly transform. Go beyond yourself. Now, to get to your teacher, that was your karma. that was your karma. And you're still working with your karmas when you're becoming a professional black belt. But that's where you go up to the point of the karma right there, it ends. Okay, you meditate every day, you practice your mindfulness to the best of your ability, your black belt, you have a strong career. But once you go into compassion, and once you go into business yoga, that's where you've taken the crossroad, you've made a change, and that's where you're going into higher states, beyond your karma. Now, the crossroads Crossroads always lead you higher.

0:24:51
They always lead you to a brighter state. But you have to follow the path of truth. If you keep going on the same direction, that's where you'll stop. That's where you will get stuck. You'll just be you the whole time. Maybe you got your karate black belt, and then you just stay that way. Maybe you got your karate black belt, and then you just stay that way. You don't want to make any changes. So we have to always observe, when we have the teachings of enlightenment, the teachings of yoga, of compassion, that we follow those higher teachings.

0:25:34
Because that's taking the crossroad and going the right direction. the crossroad and go in the right direction. To not practice yoga or compassion is just to be the same. But something that happens with a lot of people on the on the crossroads is that they go the other way. They're offered an opportunity of truth and light, but they have a bad reaction to it. A lot of people have a bad reaction to reaction to it. A lot of people have a bad reaction to higher teachings because it's demanding, makes you do more, it's hard, it's unusual, it's not the normal self. So you cling to the self, but you don't take the high road, you take the low road. You react to the opportunity of enlightenment. And this happens at every level.

0:26:32
You hear about spiritual practice and you're sort of interested, but then you start going into occultism. You meet your enlightened teacher, but you have a bad attitude and you don't become a And then you get, you're a student, but you don't become impeccable, you don't be all that you can be. You don't get your career, you don't get your black belt. You just say, ah, nah, I'm not going to do this. And then you quit. You can't handle it. You can't handle And this happens for people at every level. Even at the advanced stage, people will see the advanced teachings and turn away. After the intermediate teachings of yoga and compassion, then come the advanced teachings. That's the next crossroad. The crossroad where you turn into the advanced teachings, the crossroad where you turn into the advanced teachings, the actual practices that make you enlightened.

0:27:44
And within that practice, it tremendously changes your life. It brings you to liberation. That's a subject for another time. Okay, thank you.

