0:00:00
So tonight I'd like to talk about advanced meditation. At some point we come to a dissatisfaction with the limitations of life. It's a very deep and existential frustration. We know that we are free, but we can't experience that freedom. We want to know the secrets of the universe. We want to know who we are. We want to find out what is the meaning of life. This freedom and this wisdom comes from meditation, but it comes into complete fruition in advanced meditation. We begin the path of meditation with an introduction, beginning meditation. And this is where we learn the basics of how to meditate.

0:01:07
You learn about the aura, the chakras, you learn to focus on the chakras, you learn to make it a on the chakras. You learn to make it a discipline where you will meditate in the morning and the evening. You'll go to places in nature, places of power to meditate. You work on developing yourself just as a basic practitioner. And then you deal with all the difficulties. You deal with thoughts. When you sit down to meditate, you're trying to stop thought, but you notice thoughts when you sit down to meditate You're trying to stop thought but you notice that you have every single thought that there could ever be in the universe And then you learn not to judge your meditation just to let your meditation happen and By doing that You have bright Powerful experiences One of the very special things about our school One of the very special things about our school, being a school of esoteric teachings and created by an enlightened master, is even in beginning meditation, there's a tremendous power, a tremendous light.

0:02:19
Because in the way that we practice, there's many structures of enlightened dimensions of enlightened dimensions that an enlightened master created for us. So, when we learn meditation, it's very different than if you learn meditation from somebody else in a school where they don't have anyone who's enlightened. So, when we learn meditation, we're learning certain dimensions of mind, even in the beginning, where we might be trying to meditate, we might be struggling, be trying to meditate, we might be struggling, but we also experience some transcendental light, and in that experience, our consciousness expands. So we're given a tremendous boost by being a school created by an enlightened master. But after you get your discipline going, going after you get your basic focus and concentration.

0:03:16
This could be, you know, if you're a very strong student you can move in one year to the intermediate meditation. But it could take some people ten years to just learn how to have a discipline of focus in their lives. But after you've moved from the beginning meditations, you move to the intermediate meditations. from the beginning meditations, you move to the intermediate meditations. Intermediate meditation is a set of dimensions. It is within this invisible structure of how we teach meditation in our school. And when you're doing intermediate meditation, your meditations are deeper, more powerful, deeper, more powerful, more profound. This is when you start to go into the Dhyanas.

0:04:06
The Dhyanas are these levels of absorption, levels of mind that you enter into, and they were taught by the Buddha to be the practices that give you true wisdom. So, you start with practices that give you true wisdom. So, you start with vittaka, vittara, which is the proper way of focusing. And when you enter into that proper focus, that is the first dhyana. Then you go into pittisuka, bliss and happiness, the second dhyana. Third dhyana is sukha, which is just a calm, tranquil peace. And then you enter into the fourth, which is really the ultimate dhyana, which is stopping thought. So in the fourth dhyana, you stop thought completely. You have no awareness of the physical world. You're just done thinking And when you're stopping thought that's The next step that's where you're that's where you're ready to go into the advanced teachings now most spiritual practitioners never leave the intermediate stages They they were able to get to some some happiness maybe a little bit of you know maybe a little bit of, you know, pittisuka or some calm tranquility. And then they're getting to either the first or the second, maybe the third, maybe once in their lifetime, the fourth dhyana. So people come to experience the dhyanas and the dhyanas are beautiful.

0:05:57
There's great wisdom that you gain from them. There's great light, transformative, transcendental There's great light, transformative, transcendental light in the Dhyanas. And if that's as far as you go, that's good. That's an accomplishment. That makes your life magical, bright. You are wise. You are able to bring wisdom and light to everyone in your life. You're happy. You're happy, you see the magical aspects of the world. So an intermediate meditator is powerful.

0:06:37
The Dalai Lama is an intermediate meditator, not an advanced meditator, and he has a pretty happy life. So there's lots of Zen masters are intermediate meditators. You know, lots of Zen masters or intermediate meditators. It's very, very, very few people who get to advanced meditation. Advanced meditation, to even begin, you have to be an expert at intermediate meditation. You have to be able to stop thought.

0:07:13
If you can't stop thought, then you're not going to be an advanced meditator. thought. If you can't stop thought, then you're not going to be an advanced meditator. Even if you learn the advanced meditation techniques, which you can read in books, you will never be able to actually do those techniques correctly. You'll just be messing around. The advanced meditation starts when thought stops. You have to have your life together. You have when thought stops. You have to have your life together. You have to be impeccable in everything that you do. You have to have a tight, bright life. All of your affairs and relationships should be in order and not messy and not a place where you lose energy.

0:07:53
You have to be unattached to everything in your world. You have to be humble. You have to be balanced. You have to be mindful. You have to have compassion. you have to be balanced, you have to be mindful, you have to have compassion. You have to have sorted out the rough edges of the spirit and directed your mind towards Dharma. A lot of times when someone becomes an advanced meditator, that's where you see them leaving their old life. They are reborn in a way where the old life just doesn't fit them anymore. And then where the old life just doesn't fit them anymore. And then they have to change and transform. They have to go to the mountain.

0:08:35
There was an old merchant who was learning meditation from a Taoist master, and he broke through to stopping thought. He broke through to stopping thought. He broke through to the advanced stages. Now, he had a huge business, he had a huge family, and he was the most important person in the family and the business. But he just said, I have to go. And then he left. And the family was unhappy and moaned it, and the business suffered and all that stuff.

0:09:13
But he didn't care. a lot of stuff, but he didn't care. He went to the mountain and he attained enlightenment by practicing the advanced meditations. Now for the family and the business, it's just like the person died. They just went away. And then life is going to work out one way or another. But advanced meditators, when they get to that point of the enlightened when they get to that point of the enlightened states of mind, they often make big changes. They often leave the world. Or sometimes they just make different changes. They move from New York to LA. But they get some vision of what they need to do, and it's often making of what they need to do, and it's often making a change, changing out of what you've done before. An advanced meditator must do more. You don't get to be advanced if you're just doing the basics.

0:10:16
So, for example, in Tibetan Buddhism, in order to get to the advanced teachings, they have a complete structure. Oh, you want to do that? That's great. Okay, They have a complete structure. Oh, you want to do that? That's great. Okay, so start off by doing 20,000 of these mantras. So here's some mantra. It takes about 30 seconds to say. Say it 20,000 times. Once you've completed that, then you go on to another mantra.

0:10:43
Once you've completed that, you do this meditation, and then this mantra, and then this visualization, and then this mantra. And then at the end, do half a million of these. this visualization and then this mantra. And then at the end, do half a million of these. You know, about a million of those. They really do have these very defined structures of, you know, here's how you purify yourself. Here's how you purify your attention by doing certain meditations, certain mantras, certain visualizations, and there's a certain number of times that you have to do it. And it's a lot of time.

0:11:12
And there's a certain number of times that you have to do it, and it's a lot of time. So it takes a long time if you follow the structure. It takes years and years and years and years and years to get to the advanced teachings. So you have to just stick with it, do it, go through all of it. But you got to do more than that if you really want to be an advanced meditator. that. If you really want to be an advanced meditator, you don't just go through the numbers, you realize something. And in realizing something, you don't need actually all that time. You don't have to say all the mantras. You just need to realize it. Realize why they want you to say it. What are they trying to get you to do? So, for example, in Zen, they have For example, in Zen, they have the koan, there was a monk, and the monk, he wanted the transference, he wanted the advanced teachings, he wanted to experience enlightened states of mind.

0:12:16
So he says to the master, Master, what must I do? I've been meditating for years, and I haven't had satori, the experience of enlightenment. Satori, the experience of enlightenment. And the master says, what is the sound of one hand clapping? And then he ponders it, but he transforms. He goes past his old self, his old limited awareness, and he realizes something that you can't even say in words, that the Zen Master wanted him to understand. He breaks out of the old self into a whole new level of consciousness, and then at that time the Zen Master says, now meditate, now Zazen, and then at that moment he experiences Satori, which is enlightened consciousness. And he experiences Satori, which is enlightened consciousness. So if you just sit there and go, oh yeah, I'm just going to meditate and meditate and meditate, even if you're having brighter experiences and slowing down thought, you've got to do more for the advanced meditation.

0:13:33
You've got to figure out the essence of what these teachings are, so that it creates a what these teachings are so that it creates a radical shift in your awareness. And then you're ready. Then you're ready. Now the advanced teachings, they take you so much faster to enlightenment. The beginning teachings, you know, you're sitting there developing discipline. intermediate teachings you're having powerful, beautiful experiences of light in the Dhyanas. But in the advanced teachings you go a thousand times faster. Just radically faster. When you sit to meditate it's not anything like beginning or intermediate. It's a completely different universe where beginning or intermediate. It's a completely different universe where you move and shift and grow much, much faster. It's just the way that the advanced teachings are.

0:14:42
There was a monk in Tibet who spent 40 years meditating, doing basic meditation, probably 40 years meditating, doing basic meditation, probably intermediate meditation. And he was doing everything to get to the advanced teachings. And then finally, the Rinpoche sees that he's ready, sees that he did the right work, that he's purified himself, and that he's seen through his mind. So then the teacher sits with him and imparts the advanced teachings. And then he radically changes and in one year becomes enlightened. Now before that, the struggled, struggled with meditation for 40 years, just struggling and struggling, not finding the answers, not finding peace, just struggling. But finally, once he got those little advanced teachings, then, whew, he becomes enlightened very quickly. So we see this in many stories. The monk, trying to figure it out for years, finally, that one trying to figure it out for years, finally that one teaching is the advanced teaching that gives them their enlightenment. So this is what we seek. We seek the fastest way, but to do the fastest way you've got to get your stuff in order, right? So if you're having trouble with long division, calculus is not for you yet, right? So you have to take where You have to take where you're at and you got to do it well and keep going.

0:16:30
Now, a very, very, very important aspect of the advanced teachings is the teacher. If you have an advanced teacher, an enlightened teacher, an esoteric teacher, a teacher who has mastered advanced meditation, then they can teach you. then they can teach you. Otherwise, you won't learn advanced meditation. You know, you can sit there and read some books that say, here's the secret teachings, the advanced teachings, and you will try to do them and probably fail. Because the advanced teachings, although they can be said in words, are pretty meaningless. Words are just a concept. are pretty meaningless. Words are just a concept. But the way that a teacher teaches is a teacher teaches through levels of attention and states of mind and also levels of power. So the teacher enlightened dimensions.

0:17:40
So when you sit with a teacher of advanced meditation, they direct your mind. They direct your attention. They make shifts in power. And through that experience, one can learn advanced meditation. advanced meditation. And the teacher directs you from just having a meditation that you're used to. They direct you beyond yourself to enlightened states of mind. And in advanced meditation, the two enlightened states of mind that we experience are Salvakoppa Samadhi and Nirvikalpa Samadhi. So, everything else is just a good meditation. Everything below Salvakoppa Samadhi is Dhyana. Stopping thought is great, but entering Salvakoppa Samadhi entering Salva Copa Samadhi is advanced meditation. Salva Copa Samadhi is where you stop thought, but then you also merge with eternity. So you stop thought, but you also become one with everything. So stopping thought can be just a personal experience. You're sitting just a personal experience. You're sitting there, you stop thought, and you feel bright and beautiful. And then in Nirvikalpa, or Selvakalpa, you go beyond the self. The self becomes one with everything, and there's an awareness of being one with everything in the universe. They call it God-realization. You realize that you're God, that you're the thought, that you're the everything. And that's a powerful experience, very enlightening experience.

0:19:52
But there's one step farther, and that is Nirvikalpa Samadhi. Nirvikalpa Samadhi is Nirvikalpa Samadhi is where when we meditate we experience Nirvana. We come to Nirvana. Nirvana is that which has always been and which will always be. It is the center of It is a light beyond light. It is the essence of mind, essence of spirit. It's all of us and none of us and everything and nothing. It's impossible to describe. But it is the place that is the essence of life and being. that is the essence of life and being, and everything that we see is projected from that place.

0:21:00
A lot of people think nirvana is scary because it's the end of the self. They think that in nirvana you die. In nirvana there is nothing, therefore nothing is bad because if you're not, if you're part there is nothing, therefore nothing is bad, because if you're not, if you're part of that nothing, you then you're gone. But the wise see that nirvana is your eternal side, and that everything Not that nothing is in nirvana, but everything is there. So we see that there is good and bad in the world, life and death. We want good in life, we don't want bad in death. you see that the border between life and death was just a shadow. And then the light of nirvana shines on it and the shadow disappears, and there's no more border, that life and death are one.

0:22:18
We see that in good and bad, we look in good and we see an essential spiritual light, an essential spiritual light, and we look in bad and we see the same light. We see that good and bad are one. Nirvana is not a state of mind. It's not a dream or a vision. It is the correct awareness. It's the correct apprehension of reality. apprehension of reality. So we seek to be absorbed in eternity. Nirvikalpa Samadhi is the meditation practice where you go beyond this world and into this world through eternity world, through eternity and the transient, and experience the essence of life.

0:23:21
It goes beyond God. We find out that we're everything and everyone, and we find out that we're all eternity, and then we go beyond that. We go beyond everything and everyone and all eternity. And that's nirvana. A place you can't describe, but the center of being. Now when you get into the advanced practices, that's where the self gives its final reactions. gives its final reactions. And they're very often fear. So when you're sitting down to go into Samadhi, Salva Copa Samadhi, what's going to happen is you're going to come into so much light and brightness. And you'll start to see that you are in that light. And then that's where the the deepest aspects of the ego, of the self, start to react and say, no, I can't go into that light, it's scary. What's gonna happen to me in there?

0:24:38
I'm gonna dissolve, I'm gonna be gone. So, this is a profound experience to go into Salva Kopa Samadhi or Nirva Kopa Samadhi to Salvakoppa Samadhi or Nirvikalpa Samadhi, because it is the relinquishing of the self-definition, us as one, us as separate. When you go into Salvakoppa, you transcend the self and you become all. In Nirvikalpa, the self disappears completely. So this is what we seek to do. So, this is what we seek to do. And we see that eternity is so bright and it's in charge anyway and, you know, we're powerless. So, we go into the light, we let go of our fear, and then we experience these enlightened states of mind.

0:25:36
Once you've gone into nirvana, when you come out, you're not the same. Yeah, so once you go into nirvana, the self that you were is no longer there. It's gone. You find yourself an other self, because you're back in the world, talking to people, doing things. But you're also in nirvana. doing things. But you're also in nirvana. Once you touch nirvana, you never come out of nirvana. So once you have gone into nirvana, you look at life, difficulties, hardships, God. It's no longer your eyes. And you see enlightenment in everything. Your work, your play, your successes, your failures, your frustrations, your hardships. You look at And this is the result of advanced meditation.

0:26:55
Thank you very much.

