0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about meditation. Focus and awareness. To meditate, you must have tremendous focus. Through concentration, directing your attention through focus, you are able to transcend thinking and go beyond your transient consciousness. Stopping thought is meditation. If you stop thought, that is the goal. In the beginning, we start to strengthen our mind through focus, so that we can control thought. And after a while, we're able to stop thought completely. Stopping thought is meditation. Controlling thought and slowing down thought are steps along the way. In a lot of Buddhist schools, they say, Oh, don't worry, the mind is like a machine that just thinks.

0:02:10
So it's okay to have thought. But that's because probably no one in their school can stop thought. No one's a master of meditation. Anyone who's a master of meditation stops thought completely. Goes completely beyond thinking, awareness, inner dialogue of the transient world. And they're able to completely stop thought. Once you stop thought, the self ends. There's no more self. You're not thinking anymore. You're not worrying about what you have to do tomorrow or somebody who's upset with you.

0:02:57
When you stop thought, you stop the world. You stop the transient world. And that's when you enter into a world of light. the truth of life, the direct awareness of the eternal consciousness of your being. This is the awareness of meditation. You go beyond the physical, heavy world. You go beyond the routine thoughts and awarenesses, and you experience Spirit directly something that you can't even put into words but is it's a luminous beautiful ecstatic experience This is the awareness meditation Now to meditate It's very very important that you practice consistently very important that you practice consistently. If you don't practice consistently, you won't learn to meditate. You have to develop your focus and your concentration daily. It's best to meditate twice a day, in the morning right when you get up, and at some time in the evening as well. This is a practice that will develop a strength of mind.

0:04:31
A strength of mind to let go of the world, to go beyond the world. It's a funny thing, meditation. Because meditation is just this one little thing. Stop thought. The moment you stop it, you experience amazing, wonderful spirit, light, and eternity. But it's a little bit tricky to do. There could be people who are powerful, intelligent, they know all sorts of things, they're really smart, they can talk good, and yet, they can't stop thought for a second. Meditation is a practice through focus where we learn to actually stop thought. It's a strength of mind that is very very helpful to spiritual awakening versus being able to read every book, being able to debate, being able to know many concepts, all of those things are useless.

0:05:42
Well, they're interesting, but truly useless for your spiritual awakening. For spiritual awakening, this discipline of stopping thought is essential. If you practice concentration focus Every day in in your meditation your mind will become strong The mind is like a muscle this this this learning of focus is like lifting weights Your mind gets stronger and stronger and stronger But it's necessary to practice focus and concentration earnestly, to do your best, not to come to meditation being sluggish, but to wake up, sit up straight, engage the moment, focus. with the light of eternity, and it's a time where you bring your best. Now, every meditation must be new.

0:06:56
I like to say, every day, you can get into a routine where you're just like, okay, just gonna sit down and do whatever. You know? And this is how many, many, many people practice. They fall into these routines where they go to the same states of mind, they don't push beyond any limit of consciousness. They get to a pleasant place or a relaxed place, and then they like to dwell there. Or they go into a level of struggle with thought and they just dwell there. But every meditation is new. In every meditation you're pushing forward.

0:08:06
You're going beyond where you've been before, through focus. I remember I took a group of people to the first Zen monastery in America. And this was in Hawaii, in Maui. And we went there, and at night when no one else was around, we went and meditated in the meditation hall. And that meditation hall was so heavy with patterns of thought. meditated there had created certain understandings of what meditation is. And they would go into certain states of mind and they would never go beyond it. And it creates a heaviness or it creates a structure.

0:09:00
But to me it was a very limited structure. So when you meditate, it's not the same experience every time. It's a new experience every time. Now, in any good school, there is a structure to learning. In our school, there is a structure to learning meditation. It is something that we say is in the second attention. It is in the unseen world, something you cannot see with your eyes. But there is a structure in how in our school, in our lineage, we teach and we learn meditation. There are states of mind that we focus on. There are our awarenesses that we draw our attention to. There are dimensions of understanding reality that we draw our consciousness to. So in the practice of meditation, it's not just sit there and focus on something. Yes, it is. There's something that we do in the first attention, in the physical.

0:10:32
We sit up straight, focus on a chakra, perhaps. And that's about all you can say in the physical. But in the subtle, in the unseen world, there is a spiritual structure that we follow. And through following these very subtle awarenesses, we gain a greater spiritual consciousness. It's kind of like in karate. If you go to karate, you want to gain this power where you can beat someone up, defend yourself, right? You want to know that stuff. And in order to know it, you have to do forms and exercises. And the sensei will teach you the forms and the exercises. They'll correct you when your form is incorrect or when you're doing an exercise incorrectly. But if you just do the forms and take the corrections, then you gain that power, you gain that capability. And then you have that strength. That's a structure. A structure that develops power. So too in our school we have a structure that develops this spiritual power, or spiritual awareness, awareness of eternity, and that is the unseen teachings. It's very powerful.

0:12:10
Now, a lot of people think, oh, yeah, I took a meditation class, I'm just going to practice it. Without having these inner structures available to you from a meditation master, then meditation doesn't really work very well. It's kind of like deciding that you're going to go to a karate class, or get a karate book, and say, OK, I'm just going to practice on my own. You don't learn the subtle awarenesses that create the power. That comes from expert instruction. So in our school we have expert instruction. So tonight we'll have an experience of that guided awareness, those subtle awarenesses that draw your mind from transient awareness to higher awareness. In meditation there's many different forms, but one method. And the method is focus. Focus on one thing to the exclusion of all else.

0:13:32
You are able to exit the world of transient awareness and enter into spirit, luminous, eternal consciousness. So in our school, there are a few practices, different meditation practices, that we use and all of them work. And sometimes they work together, sometimes we'll practice one versus another, but one that's very, very powerful is chakra meditation. So we focus on these places in the subtle physical body that correspond with the physical body called chakras. These are doorways to higher states of consciousness. So for example, we might focus on the heart chakra, and this is the chakra when we focus our consciousness there, focus, focus, our attention there, replace our attention fully there and nowhere else.

0:14:46
Then we will actually go through this doorway into a state of spiritual awareness associated with the heart, which is dimensions of love and balance. Sometimes we focus on the third eye. This is when we focus there, we go into understandings of truth. And sometimes we'll focus on the navel center. This is spiritual willpower. We gain power from focusing here. So we use chakras as primary points for focus. We also use music. So music is another way that we can focus. And one of the reasons music is good. Some people get distracted by music, but for most people it works very well.

0:15:43
And the reason why is because we're kind of trained to just listen to music. We grow up listening to music. We have our favorites, you know, rock bands or symphonies or something. And when we listen to it, we actually become quiet. We're not thinking so much. Now when we listen to our meditation music, our meditation music is music that is designed and composed by yogis, and they're making music for meditation. So it's actually kind of a nice vibration because within the music there is a dimension. This is one of the places where you can, in the music, direct the mind to a level of consciousness. So when we meditate to music, the music is something that helps us to see a higher truth. And because we have the disposition of just kind of listening, our mind is more quiet. So music is an aid to focus. Another aspect of Our meditation focus is visual meditation.

0:17:16
This is where we open our eye and we'll look forward. We'll gaze at something. Sometimes we'll be out meditating in the desert or on a mountain and we will look into the the energies of the place that we're at, the energy of nature. And then you can start to see a subtle awareness field shift in that nature, in that energy. It's a mystical practice. Sometimes we'll meditate and people will... I'll have my students look at me, because when you look at me, I meditate perfectly, and I guide you in my meditation to go to higher states. This is how you learn meditation very well, is when you have a meditation master who's able to go into high states and show you how to step up to the next level.

0:18:22
And then you go ahead and practice your meditation on your own, trying to get back to those same states. That's how you learn meditation the best. Now, tonight we're going to practice one of these methods. We're going to do the visual method. We're going to have the aid of music and we're also going to focus on the chakra. So we'll put these three focuses together and by doing this we'll be able to very clearly shift from one state of attention to another. For the visual practice, I'm going to use something called a yantra. A yantra is an image. It's an ancient Vedic Indian device for transporting your consciousness. And the doorways go to different places of awareness, but I have compiled a system of yantras that brings your mind into a very, very beautiful, bright place of spiritual awareness. Now, yantras, there's many different types of yantras, and all of the traditional yantras are good, system that is associated to the dimensions, the structures in this Sangha.

0:20:09
So we will be looking at a yantra. I'll show you the yantra. Yes, this is the antara. So for this practice, you simply look to the center of the dot. It's a simple practice. And during this practice, you just look and you'll just see. We'll also play music. We'll also focus on the third eye. It will be simple. Okay, music. just one song. We're going to focus on the third eye, and that's kind of how it works. Now there's six different colors in this one, but we're going to just in one song, we're going to just step through two or three, because what we're going to do is we're going to observe a silent mind, but we're going to observe how these practices were able to shift consciousness.

0:22:11
You'll see life differently. Okay. ♪♪ ♪♪ so so the the the the I'm So So So So these are aids for focus visual awareness listening, concentration on chakra it's extremely important that you learn to focus most practitioners in meditation don't focus so well proper focus is completely concentrated to the point where you go beyond your transient mind and then you enter into a higher awareness of truth and life.

0:27:25
attention. The focus on the chakra directs your attention to a dimension of awareness, and then as we stepped through the different yantras, it shows you different levels of awareness to focus. Focus is so important. If you never learn focus, then in meditation you go much higher. You go beyond focus, and then there's no need for focus. So when you meditate, it's like a door. You're focused on the music, or you're focused perfectly, after a little while, you go beyond. You go beyond thinking, you go beyond the self, you go beyond this world, and you enter into that spiritual experience that is completely luminous and beautiful. And in that luminous experience, there's no need to focus. If you start to focus, that introduces self again. So once you're beyond thought, there's no need anymore to focus. You just experience eternity directly. It's kind of like a rocket shooting into orbit.

0:29:33
the pull of gravity, you need a lot of power. But then once you get out of the pull of gravity, then it's simple. There's no more need to use that energy. So focus is very, very important. Otherwise, you don't break free from the gravity of self. But once you break free, then everything's perfect. Meditation is like breathing in Mystic Scuba or Pranayama or Qigong. There are these practices where you first will focus on the exhalation of breath. You will exhale completely and deeply. And if you use focus, or if you push that exhalation, then the inhalation is automatic. You don't have to have any effort to inhale.

0:30:48
So this is like focus and awareness. Focus is that exhalation. You're throwing out all your thoughts. You're pushing out all your ideas. You're exhaling the world. And then the moment you do that, you automatically inhale. There's no effort anymore. Inhale There's no effort anymore. It's just it just happens and that inhalation is awareness spiritual awareness eternal awareness and in that experience of eternal awareness you experience mind Or as they say in Tibetan Buddhism the one mind The one mind is the true mind. It is not a separate, false, limited mind. When we usually think of a mind, we think of something in your head that's thinking, sometimes the brain, right? And you think, oh, I made up my mind. I decided I'm going to do this. I'm thinking this.

0:32:07
This is a mind of separativity. This is a mind that has fallen out of the consciousness of unity. Thought is limited. But all pain and suffering, all limitation, comes from not seeing the unity of mind. When you meditate and you stop thought, all of your suffering goes away. All of your pain, all of your problems, all of your difficulties, they vanish completely and you experience life directly, the one mind, the unity of eternal consciousness. And this is the practice. When you see that you are separate, when you say I am, then you enter into a quality, a limited quality of mind. In Tibetan Buddhism they say that the one mind has no quality. It is quality-less. And this is a way of describing emptiness, purity, unity of mind.

0:33:34
Not one way. Not particular. Not limited. not particular, not limited, but complete. And this is really the truth of mind, the truth of the one mind. Now, meditation is very powerful because it brings you outside of your illusion illusion into perfect consciousness. And it's kind of like, your illusion is like a movie. So you're living life in a certain awareness. And your awareness might be Mary Poppins, where you're going around, running around on adventures into magic lands, singing and dancing, and it's very jolly.

0:34:26
It's a jolly holiday. Or your movie might be the Blair Witch Project where everyone's running around screaming and then they end up dead. So everyone's in these movies, like really, like this is a limited awareness. But meditation draws you out of any existence, any milieu of consciousness. It pulls you beyond any limitation, beyond any diaspora of existence. and it brings you to a perfection beyond knowing in this transient form. And when you're in that experience of this God-consciousness, whole Your spirit is illuminated You see the truth of being So it's a very powerful thing. It's tremendously powerful. I Know Everybody in the West they want they want it easy, but it doesn't come easy It comes through Practice It comes through tremendous focus. It comes through changing your awareness field through meditation to see beyond the heaviness and limitation of the self. It's a process occurs and makes things very bright.

0:36:18
But I remember Transcendental Meditation, TM. It was a meditation that I heard about back when I was a kid. And they said, oh, yeah, this is effortless meditation. Effortless. And that's why a lot of people did it. It was the most popular meditation in America. It's meditation for Americans. Effortless meditation. But nothing happens if it's effortless. It takes tremendous effort to direct your mind appropriately, to still the mind, to reach the higher dimensions, to go beyond the self. Americans want meditation that's going to, you know, be like a lean cuisine that you just put into the microwave and boom! There's my enlightenment. But that's, it's not true. That's a different, a different way, but it's a way of a limited experience. Meditation, true meditation is profound. It is completely life-altering.

0:37:48
It brings you from any limited condition to an experience of enlightenment. Stopping thought such an ecstatic awareness of spirit that it changes your life forever. It makes you happier, brighter. It's a funny, magical process, but it really works. As you learn to focus, you'll be able to enter into a greater awareness of truth, a more vast perspective on life, with many more options for happiness and balance. So this is a profound shift, a profound change. Now the funny thing about meditation is a lot of people struggle with it. They struggle and struggle and struggle. But meditation isn't hard. It's actually very easy. Now I remember when I was a beginning and intermediate student, I struggled with meditation. And then when I was an advanced practitioner, then I realized it's simple, it's completely easy, because meditation is realizing your complete nature, that you are already enlightenment, that you are already that spirit. So it is really coming of what already is, not what is false.

0:39:41
We see our lives and the things in our lives, and we think that they're real, but these are empty qualities, and we think they're really real. And in a sense, these transient things hold us into a condition of mind, an awareness of mind, where we're very stuck, where we suffer. But in meditation, in stopping thought, that self disappears and we come into the awareness of who Now, it's most important to practice consistently and just be patient. We never judge our meditations. We just make ourselves sit and focus. Tremendous focus and stop thought. And over time, it works. You follow the structure, you practice earnestly, you develop strong focus. Over time, it works.

0:40:52
Buddha was talking about how meditation works over time by a simile of purifying gold ore. You melt the gold. There's some dirt and rocks and stuff in there. And then over time, they fall to the side, they fall away, and then there's the pure gold. So it happens in its time. The most important thing is to perfect your discipline of meditation. That is, meditation is sitting up straight. It's focusing on a chakra, or music, or something like a yantra.

0:41:36
focusing on a chakra or music or something like a yantra and It is tremendous focus and that's it For a while you might think that you're struggling with thoughts and feelings visions But after some time it'll all go away the most important thing is that you practice earnestly that you practice with focus. And if that becomes your way of life, then meditation will bring you to that consciousness of liberation. So it's a very important practice to just accept accept meditation into your life accept practicing perfectly a strong concentration and then eventually You will experience Enlightenment So when I talk about stopping thought going beyond the limited self. When you stop thought, you stop the self, you stop the world. Sometimes people think, oh my gosh, that's scary. That's like death. And stopping thought, meditation is not like death. The one mind is not death, nor is it life. It's not bad, but it's also not good. It's a place beyond good and bad. It's a place where good and bad come together. It's a place where life and death are the same.

0:43:35
The thing about it is in this awareness in this this consciousness where they come where the dualities exist together There's great luminosity Consciousness there's great bliss and ecstasy There's the ultimate Awareness that the direct awareness of truth So it's not something that's good, nor is it something that's bad, but it's something that is bright, spiritually illuminating. Now an enlightened person will experience this one mind, the quality-less mind, but they will also be able to live in the world of qualities. They'll be able to interact with every quality. It's just that they know this world is an illusion. They know that the qualities are empty, versus someone who's unenlightened, who thinks that all of the qualities of life because their consciousness resides in that place where the essence of life is without quality.

0:45:06
It's kind of like the process of meditation is the process of waking up. It's the process of coming out of a limited way of seeing the self to the true way of seeing self. It's as if you've had amnesia. in a transient awareness of limitation. And then through the process of meditation, coming to the awareness of the one mind, you come back to know your true self. I like to tell a story about Indra. Indra one day, the God of heaven, decided to take the form of a pig. And then he had fun, but he still knew he was Indra for a while. And he was playing in the mud and eating slop and having a great time. Then he took a pig wife and he had piglets and everything. And he was Indra.

0:46:26
So one day the gods from heaven said, hey, Indra, you got to come back up here. And he was all, he didn't want to go. He forgot that he was the god of heaven. And he was happy in the qualities of pig-ism. And then eventually, the gods ended up killing him, killing his pig form. And then when they killed his pig form, Indra came out as the God of heaven and went, whoa, phew, now I remember who I am.

0:47:04
So the process of meditation is a process of remembering. It is destroying your limited thoughts of who you are and what you are. And it is remembering that divine, eternal, and enlightened truth that is the actual essence of your being. This is meditation. Thank you.

