0:00:00
Tonight, I'd like to talk about Kundalini yoga. To start, observe your mind as it is now. What you're thinking, what you're aware of. This is your state of mind. In this state of mind, you have a certain level of happiness You have a certain level of awareness of truth You have a certain Construct of perception the way you see things that's modified by your emotions The whole way that you perceive and interact with life right now Is through your state of mind.

0:00:54
So observe it. See what's going on, because in about eight minutes, it's going to change. And the reason it's going to change is because this is a Kundalini yoga class. so for the first stretch you know it's kind of like Hatha yoga right you do some stretching stand on your head that sort of thing but in Kundalini yoga we We learn about different aspects of life, the subtle physical body, and how to really experience enlightenment. So it begins with an awareness of your energy and your energy body.

0:01:57
So we call this the subtle physical body It is a field of energy that surrounds your physical body You know The the subtle physical body and Kundalini is a lot like a volcano So a volcano This hill of dirt, yet it's got the power of the earth. And from time to time there will be a shift of power, a shift in the earth. And that shift pushes this molten lava up. And it comes up and it's powerful, right? Creates this tremendous, powerful display.

0:02:54
So that's how kind of the Kundalini works as well. There's a shift and energy rises. Now, your energy body is not a pile of dirt, like a volcano, I hope. But your energy body is a field of luminous fibers of energy and that it has a structure of these dots and lines. The dots are called nadis or chakras and the lines are energetic meridians. So the chakras, these are places in your body, points in your aura that correspond to physical well-being, emotional well-being, and some of them, the primary seven chakras, have to do with your spiritual awareness.

0:03:57
So the meridians are energy Lines the energy moves along those to get to the chakras to activate them so that's the subtle physical body now it's very important to understand this because Kundalini which is the primary Chi of the universe In Chinese they call it Jing. It is the primal energy. It is the energy of enlightenment and it is the energy that That we bring up Into our subtle physical body to experience high states of mind to experience an enlightened states of mind the whole practice the whole yoga of Kundalini is Learning how to access this energy energy of enlightenment this refined spiritual energy and and how to use it in a proper way, and how to cultivate it so that it brings us to greater personal power, greater success, and enlightenment. So we focus on making our lives powerful and accessing this Kundalini so that we can have these benefits. So the Kundalini resides in this first chakra. This is at the base of the spine.

0:05:46
Now this is one of the spiritual chakras. It is connected to, you know, the essential energy of the universe. So just as the volcano is sitting on the earth and has the power of the earth, the first chakra is sitting on the universe Enlightenment and it has the power of the universe of enlightenment So we seek to access that power and When we do that power will rise it will go up It goes up the primary spiritual meridian which is called the Shishumna and as And as the power as Kundalini goes up the Shishumna, we become brighter, stronger, more powerful, more enlightened. The greater you see truth, the higher it goes. So first, the Kundalini comes to the naval chakra, and that is the chakra of spiritual willpower. So then you have the power to do what you need to do in your life to succeed, to be balanced and be able to do your spiritual practice in a progressive way. Then it comes up to your heart. So when you can bring the Kundalini higher, it comes to your heart. Then you experience a love and balance and a purity. Then you bring the Kundalini up to the third eye and then you enter into wisdom and seeing. And then you bring the Kundalini up to the crown chakra. The crown chakra is the thousand-petaled lotus and when you bring Petaled Lotus and When you bring your Kundalini up to the crown Chakra, then you experience enlightenment We call it Samadhi But it's a you you experience enlightened states of consciousness But the higher you go the higher your spiritual experiences spiritual power love wisdom and finally liberation So the goal in Kundalini Yoga is to get the energy to go all the way to the top. But even if you don't get all the way there, the Kundalini is in amazing feats throughout history.

0:08:28
There's a lot of stories of yogis who can walk on water, who can levitate, who can be in two places at once, who can heal the sick. And these are powers that come from manifesting, utilizing Kundalini. I remember, and yogis cultivate this, so this is what we do, we go through these disciplines we cultivate Kundalini to do powerful things. But sometimes Kundalini just happens and you see power. Like I remember reading an article about a 72 year old woman who was walking with her grandson and by a van. And he's under the van and he's stuck and he's not doing so good. And the 72-year-old woman goes over and picks up the van and then pulls him out. So she got all this power, all this strength. That's Kundalini. So it can do physical things. It's all about accessing it, right? So she did something, she had some way where she all of a sudden accessed that.

0:10:10
But it's also seen in other powerful ways. Like Aung San Suu Kyi, the president of Burma. At one time, there was the military government that was against her. And she was going to go talk to the people, and they lined up a bunch of soldiers. And when she came to cross that line of soldiers, they were given the order to shoot. And then she just walked up and passed right through them. They didn't even shoot. That's Kundalini too. Or in Tiananmen Square, the tanks were rolling out to disperse a crowd of people that were against the government. people that were against the government. But one guy stood in front of a line of tanks and stopped them from coming in. That's Kundalini too. Kundalini does powerful things, amazing things. Einstein, right, you can have amazing discoveries. The discovery, the theory of relativity, that's Kundalini too. He broke beyond what everyone could see and he saw something new. That's Kundalini too.

0:12:12
Yeah. It's just interesting, I just heard in the news recently that they finally found the Gravitron wave. They have physical evidence of it. But this is something that Einstein said was there 100 years ago. 50 years ago. So they just found it, but he saw that it was there. And that's Kundalini too. Mark Benioff created Salesforce, and he made that business work. That business shouldn't be anything. But he made it the biggest thing and that's Kundalini too. Buddha became enlightened. That's Kundalini too. So Kundalini exists. But the question is, how do you shift to access it?

0:13:23
Well, you just did. It's been eight minutes, right? You just did. And the way that you did was by focusing on truth and still in your thoughts So what I'm talking about is the Dharma the pathway to enlightenment This is truth You're listening. You're paying attention. You're focusing on truth and also What we're doing together is we're still in our thoughts. This is a talk, this gives information, but it's also a meditation.

0:13:55
So Kundalini yogis refine their attention through focusing on truth and stilling thought, stopping thought. This is meditation. When you meditate, this is the essential practice for bringing the Kundalini up. So when you sit to meditate, slow down thoughts, then the Kundalini rises. You feel power and brightness. When you stop thought, the Kundalini goes all the way up to the crown, and you experience Samadhi, enlightened states of mind. So you might notice when there's enlightened teachers, they often go like this when they're meditating. So the Kundalini, when it goes up, it goes up really fast. So they often say it's like a coiled snake.

0:15:02
And when you're sitting there and then the Kundalini goes up, it's like, whoa. Although my teacher always said, just sit there, don't move. Flailing around. Sit. Yeah, because it's better, your physical body kind of disperses energy, so it's better to just sit. But it's hard sometimes.

0:15:36
So meditation is the primary discipline to bring the Kundalini up. That's how you experience enlightenment. Now, that's why there are stories of Jesus and Buddha and my teacher doing miracles. If they if you can bring the Kundalini up you could also develop Kundalini in other ways to do miraculous things to use power in different ways But essentially we seek to be enlightened to bring the Kundalini all the way up to the crown so that we are Liberated from the limitations of self and suffering so that we see life as it is in its true essence. It's as if you're on top of the volcano, and down in the town, there's a cloud, there's clouds over the town.

0:16:42
Their experience of life, they can only see so much. But when you're up on top of the volcano, you see forever you see everything and Then you don't have a limitation in view that's like enlightened Speaking of volcanoes There's another way that Yogi's shift into accessing Kundalini. And that is by going to places of power. Places where the access to Kundalini is greater. So sometimes there's places that are greater, sometimes there's places that are lesser, for accessing spiritual power.

0:17:25
So, recently I was in Italy with some of my students and we went to Naples, also known as Napoli, as the savages call it. And in Naples, it was very human, very dirty, a big city, a dirty city, a filthy city. And when we left Naples, we went to Mount Vesuvius, which is about an hour outside of Naples. And so we drove out of this dirty city and we went up this mountain, got onto the mountain and walked up to the crater. And when we got to the crater, it was immediately powerful. So we noticed that when we were in Naples, that it was like heavy and tiring. We didn't feel so good. And then when we got to the crater of Mount Vesuvius, we felt happy, bright, and alive. We were instantly empowered.

0:18:57
It was a place of power. And in a place of power, there's more energy. There's more light. There's more kundalini. And when you meditate there, just being there, it fills your aura with light. It shifts you. But when you meditate, you shift even more. You gain a higher level of Kundalini by being in a place of power. So we always seek places of power.

0:19:26
Now, then we went down from Mount Vesuvius to Pompeii. We went to the old ruins of Pompeii, in the old ruins, which was the main square of the town. And it was beautiful, very powerful, amazing. You're sitting there, there's these columns, and then you see right down from you, there's Mount Vesuvius. Now, at one time, Mount Vesuvius erupted, and the eruption had more energy than, it was about 100,000 times more energy than Hiroshima.

0:20:15
And it just destroyed Pompeii. So it was kind of ominous being there. But that was a place that had bad power, bad energy, not good for accessing more Kundalini. So when we learn about Kundalini yoga, we learn where to go to meditate and where not to go to meditate. What places you should stay away from because it doesn't help you shift into a greater amount of Kundalini. Now another way that you gain Kundalini, a very important way, is to have a teacher can bring you to the places of power, show you the techniques, but the teacher can also transmit Kundalini directly. So if the teacher has a lot of Kundalini, knows how to access the Kundalini, the teacher can also transmit it. We call it empowerment sometimes, transmission sometimes.

0:21:41
Sometimes we just call them special esoteric teachings. But there's ways that the teacher can just give you Kundalini. And I'll demonstrate. There, simple demonstration. So these are very important Techniques practices and Experiences these transmissions that you have from a teacher so Kundalini yogi always will study with someone who can teach them the esoteric way To be able to shift because it's not like Hatha yoga. It's not like you could read a book and stand on your head or something like that It the practices are very subtle Finally one of the strong amazing powerful ways to shift and gain greater Kundalini is by taking on challenges.

0:23:11
So sometimes we'll take on a challenge like, get a black belt, or take on a challenge like, make a business successful. And when you take on these challenges, you totally transform. So you start off one way, and then you see while you're going for your black belt that you're changing. And then when you get your black belt, you're very different, but you're more powerful.

0:23:41
You can see that when you start a business, that you're working on it and working on it, and that as your business succeeds, you start to see that you have more energy and that you're shifting. These shifts that you make to succeed in these challenges, they give you the shift that brings you to greater Kundalini. And as the Kundalini goes higher, you have more success, more power, more Kundalini, more awareness. When you have more awareness, you see better ways to succeed. So as the Kundalini goes up, you can see new things, new opportunities. You say, oh wow, now I see a way that we can actually succeed in this business. Now I see a way where I can go to a martial arts tournament and win. Because you got stronger, because you got more powerful, because you shifted and you accessed more Kundalini. Now, in order to really succeed in these challenges, you have to have the need to succeed.

0:24:58
So if you don't need to succeed, you're not going to do very much. But if you need to succeed, then you're going to do. So what you have to find is the need in your life. You have to take a look at your life. What's the purpose of your life? Is it the Dharma? Or you know, you have to reflect on it. You have to say, what am I doing? I'm doing this, this, I have desires, I have fears, but what's my need? Do I need to succeed in this business? Do I need to succeed in this black belt? If you don't, you won't. But if you have the need, you will. If you have the need, then you focus your intent. When you're driven by that need and you focus completely you definitely shift and the Kundalini rises and then you see success and then you continue and you shift more and the Kundalini rises more but you got to find that need. Churchill had a need. He had clinical depression where he was, you know, out. If you've ever known clinical depression, it takes people out. They can't get out of bed, feel horrible.

0:26:37
He had to use, he had a need to save his nation. And what he did to get out of his depression was very powerful. It was shifting in a very powerful way and the Kundalini brought him out of his depression. In his country home, next to his bed, on the table, on the nightstand, he has a Buddha, or he had a Buddha. Just an interesting fact I heard. So he looked at Buddha a lot. Don't know if he meditated though. Yeah, so you know you have to find that need. The grandmother, kid is under the car, she had a need and she accessed Kundalini and it made her do something powerful.

0:27:30
So you really have to look at your life and find that need and then focus your intent because that is the most powerful way to shift into Kundalini and succeed in these challenges. All right, thank you very much.

