0:00:00
Tonight, I'd like to talk about storing power. There are four stages of awareness of power in Buddhist mysticism. The first stage is gaining power. The second stage is learning to lose power, the third stage is storing power, the fourth stage is giving power. So it's very, very, very important to learn how to gain power and not lose power. This is skinning and intermediate practice of Buddhist mysticism. So it's important to identify in your life places, ways, experiences, things that have given you the ability to gain power, money, physical strength. And it's important to identify the places where you lose energy, where you become unhappy, you have bad thoughts, bad feelings. You have to identify the people you gain energy by being with and the people that you lose energy by being with. And then it's important to modify your life so that you gain energy and that you don't lose energy.

0:01:51
When you gain power, you gain a spiritual strength. Spiritual strength to live your life in a higher state of mind. to live your life in a higher state of mind. When you lose power, then you can't meditate as well, you can't be mindful, compassion is just an idea, you're completely unable to push yourself into higher states of awareness. Now, the Enlightenment Workbook is a book workbook is a book that guides you in great detail to look at your life and to write down the places where you gain power and lose power. And for losing power, it guides you with antidotes antidotes and shields, ways, practices for putting away those places where you lose energy. So the Enlightenment Workbook is a study in gaining power, not losing power. And if you exercises properly, then you are in a very, very strong position to gain power and not lose power. Now, beyond gaining power and not losing power, once you've got that down, your life is strong. However, you can then take advantage of storing power. So it's kind of like money. You're trying to gain money and not lose money. But then after you figure out how to gain money and not lose money, then you start getting so much money that start putting it somewhere. Your wallet can only hold so much. So then you start throwing money under the mattress, burying it in the backyard, putting it in a bank, a 401K, an IRA, a mutual fund, right? There's all these places to put money. So you, and some places So, you start to learn where you can put power, how you can store it in different places, so that you can come back and use it again when you need it, you can draw upon it.

0:04:40
With money, let's say, since you can only hold so much, you put it in other places, and then an opportunity comes for you. And this is an opportunity that allows you to, let's say, buy a business. So then you go and get all your money from all your different sources, you pull upon that, and then you put that money down on the business, and then the business makes you a hundred times more money than you started with. And then you have much more money, and you can start storing it again. storing it again. So, when we draw upon stored power, it is so that we can be elevated and we go to the next level of personal power. And then we're stronger because of it. And Storing power is taking a heightened awareness of truth, of dharma, of power, and placing it in another dimension.

0:06:00
is a practice of mysticism where we have awareness of different dimensions and different structures, where we can actually store power, where we can put this heightened awareness. And it and it will exist there, it will resonate there, and then we can draw upon it. One place where we store power is in places of power. In places of power, if you meditate, still your mind, speak of the Dharma and the truth and enlightenment, you start to become the Dharma and the Truth and enlightenment, you start to become aware that it's not just a physical place, that there are doorways to different dimensions. And in those different dimensions you can have experiences and you can store power. It's an intuitive practice. intuitive practice. It's a practice of intent and awareness. So you would be out sitting maybe at the Grand Canyon, and at the Grand Canyon there will be all of these tourists walking around, and they're looking at the canyon just as in a physical way. But you But you still your mind and you see that there are Doorways of light doorways two dimensions of light and power and wisdom And by still in your mind And having the intent to store power you store power you put you put power into that place And then it's something you can draw on later and then it's something you can draw on later.

0:08:03
So you can draw on it later, either by coming back or by, you draw on it just internally. So let's say that you go away. You go away for a few years from the Grand Canyon. And then let's say that you have a hard time, from the Grand Canyon. And then let's say that you have a hard time, you struggle, and you come back to the Grand Canyon. What will happen is you will connect with that stored power, and it will make you bright, and it will restore you to that level of that's one way that stored power can help. For me, I had stored power in the Himalayas and I was traveling, you know, trekking the Himalayas. I was at a high and there was a Buddhist monastery way up on the cliff.

0:09:17
So I went up to the monastery, and there was a stupa and a prayer flag right next to the cliff and a beautiful rock right at the edge of the cliff. And the cliff went down hundreds of feet. So I sat at the edge of the cliff because it looked nice to me. And I realized while I was sitting there that I had stored power here. I had been there in a past life and I had stored power. And I accessed that power. And in that lifetime I was a very high practitioner. even though I was learning, I was practicing the advanced practices, I hadn't yet gone into Samadhi. But because I was able to access that stored power from a lifetime where I was able to go into Samadhi, I was then able to go into Samadhi. And then I had an amazing experience of meditation.

0:10:24
an amazing experience of meditation. It helped me to get back to where I had been. So stored power isn't just for this incarnation. When you store power, you can draw upon it in any You can also draw upon places of power where you've stored power just inwardly. Let's say that you had in a past life stored power in China, but in this life you had never been to China. Well, maybe you go to the Grand Canyon. dimensions where there's a door to these dimensions. And the same place, maybe a sacred place in China has the same door to that dimension. So, in places of power, some places go to the same place. And so, you can meditate at the Grand Canyon where there's thousands of you know, meditated the Grand Canyon where there's thousands of dimensions and access a dimension that you had stored power in when you were in China.

0:11:48
And so therefore that's a way, but also maybe you're not even at the Grand Canyon. Maybe you're just driving in traffic. You can also access stored power so you could remember access stored power. So you could remember the Grand Canyon or you could remember your past life. Something deep inside of you becomes aware and you can connect to these places. Power in places is one powerful technique, but there are other practices for storing power. Building things stores power. So a long time ago we used to build physical things like a pyramid or a temple, and by or a temple. And by building these things, a stupa, a pagoda, by building these things you are able to store power. In constructing things, in developing physical things, one In this life, in our school, we focus on building and storing power in a different way. We use our minds more. So we might store power in a software product. We might store power in We might store power in writing music. We store power in building a business. So the way that we go about our work, writing software, the way that we go about writing music, the music, the way we go about business, is not just in a normal way. We have considerations of attention, impeccability, selflessness. We see, we act in and are aware of greater our work and we by having these focuses and attention we store a great amount of power in our work in building these things Building a song building software building a business we we store a tremendous amount of power in these things and Then when you come back to the music after you've you've written it And then when you come back to the music after you've written it, you're able to access the power.

0:14:55
When you come to the program, every time you run it or use that software product, you're accessing the power. When you come back to the business, when you work on the business, you're accessing the power. You're storing power and accessing power. It's tremendous. It's tremendous. And the thing about storing power is it doesn't go away. Let's say that you write software, then you shelve it.

0:15:29
You build a business, then you move on to another business. Since you stored power in that business, or in that software, Since you stored power in that business, or in that software, you actually can just inwardly draw upon that much, much, much later in life. You go, oh, I built that business, and you draw upon the power from that. So this is a very important practice, storing power in what we build in our work. An easy way to store power is by writing. It's a very simple thing to do, but you can see that it works very, very quickly. In storing power through writing, you would keep like a journal, and you would have a high spiritual experience and then write it down. Very simple. experience and then write it down. Very simple. So you have a high meditation, beautiful experience, and then you just write it down, every detail, and as honestly as you can, and don't put thoughts or self into it. Just write the experience down as clean as possible. Very simple thing.

0:16:57
When you do that, you're taking a spiritual experience that is outside of the body, an experience of light, and you're compressing it into a physical structure. So you're taking So you're taking the light of the spiritual experience and you're putting it into a paragraph. So you're encoding the words with the spiritual experience. And then later, you can come back to what you wrote. And when you read it, you will again connect with that high spiritual experience. spiritual experience. So when you have the high spiritual experience, it's out of this world. It's something totally beautiful and spiritual. But then after you have the experience, then you might be driving through traffic and having a hard time and just a difficult day. And you're not in that same spiritual state of mind. But when you go back to read But when you go back to read what you wrote, you immediately connect with that high spiritual state of mind.

0:18:09
So it's a very powerful practice, and a simple practice to do. So it's a good thing to do. Words. Words are also powerful. words are also powerful. So, especially if you're in a place of power, we speak powerfully. We speak about truth, we speak about enlightenment, we speak about success, health, and happiness. words that are powerful and lend themselves to the Dharma. It's like Pantanjali. Pantanjali had these sutras where he would say these words that are very powerful and they would be very enlightening for his students. And they were just these little aphorisms like Let me think of one. The fluctuation of consciousness is twofold, afflicted or unafflicted. That's And he was enlightened, and when he would say that, the students would get not just the words, but tremendous wisdom from those teachings.

0:19:53
Now when you read his book, yes, you get some wisdom from it, but he was able to bring so he was able to bring so much light into it that for his students it stored a tremendous amount of power. So it's also possible through storing power to give power. So, there's a lot of ways of giving power, but giving power through storing power is a very, very good way. This is the one that I recommend. So for example, there was a terma. Padmasambhava left a teaching and he stored it as power. and he stored it as power. And then one day, some Buddhist monk came across that teaching.

0:20:59
He accessed it from out of a different dimension in the Himalayas. And that teaching was called the Bardo-Fadal. That is the Tibetan Book of the Dead. And it's a very, very powerful the dead. And it's a very, very powerful book. So, so the term is a teaching. It's one, it's one way to share power. But you have to be an advanced master to do that. But then that book itself is so powerful that when someone dies, if you just read those words, it, it words, it helps the person who died. It helps the spirit go through the intermediate states before they're reborn. It aids them in giving them the Dharma. It's a very powerful book. That's a good way of sharing power. Or we have the book Enlightened Pregnancy, which pregnancy, which is not reading to someone who died, but someone who's pregnant, someone who's going to have a baby. You're reading that book and that's on the other side saying, hey, you're going to be born here, come over here. And here are considerations of truth and the Dharma that will aid you in your spiritual evolution. So these are powerful. Just by So these are powerful, just by reading it, it creates an effect on that spirit. It gives them light and awareness. So these are ways. Also in Hungary, the whole sangha, we wrote called, When the Light Comes Up. I can't say the Hungarian way. And this was really like a journal of individuals' spiritual experiences. And they had these powerful experiences and they had these powerful experiences and they wrote them down and it's a compilation of their experiences. So this is like journaling. This is putting together your highest experience.

0:23:25
When they read that, they're able to go back and connect to those experiences again. But since we created it as a book and we put it in bookstores, people are able to buy that are able to buy that and then you're sharing the light with people. And this is what we did with Mystic Scuba as well. Mystic Scuba was an experience. So when Savitri and I wrote Mystic Scuba, we went to Hawaii and I had planned out all the dives and all the teachings. And I had planned out all the diets and all the teachings. And then we just did that. And so we actually experienced that whole book. And then, you know, it was just a lot of journaling about the spiritual experiences. So these are what... and then we made it into a book to give to people.

0:24:21
And this is a way of sharing power. Finally, my teacher said that wise, selfless giving and compassion are the highest way of storing power. It stores a very enlightening power. There was a time where Buddha was going around teaching and an old man who was very, very poor saw Buddha. And he just had this, he just said, I want to give him something because he's holy and I moved. So he goes over to Buddha and he doesn't have anything because he's so poor, but he gives Buddha his, he has a robe. That's all he has is a robe. So he gives Buddha his robe. And then he says, here Buddha, I know it's kind of an old, dirty, horrible robe, but if you have a monk who needs a robe. So the man's standing there naked, giving Buddha his robe. So the man's standing there naked, giving Buddha his robe.

0:25:40
And then Buddha accepts it, and then says, you know, thank you, and then leaves. Now the man, you know, a little while later, Ananda asks Buddha, so Buddha, I mean, that guy didn't have anything, and you know, you took his robe. And then Buddha said that he was, that the man got very, very, very high karma for such a gesture of selfless giving. And that he, from that experience, became what we call a once-returner. attainment in Buddhism, where he'll come back for one more incarnation. And then Buddha said, and then in that incarnation, he'll remember what he did, you know, his next incarnation, he'll remember what he did in this incarnation, and then he'll become enlightened. So, by doing, you know, wise, selfless giving, and compassion. See, the man had the selfless compassion. See, the man had the selfless giving and Buddha had the compassion.

0:26:56
That's a very, very high spiritual way of storing power. Okay, thank you all very much.

