0:00:00
Tonight, I'd like to talk about Buddhism, the path of affirmation and negation. affirmation and negation. When you begin on the spiritual path in Buddhism, you start on the path of affirmation. This is a path that shows you good, positive ways to make progress, to cultivate awareness make progress, to cultivate awareness of truth. This is the path that brings you from a condition of suffering to a condition of liberation. So it is the escape from pain.

0:01:12
pain. So Buddha's first teaching in the Four Noble Truths is that life is pain. And then he proceeds to tell you to teach the path of affirmation, the way out of pain, the way gain great spiritual merit, and develop beautiful spiritual attributes. And you just follow the teachings of the enlightened. You hear, oh, I should practice some compassion. Nothing I've ever thought of doing before, but I think I'll try it. I think I'll try it. And it's not something that you have to understand completely, it's just something that you follow, that you practice. You give yourself to the spiritual disciplines.

0:02:16
And then by doing that, you get higher, you get brighter, you gain wisdom. On this path, it's kind of like, if you're sick and you go to a doctor, the doctor prescribes you certain medications, and you don't need to know what's in it. All you know is that if you take it, you feel better. It heals you. It takes away the pain. So, this is the beauty of the path of affirmation. It is created, this path, from the enlightened, and they know what works. And they prescribed certain practices and considerations that you just engage in, and it makes your life better and brighter.

0:03:12
better and brighter, makes you more wise and know truth better and be in less pain. So this is a wonderful thing. Now just to come to the path, you have to have a certain kind of wisdom. You have to be able to see beyond the self, the limited self's desires and fears, and of the truth of life, that ultimately there's suffering in life, unless you follow the spiritual path to get out of that suffering. So when you look past the fact that desires, they just, I guess, joy for a little time. And that ultimately, when you look past that joy, that transitory joy, that your spirit is unhappy, then you realize that the self is measured by desire and aversion, by limited concepts, limited concepts, by personal history, by attachments. If you looked at all of these ways, you're looking at the ways of self that are limited. So you say, wow, nothing in this physical world is going to make me happy. And all of these defects of self, you're chasing You're chasing certain things, you're running from certain things, you're attached to certain things.

0:04:55
You say, wait, these are the things that actually create suffering for me. That's a wise person. You have to be wise to start the path of affirmation. Otherwise you won't follow the teachings. You'll hear the teachings, and you won't follow them. follow the teachings. You'll hear the teachings, and you won't follow them. You'll say, oh, so I'm supposed to, you know, if I have a backache, I'm supposed to take this pill, right? Okay, well, I got the backache, and I see the pill. But you have to have the wisdom to say, all right, I will listen to my doctor. And that comes from understanding life. That That is a wisdom. So Buddha said, life is pain, there's suffering in life, and here's the way out, the path of affirmation. So once you're savvy to the way that life is, once you don't want suffering anymore, then you follow the path of affirmation. Then you actually say, oh, okay, so I'm supposed to do this. All right, I'm going to try. Wait, there's this thing called All right, I'm going to try.

0:06:01
Wait, there's this thing called compassion. Oh, I have to, that's what I'm supposed to do? All right, I'm going to learn it because I want to get out of suffering. And then by following this path, you will work your way out of suffering. When you're on the path of affirmation, you find a teacher, a teacher who can show you the way, tell you the things to do and the things not to do. So there are things to do that give you more power, more energy, more awareness, show you truth in a greater degree, and then there's things not to do, because if you do those things you will lose personal power. Your awareness will decrease.

0:06:50
You will see less truth. your awareness will decrease. You will see less truth. So a teacher will have a collection of things at work. We call it a path or a system, a structured methodology for you to at the Eightfold Path, and there's various different teachers who come up with different ways. There's a very popular teacher in India who has a way called Inner Engineering Trademark. So it's like, you know, they have, there's all these different ways, different methods. But if the teacher's enlightened or is following a lineage of enlightenment, then the teacher will show you ways that work. And then all you have to do is give yourself to those ways.

0:07:55
And then you will find that you move beyond the self of limitation. of limitation. You remove yourself from ignorant patterns of being, and you find yourself in a brighter state of consciousness. So we come to see, from following these practices, that the things work. Practicing humility makes us feel better. Being mindful and caring Being mindful and caring makes us feel better. We see that it brings us out of pain. We see that love works, that compassion works, that these are real practices, real ways to get ourselves out of the self of limitation of limitation and out of suffering and into really high beautiful states of consciousness. So we say, ah, this is great. We don't have a kind of moral judgment on things being good or bad.

0:09:08
We just want to do things at work. So we're not going to indulge in anger. We're not going to We're not going to indulge in jealousy or enmity, because we see that when we do that, we feel bad. We feel worse. It doesn't work. It puts us into pain. So we throw away anger. We throw away jealousy, enmity, and then we experience a brightness. We experience love, compassion, gentleness, harmlessness, and we see that that elevates us, that gets us out of the pain.

0:09:47
So we just want to be efficient. We want to maximize our efficiency in ascending to a higher state of mind, to a higher awareness of reality, to a brighter being. of reality to a brighter being. So we find that these are the ways that work. We try to have a meditative life, a bright life, a life where we're looking inwardly. We're seeing higher and brighter brighter, more beautiful dimensions in our own being. Because in the outside world, we see that there's a lot of heaviness, physicality, things are draining, and things don't glow, they don't shine. So when we have to deal with the outside world, because we don't run away from it, we deal don't run away from it, we deal with the outside world as yoga, as our spiritual path. Everything that we engage in, every group that we're dealing with, we bring a light to, a brightness to, and we develop greater personal power by engaging in the world as well.

0:11:12
well. So we will work with every situation that we're faced with in a way where we reach into spirit. This is the path of affirmation. This is what we're taught. The structures the structures of the path, there are teachings in the path that bring you to be able to be capable of doing this. And then that way, your life works out. Your life works out in a bright, beautiful way. There's no place where you get drained. You seek the light inside, and through the methods of the practice, everything that you everything that you deal with in your life brings you to a higher degree of personal power. And when we follow the pathway of affirmation, we see that in our mind, were bad, that hurt, that were dark, disturbing thoughts, disturbing emotions, we see that they become bright.

0:12:34
We transform our being through this pathway. We see that living a life of desire and aversion, doing things that we want to do and running that we want to do and running from things we don't want to do, that that self goes away. That self dissolves in light and in power. So we see tremendous transformation in following the path. And this comes from meditation. Now in the path of affirmation, there's two aspects. meditation. Now, in the path of affirmation, there's two aspects, there's two ways. One way is the exoteric way, the other is the esoteric. Exoteric is the outer teachings, they call them. These are books you read, lectures you hear, conceptual understandings. These are basic practices, and they're very, very good. It's also called the long path to enlightenment.

0:13:48
These are very, very good things. Like the five precepts. So this is a simple thing. It's something that in Buddhism, every layman will practice the five precepts. that in Buddhism, every layman will practice the five precepts. So will the monks. But the monks will go on to the esoteric teachings. But the five precepts are something that anyone can practice, and if you practice it, it really makes your life better. It sets you up to go in the right direction.

0:14:21
And it's simple things, right? Five precepts. Don't kill or cause harm. Don't abuse sex. Don't abuse intoxicants. And then the really important ones like floss your teeth. I guess the most important one is don't make eye contact with teddy bears. I don't know. I'm just kidding. But you know, the five precepts are things that really make your are things that really make your life go better, cause you not to fall into bad karma, and keep your dental hygiene extremely good. So these are things that are very, very helpful. This is where you're learning about Buddha, and it's inspiring, and then you get higher. But the esoteric path is much path is much more radical. In the esoteric path, you don't want to just learn about who Buddha was. You actually want to become Buddha. You want to be enlightened, and that's why you'll follow the esoteric path, the inner teachings. And this is much more radical.

0:15:36
meditation. And in meditation, you go beyond thoughts, beyond the self, into the light of eternity, and in that light, you are enlightened. You become illumined. And then you're purified, and you see your greater self, your higher self. So So this is the esoteric teachings. Now it's kind of like meditation is so important because this is where you connect with, you could say you can connect with nirvana in meditation. The same way you can connect to the cloud through any device that you want. device that you want. Or as they did in ancient times, connect to the mainframe via the terminal computer. So in meditation, we sit and we connect with eternity, we connect with nirvana. And in that connection, we go from the physical world into the light. And in that light, that's into the light. And in that light, that's where we are enlightened, in that spiritual light.

0:16:58
So on this path of affirmation, we change and we grow. We become our higher selves, our liberated selves. We can even be liberated from our suffering. On the path of affirmation, from our suffering. On the path of affirmation, very often, you get a spiritual name. You are no longer the old self of karma, of conditions, of the ways that you were. You've given up all of the ways of desire, and the ways of anger, and negativity, and you've radically of anger and negativity, and you've radically changed, and you've become a person of Dharma, a person on the path. You've become a different being. And that's why it's often that you a new name, a Buddhist name, a Hindu name. So this shows you that you've changed into a higher self, you've transformed your karmas, you've gotten into a higher way, a higher being, and you've literally transformed yourself and become a new being, a higher being.

0:18:24
a new being, a higher being. So the problem is, that higher being sometimes gets hung up on being a higher being. And then ultimately, for the perfect enlightenment, you've got to let go of even that higher being. because that higher being has become a concrete structure with higher attributes, but those attributes the self still is clinging to as a self. So this is where the path of negation comes in. where it's necessary to have a higher enlightenment to let go of those aspects of self that are even the high aspects of self, the bright aspects of self, because those are still ideas of self, concepts of self. the wonderful things that you've developed and built and cultivated, we destroy them.

0:19:43
But this isn't a bad thing. It's not a bad destruction. It is the destruction of limited states of mind. It is the destruction of attachment, even to things that most people would say are but still holds you in a limited view and concept of being. So it is a destruction of self, of the limited self, and of the higher self. It's a destruction of all kind of self, because enlightenment is complete selflessness. practicing, let's say, in a monastery, meditating, staying away from sex and money and power, and just trying to live a humble, peaceful life. And in that time, you've pushed away away the things that normally trap people. People usually get trapped in money, sex, and power. They'll get into these things, they'll create attachments, they'll create desires, and they'll get trapped in there. But you've pushed it off for many incarnations, and you've gained greater personal power. This is the path of affirmation. But now, This is the path of affirmation.

0:21:15
But now, you have a concept that, okay, sex is bad, you have to stay away from that, money is bad, don't want any of that stuff, power, no good. And the problem is that you still see things as good and bad. And even though at one time something wouldn't work for you, Even though at one time something wouldn't work for you, you've defined it as a bad thing. So, let's say there's two people sitting there looking at trash out in a park. Trash all over the place. Garbage everywhere. One person could look at it and go, oh my gosh, this beautiful place of nature.

0:21:58
People just threw trash here and now it's terrible. and now it's terrible. And the other person could look at the trash and see beauty and say, wow, but look at the colors. I mean, when you... when that box of M&M's gets a can of Coca-Cola on it and then it mixes with, I don't know, dirt, look how beautiful, a universe of wonder. wonder. And you really can see God and enlightenment in all things. And so what you could say is bad, you could also see beauty in. So one has to see past good and bad, because good and bad is enlightenment. There is no There is no good and bad.

0:22:49
It is just enlightenment. So on the path of negation, you have to go past your concepts. On the path of negation, the things that you used to have to push away, you eventually have to come back to. So that's why a teacher will say, oh, you've been in that monastery, staying away from, you have a... you've been in that monastery staying away from, let's say, money, and staying away from, like, having a job. So then the teacher will say, go get a job, make a lot of money. And then the student who's been on this path of affirmation for thousands of lifetimes will say, no, that's horrible.

0:23:36
No, that's horrible! But the teacher says, no, you should do it. And then they don't want to do it, but then they end up doing it. And then by doing it, by breaking out of that pattern, that's negation. You break that attachment to a certain view of life. view of life. And then you see that making money, being in the world, can be spiritual and powerful, and that you can do it in a way that develops you, and you can use money in a way that's helpful, that's selfless, where it doesn't create harm. And then that view of, wait, I have to stay away from money because that causes trouble, to, wait, I can also have a lot of money and still follow causes trouble to, wait, I can also have a lot of money and still follow the Dharma.

0:24:31
And that's where good and bad go away. So negation takes away the part where you say this is bad. And then you come to see that good, bad, and the guy with the gun. Okay. don't know if you guys got that one. So there's no good, there's no bad. Everything just is... and if you have a problem with something, then you have to practice affirmation to go away from it a little bit, or sometimes you have to go into negation, where you come back to it in a new way, beyond. So teachers always shove you into stuff like that. At first there's affirmation, and then there's negation. So there was a Buddhist monk, or a man who came to a Buddhist suffering from a relationship. And he was so upset about a relationship. And so the master says, well, what you got to do is you got to become a monk because then there's no relationship.

0:25:53
And and then when you're a monk, you're going to do all these positive things. And this thing that's causing you so much trouble, it's not going to be there anymore. to be there anymore. So this guy joins, becomes a monk, and then one day after many years, the master says, okay, now I'd like you to teach some of the lay people. So some of the lay people come, and some of the lay people are women. And he refuses. He says, oh, no, no, no, I can't teach women because of that thing I had. I get, yeah, it doesn't work can't teach women because of that thing I had. I get it, yeah, it doesn't work for me." And then the master was like, okay, okay, okay. I still see you need to do more practice, more cultivation. And then another time, this is much later, he says, okay, now I need you to go, now that you're an advanced monk, I need you to go over to the southern monastery I need you to go over to the southern monastery, and I need you to teach there, to be the head monk in this monastery.

0:26:57
It's far away. So he says, OK, I got to do what my master says. Then he goes far, far, far, far, far away, comes to the monastery, and then he walks in and realizes that it's a nunnery, and he's supposed to be there in charge of the nuns. to be there in charge of the nuns. So this time he's done enough practice of affirmation where he then is able to deal with something that brought him great pain and suffering before. And so then he positively is able to be in this nunnery and teach. So there's So many wonderful Zen stories and things like that, where you have a certain idea, and then the master destroys it.

0:27:45
And then you have to look at life in a different way. This is the practice of negation. Now affirmation and negation, they work hand in hand. You have got to build things in your mind. You've got to structure your life. to structure your life. You've got to gain beautiful spiritual attributes. You've got to get your mind in order. You've got to push away things that hurt so you can get higher. You've got to discipline yourself and develop greater personal power. This is affirmation. And then, when you've done that, then you've got to destroy it all. Not that you actually destroy it all, but you destroy any connection to it, any attachment to it, any concept of all, but you destroy any connection to it, any attachment to it, any concept of self with it.

0:28:31
So it's like building a fire. Fire is the symbol of Buddhist yoga. You spend all this time stacking up the wood, getting the kindling, putting the paper in, you make this beautiful like structure, right? You know, oh, that's really nice. And then you throw a match on it, you throw a match on it, and it burns. It creates energy and heat. And then at the end, there's nothing left. So this is the symbol of affirmation and negation. Okay, thank you.

