0:00:00
Tonight, I'd like to talk about death and reincarnation. Death is not an ending. Death is a journey, just like life is a journey. Journey from one place of the mind to another. mind to another. People think that death is an end of the self, but it is not an end of the self. It is a natural condition of life. Since there's life, there must be death. But death isn't bad. didn't occur, then things would never go away. Things would always remain. Death is a force of nature that draws away what is proper to draw away. With death, you lose you lose bad habits, for example.

0:01:17
Death to a bad habit is a good thing. So, and with death, when it occurs to you, when your physical body dies, it is proper because it is life telling you it's time to make a change. Where you are taken away from what you've been accustomed to, taken away from what you've been accustomed to, and you're put into a new experience where you can grow. So death is not an ending. At the moment of death, you don't disappear. You don't cease to exist. Your awareness goes on.

0:01:57
At the moment of death, you become aware of what they call in Tibetan yoga, the bardos. of what they call in Tibetan yoga, the bardos. The bardos are these inner states where you experience not life, but that which is between lives. In the bardo, in the first bardo, you experience the dharmakaya, the clear line of reality. the dharmakaya, the clear line of reality. And if you merge with that line, then you become enlightened. In the second bardo, you are present in your, kind of like a spirit, right? So we hear of ghost stories. These would be people who are in the second bardo. you're present for a time where you can kind of say your goodbyes, even though people might not hear them.

0:02:57
Just take a last look at your life before you move on to the third bardo. And in the third bardo, that's where you meet very, very powerful dimensions of light. And in that period of the third bardo, you kind of go away for some time. You merge back with eternity for a little while, have a little rest, and then you come back. Then you go into the fourth bardo. The fourth bardo is the spirit's passage back into incarnation. So we reincarnate. So, we reincarnate. We go from one lifetime through the journey of the bardos to another lifetime. And when we reincarnate, we don't remember our past life. We're in a brand new life and that's the nature of that incarnation. We don't remember past lives the same way We don't remember past lives the same way tonight when you go to sleep and you have a dream.

0:04:07
In that dream, you will not remember last night's dream. That is the way that we understand or that's the way that we perceive illusion. So we have incarnation after incarnation after incarnation. So we have incarnation after incarnation after incarnation. And what we observe in reincarnation is that you might have had a dream where you were a doctor. You might have had a dream where you were a soldier. You might have had a dream where you were a dolphin. dreams you have, whatever is going on in the dream, the drama, the romance, the comedy, the horror, whatever is happening in the dream, you notice that you are still the perceiver.

0:05:08
There is you as the doctor, you as the dolphin, you experiencing different things, but the You, experiencing different things, but the eternal you that goes from life to life to life is just like you going from dream to dream to dream. You still have certain propensities or hot buttons, and they act out whether you're the doctor or the dolphin. whether you're the doctor or the dolphin. So that's your eternal self. And if you were to die right now and then be reborn, you would have the same spirit just in a new incarnation, in a new world, in a new experience. Eternally, we never stop incarnation until final liberation, which is where we merge with the universe and become one with everything.

0:06:15
But you will just keep on incarnating. You'll reincarnate and reincarnate and reincarnate. Now this is a good thing, because a lot of people fear death. But if you have the knowledge that you'll reincarnate, then you'll say, Oh, okay, well, that's good. I don't have to be afraid of death anymore. And if you have had friends who pass away, they don't cease to exist. They will reincarnate. They're on a journey, just as you're on a journey. then you're able to also be less stressed out. When you're, if you think this is the only life that there is, you might say, oh, I have to do everything or the perfect things in this lifetime.

0:07:04
But no, in every lifetime, we grow. So with the knowledge of reincarnation, we understand that every lifetime, that every lifetime we're able to take action to improve ourselves. It's kind of like going to school. You're in the third grade and then you learn something in that experience and then the next year you move on and the next year you move on. So we always seek to better better ourselves so that we can move on, but we don't have to worry about getting it all right in this one incarnation. Now, people can move up a grade, or they can fall back a grade. So, in reincarnation, if you do good, the principle of karma, you do good In reincarnation, if you do good, the principle of karma, you do good things and you're in a higher state of mind, you're able to move on.

0:08:09
You gain a higher state of mind by spiritual practices. So, from lifetime to lifetime, there's something you don't lose, which is your spiritual awareness. So if you meditate and if you have compassion, these are things that stay with your being. They are your spirit. So if your awareness and consciousness grows, then in the next life you will have that same greater awareness. selfless in love. These are eternal things of the spirit that stay with you. If you make a billion dollars, that's not going to follow you. But awareness of the spirit will follow you. Now there's some people who diminish their spirits. They do bad things and they get more darkness becomes darker. And people like that will go, they'll have incarnations where they go down to worse conditions, to worse levels of reality. And it's important that with the knowledge of reincarnation that we move in a positive direction. We don't want to have the next incarnation be a bad incarnation. Now this is where the bardo yoga is interesting, because with the bardo yoga you can make tremendous shifts at the time of death and going through the bardos, where you can alter your next incarnation in very significant, powerful So, in the Bardo Yoga, they teach how to recognize the symbols of passage, the transference of attention through the journey after life.

0:10:17
And this is a very advanced yoga. In order to do this yoga, you have to have very strong discrimination and be very awake. and be very awake. It's kind of like being awake in your dreams, because the bardos are very much like dreams. When you're going through the bardo, you think you're in a body, and you think you're having experiences just like you are in your dreams, but if you are able to wake up, then you're able to take action and have the proper considerations. There are certain considerations, reflections, and considerations. There are certain considerations, reflections, and meditations that you do through the bardos to make these shifts. And then there's also very practical teachings from the bardo. When we initially studied the yoga of the bardos, we recognized that life is precious because death is coming.

0:11:12
that life is precious because death is coming, it's imminent. And in our lives, we want to know, we want to experience truth. So, when we don't have much time. So that knowledge of death gets us to live more. The bardo is kind of like the ocean. We live on land, life We live on land, life is on land, but then at the end of life, there's this ocean. It's very, very, very, very different than land, but it has its own structures. When you just live on land and you don't know what's in the sea, then you, you know, it's like this big scary thing. But if you learn the bardo yoga, then you'll be like the scuba diver, going down, seeing everything down there. yoga, then you'll be like the scuba diver going down, seeing everything down there. You'll be able to understand it all. So in the Bardo yoga, they practice understanding the intermediate states after life, after death. And they also teach practical things At the moment of death your state of mind is very important because if if you do nothing you will go through the bardos and That state of mind that you're in at death. That will be your state of mind in in your new life You'll come into that state of mind now in Pure Land Buddhism they have a simplistic way of thinking about this they say a simplistic way of thinking about this. They say, just at the moment of death, think of this Buddha, this enlightened guy named Amitabha Buddha. And they say, all you have to do is think of him right at the time of your death, or say his name right at the time of death, and then you'll be transported to his realm, the pure land, which is like some beautiful, which is, you know, like some beautiful, amazing place where there's no pollution.

0:13:19
And no global warming. And you have, you know, the Amida Buddha there to teach you. Now that's a very simplistic way of looking at it, because the Amida Buddha, while is enlightened and powerful, if you just, you know, you might live a really trashy life, If you just, you know, you might live a really trashy life, but recognize that you're about to die, and then if you just say, oh wait, there's that spiritual thing. I gotta, you know, do my little thing and say, you know, Ami Tofu. And then, and if you expect that all of a sudden you're going to have such an amazing transformation, it's probably not going to happen.

0:13:57
At the moment of death, it's not just that you said the name of the Buddha, it's your state of mind. It's not just that you said the name of the Buddha, it's your state of mind. So if your state of mind is so focused on and connected with the light of that Buddha, then maybe it'll happen. But if you just had an idea at the end, it doesn't really happen. So that's an important thing. That's an important thing. We really want to be aware and awake and focused on light and enlightenment so much that at the time of death we actually are focused on enlightenment. That would be a good thing. So we learned that in the Bardo Thoth Hall. And as my teacher would say, life is the Bardo's. The Bardo's are in life. They are in life. They are in is the bardos. The bardos are in life. Death is in life. Life is in death. Just do a good job in your life and your death is going to be fine. So you don't have to go into so much detail in learning the bardo yoga if you just do a great job while you're alive. And life do a great job while you're alive. And life is death and death is life, which means that we are reincarnating in every moment. In every moment we're dying and being reborn. So this is wonderful because it gives us the ability to use our attention and our will to make There was once a man who came across a Taoist master, and he came to the master, and he said to the master, I want to be enlightened, what do I do?

0:15:50
And the master says, you just have to do one thing. It's not complicated. Just make one change in your life, and if you do this, you'll be enlightened. And then the master says, bow to everyone you come across. So the man goes, whoa, okay, you mean like everyone? Absolutely everyone. So the man decides to do it. So he starts bowing to everyone. And at first he's just doing it as an exercise, just bowing for the sake of bowing.

0:16:24
So it's like, oh, someone's coming over, I'm supposed to bow. So it's like, oh, there's someone who's coming over, I'm supposed to bow. Someone else is coming over, I'm supposed to bow. It's hard to get through the market. You learn to walk and bow. But eventually, he started to change. He started to see that when he would go over to someone of a lower status and bow to them, that he was inwardly bowing. He was making he was inwardly bowing. He was making a gesture of humility. And then eventually his bowing opened his awareness to his self-effacement and his humility and bowing because he started to see that everyone is worth respecting. And then eventually he saw that everyone is And then eventually he saw that everyone is God in eternity. And then he finally came back to his Taoist master because he's had so many realizations.

0:17:24
And then he just sat, bowed to his Taoist master, and in that bow he went into enlightenment. So, it is a practice. There are practices that you can do that change your awareness. a practice. There are practices that you can do that change your awareness. You can reincarnate with every bow. You can reincarnate in every moment. So we seek those deaths and rebirths by directing our mind and our practice and our lives towards Dharma. So we will meditate And in meditation, there's a death. You stop thought, you're dead. Yeah, you're not there anymore. Once you stop thought, you and your universe, your whole world, this whole dream, it's gone.

0:18:12
There's only life. So we are able to make a shift in our consciousness from that life. When we practice yoga, yoga's a very powerful way Yoga is a very powerful way to direct our attention so that we can make shifts, so that we can reincarnate as a powerful, more enlightened person. And also compassion. Compassion is a very powerful way to reincarnate as a higher, brighter person. practices that we do to make changes, to reincarnate in our lives. And by following the, you know, with the knowledge of death and the knowledge of life and the knowledge of reincarnation, we're able to ascend and maybe in this lifetime make rapid transformations.

0:19:10
It's possible in one lifetime to become enlightened. lifetime to become enlightened. It's possible in one lifetime to have the spiritual awarenesses that it would normally take a thousand lifetimes to get. And it is by directing our attention to Dharma.

