0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about love. Love is a good thing. Love is the, really, the greatest power in the universe. Love is the, really the greatest power in the universe. Love is what brings things together. If you look at anything, you'll see love. A tree, a rock, a person, a puppy. If you look at it, you'll see that it's a rock, let's say. You'll see that it's a rock, let's say. You'll look at it, you'll see that it's luminous.

0:00:57
The closer you look, the more you'll see God. If you still your mind, if you see the essence of what the rock is, the rock is love. Everything's love. Now, the way that we experience love is important because that's what brings us to that awareness of that great power that unifies all things, that great truth of life. So, if we don't experience love, then we miss the true nature of being. So the first level of love is self-love. So you've got to love yourself. A lot of people don't. A lot of people hate themselves.

0:02:00
A lot of people don't. A lot of people hate themselves. All they see is problems, errors, difficulties. They just see that they have struggles and then they're mad at themselves. They're not satisfied with themselves. So the first thing you have to do is love yourself. Love yourself. And it's easy to love yourself. Give yourself a break. See what's good in you. And appreciate that. Appreciate the beautiful essence of your being. Kids, little children, they're pretty good at loving themselves.

0:02:43
They're just like all, hey, I like myself. They don't have any regard for anyone else. They're just all like, I want a chocolate chip cookie. anyone else, they're just all like, I want a chocolate chip cookie, you know, I want some ice cream. And that's a beautiful thing. So you can see that in kids sometimes, and that's how you should be. You should love yourself. But then the next level of understanding creating balance, balanced relationships, balanced interactions with people where the reciprocity is good. You say, oh, I'm, you know, I'm in this life, I'm dealing with this person at work or a friend, and the way that we deal with each other is deal with each other is in balance. This is the next form of love. So let's say that you have a lover, husband, wife, boyfriend, girlfriend, brother, sister, right, mom, dad. When you have this person, if the relationship and then you give and it helps them, they give and it helps you.

0:04:07
If you give and you're not helped, then it's out of balance. Then that love goes from love to broken. But when you give and you get back, then there's balance. then there's balance. So at work, you give time, attention, energy to do your job, and you get something back. Money. And that's love. It's funny, but it is. It's balance.

0:04:42
It does. It's like, if you went to work, and you worked really hard, and you didn't get anything back, and it didn't feed you, and support your family, and keep the lights on, and get anything back and it didn't feed you and support your family and keep the lights on and all that, then that's a lack of love. So you go to work, you work and you get money and that's love. So we try to work and get a lot of love. That's what we want from work, lots and lots of love.

0:05:09
It's true. So let's see, and with a person, right? So you go over to a person and you give them, Let's see and with a person right so you go over to a person and you give them you bring your best to everyone in your life Relationships people places things every everything you bring your best, but if a person Doesn't give you good energy back if you give them lots of energy lots of positivity and Then they just take it and they're not positive towards you then you feel bad and they just take it, and they're not positive towards you, then you feel bad. That's lack of love.

0:05:45
But when you give someone good energy, and they acknowledge it, and they give you good energy back, then that's love. That's balance. So we seek to have that balance in all the things that we do. things that we do. Then you get to a very beautiful level of love. The third level of love is just love.

0:06:12
It's not even thinking about something, about the self, about dealing with another person. You could just be sitting out on the beach or on a mountain and just feel love, balance, peace. Love, balance, peace. Love for the sake of love, not even thinking about love. Love is the natural condition of being. If you're just sitting out away from things of people and you just feel good, then you're like, oh, what is this goodness? What is this balance? What is this peace? This is, this is what love is. This is what love is. Okay, but then we get into the fourth level of love, what my teacher called the fourth level of ecstasy.

0:07:04
And this is selfless love, where it's not just love, but it's love that does some work. that does some work. Love that does some work. Which I really think is very much associated with compassion. Compassion is love that rolls up its sleeves and does something about it. Love could be very passive, but compassion is active. So this fourth level of love really is active love. fourth level of love really is active love. So you can see this kind of active love in a parent. So a parent will have a kid that they spend all this energy on, right? They'll, they'll, they have to do so much for this little crying baby to this little crying baby to make it shut up.

0:08:06
Just kidding, there's a cell phone ringing. Yeah, so it's like the parent just gives and cares and loves, is completely selfless and does endless amounts of work for a child and doesn't feel diminished by it, and doesn't feel diminished by it, as empowered by it, has a deeper enriched experience because of it. So, the parent gives and loves, and a power comes through the parent because of this giving. The power of supporting life, sustaining life, helping another completely.

0:08:48
life, sustaining life, helping another completely. The little baby couldn't survive on its own. Then when the parent gives so much energy, so much, it's completely selfless and it supports a life, it grows a life. And this is a beautiful kind of love. Now, in spiritual practice, In spiritual practice, there's a practice of love like this. It's called the Holy Mother. So there's some beings who associate their spiritual path with this form of love, where and see them as their son, their daughter, their baby. They see that they are the parent, the mother of these beings. And everybody, you know, if you can love your child so much and help them so much, and if you can share that, that feeling, that power of love that feeling, that power of love with every being, then this is something that supports every being, that power of supporting life and care for another being comes through.

0:10:16
And it creates for you enlightenment, if you do that. It's a very, very high state, beautiful state of attention. We call it the Holy Mother. state of attention. We call it the Holy Mother. But you could be a Holy Father. But we see it very often in the mother. The mother gives birth. The mother feeds the baby. So that's way. Another way is just complete self-sacrifice. So it is facing death with complete self-sacrifice. And this is to love someone so much that you'll give someone So much that you'll give your life for them You can see this in a soldier or warrior Now I Don't know if you can see it in modern times very much but if you look at the essence of the samurai or the essence of the warrior the warrior will The warrior will defend their country, their village, their group, their people, with complete self-sacrifice.

0:11:52
This is kind of very powerful love, because they go, okay, you know, some enemy's coming, whatever I got to do, I'm going to go out there. I'm going to go out there, I'm going to face it, I might die. go out there and face it, I might die. They face death, they accept death, they accept that it's a game of death, that they might die. But they do it not because they, no idea for the self, it's just a deep concern for the well-being of their tribe. So that is tribe. So that that is self-sacrifice. Whenever one gives their life, this is they call the ultimate sacrifice, gives their life for some, for others.

0:12:45
This is a very powerful form of love. love Now the third way Is a very powerful way It is the way of love for spirit for elimination liberation of from suffering of all beings from suffering of all beings. This is the Bodhisattva ideal.

0:13:20
This is the enlightened teacher. This is the Buddha. So one who is enlightened can have such profound love that they really elevate the spirit of all beings. the spirit of all beings, while the mother will support life and care for life. And that's a physical thing that brings up life and it's a good thing. And maybe the other one, the warrior, the one who makes the self-sacrifice, they sacrifice their life for the lives of others. their life for the lives of others. These are very profound ways of loving. But the Bodhisattva has a way where it's not just about their physical lives, it's about their spiritual condition. So the Bodhisattva, the spiritual teacher, addresses the immortal Bodhisattva, the spiritual teacher, addresses the immortal aspect of any being, of every being, and doesn't just care for their physical life and sacrifice themselves for the person to live, but they have an awareness of their infinite being, The being that incarnates again and again and again.

0:14:53
And the being that suffers through many different patterns of self and limitation. And the bodhisattva, or the spiritual teacher, has a profound spiritual love. A love that transcends just care for the physical life in this lifetime. sense, just care for the physical life in this lifetime. And it is something that is aware of the more eternal side of the being. And it is a profound care that opens one's So, when you see what, you know, the teachings of Jesus, and the teachings of Buddha, the teachings of these profound enlightened teachers, you can feel something. And what you feel is this love. So, you know, Buddha sat around talking about enlightenment and good things, right? But he came from this place, this place of tremendous spiritual love.

0:16:11
And then when you read his teachings, you can feel that he shifted, altered the universe to open up an awareness of love. It's something very profound that you can feel that brings you a greater sense of liberation, understanding the truth of life. And you say, oh, okay. Now it's their attention so potently focused on truth and an awareness of eternity that awareness of eternity, that we feel that, it brings us to a greater condition of knowing life. And this motivation, selfless motivation to just share enlightenment, to share the truth, show the way out of suffering, point the way to enlightenment, to God, this is love.

0:17:12
This is love. Now, most people really don't know love. They know all sorts of desire, they know all sorts of self, they know all sorts of ideas that they saw in a Disney movie, and they really don't know love, and then they suffer. love and then they suffer. So I had a student come over to me and say, I saw this beautiful woman, I love her, and the thing is that she doesn't like me. I'm like, well, this is just lust. You don't know, you think it's love, but it's not. And then he comes back and he says, there's this woman, I can't stop thinking about her.

0:18:09
This must be love. No, this is not love. This is obsession. This is not love. I met a girl on a cruise. I followed her around, she was amazing. I got this amazing, like, feeling from her. this amazing feeling from her, just always had this feeling in the pit of my stomach every time I was with her. I said, this is not love, this is just seasickness. It's kind of funny, but people really don't know what love is. They think desire is love. They think desire is love. They think there's all sorts of concepts and ideas, and they think that's love. And it's about as much love as seasickness. Which means that it's not true, and it doesn't bring satisfaction. All it brings is suffering. So, you've got to figure it out at some point.

0:19:12
at some point. You have to figure out what matters in life. You've got to figure out what matters in life. And love matters in life. I remember reading an article about a guy. He made millions of dollars. He set goals for himself. He had a lot of money. everything he wanted. He ran marathons, and he was in dance competitions, and stuff. He just determined, I want to do these cool things. And he did these things. And he succeeded at them. And then at some point he was like, I'm not happy. And then he said, you know what I want to do? I really, after achieving all of these things, and every accomplishment receiving all of these things and every accomplishment I can think of to fulfill myself, I want to love someone else. So then he opened to that and he met a woman and fell in love with her and got married. Then he was like, happy. By the time he got to that article, he was And the thing is that throughout all of the things in life, you know, making a living and trying to be powerful or get the stuff that you want, the thing that really makes you happy is love.

0:20:45
It's not the person, it's not the woman. It's the fact that he decided to love. He was inspired by something, someone, to love. So it's not the object that makes us love. It's the fact that we love. We decide to love. We can decide to love everyone in our lives. we can decide to love everyone in our lives. We could decide to love everyone that we come across. This is love. So for this guy, he found someone that inspired him to love, and that's where he found much more satisfaction than any of the other accomplishments of his life. And that's true.

0:21:36
That's true. If you have love in your life Then no matter what happens You know you can lose your fortune. You can have a hard time. You could have bad health if you have love You're happy Love is the only thing that in the world in the universe that truly brings happiness in the universe that truly brings happiness. So, seek the love. And love is also important that you learn to love right. Love is balance. So, if So, if you're loving in a way where you lose balance, it's not love. It's attachment. Now, let's say you meet someone, you love them, and then all of a sudden they're mean to you, you lose energy, things are not working out well. You're not in love anymore.

0:22:48
not working out well, you're not in love anymore. You're in attachment. And your attachment is bringing you down. Attachment is the self saying, oh, okay, I affix an idea of love or relationship or whatever, some contract between you and some other person. And when between you and some other person. And when you affix that, you create a fixed definition. You say, this is my husband, my wife, my girlfriend, my boyfriend. And then you're there. That's it. And that's supposed to be a good thing. And then you're stuck in that.

0:23:33
And if you're losing energy in that, then it's broken. And then it's not working right. And then it's not working right. You have an attachment. You have to be free. You have to be unattached. If you love someone, then you let them go. You let them be free. If they come back, then that's because they want to be there. want to be there. You don't try to grab on to someone. So if you love them, let them go. That has to be your attitude. Because if you say, this is my girlfriend, my boyfriend, and I got it, and that's what I want, and I have a fixed idea, then you're going to find that you lose energy. It always creates imbalance. So if you love someone, let them creates imbalance. So if you love someone, let them go. If they come back, then they want to be there. Then it's something that means it's balanced. There's no attachment.

0:24:43
Love them, let them go. If they come back, it's a good thing. If they don't come back, It's a good thing. If they don't come back, it wasn't meant to be. If they come back and they sit around on the couch, watching TV, playing video games, eating your food, spending your money, that's what we would call a conventional relationship. That's a place where there's imbalance, right? So if you're just giving, giving, giving, and they're just being a slob and taking up and they're just being a slob and taking up all your time, energy, resources. It doesn't work. So you have to say, now it's time to love them and let them go.

0:25:28
So my teacher said, loving is like banking. If you put your money into a bank and you're getting bad returns, you take your money out of the bank and put it somewhere else. and you're getting bad returns, you take your money out of the bank and put it somewhere else. So, it's the same way with people. You have to be detached in this way. Where you can love someone if you see that it's not working out well. They're not acting right, or you're attached to something. You've got to be detached. Let it go, and put your love into something else.

0:26:00
that'll let it go and put your love into something else. Now loving people is always going to be crazy, because people are all over the place, up and down. No one's... people are changing all the time. And if they're not, that's a problem. If they're not changing, that means they're stuck and they're suffering. So people change all the time. loving people, then you're going to be on a crazy roller coaster ride. You better have lots of love and lots of detachment to let people grow. You'd be a parent, right?

0:26:38
You love your kid, whether your kid's an idiot or gets a gold star at school, right? Your kid does something good, does something bad, you love your kid anyway. Your kid does something good, does something bad, you love your kid anyway. So you've got to be like that towards people. If you love a person, you better love them in a way where you're detached, in a way where you have complete love. They do something good, you love. Something bad, you still love. So, when you are loving a person and you see that everything goes completely wrong, completely bad, you just got to be able to move your love.

0:27:27
Move your love to maybe not a person, maybe a thing. Loving meditation is good. Loving enlightenment is good. If you love something that is constructive, something that... if you love truth, if you love something that brings your spirit to a greater awareness of life, to a greater unity of experience, then all of your love is going to get a strong return on investment. But the person is going to be like, whatever. If you have any attachment, your love will be up and down with the person.

0:28:06
But if you love meditation, love the yoga of compassion, love selfless giving, these things will bring you only the most beautiful, luminous rewards. rewards. Now, love is the highest way to enlightenment. There's two ways, there's many ways. But Buddha was really great. He's all, guess what? You're not happy. Notice that? And you go, yeah, that?" and you go, yeah, I noticed that. Buddha says, guess what? Life is suffering. Notice that? And everyone's all, yeah, my back hurts, my cousin bothered me. Everyone can recognize, everyone who's not enlightened, can recognize that life is suffering. So that's what Buddha said. Life is suffering and there's a reason to do something, so become enlightened. And that's a motivation for enlightenment. That's a motivation for enlightenment. So if you see things that way, you go, oh, okay. And then you will push, you will use your energy to get out of that dissatisfaction, to get out of that suffering. It's very helpful.

0:29:30
And that's a very good motivation to become enlightened. But it's pretty simple. There's much more enlightenment beyond that. Once you get out of suffering, it's good to get out of suffering, but once you get out of suffering, then you start to realize brighter, bigger things. Love takes you farther. Love can take you higher than just... it takes you to a higher enlightenment than just getting out of suffering. So for me, in my liberation, I was suffering like crazy. Until some point in the advanced teachings, I stopped suffering.

0:30:10
I was like, oh, I don't even suffer anymore. I was still a self, I was still not enlightened, but I didn't suffer at all. And then, I got to be aware of higher dimensions, beauty, love, eternity. beauty, love, eternity. And through focusing on that, it brought me to enlightenment. I wasn't sitting there going, I still suffer, I've got to solve my problems with myself. I was beyond that already. I was at peace, I was at balance, I didn't have any suffering really. I understood that I was beyond suffering. that I was beyond suffering.

0:30:51
But then what brought me to liberation was love. It was the love of life. Now, love is the easiest yoga. It's the easiest way for you to become enlightened. So, there's something called Bhakti Yoga, So, there's something called Bhakti Yoga, the Yoga of Devotion, and the Yoga of Devotion is really, really perfect. If you're so lucky to find an enlightened teacher, if you love them, there's a liberation. If you can love them selflessly, completely, then you're enlightened. It's that easy.

0:31:36
completely, then you're enlightened. It's that easy. And that's why a lot of Bhakti gurus of the past have said, just love me, just focus on me. I'm enlightenment. And if you just love me, then you're liberated. It's the easiest way, because there's some person, they're glowing with light, they speak about love and joy and empowerment, all these good speak about love and joy and empowerment and all these good things, and you can just, you know, it opens your heart. And if you can just love them, you will go beyond the self, beyond limitation, and you'll be enlightened very quickly. So, Bhakti Yoga, the pathway of love and devotion, is really the fastest pathway to enlightenment. It's a wonderful just pathway to enlightenment. It's a wonderful way. It's a way where you change, because you might be like, no, I think I'm like this, but then you love the guru, and you are no longer the way you thought you were. You thought you would never do certain things, and then the guru says, hey, let's go do anything, everything, whatever the guru says, you go, things and then the Guru says, hey let's go do anything, everything, whatever the Guru says, you go, yeah this is wonderful, I'm going to go on this adventure, I love you and I love everything that we're doing.

0:33:03
What an adventure, so beautiful. And you do things that you never thought you'd do and you change and you grow and you just let go of the self, it's gone. It's gone. And in that adventure of love, on that pathway of love, and that devotion to the guru, you lose the self, but you become liberated very, very, very quickly. So, love is the fastest path to enlightenment. All right. Thank you. People also make so much trouble with love. Not only that they get confused and they don't know what it is, In the conventional societal definition, love's a mess.

0:34:09
People are like, I'm in a relationship, and I'm struggling, and people just have like... People become so unhappy because of their pursuits for love. Desiring it, they're totally unhappy. it, they're totally unhappy. Oh, I want it, but I can't get it. And then, um, yeah, it's like, it's like, it's like jail. The love you're getting is not the love you want. Jesus is love, unless you're in a Mexican prison. unless you're in a Mexican prison. So, you know, people make, they spend, they waste the most amounts of energy trying to find love, right? And they And they suffer so much in their pursuit of love, in their experiences of attached love, their imbalanced relationships, bad banking.

0:35:29
People waste tremendous energy. It's the worst. So I look at some of my students who follow these pursuits and they go, crazy! crazy. I'm like, whoa, chill out. You know, find, like, in the midst of your relationship, in the midst of seeking your relationship, really, really recognize not what your desire is, and not what, you know, all the crazy shit that's going on, but really recognize love. So if you're sitting there with a person that you're in a relationship with, recognize love. Not desire, not self, but a greater, a greater, truer love. Because it's there, but with people, they get into so many levels of out of balance.

0:36:29
She, look at that, there's love. There's some love. Yeah. It's so easy for a dog to love, and it's so hard for a person to. Look at that. There's some love. Yeah, so, I mean, it's just, it's really, it's great suffering, the way that people experience relationships. They're just caught up in so much karma, so much personal history, weird ideas, like ideas of, this is what it means to be in a relationship. People pursuing relationships, they're suffering because they want something, they want a relationship, a relationship. They want an idea, an ideal. They're like, this is what I want. And they're never going to get it. I mean, when they get it, they'll realize that it's not what they want.

0:37:25
And people just, they're not satisfied. There's no satisfaction in that. You have to be satisfied with loving life, loving the people in your life. If someone's in your life and you love them, If someone's in your life and you love them, then love them. Selflessly. Like a parent. Like a soldier. Like a bodhisattva. Like, look at it that way. When you're sitting there with your boyfriend or girlfriend, or whatever, husband or wife, say, I'm your parent.

0:38:00
I'm your parent. Like, I love you like I'm your parent. Versus, you gotta do this for me, you gotta do that for me. Oh, I'm not getting this from you, so I'm now mad. That's, uh, you gotta see through the self. Love them like a soldier. A warrior. you say, hey, if it came down to it, for your happiness, I would... your well-being, I would go to war. I would fight any battle and die if that's what happens. I'd be ready for that. if that's what happens.

0:38:49
I'd be ready for that, willing to do that. Bodhisattva, you sit there with your girlfriend and you go, I want your spiritual enlightenment. That will solve your problem. And then if you don't have that, the boyfriend or the girlfriend, your problem. And then if you don't have that, the boyfriend or the girlfriend, and you desire that, you have to just say, guess what? I've got to be happy. I can't just want it. I can't just desire it. What I want, what I desire for love is just going to bring me into my You think, you get this idea, oh, I'm going to have this, you know, like, supermodel girlfriend.

0:39:48
And that you create these ideas, and here's what it's going to be like, and that's what I want, and then you spend untold amounts of energy wasting, seeking them. You got to just love your life. Love the people in your life. You got to just love your life. Love the people in your life. Maybe you don't have a girlfriend. Maybe you have a puppy. Right? And love your puppy. Love does not seek. So if you're seeking love, you got it all wrong. You're going to find yourself in misery.

0:40:23
So if you just love your life and love what's in your life, If you just love your life and love what's in your life, the right things are in your life, and the right things will come to you when they need to. When it's right. Yeah. Then that way you won't make yourself crazy with suffering, with dramas. with dramas. People get into these problems in their relationships, and there's massive dramas, everything's going crazy. Come back to the fourth level of ecstasy. The parent, the warrior, the Bodhisattva. All right. Thank you.

