0:00:00
So tonight I would like to talk about the teacher-student relationship. On the pathway On the pathway to enlightenment in the spiritual study, there are many types of teachers. There's the exoteric teacher, the teacher who can teach information, concepts, ideas, histories, all outer teachings, anything that can be explained, the exoteric teacher can teachings, anything that can be explained, the exoteric teacher can teach. So this would be someone who is able to explain things very well, who's learned in books and who can help you to And that outer information is very useful. However, after you learn a lot of knowledge, information, then you want to have higher spiritual experiences. And that's where you might study with an intermediate student.

0:01:36
an intermediate student. An intermediate student is someone who goes beyond the books. Book teachers would be someone like Alan Watts, and he'd be the best at telling you the etymology of Sanskrit words or something like that. But then you go to an intermediate teacher. teacher. An intermediate teacher goes beyond just knowing the information from books and the outer teachings, but they have some experience. So they have some wisdom. They have some spiritual awareness. They are a very strong practitioner and they've had experiences in enlightened and they've had experiences in enlightened states of attention. So if you're with an intermediate teacher, when you're meditating with them, you can feel some of those higher states of mind because that is their level of practice. So that would be someone like the Dalai Lama. The Dalai Lama is, he says he's not enlightened, and he is an intermediate practitioner on the pathway to enlightenment. He's able to, he knows a lot of things, and he's able to go into some high states of mind. So, then there's even higher teachers, advanced teachers. And these are teachers who, while they're not enlightened yet, they are able These are teachers who, while they're not enlightened yet, they experience perfect states of mind.

0:03:22
So they themselves are able to go into Samadhi. Or they're able to get out of the way and let a divinity come through them. advanced practitioner, they are at certain times able to express perfect states of mind, perfect dimensions of light and eternity. They still fall short of a perfect integrated delusion and suffering from the self. But they are at a very, very high level of practice. So those are three types of good teachers. Those are good, qualified, helpful teachers on the pathway to enlightenment. But then there's this other type of teacher, the enlightened teacher. other type of teacher, the enlightened teacher.

0:04:28
And this is someone who's gone beyond book knowledge, beyond intermediate practice, into the advanced practice, where they have been liberated. They've become free of the self that was holding them in suffering and limitation. of the self that was holding them in suffering and limitation. When my teacher would talk about enlightenment, he talked about the Buddha being enlightened. He called that a mastery of enlightenment. So my teacher, when he was talking about enlightened about enlightened masters, he said that... One time he said there were about 12, including him, living on the planet.

0:05:23
So my teacher was an enlightened master and he knew of another 11. But then over the years, he said, they're old, they live in the east, and they're not reincarnating. They're not reincarnating. So he said, one day he said, yeah, there were 12, now there's eight. And then the last time I remember him talking about it was there were four, and that was before his death, and that was many years ago. There are no more of these Buddhas living on the planet.

0:06:06
But there's another type of enlightened teacher, which is the primary enlightenment teacher. So my teacher, who was an enlightened master, taught me and his students how to become enlightened, taught me and his students how to become enlightened, the primary enlightenment. And that is an experience of liberation from suffering, from negative thoughts, from dark disturbing emotions. It's a liberation from the limitations of the self that have always held one in have always held one in some degree of suffering or dissatisfaction.

0:06:56
With primary enlightenment, you have perfect practice. You're always able to go into samadhi. You're a master at the spiritual states of attention. spiritual states of attention. And I think really the big difference between primary enlightenment and enlightened mastery is that in enlightened mastery you're in nirvana all of the time. And when you're when you have primary enlightenment you're in nirvana sometimes when you're sitting down in and meditation, but not all the time when you're walking around, talking and doing things. So in this study, in this school, my teacher was successfully able to teach some of his students to attain primary enlightenment. He also taught us how to be teachers. He taught He also taught us how to be teachers.

0:08:07
And so he taught us how to be enlightened teachers, how to teach the study of enlightenment. And involved in that are many techniques, many dimensions of consideration. So when you're working with an enlightened teacher, So, when you're working with an enlightened teacher, it's not only that they have themselves perfect states of mind and are free and liberated from suffering, but they also have, in our school, a tremendous skill set of teaching enlightenment. of teaching enlightenment. Now an enlightened person has reached the goal of spiritual practice, and having reached that goal, they're usually much more helpful to help someone reach the than someone who's book learned or intermediate or even advanced. Since they have attained it, they know more about it and they're more expert at showing people the way.

0:09:28
There was in ancient China, seven Taoists and they were practicing and practicing. They wanted and they were practicing and practicing. They wanted to attain the Tao. They wanted to be enlightened. They read books and memorized everything. They prayed, they fasted, they meditated, they did Taoist divination and mysticism. They tried everything and really They tried everything and really worked very hard, but they never became enlightened. Years and years later, after they were practicing and practicing and practicing, an enlightened Taoist master comes to visit them. And they sit down with him. He gives a Dharma talk. And they didn't even know he was enlightened.

0:10:24
with him, he gives a Dharma talk. And they didn't even know he was enlightened. He was just some old Taoist guy who comes. He sits down with them and he shares some teachings. And in hearing those teachings, they all immediately become liberated. So an enlightened teacher can look at you and see where you're stuck. An enlightened can look at you and see where you're stuck. An enlightened teacher knows the way beyond those stuck points. It's similar in martial arts. A martial arts master will be able to know things about your power and technique that no matter how long you train, you could train your whole life and you'll never know what they know. So you could be sitting there training one technique, and then you think you're pretty good at it, and you've trained it for years, and then that master can come over and make one little shift, a centimeter shift in your shoulder or something, technique is much more powerful. It's because of the greater awareness of a master. The master has gone beyond where you would go with your karma. You would go only so far.

0:11:56
You can only learn so much. You can only do so much. But then the master's gone far beyond gone far beyond that. So the master is able to make those shifts, if they're a teacher, a master is able to make those shifts for you. Not every fifth degree black belt decides to become a sensei. Even though they've reached a level of mastery, they don't necessarily necessarily become a teacher. Not every enlightened person is a teacher. And even if you're enlightened, or if you're a fifth degree black belt, it doesn't mean that you're a good teacher. It means that you've mastered the practices. It doesn't mean that you're good at teaching them. That's why I mentioned in our lineage, not only do we learn how to be enlightened lineage, not only do we learn how to be enlightened ourselves, but there is the teachings for teachings. There's a lot of support in dimensions, attentions, and empowerments for how to teach Now, finding an enlightened teacher is not easy.

0:13:20
It's something that you have to have very, very good karma for. So someone who doesn't have the right karma could come across an enlightened teacher and not notice and not like them. and not like them. An enlightened person doesn't look any different than anyone else. So the only way that you recognize that they're enlightened is if you have very, very high karma so that you can be still, so that you can see beyond the physical, an understanding. If you are able to see the subtle physical, you see around an enlightened person gold energy, it's a gold aura. So there's not a lot of people who would have the karma an enlightened teacher. Not everybody can recognize it. So my teacher made it really, really hard for people to be in the group. He constantly was kicking people out of the The teachings had to be taken correctly.

0:14:55
And if someone didn't have the karma for it, then they shouldn't be in the group for the teachings. So to have an enlightened teacher to teach the pathway to enlightenment, you have to have the right karma. the right karma. You start with that, but then you have to follow the teachings because then you'll go beyond your karma. You'll go into a higher truth, a higher dharma. So that's what we seek. We seek to find the enlightened teacher and then go beyond ourselves. And that means following the teachings, going beyond the karma that got you in the door. Going beyond the karma that got you in the door, you have to keep going. You can't just stop. If there's that stagnation, when the teachings go to a higher level, you won't be ready to accept them.

0:15:51
So there's also, when you're looking at teachers out there, there's also bad teachers. There's teachers that will make false claims. They'll be teachers who say they're enlightened, but they're not. They might have some powers. They might know some things, be book learned and be able to poetically talk about the Dharma or something, so it's kind of nice to hear about the Dharma or something, so it's kind of nice to hear them, but they might do bad things. I remember one of the leaders of the chains, 2,500 years ago in India, he would say he's omnipresent and omnipotent. He's like, I know all. And this one merchant wanted merchant wanted to test him on that. So he invited him to dinner, and in front of the front door, he dug a hole, and then he took a bunch of pig crap and threw it into the hole.

0:17:08
Then he covered it over with long pieces of leaves and grass. of leaves and grass. And then when this master comes to his door, who's supposed to know everything, know all, he steps right into the trap, falls in, gets covered in pig crap. And then Merchant goes, well, if you know everything, then why would you walk into this? And then he's all, oh yes.

0:17:36
He's like, I knew that this was here. Oh yes, I did. He's like, I knew that this was here. Oh yes I did. But I stepped into it because you had bad intent and you have to suffer the karma. So the merchant didn't really buy that. He just said, you're not. No one's gonna step in pig crap if they know it's there. So yeah, so there's the bad teachers So there's the bad teachers who would make false claims, and then there's teachers who create cults and sects and things like that. These teachers are people who want to get power over their students or get power from their students. So there can be horrible traps horrible traps when you're working with spiritual teachers. Now an enlightened teacher is very rare to find because an enlightened teacher is a very pure teacher. Even with the intermediate teachers or the advanced teachers, sometimes they have intent, selfish intent. So while they will teach you So while they will teach you certain things, they will also at the same time press their other ideas onto you that they haven't worked out yet.

0:18:58
Like there could be an advanced, for example, I know, an advanced Tibetan Rinpoche, and while he can go into Samadhi, and he knows a lot of stuff about Tibetan Buddhism, yoga, when he's working with women, about Tibetan Buddhism and yoga. When he's working with women, he doesn't believe in, he is basically sexist. It's part of his social conditioning. So he hasn't worked that out.

0:19:25
So he's negative towards women. So when he's talking to a woman, a Western woman especially, about enlightenment, he just is pushing on to her, you can't be enlightened, while he's sitting there and telling her what Buddha said. while he's sitting there and telling her what Buddha said. So those are sneaky, detrimental things for your spiritual path. And an enlightened teacher doesn't do that. An enlightened teacher won't push their agenda. They will just teach purely. And therefore, having an enlightened teach purely. Therefore, having an enlightened teacher is a great blessing because there won't be any confusion or control.

0:20:14
Now when you're working with an enlightened teacher, there's a lot of etiquette. There's and inner etiquette. Ultimately, the relationship between the teacher and student is a relationship of love. It's a love that grows over time as you work together, meditate together, as the student sees that the teacher is actually selfless and not just putting on a show, and not just putting on a show. And as the student learns more, there's just a great love that grows. In the beginning, you just have to have respect. You don't have to like the teacher. You just have to respect the teacher.

0:21:05
Because when you have the proper respect for enlightenment and power, then there's a connection to those dimensions. then there's a connection to those dimensions. There's a connection to light. Without respect, then you won't learn anything. It's kind of like if you go to a karate dojo, you don't respect the sensei. You just don't take the practices seriously. So then your technique will be very, very, very poor. So then the technique, your technique will be very, very, very poor.

0:21:41
So when you're with an enlightened teacher, you bring your best to them. You don't bring your karma, basically. So you don't come and be like, well, this is what I know, and this is what I've done before, this is what I know and this is what I've done before and here's all the mistakes I've made. You don't present the enlightened teacher with your worst side. You try to interface with them in a higher way. You try to bring your best to the teacher. You don't want to go and deal with the teacher the way that you would deal with some guy at work. deal with the teacher the way that you would deal with You know some some guy at work or even your boss or something like that you want to start having a higher etiquette and Then that creates in you a refinement of your being Where you can thereby let go of?

0:22:46
heaviness is Toxic ways of acting bad Karma and toxic ways of acting, bad karma. And you're able to go past that and you enter into a higher way of interfacing with life and seeing life. So a lot of times when people are dealing with an enlightened teacher, they're impressing upon the teacher their ideas. I think you should be this way. their ideas. I think you should be this way. From my past experience, when someone's supposed to do this right now, that right now. And what people do is they push their karma onto the teacher. And they're like, this is how life should be. This is what's happening. This is how it should go right now. And it's not true. That's what people But it's not true. That's what people do to the teachers. But the teacher is not what you think the teacher is. The teacher is beyond your limited karma. The teacher is not your you create false expectations and try to make the teacher be that.

0:24:07
And then you find out that it's not true. Then it just causes suffering. So when you look at the teacher, you don't know. You don't know what's going on. The teacher will present information. The teacher will work with you on certain tasks, They'll work with you on certain tasks, and we'll have a certain interface, the way that they act. But the teacher always is looking at a bigger picture. And the thing that they're talking to you about at the moment, or what they're working with you about at the moment, is just one step. And so they're acting perfectly for that step.

0:24:48
perfectly for that step. But people, students tend to get very fixed views and then they look at things in limited ways. So a teacher will teach you appropriately. A teacher will give you things to do, you know, maybe make you you know, maybe make you work a lot. A teacher will sometimes ignore you completely, if that's the right thing to do. So the teacher is always interfacing with you in a way that is best So sometimes they act mean, sometimes they don't. Different teachers will act differently. But sometimes they'll be like Sri Yukteswar, Yogananda's teacher. Yogananda was just always filled with love for him, and Yukteswar would just scowl and go, ah, I can't even believe So it's important to recognize that the enlightened teacher is taking you through certain lessons and acting a certain way with you.

0:26:18
And the reason why is because it helps you. And they're not a fixed way. a fixed way. They're not, there are, yeah, Yukta Swar is not just a grumpy old, you know, yoga master. So, you have to just accept, you know, the teaching of the moment. And that's the way it is. Now, a good teacher is a hard teacher. A good teacher is someone someone who gives you a challenge and then you take on the challenges and you do your best. But a good teacher is not someone who goes easy on you because if someone's going easy on you it doesn't really help you. A good doesn't really help you. A good teacher, an enlightened teacher is also very sensitive. So enlightenment is a very, very refined awareness field. And when you lack etiquette or if you bring negativity into your mind, then what it does is it actually creates a negative into your mind, then what it does is it actually creates the toxicity in the teacher's field of awareness, their aura. And then that could be psychically painful for them or physically painful for them. So when you're with your enlightened teacher, you're always working enlightened teacher, you're always working on holding your energy in. You want to hold in any negative energies and you want to work on, when you're with your teacher, bringing only beautiful bright energy. You work on ascending from your base consciousness, your worldly consciousness, your base consciousness, your worldly consciousness, to a higher awareness, a higher, brighter interaction. And then you enter into a brighter, more spiritual way. But the teacher definitely But the teacher definitely has sensitivity.

0:28:55
You should always remember that. Because when you're being a mess, when you're not being mindful, the teacher feels it. The teacher is aware of it. Some people think that they go to an enlightened teacher and they just have to be there and then that they're going to get enlightened and that everything is going to happen. they just have to be there and then that they're going to get enlightened, and that everything is going to happen. But they are not necessarily correct. A student must take responsibility. So a student has to say, okay, I've been fortunate enough to find an enlightened teacher, so now I'm not going to squander that. I'm going to do teacher. So now I'm not going to squander that. I'm going to do my best." And so then the student really, really works on the teachings.

0:29:52
Suzuki was a Zen master, the first Zen master to come over from Japan to California. And and he had this, he had a student who one day just asked, hey, why haven't you made me enlightened yet? You know, it's like, I've been here for a while. And Suzuki was just like, oh my gosh, you think you're just gonna be here for a while and then I'm gonna make you enlightened. Some people go to, you know, the Indian gurus and just sit there and say, you know, I'm here, make me enlightened.

0:30:24
sit there and say, you know, I'm here, make me enlightened. But no, no, that's a silly way of looking at it. Being in the presence of an enlightened teacher is powerful, it does show you the way to enlightenment, but an enlightened teacher can't just take you you and bring you into enlightenment, you have to, they could show you the way, they could show you the door, but you have to walk through the door yourself. So that's why in the study of enlightenment, there's a lot of work to do. There's a lot of practice, a lot of discipline, a lot of considerations, A lot of considerations, a lot of mindful reflection.

0:31:19
And this is the way that we come to enlightenment. You have to have a very deep commitment to your practice. You have to develop a discipline of meditation and mindfulness. You have to work very hard. a discipline of meditation and mindfulness. You have to work very hard, you have to become impeccable, clean, bright, strong. This is very important. And it's something that's just going to happen. The teacher doesn't demand it. If you see the teacher and you then eventually you will develop that discipline. You will develop that commitment. You'll realize, the student realizes, they don't have a lot of time. They're like, oh man, life's short and I could die any day. So they advise their death and they take the opportunity of having having teachings and a teacher to really take advantage of it and develop themselves. So we always know that we don't have all the time in the universe.

0:32:45
Now the good thing about being a student is that it's fun. When you're the student of student is that it's fun. When you're the student of an enlightened teacher, you have an amazing access to enlightenment that very, very few people have. When my teacher was talking about how many primary enlightenment attained people were out there, he said there attained people who were out there. He said there was about 100. So it's not that many that get to study. And also, not all of them teach. So it's a very special thing to be associated with a student of an enlightened teacher.

0:33:34
So I remember when I became a student of my teacher, I was so excited about it. Anytime that I got down or was unhappy of my teacher, I was so excited about it. Anytime that I got down or was unhappy about something, I would remind myself, you have an enlightened teacher. And then I would connect with the light again and be really, really happy about it. So there's a certain happiness. There's a great energy of newness. Really, it's an adventure. So, really, it's an adventure. When you're the student of an enlightened teacher, you're on an amazing adventure. Because your whole life becomes the pathway to enlightenment.

0:34:11
Your whole life becomes the teaching. And it's exciting. And even when you're given a challenge or you're facing something that you really don't like, you have this attitude, somehow I'm going to do this. you have this attitude, somehow I'm going to do this. I don't know how, but somehow I'm going to do this. There's a lot of beauty in that attitude, the student's attitude. Now when you do have something that's hard, then you transform it. You say, well, this is hard and difficult and I don't like this. Then you say, well, then I'm going to change this. And then you say, well, then I'm going to change that by changing my mind. And I'm going to say, this is hard and difficult, but now it's my favorite thing. And then you take something that was hard and then you master it, you transform it from being something that you were pulling away from to something that you were drawn to. So I remember when So I remember when I was doing Kung Fu when I was a teenager, we were supposed to stand in this horse stance one hour per day.

0:35:24
And the horse riding stance is a difficult stance. Even if you stand in the horse stance for a minute or two, you feel it's really painful in your legs. in your legs. So in my school, we had to do an hour a day. And I didn't like it. It was painful, it was boring, and I didn't like it. So I spent the first six or eight months doing the minimum. But then eventually I saw all the benefits in the older students that that you get from doing the horse for so long. So then I said, all right, I'm going to do it. And then I did it, and then I made it my favorite thing. It was the hardest thing, but I said, no, no, this is awesome. This is where all these good benefits come from.

0:36:16
And so then I would do horse stance sometimes two hours a day because I turned this thing from the hardest thing to my favorite thing. I turn this thing from the hardest thing to my favorite thing. This is what you have to do. Some people come to the spiritual study and then they don't really like meditation. They go, oh, we like the Dharma talks and stuff like that, but meditating, oh no, it takes too long, it's boring, it's hard. I just sit there thinking. Well, if you have trouble with meditation, you have to make it your favorite thing. meditation, you have to make it your favorite thing. You have to transform it because meditation is essentially the most important practice. Some people are like that with yoga. I don't want to do yoga. I don't want to do something. I got enough to do. And then you got to see the benefits in it. And then you turn it around and make it your favorite thing. So when you And then you turn it around and make it your favorite thing.

0:37:15
So when you look at the things in the path that are hard for you, you make them your favorite and then you become powerful in them. And that's what a student does. A student has a good attitude. Now the most important thing in the teacher-student relationship is that there is a connection, an interconnection. teacher-student relationship is that there is a connection, an interconnection. So you learn when you're sitting there with your teacher, it's very important, but you also learn from the teacher when you're not with the teacher. The teacher can teach you from far away. The teacher can teach you when the right you when the right conditions occur in your consciousness. And then you could be walking down the street, you could be in a job interview, and all of a sudden there will be a bunch of light and the teachings come through and you have these realizations. So the reason The reason that the light comes through is because of the connection with an enlightened person.

0:38:33
So when you are a student of an enlightened person, they make a very deep connection with you. And that's a spiritual connection whereby the enlightened states of consciousness The enlightened states of consciousness that the teacher experiences are something that you can experience as well. They extend those dimensions to you. They open your mind to light and eternity so that your consciousness can transform. And in our school there are many structures in this inner connection through mystical means in this inner connection through mystical means that the teacher will use to teach. So people have all sorts of magical experiences when we're together and also when we're not together. And this is really the pathway of teaching. And when you're ready, the teacher the teacher can really, really help you to shift into higher states. So the teacher can't just go poof, you're enlightened, but the teacher can, when you're ready, make that last transition that really works. So to end, there was a Zen monk studying with an enlightened monk, studying with an enlightened master for 20 years. Then the enlightened master said, I'm going to leave now because you're ready, and you're going to be in charge of the temple, and I'm going to go somewhere else. And then the monk said, okay. So the master did this thing they call the transference. And he gave this illumination to the monk.

0:40:24
He Gave this illumination to the monk and the monk had trained properly He was very very high and ready, but he hadn't had enlightenment yet but in this Transference they call it transference of the lamp He sat with his master his master imparted the light to him and he became enlightened boom right on the spot and boom, right on the spot. And then he was ready to be the head of the temple. So these are powerful, enlightened teachings that enlightened teachers can share with their students.

0:41:03
Okay, thank you.

