0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about managing and increasing your energy. Energy is the essence of life. Energy is the vibration of all things. Everything is made up of energy. That's its initial condition. If you look at matter and break it down to small particles like atoms and even smaller it down to small particles like atoms and even smaller ones. But even those are just made up of energy. There's this thing called energy. Qi. It's the energy of life. Energy And energy has many, many, many constructs that make up our universe, our physical world, and our inner world.

0:01:23
Thoughts have energy. Feelings have energy. Belief systems have energy. Consciousness has energy. Awareness has energy. Awareness is energy So everything that we interface with in life Whether it's physical non-physical Mental emotional These are all made up of energy Now in Buddhism we see that In Buddhism, we see that energy is the essence of all things.

0:02:07
Therefore, awareness of that essence is something that can help us be more aware of life. When we see that energy comes first, then we're given an orientation of how to affect life in positive ways. of how to affect life in positive ways. In Chinese medicine, they see that if you have a physical illness, that they can affect your energy, maybe with a needle or herbs, different methods, but they affect your energy body. they affect your energy body. And then when your energy is affected, then the physical illness goes away. So this is the Eastern way of looking at things.

0:03:04
It's looking for that essential energy, that essence of things. When you can know the essence, the energy of a thing, then you can solve problems. Then you know a deeper truth than just the physical occurrence. There's a story of a famous, famous doctor in China, in ancient China. and he was employed by royalty and they said that he could pretty much work miracles. So if people had some illness, he would prescribe them a potion or give them a massage or something and then they would be healed. But he said that he came from a family of physicians. brother was the best healer. And that's because his eldest brother would heal everything only in the subtle, only in its energy, and not have to go through creating all the different, you know, elixirs and, you know, all the other all the other techniques, all the physical techniques.

0:04:30
So even though he was known to be, he was renowned as the most famous physician, he said that his brother, who was unknown, because he would only, he would be able to heal people before they even knew they were sick, because he would be able to heal them in the subtle, in their energy. in the subtle, in their energy. So we always look to energy to understand life, to solve problems, to get ahead. Everything that we do requires energy.

0:05:06
Every endeavor that we seek to succeed in requires energy. requires energy So if we six if we want to succeed in a career It requires energy if we want to succeed in Expanding our consciousness to know a deeper truth of life. It requires energy All things Yeah, the outer things that we want to do and the inner things that we want to do it requires energy and that we want to do and the inner things that we want to do.

0:05:39
It requires energy. And we have to be able to cultivate energy, manage energy, so that we're able to be successful in these endeavors. And when you are successful in constructive, positive positive endeavors, you gain even more energy. So anyone who's successful, anyone who is happy, anyone who, you know, is inspirational or has done something in their lives, they have cultivated some way to manage their energy well and some way to increase their energy. It takes managing energy and increasing energy to do great things.

0:06:48
out of balance, who are negative, angry, depressed, you know, always quarreling with just a dark outlook on life, that's someone who does not know how to manage their energy. They waste So, we seek to succeed in life. We seek to do great positive things. We develop energy to help ourselves along the spiritual path. We develop energy to make our physical lives more powerful. We seek energy to help other people. And these are very noble pursuits. These are the Buddhist pursuits. And with the management and accumulation of energy, you're able to go into higher and higher states of mind. You see, your state of attention is You see, your state of attention is dependent on your energy. If you have a lot of energy, then you're able to be in a very high state of mind. You're able to look at life in very bright, beautiful ways, see a lot of opportunities, you're able to deal with it and see ways through any obstacles.

0:08:30
However, if you have a low amount of energy, then you get unhappy, depressed. You see life in a very limited way. You don't feel well, and you see lots of problems. lots of problems. So Buddhism is the study of energy, of cultivating energy. It's the science of directing your mind to using energy in ways that are constructive, that lead to greater awareness of truth that lead you to be free from limitations. So Buddhism is the discipline of energy. Now, the most important thing about energy is not losing it. Innate Innate to your being is endless energy. However, we don't see it and we lose it. So we have to be able to, one, stop losing it and, two, start seeing it.

0:09:58
See what is already within you. within you. Now, people lose tremendous energy with all sorts of things. Negative thinking, just incorrect views, ignorance, fear. There's all sorts of ways where we just lose energy lose energy because we're not paying attention. We're not directing our mind in a positive way. So what we got to do is we have to start observing. This is called mindfulness in Buddhism. When you start being mindful of what's happening in your head, you start to say, oh wow, okay, that doesn't feel good. This feels good.

0:10:48
this feels good. Everything in life either gives you energy or takes energy away from you, including thoughts, including outlooks, actions, people that you hang around. Everything can either give you energy or take energy away. So we start to become aware of that, can either give you energy or take energy away. So we start to become aware of that, start to look at that, say, hmm, I'm thinking these thoughts, they're not very bright, they don't make me feel good. How do I start to develop greater energy if I have these negative thoughts? You got to get rid of them. get rid of them. And then you start using your willpower to create new positive thinking.

0:11:48
This is a way of generating greater energy. It's kind of like the gardener who was planting AA batteries. Hoping to grow an energy plant. This is what we want to do. We want to grow in our mind energy, but you got to do it right, right? Planting batteries isn't going to work, but negative thinking is not going to work. A lot of times we're dealing with hardship. Someone's giving us a hard time. someone's giving us a hard time, we feel like we're being bothered by someone, and the way that we try to get on top of it is through negative thinking, and this creates bad energy, or this is just, it creates bad energy and it's useless. It doesn't make, you think that by that you're going to end up better off, but it just doesn't work.

0:12:54
You think it's going to work? It doesn't work. It's false. Like planting double-A batteries. It doesn't come out the way that you think. So what you got to do is you got to see the truth. You have to see what really gives you energy and what takes energy away. energy and what takes energy away. You have to watch your mind and you have to see how it feels. When you gain energy, you feel like a greater sense of unity. You feel a greater flow of power in your being. It's brighter, it's stronger, it's a better condition. It's It's a condition. It's more natural. And then you say, oh, okay, so that was a good thing. Now when I'm thinking another thought and I start to feel darkness, anger, depression, limitation, I see problems.

0:13:52
And then you have to say, okay, okay, that's taking energy away. to know what's going on in your head, to see these things. And then you can start shutting down the things where you lose energy. You'll notice just by practicing mindfulness that you lose energy all over the place, and again and again and again. thought, a person that makes you angry, or somebody who you know you think is, you know, has done you wrong or something. And you will think that thought again and again and again and again. Losing energy every time you think the thought.

0:14:45
You have to learn how to stop. Stop losing energy. You have to start to insert your will and say no. stop losing energy. You have to start to insert your will and say, no, okay, I understand I'm losing energy doing that. I got to stop doing that. So it's kind of like you're a bucket, right? And you got a bunch of holes in the bucket. How did you get these holes? They just seem to be there. They're just there automatically. automatically. You say, how did these holes get here? And as the energy gets poured in, like water, it's just going out through all of these holes. You can't hold the energy. So if you do a lot of things to get strong energy and then you're losing all your energy, you got to start saying, all right, didn't really realize these holes were here or didn't really recognize the significance of these holes. But now that I'm recognizing energy, the significance of these holes, but now that I'm recognizing energy, the essence of life, and I want to have more of that essence, I'm going to start closing these holes.

0:15:50
And that means you direct your thoughts. You say, no, not going to think this. You direct your activities. You say, well, I could sit around and play video games and, you know, do crazy things. and play video games and do crazy things, or I can do something constructive. That's patching the holes. A place where people lose tremendous energy is in hanging out with other people, interactions with other people.

0:16:21
This is a place where you get angry at someone, lose a tremendous amount of energy and anger. angry at someone, lose a tremendous amount of energy and anger. Often it's people who are very, very close to you. It could be, you know, your wife, your husband, your mother, your father, your brother, your best friend, and they know you so well, they know how to push your red buttons. And anytime they push those red buttons, if you have those, those buttons, you lose energy. You get all upset, you get out of balance, and you just lose energy like crazy. So, you have to erase your red buttons. people in a way where you can't, you don't lose energy. You have to go higher and then that way you can be much better off. You can maintain energy. Now that's one of the best ways to see hang out with a loved one, family member, best pal, or whatever.

0:17:46
When you're hanging around a family, you notice you start getting irritated, you're short with people, you notice that your attention gets diminished, all sorts of things. all sorts of things. You notice that your energy is... that you're losing energy, that the quality of your energy starts to become dark, limited. So what you got to do is you got to say, all right, now I have to modify this situation. There's all sorts of holes in your bucket associated with loved ones, of holes in your bucket associated with loved ones, people that you're really close to. And these holes are because of all sorts of karmas. Maybe when you were three, your father thought something about you. It's like, oh, you're an idiot.

0:18:44
And then you go and hang out with your dad now that you're like 35. He still has that, you're like 35, he still has that, oh, look at what you did. And he's got, you're an idiot, like when you were three. And for you, you're all, ah, dad! And you lose all this energy. So you have to say, all right, the past is dust and I have to be able to deal with my father no matter what he thinks and not be bent out of shape.

0:19:13
So like, you could be walking down the street, right? So like, you know, you could be walking down the street, some lady comes over and slaps you in the face. You know, some old lady and you're like, what? And then you just go, that's kind of strange, and keep going. However, you know, and you don't lose much energy. But however, if that lady was your mother, then you start losing energy. Mom, why? Gosh! Reminds me of when I was four and you took away my Gosh! Reminds me of when I was four and you took away my Legos and I cried and they hit me. So, we have all this karma and personal history and all these reasons to have holes in our buckets. And you have tons of holes in your bucket. elevate yourself so that when you deal with people, loved ones, family and friends, that you deal with them in a very powerful way, in a beautiful way, in a way where you're not hurt.

0:20:16
And then when you're not hurt, when you're not losing energy with them, you'll notice that you're able to actually help them. If you walk around in the same karma, in the same karma always being the, you know, the victim or the three-year-old or whatever, when you're walking through all that karma, then you can't really help them. You're just stuck in family karma, stuck in relationship karma. And all you do there is, well, people tend to just So, you have to examine all of your relationships. You have to see how to get higher, how to get brighter, how not to lose energy. And a lot of Buddhists will take some time off.

0:21:06
They'll say, all right, I'm going to go away from the family, maybe to a Buddhist monastery for a few lifetimes. for a few lifetimes. A few life sentences to get over that stuff. So sometimes you can take a little bit of time away, but eventually you've got to get down to the truth. If you go and hang out in a cave or a monastery for your whole life, and then you go back to your husband or loved ones or whatever, husband or loved ones or whatever.

0:21:40
If you haven't really really really dealt with these holes, they'll just reappear. And you go, wow, sitting around in a monastery, I was able to bring my energy up. But I haven't dealt with certain things. So then when I go back to a certain situation, I see all that all of it going out. There's a all of it going out. There's a Buddhist author, Peme Chodron, she's a Buddhist nun. She was talking about Bodhisitta and she was taking care of her niece or something like that.

0:22:18
Like somehow her niece was visiting, just a little girl like 12 years old, 10 years old, and then she got completely irritated with her, yelled at her, got all frustrated, and she was just like completely irritated with her, yelled at her, got all frustrated, and she was just like, hey, you know, she writes books on Boricita. She's all, don't tell anyone. Don't tell anyone your great aunt did this. So, I mean, really, you know, when you're close with family, friends, loved ones, boyfriends, girlfriends, loved ones, boyfriends, girlfriends, this is where your ego can be bothered.

0:22:59
But then if your ego can be bothered, then that shows you there's a hole in your bucket. You have to erase that part of the ego, and then you're able to gain more energy. more energy. Now, a lot of ways that people deal with each other is in ways of reciprocity. Everybody wants something from you. Everybody wants something from you. It might be a dollar. Right? But this is the way society is. Society wants you to be productive. Your mother wants you to call once a week. I don't know. So there's all these... Everybody wants something from you. When you have a relationship with someone, when you're, you know, just in the same dojo with someone, when you're at work with someone, situations there's reciprocity. There's someone wants something from you, you want something from them. If you're working with someone, you don't want someone to be nasty towards you. You want there's somebody there. You want them to be, you want a positive experience. So that's what we seek in all relationships family, friends, co-workers, you know, store clerk. Everyone that we come across, we seek to have some balance. But recognize, everybody wants something, and so do you. So you've got to start examining your experience. You start with examining close relationships, You start with examining close relationships, and you say, is this, am I losing energy here?

0:24:56
What does this person want from me? And then you say, okay, now what do I want from this person? And you gotta come to balance. Bad relationships are where one person loses energy, and the other person doesn't, or they both lose energy. energy and the other person doesn't, or they both lose energy. When there's a loss of energy, that's a bad relationship. If that's happening at work, it's bad. If it's happening on the bus, it's bad. Anywhere, but it's especially bad if it's someone you're close to and you have to talk to them a lot. So we start to really see, oh well, if that's bad, I have to change it. I got to make this I've got to make this thing balanced.

0:25:42
And we take that awareness of energy. I've got to make this energy right. Once you sort out the energy of the thing in your mind, then you'll see that when you're with people, with them, that things become balanced again. So you'll say, okay, I always have this dynamic with my father. I always have this dynamic with my father. And then you get there and then your father starts trying to push your buttons and yelling at you and do all the things that used to drive you crazy. And you are able to say, no, I'm mindful.

0:26:12
I'm not getting bent out of shape. And then your father tries harder. It always happens. But you still don't get bothered. And then you see that it creates a balance in the relationship. All of a sudden your father's happier, stronger. relationship. All of a sudden your father's happier, stronger. You've balanced the energy. So you gotta balance the energy in relationships. We seek to have symbiosis. That is the way that things should be. In relating to one person, you want something, You want something, a good experience.

0:26:50
They want something, a good experience. And according to what your relationship is, there's a way to have that balance. It's like a big fish in the ocean, a shark or something, right? Shark is swimming around, then he's got these little sucker fish on him. And the little fish are sitting around And the little fish are sitting around, you know, kind of like cleaning the shark.

0:27:19
They're picking up scraps from what the shark eats, and they're cleaning the shark. So the shark is like, oh, hey, we're friends. You know? You're hanging around on me, cleaning me, and they're like, well, yeah, we're friends. I'm hanging around on you, and I get free food. So we like each other. We can get along this way. So we like each other. We can get along this way. There's many things you can learn from the sea. So we seek to have those kinds of relationships. Those are constructive and positive. Now, a lot of people will lose energy energy because of being manipulated or manipulating.

0:28:06
So, some people become manipulated by others, and they end up in a very disadvantaged condition where they lose energy. Some people try to manipulate people because they want their attention, or they want their favor, or they want something out of them. or they want something out of them, they want energy out of them sometimes. So this is a very common dynamic with men and women. Women will do this thing we call wrapping. They will want a man's attention and they will use energy to, it's an energy of manipulation from the navel chakra, usually, from the navel chakra, usually, and this energy will grab the man's attention, his energy, and it will manipulate his attention so that she can get his energy. Now, this is a thing is a people experience.

0:29:16
It's not advanced, but it's very, very common in this world. And what happens is the woman will be spending a lot of energy in manipulation, trying to wrap somebody up into focusing on them, because they think that if the man focuses on me, then I get opportunity. on me, then I get opportunity. But you get lame opportunities. And you diminish yourself because you're in the energy of manipulation. It's not a very strong place of energy. And then the guy who gets, you know, manipulated and wrapped, then what he's doing is he's In a way of desire or just drawing his attention to a person losing energy through that manipulation It's a very very common thing So we have to as Buddhists say look I don't need to manipulate someone to get Energy, that's a very low way of energy I can follow constructive practices spiritual practices constructive practices, spiritual practices, developmental practices, where I can develop my own energy and have many more opportunities, and be strong on my own.

0:30:36
And then a man could recognize, whoa, why am I always thinking about this person? Why, oh, they must be, there's some influence that they have. I'm drawing my attention to them. there's some influence that they have. I'm drawing my attention to them. If I'm drawing my attention to them, energy is going from me to them. And you have to say, no, I need to be free. I don't, I can't, I don't, I don't have time to be manipulated. I don't have a care for that. I want to bring my attention to a higher place outside of the awareness of just a person.

0:31:12
a person following constructive positive practices to succeed in my life. When you're being manipulated, you're losing energy. So this is something that occurs quite often. People lose energy trying to So this is the flip side of the conditioned experience of men and women. Men very often see some girl and they say, Oh, I want her attention. I want energy from her. And then they will push a controlling energy on them. They try to get power over them, control their attention, control their lives. to get power over them, control their attention, control their lives. So this is just how things have played out in history.

0:32:08
And when a man is trying to hold power over a woman, they do it in many subtle ways. It's like it could be at the office and the woman in a meeting starts talking and then a guy goes, no, let me tell you the way it is. And that's putting power over someone, getting power over someone. Right? And that's putting power over someone, getting power over someone. And then you feel, the guy feels, oh yeah, I just did something. Got a little rise out of her, and I shoved her down, and I felt that I got ahead. Right? And then in relationships, it gets really bizarre. And in relationships with men and women, very often there's like, there's the women trying to manipulate, and the man trying to get power over, There's the women trying to manipulate and the man trying to get power over and it's just a and they're just fighting and losing tons of energy They're they're just struggling with manipulation and power and manipulation and power just you know, the the old bickering couple Right, just but they just go into a certain level of consciousness. There's bickering So, we seek to not fall into these traps. This is where people in life lose tremendous energy.

0:33:22
People lose energy in sexual encounters. Now, when you're intimate with someone, then what happens is you are entering into a very, very energetic experience. entering into a very, very energetic experience. And it gets to a very essential part of their consciousness. Now if they have a very, very refined consciousness, they've worked out all of their negative thoughts and negative emotions, and they have tremendous mindfulness and excellent meditation and compassion. compassion, you know, when they're really refined, then when you get to that energy field, everything will just be balanced. But most people have all sorts of trouble inside. And they don't even think it or intend it. It is just there. So, if two people are being intimate, a man's energy will be dominant. And that energy will start to format the woman's And that energy will start to format the woman's energy.

0:34:30
And that means that he's oppressing. It's just in him. He hasn't sorted things out. And this is a very, very close, powerful connection. And then it's just an experience that he just hasn't figured out, so it just happens. And then the gal does the same thing, but with more manipulation. And then the gal does the same thing, but with more manipulation. So this is a place where people lose tons of energy. A lot of guys who meditate or are on the spiritual path, if they have sex, they stop meditating.

0:35:13
Or they think they're meditating. Or they think they're meditating. They go, yeah, I wake up in the morning, sit there and stuff. But their energy has been diminished. So that's why you have to be careful. And then a lot of gals, they will abdicate their power. They'll say, oh, I'm with a guy, so now I don't have to be powerful anymore. I don't have to try so much. guy, so now I don't have to be powerful anymore. I don't have to try so much. I can just like relax now, because I've got this energy going to a guy. So these are places where people lose a tremendous amount of power. So one In both cases, the remedy is success.

0:36:06
It means if you're in an intimate relationship, you have to say, OK, I'm a guy, how's my meditation? Am I really meditating? And you've got to push your meditation. You've got to push your spiritual practice, push your yoga and your success in life. You have to see that even though you're in this relationship, that you're not losing energy. even though you're in this relationship, that you're not losing energy. You have to see that you're gaining energy. And that will balance that intimate relationship. And same thing with women. In an intimate relationship, you have to say, am I just kind of like cruising because I like this guy's attention?

0:36:40
And that's enough for me? No. Is my meditation getting better? Am I being more successful in my career, in my life? Am I getting more? Is my power going up? Am I getting more is my power going up and and if you do that Then what happens is you go into a place where? 99 point four four people on the planet Will waste a tremendous amount of energy and you can go into that same condition and create tremendous Powerful positive energy and it balances that experience and it balances that experience.

0:37:16
So that's what we got to do in Buddhism. If you're in an intimate relationship, you've got to elevate your life, elevate your energy at all times, and watch, see how you're doing. Examine yourself, reflect. It's very important. It's very important. Another place where people lose energy is in fear. So it happens at work a lot.

0:37:47
A lot of people are afraid of their boss, their manager. Their manager is all grumpy and stressed out, and the manager has the ability to fire you, or tell you to work late, or just yell at you, right? So a lot of people have tremendous fear at work. And so they go in there and then they'll be tormented by this boss, or it might be a co-worker or something. And then they'll just feel horrible. They lose a tremendous amount of energy there. Sometimes people are afraid of their parents. their parents. Some people are afraid of their wives. So, you know, anyone who can who can make you feel afraid gets power over you. You lose energy. There was a man who went to go see a Taoist master and he was very stressed out. He's like, oh master, I was, you know, I was doing some business over here and I ran into I was doing some business over here and I ran into some trouble and a witch put a curse on me.

0:38:56
And ever since she put this curse on me, I started losing business, I fell down and injured my ankle, my daughter got sick, I had some bad soup. So all sorts of weird stuff is happening to me and I know it's because this witch put a curse on me. and I know it's because this witch put a curse on me, so can you please remove the curse?" So the Taoist master goes, Okay, poof! I removed the curse. And the guy goes, Oh, thank you, that's so wonderful. And then he says, Yeah, come back in a week and we'll see how you're doing.

0:39:29
So the guy comes back in a week, and in a week he's all, Oh, everything's better. My soup got better. My daughter's not sick anymore. My ankle is still there. And you know, everything's great. anymore, my ankle is still there and everything is great, business is good again. So then he's like, okay good. And then there was this, his attendant, another Taoist monk was there and he said, Master, you never said that you had the ability to remove the curse?

0:39:52
He's all, yeah, I know. And what he said is, he said, I just removed his fear. removed his fear. So when you are not afraid, then nobody can mess with you. Yeah, people can mess with you. Yeah, you can get a little bit hurt. But the only way people can mess with you inwardly, the only way you lose energy, is if you have fear. If you have fear, then that just means you do a bad job. You get all paralyzed, you just stop yourself. So you just stop yourself. So we seek to observe the places where we have fear and overcome those fears, just in terms of energy. If you're afraid of something, you start to go, okay, wait, let me address the energy. And then that way it starts to change the way that the way that you think of it, and the way that you deal with it in the physical as well.

0:40:53
Now, these are the ways to stop, these are extremely important ways to stop losing energy, to deal with these things mostly around people. And if you do these things successfully, and they're very difficult, it takes tremendous attention, complete practice of mindfulness, this attention, complete practice of mindfulness, then automatically, if you can plug those holes, automatically you'll see that you have more and more energy, more and more possibility. And you'll say, wow, this is really good. It just seems to happen automatically. Because innately to your being there's a tremendous amount of energy in you. To be powerful, you in you. To be powerful, you simply need to stop doing the things that take away power.

0:41:47
So in meditation, when you stop thought, you are just going to what we call a natural state of mind, where there is tremendous energy. It's very, very powerful. It's extremely bright very, very powerful, it's extremely bright and enlightening. So the thing is, when you're sitting there thinking all these thoughts all the time, the more thoughts that you have, the lower your energy. But then when you slow thought down, you notice tremendous energy. When you stop thought, all there is, is energy. There's only complete totality of energy. And you say, oh, that's really good. I like that.

0:42:34
So we really seek to stop doing the things, you know, in martial arts, in Tai Chi, in Wuei Do, the way that we seek, the way that we see tremendous power is by stopping to do all the things that we think we should do. all the things that we think we should do, instead of pushing and striving and using energy or using physical strength and all these things, you just kind of become very still. And then all of a sudden, a tremendous power comes through you. You have that power in you.

0:43:07
When you stop thought, you have that power in you. That's in your mind, that's in your being, that's innate to you. to you. So in meditation, just stop thought and energy. In martial arts, stop doing all the things that take away the energy and then all of a sudden powerful energy is through. This is what we learn from the practice of martial arts. We learn the truth of energy. So, we start to see that there are things that we can do to increase energy. Meditation, martial arts, going into nature, going to places of power. When you go into nature, you get away from your regular routine. And just by being in nature, you can have a greater balance.

0:44:01
You gain energy. a greater balance, you gain energy. Nature is filled with energy. And when we are out there, we're able to just balance our mind, clear out, stop the busy things that take away energy, and we're able to just kind of take that vibration of the place, that natural our vibration. Good energy. And we also develop energy, we increase our energy through work. So we work hard, not for a paycheck. Of course we do it for a But that's not our intent. We work for spirit. And for no reason. We just work. That's the thing, you got to get rid of like... A lot of people lose energy and work because they are working for the self. They are working for a paycheck, they're working for money, they're working for that diminishes their energy.

0:45:16
But when you work simply for the perfection of work, then your energy goes up. When there's no self involved, your energy goes up. I know it sounds crazy, but it's true. So, if you're going to work and you're always like, oh, I hate work, work's all tiring, and my job's hard and my boss will move on, then you're trapped in self, and your energy goes down. my boss a little ball. Then you're trapped in self and your energy goes down. When you go to work and your work is simply about working perfectly, then your energy goes up. And then you tend to succeed in work and you tend to make more money and be more successful and it tends to work out well. But we really seek to just work perfectly. And then energy goes perfectly, and then energy goes up. You want to feel like you would do the job anyway, even if you didn't get paid for it. If you feel that way, then there's no self. If you're like, oh God, no, I'd rather be doing anything else, then you have some self there, and then you lose energy. So this is the classic teaching of the Bhagavad Gita. It is to work without It is the classic teaching of the Bhagavad Gita.

0:46:28
It is to work without any expectation of reward. Not looking for any return on investment. Just do your duty. Do your dharma. So if in this lifetime, you weren't given an inheritance of a billion dollars and you you know, an inheritance of a billion dollars and you have to find yourself working, then you just work perfectly. And then when you work perfectly, when you just work to do the job the best you can with all your attention, fully, in every moment, doing it as impeccably as possible, and you just, that's what you do. That's it. You know? There's no like, That's it. You know There's no like oh, I'd rather be doing something else. All right, no self then You gain tremendous energy This is what we have to do Because then by doing work We practice impeccability which brings energy, but we also practice selflessness which brings an even more important energy and even more important, energy.

0:47:40
So we work. Work is good. Another way of gaining energy is by giving energy. This is a spiritual secret. are giving in a wise way, then you're actually opening a doorway to spirit. And when you're the doorman to spirit, you get a whole bunch of spirit all over you. So you're like, okay, you have to give of yourself. You're reaching in the spirit.

0:48:24
You have to give of yourself. You're reaching in the spirit, you're giving energy from yourself, but when you're reaching in to that, to give to someone, then you're reaching into an unlimited dimension of light. And so you get more light by giving light. So when we practice compassion, thang len bodhisitta, we are really focused on giving we are really focused on giving light to another being who's suffering. And with that intention, when it's really selfless and impeccable and focused, then we get light back. We get energy back. And it's not our intent. If you're just sitting there going, oh, I'm going to do this so I can get some more energy.

0:49:13
You don't get it. You have to actually be... get some more energy, you don't get it. You have to actually be, you actually have to be selfless. But by doing these things, you get something out of it. It's kind of like if you exercise, right? You got to use energy to exercise, but it makes you healthier and stronger. So true selflessness in work, if you have true selflessness in work, your energy selflessness in work, your energy goes up. If you have true selflessness in giving to others, your energy goes up. So we seek to have true selflessness. Another way that we gain energy is by associating with people who are positive, who are strong, who are seeking to raise their energy.

0:50:01
So you can go to energy. So you can go to a spiritual school and if everyone in that school is meditating, seeking a higher truth, then they're creating better energy. They work together in selfless ways. They're increasing energy. If they give to each other and help each other, they have a symbiosis in the group, a symbiosis in the group, then everyone gets more energy. And that's a good situation. On the pathway to enlightenment, a spiritual teacher, a teacher who has got the esoteric teachings, the advanced teachings, an enlightened teacher, they can give you energy.

0:50:48
Energy very very special powerful types of energy that really elevate you so you could just be going along in your karma and Then the teacher could say okay. I see a place where I'm just going to give you some energy and then you're Elevated to a new level outside of that karma and then you start going along in that way for a while in that way for a while, and then the teacher can give you another... They call it teaching, empowerment, transmission, but the teacher, just like someone can give you money, a teacher can give you energy. And this energy is something that brings your awareness higher, opens your awareness field to see more, you become more conscious. to see more, you become more conscious. So that's always a very, very helpful part of the spiritual path. But it's most important for you to be constantly vigilant of negativity.

0:51:52
Because if you meditate and if you develop a greater light, you gain more energy. Then then that energy it has a more momentum. So if you think of something negative and you get mad at someone, then you're going to be directing negativity towards them with greater momentum. So even though you might have been very good at developing a lot more energy, then all of a sudden you're really bad at hurting somebody with negative energy. really bad at hurting somebody with negative energy. So we have to make sure that we're harmless.

0:52:31
We have to be very mindful of our negative thinking and negative thoughts. Negative thinking and negative thoughts decrease your energy and they hurt anyone who you're thinking about. It hurts their energy. So you have to think positive thoughts about everybody. Because if you think bad thoughts, you just hurt, about everybody. Because if you think bad thoughts, you're hurting your own energy. So we find out after a while, it's really fun to control our mind. It's more fun to have control and direct the mind to higher energy than to be a mess and to just lose just lose it and lose energy for yourself and others.

0:53:19
So we find that it's a better way. So the pathway to enlightenment is the path of developing energy, increasing energy, managing energy, not losing energy. It's tremendously important. tremendously important. But then, after you've perfected your energy, then there's something more. You come into the recognition, the spiritual recognition of enlightened. You see that in There's perfection. You come to see that that energy is, you can call it enlightenment or God, you can call it love, but you see in all of these forms of energy that there's a unity, that it's all coming from one place, the center of being, eternity.

0:54:24
Eternity. So, the energy that you got from thinking a good thought, the energy that you got from being selfless and giving somebody a piece of cake, the energy that you got from exercising, the energy that you got from focusing on your career, this is all God, this is all enlightenment. management, then you're able to see the fulfillment of enlightenment in all aspects of energy. Okay, thank you.

