0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about career success and the spiritual path. The knocking of the novel. So besides meditation, career, one's work, can be the most powerful tool for changing tool for changing awareness. It's a way of making your life very powerful. You can gain tremendous personal power through career. Therefore, as a spiritual practitioner, it's practitioner, it's important to have a very strong focus on career. Now a lot of spiritual people don't want to focus on career. They say, well, I'm really spiritual and career is just, they look at everybody else in the world and say, it's very deadening. However, they're not seeing the possibilities in the right way. There's another way to understand career.

0:01:44
A lot of spiritual people, when they come to look at a job, look at a career, they neglect attention to it. They lack a strong awareness and they're spaced out. They have a lot of spiritual ideals and ideas They have a lot of spiritual ideals and ideas and cool notions, but it's not something that actually aids their awareness field. And through work, you can make your awareness field brighter, stronger. So, I think it's kind of like, we have notions that the spiritual person is supposed to run away into a Himalayan cave, or get rid of all their possessions and join some ashram.

0:02:48
that can work. For some people it doesn't. So I would say if you're coming around to listen to my teachings, you're not that kind of person. It seems to me that if someone is really going to do that, join the ashram, they'll already be in the ashram. They won't be listening to this teaching. to this teaching. Otherwise, it's just the regular spaced out spiritual notions that you have to go and do that go far away, get rid of everything, do something different, right? It's possible, but a lot of people, when they come to the spiritual path, they just want to run away from life. They don't want to deal with the world, but there is a way to deal They don't want to deal with the world, but there is a way to deal with the world and career successfully. This is by having a proper understanding.

0:03:51
You know, Lahiri Mahasaya, a great enlightened master in India, he, you know, a couple hundred a couple hundred years ago. He had a job through his whole spiritual career while he was a teacher. He had a government job, a government clerk. So imagine going to the DMV, running into Buddha. So he really just worked his So he really just worked his whole career, became a pensioner, and that was his practice. So it's not like you have to run away from the world. You can be enlightened and do your job. And in fact, if you do your job well, it aids your enlightenment greatly. And this is why Krishna always taught that you must do work. You're going to do something.

0:04:58
So you must do work, because work aids your enlightenment. And for Buddha, right livelihood is one of the eight aspects of the pathway to enlightenment. There's no pathway to enlightenment without right livelihood. There's no pathway to enlightenment without right livelihood So it's important to have the proper Attention to work to learn through work how you can bring your awareness up become strong and bright The key is focus for a Spiritual seeker if seeker, if after your morning meditation you lack focus, then your attention goes down. That's why it's very important to work and to and in your work to pay great attention, to develop impeccability, the ability to to really focus work, be perfect in your work. You know, hassle the details. Be a very strong worker, because that's how you develop a strong mind. This is how you do Krishna's teachings and right livelihood properly. It's by working hard, developing strong focus. Because then what You're brought up above the minutia of human consciousness.

0:06:30
And you can do this in work, through this focus. Otherwise, you're caught in just everybody's way of looking at everything. You're caught in a very malaise of human lower attention. It's kind of like if you're going through a department store. You get to that department store, and you know what you want. So, you get to that department store, and you know what you want. You want to go and get those shoes for that interview. So you're like, if I get those shoes, those are the shoes I need. There's something powerful about those shoes. It's appropriate for this interview.

0:07:05
It'll give me a better paying job. Great. So then you walk into the department store. And if your attention's strong, you go in, get the perfect shoes, and you go out. But if you're unfocused, you're walking in, and then you go past some shirts, and you say, oh look, they're 20% off. You know, I'm losing money if I don't buy it, right? So then you're like, okay.

0:07:37
And then you walk in, and then they announce over the speaker system. And then you walk in and then they announce over the speaker system. They're all, hey there's a there's a sale over over there. You're like, oh, where? So you're following the signs, you're following the voices, and then you come out of there with having been an American consumer. You got into American consumer consciousness, you fell into everything. consumer consciousness, you fell into everything, but this is what's going on all the time, not just in the department stores, but there's all of these psychic messages in human consciousness that is kind of a very base level, and if you exist in that level, then your energy is completely split, going here and there and everywhere, but through work, work is a powerful tool for developing a But through work, work is a powerful tool for developing a strong consciousness.

0:08:31
Through work, you can develop a focused mind, a powerful mind, so that you don't get drawn off with attention and energy spilling out all over the place everywhere. You're able to actually focus. You're able to get the things done that you need to get done. Get the shoes, that's it, right? Get the shoes, that's it. So it's very important for you to develop this focused mind, and work is a great way to develop focus.

0:09:04
Another reason why spiritual seekers in the West have some aversion in career success is because they don't like success. is because they don't like success. They don't like money. Career leads to money. And so they say, Oh, well, you know, money's a bad thing. I look at money doing a lot of bad things in the world. And so therefore, you know, if career success means that I'm going to be, you know, like these abuses I've seen others make with money, abuses I've seen others make with money, then I just don't want it. But this is also not the case.

0:09:46
So Buddha never said money's bad. Buddha said money's good. Buddha said that the thing that is unenlightening is the way that people desire money, try to get money, and then abuse money a habit. But it's possible to gain a tremendous amount of money through career success and to use the money in very enlightening ways. And this is what Buddha teaches. So the spiritual aspirants knee jerk of, oh, I see people do bad things with money, so money's bad. That things with money, so money's bad. That will cut you off from making a lot of money and being able to do a lot of good things with it. So it's important to recognize that money's good, money's very good. Look at Bill Gates, his foundation. He does tremendously good things with his money. And if he didn't have any of that money, then he wouldn't be able money, then he wouldn't be able to help healing in the third world in so many ways where no government will help people. So money is good if you use it good. And that's why it's important to recognize that, to succeed in your career so that you can have the most money and not cut you off from it. Now, when you practice meditation, mindfulness, then it's a natural outcome that you would do well. You would naturally do well in your career. You would naturally gain a lot of money, because when you are able to meditate, you have a focused able to meditate, you have a focused mind. When you're doing your work, you're able to do it very clearly. You're able to see things that other people couldn't see, because your mind is still. So it's a natural outcome that you would be a good worker, and it's a natural outcome that because you do good work, you would do well in your career. So this is important.

0:12:00
So this is important, not to be adverse, not to try to run away from money. Now, when you're developing focus in career, any career, if you do it impeccably, you can develop this focus, strong attention. is focus, a strong attention. But there are some careers that are stronger for developing this attention. So for example, if you worked at McDonald's and your job was flipping burgers, if you really focused on doing it perfectly, every simple action but perfectly, then you would start to develop this attention. Then you would start to develop this attention. You start to develop personal power Just because you're trying really hard you're focusing and if you Had a different job. You might be able to develop a greater personal personal power faster like computer science In computer science, it's all a focus of the mind So you actually through the practice?

0:13:12
It's all a focus of the mind. So you actually, through the practice, develop your mind. You make your mind stronger. And it calls you to focus more, because if you were just flipping burgers, you might not really pay attention enough. But if you're programming, it requires that you focus your mind enough so that the program works. you focus your mind enough so that the program works. So it's a career where you're able to develop your mind and be stronger.

0:13:47
Now I remember reading, or I remember seeing an interview with Steve Jobs back in the 80s. And he said the same thing my teacher said, everybody should learn computer programming because it teaches you how to think. because it teaches you how to think. It teaches you how to process information in the world better. So it's pretty interesting that just learning a certain practice makes you see the world in a more clear way. And then when you're able to work in that career, you're able to develop your mind you're able to develop your mind where it actually helps you to meditate better.

0:14:32
A clearer mind, a more structured mind from your work aids your meditation practice. Now, the most important thing in developing yourself and and in having career success, right, livelihood, is your intention. It's not what you do, it's why you're doing it. So most people, when they're doing a job, they are doing it for themselves. They're doing it because they're stressed out about paying bills, doing it to feed their kids, paying bills, doing it to feed their kids, but it all is wrapped around the self, their ego.

0:15:24
And so that's where people go into a heavy consciousness. That's where people are drained, because they're existing in a self-reflective experience. And that's the regular consciousness of the world. Now, when we work, we work with a different attention, and it changes everything. Our intent for work is to develop our minds. develop our minds. Our intent to work is to make our focus strong, so that we have a greater ability to meditate. So we really dedicate our work to enlightenment. Now this is what I came out of school and I learned computers. And then I was working on Wall Street. And I had no intent for myself.

0:16:37
Of course I needed to pay the bills and everything like that, but I didn't. It wasn't about me. Everything that I did in my career was only a spiritual practice for me. spiritual practice for me. My intent was always to just, it was really karma yoga, it was to be as impeccable as possible, but just because it's a spiritual practice. I did it to develop myself and by doing that I had a very, very different experience than other people. While I was sitting around other people who are stressed out, all into their selves and their lives and losing energy, stressed out, all into their selves and their lives, and losing energy, I experienced brightness, other dimensions of mind, and I was excited, and I was uplifted.

0:17:27
So when you're intent, when you're coming from a place of self while you work, at the end of the day, you're tired. But if you're coming from a place of selflessness, then at the end of the day, you have more energy, you have more power. This is essential in developing yourself spiritually through career success, because it's a very draining world out there. It's a physical, heavy world. It's a very draining world out there. It's a physical heavy world. And if you can't direct your mind to the essential selflessness of work, then you're gonna get caught in all that heaviness.

0:18:19
So it's very, very, very powerful to be selfless. It is a spiritual practice. It is a spiritual practice. This is what Krishna taught, this is what Buddha taught. It is a spiritual practice to succeed in your career. And if you're succeeding in this spiritual practice, you're not having a hard time, you're not falling asleep, you're not losing energy, you're getting more powerful from your career. So this is essential. There was a Buddhist businessman who really put this into action. He decided that he wanted to spread Buddha's teachings to people. He was a Hawaiian Japanese, his name was Ralph Honda. He worked with a Pure Land Buddhist priest to create a set of books, or really kind of like a little Buddhist Bible. And he went out and he started putting this Bible in hotels.

0:19:36
he started putting this Bible in hotels. You know how you go to a hotel and there's the Gideon's Bible? Well, he started going through Japan and getting them to have this Buddhist Bible. Now, he gained a tremendous amount of power and light from this work, because he had a good intention. He was coming from a place that I want to share Buddhist teachings. He was coming from a place that I want to share Buddhist teachings. And then he went, there's hundreds of thousands of hotels that have this Buddhist Bible in it. So when you have an intent that is spiritual, like honestly, then you're connecting to some light and power. then you're connecting to some light and power. So he had this intent and for him it was a very transformative thing because before he did that he was just a regular businessman but then he did this thing and it transformed his life.

0:20:42
So you can transform your life in your day job, whatever it is, by Whatever it is, by connecting to the enlightened spirit of work, which is be impeccable, develop a very strong focus, but at the same time be selfless. You're not working for yourself, you're working for enlightenment. Dedicate your work to enlightenment. Give your work away to enlightenment. Give your work away to enlightenment. Devote your work to enlightenment. And then what happens is you enter into a different experience. It transforms you.

0:21:25
You become powerful and luminous just by doing this. This intention, the moment that you have this intention is the moment that you step into the light. that you step into the light, no matter what you're doing or where you're at, when you have this intention to work for enlightenment, then your work becomes bright. And in that brightness, you're happy. And in that brightness, you have greater career success. It's a natural outcome. In that brightness, your attention is strong. So it doesn't matter where you're at, if you're beginning at something or if you're advanced at something, the moment you do it, the moment you start it, is the moment you enter into that light.

0:22:21
So I always like to say, this is a black belt dojo. It's what I say in martial arts a lot. That means that even if you're a white belt, That's what I say in martial arts a lot. That means that even if you're a white belt, you're going to learn how to do the attention of the black belt, the spirit of the black belt. And then you will be a black belt. So when you know the spirit of enlightenment through work, that is the beginning, but it's through work. That is the beginning, but it's also the end. Now, in our school, we have a special focus. And this is working together with other Buddhists. We work together in work together in teams, we develop products, services, businesses together. And by doing this, we gain a greater power. We do this as an exercise in the beginning. You have to have whatever job you have. And then we have this exercise of developing something with other Buddhists. And then when you do that, you see that your day job develops much, much, much faster. So we have these practices of working together that tremendously aid your personal But then the practices of these Buddhist companies, these Buddhist ventures, they end up becoming very strong. They end up making a lot of success. And not only do they have a great financial success, but they also create something magical because it is a Buddhist This is something that we often see in spiritual practice or spiritual environments. But the practices that the traditions have had were usually kind of like art. So sometimes there would be a Tanka painting, and the monk who would paint the Tanka would be meditating on the Tanka would be meditating on this Tanka. They would sit and meditate and they would see this vision and then they would paint it. So they're trying to bring that meditative experience into a physical painting. Or Yuan Miao, she has a tradition in China where they take the hair of the master and they make an embroidery. Now, the artist who does this, while they're doing it, embroidery. Now, the artist who does this, while they're doing it, is always chanting Omani Padmi Hum, Omani Padmi Hum, and will spend hours and hours in this detailed, focused work, but chanting the whole time. So there are these spiritual arts where you're bringing a spiritual attention into a detailed physical work. But we do this with software, or we do this with business, a detailed physical work. But we do this with software, or we do this with business.

0:25:42
We bring from our meditation, from these selfless, luminous states that we work on, that we develop through these teachings, we bring that light into our work. When we bring that light it bright. So if you make a software product that's able to succeed, it's not only a successful business, it's something similar to the Buddhist Tanka. So I remember I was in Japan and I was on Buddhist temple. And there was a monk there, and he said that his main practice after meditation, what he spent his day doing is making Buddhas out of clay. And by sitting there and making these Buddhas, he said that this was the highest spiritual experience. And he told me, he was experience. And he told me, he was telling me about it, and I could see where he's coming from. But this is exactly what we do. Maybe in a past life, we've done it in one way, through making Buddhas. But in this lifetime, we do the same practice, the same practice, only we do it in in software or business.

0:27:14
So these things are possible. When you're doing your work, you want to focus on it so deeply that you're absorbed in your work. It's like a guy who writes a... There's a guy who wrote a book, Mazes, and he's like, oh yeah, I just would just get lost in my work every day. lost in my work every day. You know, but when you're totally focused on your work, you experience this thing they call in Tibetan Buddhism the suchness or the thatness, this perfection where you merge with the work.

0:27:58
So this is what we seek to do. to do. This brings us into a condition beyond the world. The world and the way that the world works, the self ways, and all the expecting the fruits of results and all these things, these will always leave you drained, tired, and in a difficult state of mind. But if you But if you work on your career success with a spiritual intention to be impeccable, working for enlightenment, you'll experience untold dimensions of brightness and luminosity, the suchness, the thatness, in all of your work. And this is why career success is a very, very career success is a very, very important practice on the pathway to enlightenment. Okay, thank you.

