0:00:00
Tonight, I'd like to talk about intermediate meditation. Immediate meditation is when you start to have a consistent focus during a meditation session. It is where you stop thinking negatively and picking up negative impressions. You kind of phase out any negativity in your mind while meditating. while meditating. It's where you really learn the proper inner navigation, inner motive to direct your spirit in practice. And it's where you gain a greater degree of light and illumination. of light and illumination. Now, most people who meditate don't meditate. Most people who practice meditation don't meditate. And this is to say that they don't meditate well or they're always a beginner, but not in the good way. Not in the Zen mind, beginner mind not in the Zen mind-beginner mind way, in a way where they just haven't matured their practice.

0:01:44
So, I was in Nepal, and I was visiting many, many lamas, rinpoches, and ashrams, and just seeing if I could find someone who was advanced. if I could find someone who was advanced. And I couldn't find a lot of advanced people. But I remember there was this one llama that was coming back from a six year retreat where he was in a cave for six years just meditating. And I had an opportunity to go and meditate with him. So I was like, oh, this could be interesting.

0:02:24
So I was like, oh, this could be interesting He was just sitting there for you know, six years every day in meditation all day long and say I went and sat with him and During the meditation, you know just beginning and towards the end also. I just looked at him to see What level of stillness? Emanated from his mind and emanated from his mind and He was filled with thoughts He was filled with limitation He was just in a an altered state of mind But a very heavy one to me And Even though he had sat for put a lot of time in and Even though he had sat for, put a lot of time in, and a certain amount of effort, it was done in a way that didn't produce a lot of results.

0:03:26
So I would still say that's immature meditation. So intermediate meditation is where you actually stop doing the same things that you did when Meditation is where you actually stop doing the same things that you did when you started. You stop kind of the same basic mistakes and you start to grow up in your meditation practice. This is very important. With a more mature meditation, a more mature meditation, you're able to experience light in a deeper way, in a more profound way. It's kind of like martial arts, right? So if you're doing karate and you're a yellow belt or an orange belt, at some point you can say, yeah, yeah, you're doing karate.

0:04:24
doing karate, but if after 20 years of practice you're still a yellow belt or an orange belt, I would say you're not doing karate. There's something wrong if you're not able to mature your practice, if you're not able to learn something new and actually get to a higher, stronger, more powerful place. So I I see that many people who practice meditation practice pretty much at the yellow belt, orange belt level, and then they think that that's meditation. And it is right when they start, in the very beginning, but then if they don't mature their meditation, then I start to say, wait, this isn't meditation.

0:05:08
Meditation gets you higher and stronger and brighter stronger and brighter and more filled with light and consciousness each day each each month you should be able to see a significant change In your happiness in your awareness From meditation, that's real meditation now when someone's a yellow belt Now, when someone's a yellow belt, they're just learning, and that's great, and that's new.

0:05:44
But at some point, meditation becomes very old and routine, and there's no more liberation. There's just going through the same basic patterns of concentration, and that's really And that's really not meditation. Now in our school, in our study, we learn meditation in a very beautiful way. We have the esoteric teachings of meditation. Buddhist monks, lamas, rinpoches, Buddhist priests, they don't have an enlightened teacher who can teach the esoteric teachings. They just have somebody who's got some training, and then they can tell you. But they can't actually do the transmissions of awareness. With my teacher, I would sit with him in meditation, and not only would he meditate, but in meditation he would transmit his state of mind.

0:07:05
This is the inner teaching. And in that way, I felt it, and I understood it. My spirit was touched with that consciousness. And so I was like, okay, so I know what is right. For a while, my thoughts, I couldn't tell anything, but something in me knew I wanted to get back to that feeling. And it's a very precise feeling. There are many, many, many, many structures and dimensions of light, of states of mind of light, of states of mind, in these teachings. So I was like, oh, I want to get back to that one feeling.

0:07:45
And then another time, I learned something new, I want to get back to that feeling, to that state of mind, to that awareness. And I would get back to it eventually when I became an intermediate and advanced meditator. advanced meditator. So these are the profound teachings in our study that are so helpful, because if it was just you and some exoteric book or instructions from a person, and you sitting under a tree or going into a cave, you wouldn't get very far. You'd probably find yourself figuring You'd probably find yourself, you know, figuring out as much as you can and then stopping.

0:08:29
It is through the, you know, actually sitting with an esoteric teacher where the light of their mind, because they're like, you know, fifth degree black belt, you're a yellow belt, you're trying to get up to, you know, green belt or something. able to actually show you very definite structures, inner awarenesses, how to get bright, how to get to actual useful high bright states of consciousness. Meditation, in intermediate meditation, you start to become more cognizant of the inner cognizant of the inner structures, the inner dimensions of light that you're able to develop yourself into through concentration. Now most people apparently don't need that or don't want that. They don't push hard enough.

0:09:38
They're not interested enough to experience higher and higher and higher states of spiritual illumination. It's only someone who has been around for a while. Someone who comes to intermediate meditation is someone who's had probably many lives practicing who's had probably many lives practicing the inner arts meditation. And after a while, you've seen the world of human drama. You've seen the endless, useless pursuit of desire, being exhausted by it and yet following it again. You've seen the limitations of fear. and yet following it again. You've seen the limitations of fear. You've seen people running around doing crazy things and then just dying.

0:10:34
You're like, oh, you did a lot of crazy things and then you died. And it doesn't do anything for your consciousness, your spirit. So after seeing this, we get savvy and we say, oh, okay, I gotta get something better than this. oh, okay, I gotta get something better than this. It's just dissatisfying at this point. You start to look at life in a different way than most people.

0:11:01
You start to look at the human dramas and say, wait, this isn't right. You start asking different questions. You can go over to a tree where some lovers have carved in a little heart, lovers have carved in a little heart, Roy and Tina forever, you know, instead of saying, oh, that's cute, like, oh, they're in love, oh, it's beautiful, you start asking questions like, who brings a knife to a date? You just start looking at things in different ways. You're just like, this doesn't make any sense. And that's what the world looks like. Like, Like, really, you start to say, wait, all these customs that people do are crazy.

0:11:44
Now, thousands of years ago, in India, right, there was this prince, his name was Rama, and he was in the castle, in a castle in Aeolia, Aeodia and he was having a good time as a young man doing everything a prince is supposed to do and then one day he just started getting unhappy and then his father the king said oh no do do the things that you have fun with you know hey you know guys go and play those sports with him then he's like I don't want to play sports then he's all hey girls go dance with them he's like I Then he's all, hey girls go dance with them. He's all, I don't want to dance.

0:12:28
All the things that used to bring him joy, he just was dissatisfied. He didn't find anything fun about it. And then they were, they tried everything. And then they'd say, why are you, why are you so sad? I mean, why don't you want to do these things? And he says, they're just useless. They don't, they don't bring me satisfaction. they don't bring the satisfaction. So finally the king goes to one of his advisors, who happens to be an enlightened teacher, and he said, hey, this is what my son Rama is going through, what do you think? And Vasatha goes, oh, he needs intermediate meditation. He needs to really, He needs to really, really get beyond this physical world to see a higher truth.

0:13:22
So Vatsapa started to teach him and eventually Rama became fully enlightened Buddhist master avatar. And things worked out. See things work out. Intermediate meditation. See? Things work out. Intermediate meditation. Things work out. So, now, in intermediate meditation, there's one very important key. And this is your inner motivation, your inner intention. And you have to develop this intention to be very, very strong. to be very, very strong. And this is the intention to experience light in meditation. Now, there's an inner light. The light within your heart, within your mind, is the light It is within all things.

0:14:26
It is the unity of being. It is enlightenment. That is within you. So we seek to see that light. Now if you just stop thought, immediately you start to experience that inner light. So in meditation we seek that light. we seek that light. That is a driving intention that we constantly foster. Now, in meditation, we have many, many, many different dimensions of light that we access. You could say these are all these... they call them causal dimensions. These worlds of light that are on the shores causal dimensions, these worlds of light that are on the shores of Nirvana.

0:15:19
Now from Taoism to Hinduism to Buddhism and even in Christianity, there are saints and masters who talk about being aware of light. They say, I saw this light, you know, Saint Francis, brother's son, is what he called it. St. Francis, brother-son is what he called it. Adi Da calls it the bright. You know, there's just all of these saints and masters who come up with some experience of light. And these are the dimensions that we focus on. So when we sit to meditate, we draw our minds to this light. And from studying with me, you see many different lights.

0:16:00
with me, you'll see many different lights. I teach inwardly, esoterically, many different dimensions of light. So you can see many dimensions that are white and dimensions that are gold, and many, many variations of white and gold. Thousands. And these are the structures of the structures of practice. In martial arts, they do kata. In music, they do scales. When you go through these different forms of focus, then you become a strong martial artist or you become a strong musician. So we sit and we meditate on these different forms of life.

0:16:47
And there's structured ways to enter into them. And they bring you up. There's structured ways to enter into them, and they bring you up. They bring you up, and you go to the next step, and then the next level. So, we focus on light. And it's very important to have that as your primary intention in sitting for meditation. Most people don't have a very strong focus or intention for light. Most people don't have a very strong focus or intention for life. Most people, when they sit down to meditate, think about other people.

0:17:24
And this is extremely toxic. It's a terrible habit. One not to start, and if you have that as a habit, you must break the habit. Because it's very, very, very destructive for you. because it's very, very, very destructive for you. See, when you meditate, your aura opens. Usually your aura is kind of like something that protects you from outward, outside energies. However, something magical happens when you start when you start to still your thoughts. Your aura opens, and it opens to these higher dimensions as you still your thoughts. It's just a natural occurrence.

0:18:11
So it's a very beautiful thing. However, if you do it in the wrong place or the wrong way, then it can be disruptive for you. So I remember once there was a student talking to my teacher, and he was like, there was a student talking to my teacher, and he was like, I'm having a really, really hard time meditating, and I'm all frustrated, and after meditation I feel more angry.

0:18:36
And then my teacher said, yeah, you're doing something really, really wrong. You have all this garbage in your aura. He's like, so tell me about your meditation. He's all, well, I meditate on the subway during rush hour. He's all, well, I meditate on the subway during rush hour. I just squeeze in on some seat in between like five people and there's a thousand people standing around and go through the subway through the Bronx or something like that, right? And my teacher said, okay, yeah, don't do that.

0:19:09
Your aura's opening on the subway with all these commuters who are in bad mood and then on the subway with all these commuters who are in bad mood, and then you're on a subway going through the Bronx, it's not like a very beautiful place. So you want to meditate in the most beautiful place possible. A very important place to meditate is your bedroom. You might have a meditation room, but your bedroom is a good place because that's where you spend a lot of time, you sleep there.

0:19:36
your bedroom is a good place. Because that's where you spend a lot of time, you sleep there. It's kind of a base of your energy and attention. So that's good. Now when you meditate, if you think about people, even for a few moments, what happens, the moment you focus on somebody, you think about them, their attention connects with your aura. attention connects with your aura. So that means that they become present in your mind. And not just in a little way, like if you're very, very psychic, you'll realize in a very – you just pull their focus, you pull their attention completely. And if they have angers, they might not be angry at the moment. If they have fears, they might not be afraid at the moment.

0:20:24
If they have fears, they might not be afraid at the moment, but you're pulling in that whole attention into your being, into your aura. And you know, if you're sitting there thinking about your boss, a co-worker, your mom, your husband, your kids, you're going to start pulling all sorts of attention start pulling all sorts of attention into your aura. And you can come out of a meditation having thought of four or ten people and be drained and your aura can be toxic.

0:21:05
You can come out of it lower than you went in. This is one of the primary ways that beginners make mistakes. ways that beginners make mistakes. And it's fine when you're a beginner, because you're just learning concentration. You're just developing the habit and the discipline of practice. But when you become intermediate, you get to the point where you really need to get past that. Otherwise, you're, you know, You don't develop. So it's very important to recognize that in meditation you should not think of people. That should be your highest priority as an intermediate practitioner. You should seek to focus on light, not people. And if you have to use a full concentration of your mind, And if you have to use a full concentration of your mind, so if a person comes into your mind You just have to you know, you think they come and you have to immediately draw your mind back to light The intent is to go back to life You can't sit there and think about it and wonder about it and try to work something through Because when you're doing that that's when you're grabbing their attention. You're bringing your focus with your open aura Because when you're doing that that's when you're grabbing their attention You're bringing your focus with your open aura and you're just pulling toxicity So you need to see it come and then focus on light that has to be your your intention Very important. So the the intermediate study is a study of substitution it's where you start to really understand your mind and It's where you start to really understand your mind, and you kind of magnify the things that bring toxicity, then you substitute them.

0:23:02
You say, wow, this is a big deal. This isn't a little deal. This isn't a small thing. It's a big deal. If you want to learn meditation, if you want to actually have peace, if you want to have If you want to actually have peace, if you want to have the higher dimensions of life, this is a very big deal. So you have to say, okay, now I'm going to substitute this big deal that's a problem with a big deal that's a solution. Substitution.

0:23:32
So in intermediate meditation, we have four primary doorways. four primary doorways. One door, well three primary doorways, and then the thing itself. So we have the intention to find light. Now, one powerful way to find light, to get to the light, is through the chakra. You can focus on your chakras. And chakras are doorways to dimensions of light. And chakras are doorways to dimensions of light.

0:24:06
So you bring a strong focus, and at the same time, you have that intent to seek light. You're focusing on the chakra, but you're light. You want to see light. You want light to fill your mind. You can envision light. You can imagine light. Imagination is powerful. You can imagine light. Imagination is powerful. Imagination is real.

0:24:30
So you focus, quiet the mind, and then imagine light. You're going to be connecting with light. So this is one way to connect with light. A chakra is a doorway. Another way is through music. Another way is through music. So we have meditation music. Our meditation music was created by yogis who are drawing music from dimensions of light and creating forms that we can hear. listen to the music, you can connect to dimensions of light.

0:25:19
So the music is like a doorway to a dimension of light. It's a listening meditation. You're in the disposition of openness, just to hear, just to be still and let it in, and you can connect to light. You focus on the music, the feelings of the music, and you feel illumination. You feel the light. So in our meditation music, it's really created with the intent, created to pull dimensions of light, to be a doorway to dimensions of light. So by listening meditation, being very still, feeling the feelings of the music, you're able to go to dimensions of light as well.

0:26:14
Another way is to focus on an enlightened teacher. You might have an image of like Buddha, right? So you say, okay, Buddha is enlightenment, So you say, okay, Buddha is enlightenment or Avalokiteshvara, the Bodhisattva of Compassion. You might say, I'm going to focus on this image in my mind of this enlightened teacher. And when you hold them in your mind, it's just like if you think about somebody, you immediately go into their attention. When you think of an enlightened teacher, then you immediately go into their field of awareness. Even though Buddha lived 2,500 years ago, he's an eternal enlightened spirit. So if you bring him to mind, you visualize what you think is him, you will be connecting with Buddha. Or you could get a picture of Ramakrishna Buddha. Or you could take a, you know, get a picture of Ramakrishna, a great enlightened teacher from India. And he lived not too long ago, so you can get a real photograph of him and think about that, bring that to mind. It's important with enlightened teachers that you really connect to them. Because a lot of times there's a lot of extraneous material Because a lot of times there's a lot of extraneous material over them.

0:27:42
So I remember there was a teacher of Bhakti Yoga, and the students were supposed to go, you know, they would sit with the teacher, and then they were supposed to go home and then meditate on the teacher, look at a picture of the teacher. But one of them, one of the students, I knew him, when he would meditate, he would bring up the whole feeling of the whole room and all the people chanting. So he wasn't actually really focused on the teacher, he was focused on all the experience around him, which is not the teacher. So I mentioned it to him. It helped this meditation. He was like, Oh, forget about the other people and the chanting and the organization because a lot of that comes to mind for a lot of people and they're focusing on a teacher that they know. And then it's like forget about that just the direct consciousness, direct feeling of the teacher.

0:28:47
And this is a very very powerful doorway to the light. This is a very, very powerful doorway to the light. So the teacher isn't a person if they're enlightened. So if you look at Ramakrishna, his consciousness is completely pure light. So when you focus on him, he's a doorway. He's not that person. You're not looking at the physical aspect of him. You're looking through him to the light that he is, To the light that he is to his enlightenment his spirit his eternal Elevated Nirvana being you go. Okay that is so he's a doorway to the light And the fourth focus is focusing on light itself Going directly into the awareness of light directly into the awareness of light. Now, no matter which of the four focuses you're doing, your intent is for light. You meditate on the chakra because you seek light. You listen to the music because it brings you to light. You focus on the teacher because it brings you to their light, their city, their expression of enlightenment, but that their expression of enlightenment, but that pure light and then you sit and focus on light light itself because it is light Yes so in a meditation session you can sit and bring the focus to the chakra and Start to just concentrate on it. This holds your attention there Just hold your attention there.

0:30:26
When thoughts come up, just drop them and bring the focus right back to concentrating on the chakra with that intent of light. Now for most people, even intermediate practitioners, you can only do that for a couple minutes because otherwise your attention will go back down and you'll start thinking about other Otherwise, your attention will go back down and you'll start thinking about other things. So what you should do, when you start to see that your attention starts to go down, then you change to one of the other focuses. So then you say, no, no, no, now I'm going to focus on the teacher. Then you bring your focus to Buddha. And then all of a sudden, you're filled with light and it's beautiful.

0:31:12
and all of a sudden you're filled with light and it's beautiful. But then if you start to lose that too, then you can go, okay, wait, now let me try the music. Focus just on listening. When thoughts come up, you can't just have kind of like a vague listening where you're like, oh, I'm listening a little bit and thinking about stuff too. Can't, cannot be that.

0:31:35
You're listening to the feelings and the dimensions of the music. listening to the feelings and the dimensions of the music, you go into light. And then if you start to come out of that, and you say, okay, I'm going to focus on this internal light, the vision of light, and focus on that completely. But your focus has to be complete, no spaces in between. In intermediate meditation, you get past that beginner's point where you In intermediate meditation, you get past that beginner's point where you were sitting there, focused for like 30 seconds, and then you start thinking about something, and then you like look at the time, start texting a friend, and then you come back to meditation and go, oh yeah, yeah, yeah, I remember what I'm doing now, right? So, in intermediate meditation, you're on point. You're You're like, okay, I'm sitting, focusing on the chakra, all right, now my concentration is going away.

0:32:30
Focus on Buddha, okay, that's really bright, but now I'm starting to get a little... So listen to the music, focus on the light, and then go back to maybe the teacher, or back to the chakra. tools to utilize, to sharpen your focus. But you're always utilizing them. You're mindful, you're focused, you're always seeking light. There's no like spaces where you space out. You're always on point. You're always concentrating. And this brings you into high levels of light.

0:33:12
brings you into high levels of light. Now, if you just stop thought, you don't need to have any focus. So if you start focusing on the teacher, the Buddha, you say, oh, wow, I'm in light and I'm just still. You don't have to go back to a focus because that's a thought. You've used the focus to go through the door and now you're in the world of light. door and now you're in the world of light. But when you find yourself coming drawn back and you're just like, oh, I'm here, okay, now I've got to refocus. But you don't let yourself fall into times where you're just thinking without focusing. And you put an to thinking about people. You cannot afford to have a thought of a person. So you say, well, I've got to put that to the side, and I really have to focus on light. I've got to find light. I've got to find light. I've got to find light. This is what brings you into the proper practice of meditation, a mature practice of meditation. It's something very unusual. Not It's something very unusual.

0:34:26
Not many people do it. But if you do it, it's extremely bright, it's beautiful, it elevates your life. You retrain your mind in that meditation session, so then outside of meditation, you have a greater awareness of life. You see truth more readily. You see truth more readily, your mind is clearer, and you are an intermediate practitioner versus a slapdash beginner. And that is intermediate meditation. Thank you.

