0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about karma. Karma is a Sanskrit word that means action. Karma in an ultimate sense is your awareness field. field. Your awareness field is the way in which you perceive or interface with life. Your awareness field creates your options for perception, experience in the physical, and your awareness of spirit, light, and eternity. Now in the West, we very often think of karma in very simple ways. We think, if I do something bad like go over and punch someone, that I'll get bad karma and someone will come over and punch me back someday. It's a very simple way of looking at it. However, for a spiritual in the mind. And it is from the mind where physical actions come from. We begin with having an intention, and when we have that intent, we observe our thoughts. This is the primary place of mindfulness and directing your will. If you perfect your intention to be positive, to follow the Dharma, then you will always have thoughts that are bright and positive.

0:02:54
You will have words that are bright and positive and the actions in your life will be bright and positive. Karma is not just action, but the results of action. So once you make an action, there's a result. And then that creates a different experience in life. I'll give you a demonstration of karma with my glasses. My mudra. Look, here it is. Action, result. In thousands and thousands and thousands of thoughts, you've conditioned your life through the ups and downs of action. And it has created, through the results, your life, your mind, your experience. Everyone that you know, you know because of karma. The job that you have, because of karma. Your diet, because of karma. Everything that is in your life has come into different thoughts, different actions that you've taken. So we observe the results of action because the results of action are what give us our experience, our new options.

0:04:38
So there's physical karma, the simple stuff, but then there's the karma of the mind. During Buddha's time, there was a monk who saw this ghost hanging around in a certain area in the town, the village. And once he was walking with Buddha past this ghost. Now this ghost Was in great pain But this ghost was holding on to a giant Golden rock a giant golden nugget just really big And it was so heavy and the ghost has been carrying it for so long that the ghost was in tremendous pain it's just tired and very, very upset, just struggling to hold this golden nugget. And so the monk said, Hey, Buddha, do you see that ghost?

0:05:50
Buddha says, Yes. He says, I wonder, you know, why does he do this? You know, why is he holding that thing? He's just suffering. And then the Buddha says, well, you know, in a past life, he brought his, he wanted wealth, and his older brother was going to gain the inheritance of the father. The father had a lot of money, and was going to give it all to the older son. So he went over to a cliff one day, just looking out across the valley. And he noticed that there was a part of the cliff that was eroding. So he called his brother over.

0:06:36
And he said, oh yeah, come right over here on my left. And then he said, oh, look over there, there's some, is that a bird flying over there? There's something out there. So his brother comes to the edge of the cliff, right to the spot that he saw was eroding. And his brother falls off the cliff. The cliff gives him away, he falls to his death. And then, since he's now the only son, he gets the full inheritance. So in that lifetime, he enjoyed all of that wealth, he got everything karmic result was that he was reborn a preta, a spirit, a hungry ghost they call him. And he was in this great deal of suffering because he's holding on to this gold. So this is the that karma really works. It's not that if you do one thing, some exact opposite, the exact thing is going to happen to you. So in his next life, he didn't fall off a cliff, even though he got his brother to fall off a cliff. It's not that the same physical occurrences your state of mind changes. So his state of mind changed to a very low dark state. And in that low dark state, he incarnated not even in a physical form, as a hungry ghost.

0:08:11
And his desire for wealth was still with him. So great was his desire for wealth that he suffered through that desire. By holding this golden nugget that he just couldn't put down, it was too heavy. And that was his state of mind. See, karma is your state of mind. When you will do something positive in the Dharma, then your state of mind can go higher and brighter. And when you do something selfish, negative, or you harm another, then your karma can go to a that we observe our intentions and thoughts, because if we can direct intent and thought, then all of our actions start to go into a high, bright place. The good thing about intent Very quickly, if you're still, if you see what's going on, you can feel what's right. You could feel that you have the wrong intention, a selfish intention. You could be mindful and see that your thoughts are not right. It's much easier to make these corrections than going through the whole lifetime through a karma and then reincarnating as a ghost and having to suffer through that karma.

0:10:14
So we always look at our intentions and our thoughts because that brings us to a brighter condition. able to change states of mind by focusing on the Dharma, that which brings truth. Meditation, compassion, mindfulness, these are ways that bring you to a greater truth. They bring you the self's way of desire and aversion, and it brings you into very high, beautiful states of mind. It brings you towards enlightenment. So let's say that you were really into badminton. And you just looked at badminton one day and you went, wow, that's for me. You look at football and basketball and you say, no, no, no, no, I hate those, but I love badminton.

0:11:27
And then you go into badminton and then you practice and practice and practice. And then that desire to do badminton brings you on a journey. It brings you into the world of badminton. Professional world of badminton. And then you become a pro, you start having all these games, you're on the road all the time. It changes your life. You were born in a small town, you end up going all around the world in badminton tournaments.

0:12:02
So, desire just brings you into an experience. An experience. But the world of desire is not the world of enlightenment. Desire to be that badminton star. That desire initiates action. There's nothing wrong with badminton. But what we observe is we observe selflessness. Because when you lack selflessness, then you're not free. You say, no, this is my thing. This is my life's work. You're like, this is the thing that I like and I don't like other things. You're caught in self. And every action that comes out of you creates a greater degree of self. So we seek to find truth. And when we seek truth, light, enlightenment, then we can go past those things. You would sit there and say, oh, there's basketball and football. Okay. It doesn't really get you to react. Then you look at badminton, and you go, okay, it's badminton as well. And you don't have that, oh, I got to do it. I've got to do it. You don't have that thing driving you into action, into karma, into a whole journey of wherever that desire is going to take you.

0:14:18
So So there were two brothers of a Brahmin priest. They studied with a Brahmin priest. They were lay people, so they would go over to him and ask him questions. And he told them that in this life, they needed to learn to go beyond desire. And they said, okay, how? And he said, well, what is it that you guys want the most in life?

0:14:44
How? And he said, well, what is it that you guys want the most in life? And they both said, I want a beautiful wife and a ton of money. I think that was really good. This was, you know, a thousand years ago or so, or 2000 years ago in India. But they want the same things most people want these days. So he says, okay, all right, I'm going to teach you something. And they go, okay. And nothing happens. But one day, both of the brothers desired the same woman to marry. So they said, her. Each of them was like, I want to marry her. So one of the brothers got to marry her. They both wanted her.

0:15:44
They both asked. And one brother became her husband. And then he was happy. And the other brother was frustrated and unhappy. And then the brother who got the wife, he's like, okay, good. Now I just need the money. Right. But then all of a sudden, the other brother came into a great fortune. And he, he had all the money and his brother was very, very poor. And the brother with the money became happy for a little while, still didn't have the wife that he wanted. And then they go to the Brahmin master priest. And then he points out to them the experience of their lives. You both wanted to marry one, one of you got it, the other was frustrated. Then you wanted money, one of you got it, the other was frustrated. And then in this seeing of their lives of desire, they were able to go beyond that, never to create that karma again. So we seek not to go through these experiences. The world of desire and that results in fulfillment of desire and frustration. So fulfillment of desire leads to more fulfillment of desire or at least more desire.

0:17:43
You know Buddha said, you know, it could rain gold and still your thirst would not be quenched. There's never an end to desire. And so when one is chasing desires, chasing desires, that's where you're starting to get into very, very strong self-karmas. And it always leads to either just chasing another karma and always, always, always being hurried, unbalanced, never fulfilled, like a hungry ghost, or at least a just great frustration. So on the pathway to enlightenment, we seek the truth. Enough with the desires already, right? Enough with the aversion. When there's something that's powerful and positive for you, you follow the truth. You don't follow your mood, yourself. You're like, I don't like flossing. Flossing is just not for me. No, flossing is good for you. So you don't knock it. You do something that will bring you into a higher truth, keep you out of cavities.

0:19:17
Now, when you're following desires and aversions all the time, the karma that you create is, look at your experience right now. Look at who you are, look at your life. This is what it creates. You've followed these desires. You've had your judgments on, I don't like this. You know, your ideas of what you like, what you dislike, what you're going to do. And what it created for you is your state of mind, your awareness field. And the dissatisfactions that you have are because of your desires and aversions.

0:20:04
Rather, follow the pathway of the Dharma, which leads you to liberation from these dissatisfactions. That's the only way. You keep thinking that you want to go your own way and do your own thing and it'll only lead you to greater dissatisfaction after a while like the Brahmin brothers You just got to see that It's frustrating or it just leads to additional running around chasing something else There's nothing ever good enough enough. So it's a good thing to look at your mind, look at your life, because this is the result of your desires and aversions. And it's good to say, well, the lesson of karma that I can learn is that I shouldn't follow desire and aversion. It creates for me limitation, suffering, dissatisfaction, limited joy when I spend all my energy getting the thing I desire, and great frustration when I don't. So this is a wonderful gift of the Dharma to be able to see this truth in your own mind. Now, karma is, you know, there's a, I guess, a couple primary ways of looking at it, physical karma and mental karma.

0:21:56
you're going to experience a certain experience in this lifetime, but it doesn't carry over to your next lifetime. And then there's karmas, mental karmas, that you go to school, you get good grades. Then that leads to you go to a good university, you get your diploma. So let's say that you're really good at math and you study really hard. Then you get a degree in advanced mathematics. And then you end up getting a job on Wall Street, figuring out different financial plans where you can make a lot of money. And then you make a lot of money.

0:23:05
So that's great. And in that lifetime, you'll always have that degree. You'll always be good at math. And you'll always have that money. But then when you die, you don't take it with you. In your next life, you can't say, oh, but in my previous life, I had a degree. In your next life, you start over. Or if you were in this lifetime, you were a thief or a murderer, you go to jail and you're given two life sentences back to back. And then when you die, you're reborn, they don't put you back in jail. You got another life sentence plan out here. They don't remember.

0:24:03
And so you start off in the next lifetime out of that physical karma. Now the mental karma is where the karmas go from one lifetime to the next. Now when you die, you're not dead. Death is a transition from this lifetime to your next lifetime. So when you die, the state of mind that you're in leads you directly to the karma of your next birth, unless you know something about the bardos. But generally speaking, the state of mind at death brings you karmically through a condition that just puts you right into the next lifetime.

0:24:58
So we always observe in death, dying in a high state of mind. We seek to bring ourselves in life. Otherwise, you go into a lower condition. So with mental karma, what you've focused on, all the actions that you've taken in this lifetime, they will really create your opportunities of awareness and life for your for your next lifetime. So let's say you were that that thief and murderer. You're you're reborn but you're not you're not in jail anymore. However if you really had all of these did all these negative things to harm people Then in that lifetime, you're going to be kind of negative again You're going to look at life in a very dark way You're going to get you're going to naturally see the same things that you saw in the in the previous life Reasons to steal reasons to harm and you'll start to act out the same thing You'll replay the same karma Possibly go lower into a deeper, darker state of mind. But you won't be starting off in jail. Or if you were that mathematician, that Wall Street tycoon, you would be reborn. And let's say in the next lifetime, there's no math.

0:26:52
There's no math in your next life. Let's say you're born to a sailing family. And they say, we have, forget school, we just sail. But the strength of mind that you have from being a good student, getting that diploma, being excellent at your career, it leads you to being able to be successful at many things. So then you can apply that strength of mind, you can apply that good karma to sailing, and you might find that you're an excellent sailor as well.

0:27:27
So these are the ways that karma transfers over to the next incarnation. Now people have sometimes different views of karma. So sometimes you might look at karma and say, oh, yeah, I did something or something bad happened to me. So it must be my karma. You know, like, like, there's like, Santa Claus's book of naughty and nice, right? Somebody's out there saying, you did good, you did bad. I'm going to hand you out your good karma, hand you out your bad karma. No, no, no, no. We take responsibility for ourselves. There's no one out there like that. We are our karma. We just take this moment, this isness, this experience right now, and we direct our mind to Dharma, to get higher and brighter. Now, if you were, let's say, It might not be your karma. It might be somebody else using their will to do something bad.

0:28:53
So not all bad things that happen are necessarily your karma. Your karma is how you deal with it. That's what your karma is. So let's say that, you know, there was a great depression and the physical occurrences in your life become difficult. Now, if you have bad karma, you fall into all the hard difficulties, you get sad and everything doesn't work out, you go hungry, you get sick, all that stuff. But if you have good karma, you bring a bright mind, positive mind, following the truth. And then you're able to see possibilities of success, even during a very difficult time. Now, what we can learn from karma is that no matter where we're at, no matter what's going on, we can direct our mind to a higher condition. This is what we learn in karma yoga. In karma yoga, there's magic to it. It follows this path of truth. Selfless giving and compassion are high pathways of spirit that bring you very, very high and bright, strong, beautiful vistas of eternity. So we follow this path because it really works.

0:30:45
There's a great high truth to this karma yoga or compassion. These are very beautiful ways. In karma yoga, through the refinement of the self, the selflessness, we gain a truly beautiful illuminated awareness. Because the path that we follow is directed upon this beautiful spiritual truth, this pathway to enlightenment. And in perfecting the self, in the sacrifice through work, whether by hand or by mind, we really purify the dross of self and we're able to see a greater view of eternity, a greater vision of enlightenment. So these are powerful ways that we can affect our state, our condition by directing our intent towards karma yoga or towards compassion. These are very, teachings being an interactive body of knowledge, dimensions of understanding, that when we put ourselves into it, when we interface with it, when we direct our intent towards that dimension, it brings us truly to a higher state of truth, of spirit. And then things work out. Things are powerful that way. Another way to direct your karma is to hang around people with good karma. So if you go and hang around with a bunch of losers who do drugs, you'll probably end up doing drugs and being a loser.

0:33:18
They can affect your state of mind because you're hanging around them. But if you hang around a spiritual sangha, you hang around enlightened teachers, then you get higher karma. You're actually hanging around them, listening, being aware of higher things. And then your karma shifts just by being in the presence of an enlightened teacher, being in a sangha that's focused on enlightened practice, learning about the dharma in truth. So this is a way to bring your condition of spirit higher. Selfless giving, always looking towards how you can be helpful to people, how you can bring people support.

0:34:15
We do this a lot through the practice of compassion. So in selfless giving, the simple way of thinking about it is, I got a million dollars, I give it to a bunch of homeless people, right? And then you go, okay, cool. So someday someone's going to give me a million dollars. Right? So that's the, that's the physical, you think you're going to fall off a cliff kind of thing. However, it's not like that.

0:34:42
People get funny ideas about how karma works. So you could go around acting nasty to people and just saying, oh, well, obviously it's their karma. Not me, their karma. And that's just not true. you can raise your awareness through the knowledge of karma, through the practice of karma yoga. And selflessness isn't just giving away a million dollars. Selflessness can be done in a simple act of compassion. It's a profound, powerful act of selflessness that brings you into a higher state of mind, a higher awareness of enlightenment. So we always practice selflessness. Now another way of understanding karma is that there are powerful karmas and not so So when you do something truly powerful, selfless, you follow truth at the right time, there's pressure points of karma, then your karma changes faster.

0:36:20
Milarepa, a Tibetan yogi, was sitting in meditation for weeks and weeks on end without eating anything because he was so focused on attaining enlightenment that he's like, I don't have time to eat, but his body needed food and he just didn't get it. He was just meditating and then his sister came over and she lived far away, but she was like, oh, I'm going to bring my brother some food. He lives in that cave. So she brings him some food. And it was very important that he had food. And he thanked her, and he ate it.

0:37:04
But he saw that what she did was just completely selfless. And even though it was a simple act, he said that it was an extremely profound karma for her and that the karma of that one act would bring her into heaven, the heaven realm. And so you can give a meal to a homeless person, a regular person in their karma, and that's nice and that's good. And in fact, it does affect your karma in a positive way. However, if you gave that same meal to that enlightened yogi, then all of a sudden, it's a much more profound karma. And this is one of the intentions that Buddha had. When Buddha would come knocking on someone's door, and he would say, alms, please, and they gave him some food, they would get tremendously powerful karma. So this is one of the ways, you know, they are sustaining the life of an enlightened person or a monk on the pathway to enlightenment. So a simple act given at to the right being, can create a much, much stronger karma. Now, enlightenment is beyond karma. You could be sitting there getting good karma forever. And if you get good karma you'll be a saint, and you'll live in heavenly worlds, and you'll be happy, and everything will be really good, and it keeps going. It keeps going and keeps going. However, you're still caught in desire and aversion. So even a saint will be trying, they'll have a desire to do something even better. And then they do, and then they get better karma.

0:39:16
And they'll be adverse to doing things that are bad. So you kind of stay in that cycle itself. It's a much, much, much better, higher, brighter self. But then you still get stuck there. I have some students who are really, really, really saintly. And they want to do all these beautiful, wonderful things. And I see that as their karma, so then I start breaking it. I say, oh, that's a great thing to do. Yeah, don't do that. It would be horrible. And they're, really? How could that be horrible? I just want to do something really good. So, an enlightened teacher will go and break the karma.

0:40:01
Because if you just keep following the same path of good karma, then you're as stuck to that as someone else. I mean, people are always stuck in karma. Enlightenment is going beyond karma. So enlightened teachers will always break the karma, break that pattern, whether they're doing something good or bad, it's still stuck, stuck in a self, and enlightenment brings you out of that self. So in order to get to enlightenment, you've got to do a whole bunch of good things. So to meet an enlightened teacher, you have to have very, very good karma. And you think that, I don't know, I was just like talking to my friend and he told me about this guy he's meditating with.

0:40:59
Went to check it out, you know, that kind of thing. But there are no coincidences in life. Everything, everything that you've ever done has brought you to this moment, you have the good karma to have the teachings of enlightenment. However, then you have to do more good karma to continue getting the teachings of enlightenment. But eventually, enlightenment, these teachings bring you beyond karma, which is another subject But this is an understanding of Karma An understanding of physical karma mental karma how to ascend to higher states of karma through karma yoga selfless giving, compassion, and how through karma it leads to the beginning of enlightenment or to the pathway of enlightenment.

