0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about power, balance, and wisdom. Buddhism is the study of power, balance, and wisdom. In Buddhism, in spiritual, in any spiritual path, if you want to make progress, you need to have power. If you don't have power, you don't have any momentum. meditation with no power, then your concentration is poor. Mindfulness with no power, you don't have strength of mind to focus, to understand, to look, to reflect on what's going on. So you gotta have power. And in any spiritual practice, you have to have balance. Because if you don't have balance, you have to have balance. Because if you don't have balance, you'll get frustrated. And if you get frustrated, you'll quit. You'll say, I don't want to do this anymore.

0:01:26
It makes me not feel well. Or if you don't have balance, you would do something like just not just not have the awareness to stay on the path. You'd be so unbalanced, your practice wouldn't be real practice, and then you'd kind of just leave the spiritual path. And you have to have wisdom, wisdom to guide your spiritual practice. If you do meditation without wisdom, then you would practice meditation without wisdom, then you would practice sitting around thinking. You know, you wouldn't really be able to apply the truth of the teachings, because without wisdom you wouldn't be able to see truth. So when you have proper focus on power, balance, and wisdom, then you will be successful in the pathway to enlightenment.

0:02:24
then you will be successful in the pathway to enlightenment. But if you're lacking in power, balance, or wisdom, any one of the three, then enlightenment is impossible. So we seek to have a balance of power and wisdom and heart in our path to enlightenment. We begin with a focus on understanding power. We begin with a focus on understanding power, because power is the first thing you have to have. Otherwise, you don't go anywhere. You have to build personal power. You have to develop this inner kind of momentum so that you can practice. So, power is, when we look at power, we see that power affects our lives in all sorts of ways.

0:03:23
There's many aspects to power, and when we learn the essence of power, we're able to change our lives in physical ways, personal ways, in ways that help us with our finances, in ways that help our spirit. The ultimate truth of power is that power is bands of awareness. It's different, let's say, frequencies of attention whereby you perceive life. And when you perceive life in a certain band, then you have different opportunities that are available in that band of awareness. You can think of it as like radio stations. radio stations. You're on the FM dial. This is like the human band of awareness. All humans have certain awarenesses. They have certain feelings, and they have certain ways of interpreting life, understanding life, perceiving life. And this is called a band of awareness, perceiving life. And this is called a band of awareness, the human band of awareness.

0:04:55
Now along this band of awareness, there's many different, you could say, stations. Down in the lower bands, there's unhappiness, depression, negativity, darkness. And then as you go into the higher bands, then there's happiness, joy, love, fulfillment, looking at life in just really beautiful ways. So we seek in Buddhism to really develop ourselves in our human band of awareness so that we're balanced, positive, strong, and happy. So we seek to move our way up to the top, We seek to move our way up to the top of the dial.

0:05:44
Now there's something beyond the human band of awareness. Beyond the human band of awareness is the enlightened band of awareness. And you can say this is like, let's say, we're on the FM dial. that the we're on the FM dial let's say that that one is the AM dial right there's there's many there's there's thousands they say 10,000 bands of awareness so there's many different ways to perceive the universe but we seek to just be very very positive and good on our band of awareness but we also seek band of awareness, but we also seek to be able to go beyond the human way of perceiving life onto the AM dial, which is another band of awareness, a spiritual band of awareness, the enlightened band of awareness.

0:06:42
And we seek to be able to transcend the human experience and experience something beyond and experience something beyond what people experience. It's enlightenment in its many stations. So, we do this through spiritual practice, spiritual discipline. We learn how to change. And we do this with power. And we do this with power. We learn how to change from our perception to a higher perception.

0:07:23
In Buddhism, there's a practice of mysticism, which is the yoga of power. This is where we learn how to gain power, not lose power, store power, use power, share power. And use power, share power. And when we are able to develop this side of ourselves, we're able to use the power to totally and radically transform our lives, to go into higher states Power in its essence, the power that we work with, it's called Kundalini. There's many types of power.

0:08:11
I mean, electricity is a kind of power, but it's a physical power. And then in the body, there's certain kinds of power. In the aura, there's different types of power. Qi, prana, jing. Chi Prana Jing There's lots of different varieties but There's a one very refined spiritual power it is called Kundalini and Kundalini is the energy of consciousness itself So when you are able to shift Kundalini, when you're able to control the Kundalini, you're able to actually change yourself, change your perception, go from the human consciousness to enlightened consciousness.

0:09:12
developing our mind so we can use the Kundalini to make changes. Now the way that you get control, the way that you're able to enact the Kundalini is through spiritual practice. The primary focus discipline is meditation. Discipline is meditation. So when you're meditating and you focus on the navel chakra, this is the chakra of power. Personal power, willpower, spiritual power, the power to focus, the power to overcome the difficulties in life, power to be just spiritually positive and bright. power to be just spiritually positive and bright. So when we meditate, especially when we focus on the navel chakra, we develop power.

0:10:12
And then we're able to become, we're able to really start getting the Kundalini to flow. But meditation and mindfulness go hand in hand. mindfulness go hand in hand. So mindfulness is another discipline. When you're watching your mind, you're not letting your mind fall down into the lower stations of the human band, then you're gaining power. When you're using mindfulness to bring your attention up to a higher band, then you're gaining power. So we seek to be mindful. Compassion is a gaining power. So we seek to be mindful. Compassion is a very beautiful form of mindfulness that brings you up into the highest bands and beyond. So we practice mindfulness and compassion. Also our work, when we do our work as mindfulness, as yoga, as a practice of enlightenment, we mindfulness as yoga, as a practice of enlightenment, we gain a tremendous power from that focus, from that structure. It's called karma yoga. It's a pathway to enlightenment in itself.

0:11:26
Just by doing the work, just by focusing impeccably and selflessly, we're able to gain tremendous power. Another way that we gain power is by going to places. Another way that we gain power is by going to places of power. So from time to time, if you spend an hour or so in a place of nature, but a place of power, there's places that have greater power than other places. power just by sitting there. You start to vibrate faster because the place has a tremendous charge and then you start to just automatically move up to that higher band. Meditating in a place of power is even stronger. But these are ways that we enact the Kundalini, we get Now, when we look at our lives, we start to understand that everything we do affects our power.

0:12:37
Everything in your life either gives you power or takes power away from you. So we start to look at our lives, make a list, write down the things in your life, the people, Just write down the things in your life, the people, the places, the things, the activities, and you start to evaluate it and say, hey, does this make me happy? Does this make me strong? Is this healthy? Does this give me power? And then you start to look at your life in terms of power. You see the things that give you power, you see the things that take it away. you power, you see the things that take it away. You start to do the things that give you power more, and then you start to modify, change, or quit the things that take away power.

0:13:26
So it's important to look at your life this way. A lot of people will lose tremendous energy, lose tremendous power, just because they have some attachment to some person and they assume they have some attachment to some person and they assume that that's a good thing or something. They don't look at it. They don't look at it in the black and white view of power. And then they could look at lots of things in their lives being positive and that one thing, they lose tremendous energy. It undercuts their happiness and power completely. You You could be 100% positive about everything, but that one person, like Frank Sinatra, had trouble with his father. His father would just say, ah, what are you doing, singing?

0:14:15
And he would just think that, he thought that Frank Sinatra was just such an idiot for doing this. This is before his career really took off. But it really undercut his happiness and his power. But it really undercut his happiness and his power. He felt so crushed the moment his father would do that. So then he was like, I've got to get away from my dad. Can't talk to this guy. Every time I talk to him about my career, I can't go out and sing anymore.

0:14:42
Singing is sharing your heart. And he's like, my dad says something to me, and I just can't do it. So you've got to be careful. So you got to be careful. You got to see the things that don't work and get away from the things that don't work. You have to start looking at your life and saying, just as a whole, is my life happier and brighter and more powerful than it was last year, last week? What can I do? Because if last week you were happier and brighter, then this week it means that you're you were happier and brighter, then this week it means that you're not doing the things that make you more powerful. You're not meditating deeply enough.

0:15:20
You're not mindful. Because even if circumstances go sideways, and things are hard and bad, if you are mindful, if you meditate, if you are strong in your work, in your athletics, everything, you're still powerful. You're more powerful. Even athletics, everything, you're still powerful. You're more powerful. Even if bad things happen, you can see that you're more powerful. Dealing with opposition, you can become even more powerful than just having a happy, easy day. So you have to start looking at your life and saying, does this work? Am I getting stronger? And if you're not, you got to change it. It's important you have to change it. It's important to change. Now, one reason that people have a hard time changing, changing who they are, changing the places where they lose energy, is because of Conditions can limit you. Conditions are the social conditions, family conditions, the conditions of, you know, the people around you. All these things affect you.

0:16:39
So let's say there's an orange seed, right? If you plant it in the right If you plant it in the right conditions, it flourishes. But if you plant it, let's say, in a place where it's too cold, then it will grow, the tree will be weak, it won't produce fruit, and it'll die sooner. So if you plant the orange tree in the right warm conditions with sun, then it grows, it's strong, it's beautiful, and you have delicious oranges. beautiful and you have delicious orange oranges. So we are like seeds, orange tree seeds. And we're... everybody's born into limiting conditions, actually. Everyone. Or most people. 99.9.

0:17:36
I don't know anyone who hasn't been. But you're born into these conditions that are not good. I don't know anyone who hasn't been. But you're born into these conditions that are not good. They're very limited. It's like being born into a cold climate. And so what we have to do is we have to change the conditions. Because the conditions will only hold you back from being what you can be. There was, in the time of the Buddha, one of Buddha's students, One of Buddha's students, who was an enlightened woman, she went to the house of a very, very wealthy man, very wealthy. And she came in and gave a little Buddhist discourse.

0:18:17
She was coming for alms, and he was a supporter of the Buddha. And so she just came and gave a Dharma talk, and it was a very beautiful talk. a Dharma talk and it was very beautiful talk. And she noticed that there was a servant and that servant just going around, pouring water or wine or whatever, here heard the Dharma talk and she saw that the servant understood the Dharma, had a realization that no one else had. So she goes over to the servant after dinner and says, Would you like to come see the Buddha? Maybe you would like to study Buddhism?

0:18:59
And then she says, Oh, no, I can't. I am of a very low caste, and I can't do anything useful. And then the arhant, the enlightened woman says, No, you can. Yeah. And then the Arhant, the enlightened woman says, no you can, yeah, you definitely are made for this study of enlightenment. And then she's like, no, no, no, I can't, it's impossible. She convinced herself in her mind that it was impossible. So, therefore, she didn't. Then the Arhant woman goes away. Then the Arhant woman goes away, and then the servant just goes on serving and serving and serving. But then, one day she has a dream, and in her dream, the Arhant lady comes back and gives her a teaching.

0:20:00
the light, the power of the teachings. And then in the dream, the Arhant lady goes, come over and meet me. You know, you come study with me. And in the dream, she's like, no, it's impossible. And she's all like, well, come over. And in the dream, they go over to some grove where Buddha is. And then she sees that all of this is possible. Like, everything is fine, everything's all of this is possible. Like, everything is fine, everything is good. There's no... She's able to learn, and she's able to be there with the Buddha. It was a dream. It was a dream of the Dharma. And then, she wakes up, and she packs her stuff, and goes. And and eventually became an arhant. So, one would only limit themselves with ideas of self that society gives us. It just stops you. That's conditioning. Now, the first level of conditioning, very strong conditioning, happens from the age of level of conditioning, very strong conditioning, happens from the age of like one to four. And this is very strong conditioning from the mother and father, but also people who are around. They have very, very strong attention to the soft attention of a young baby. And so this really, what it does is it formats the subtle physical body, the awareness field of the baby to see life in a certain way. And it's a very limited way. And when you then want to learn bigger things, better things, you have to let go things. You have to let go of those old thoughts. You have to start processing information in new ways. So this is letting go of conditioning, overcoming conditioning. It's kind of like, let's say that you were conditioned to be a file on a computer and lots of software that can open open pictures you can go into and that's your experience okay then one day along comes an enlightened piece of movie software right and says you could be more than just a picture And then you go, what?

0:22:50
And then you reformat yourself to be a movie file. And now you're not just a single image. You're moving around. It's kind of like that. The conditioning that we get is very limiting. And then we learn that there's a bigger way. We're away with more dimensions, a way that's bigger. And then we have to change. We're away with more dimensions, a way that's bigger, and then we have to change. We have to get rid of the limitations and the old conditioning.

0:23:20
And then you got to pick up, you got to learn a way to access greater opportunities. Now, there are abuses of power. And a lot of people look at power and say, And a lot of people look at power and say, I don't like power because that's all I see is abuse everywhere. And power itself is not bad. If there's people who are using power badly, then that's not good. That's bad. But it's people using power badly. And if all you see is people using power badly, using power badly. And if all you see is people using power badly, people with no self-control, people seeking to harm others, then you might think power is bad.

0:24:11
But no, power is neutral. Power is a neutral energy of attention and consciousness. But people do use it poorly. But we don't seek to use But we don't seek to use it poorly. There's ways to use power that are very, that's very enlightening, very helpful for you and for others. To be, to run away from power, to not want power, not want to be powerful, is a reaction of self. ways to use power that are positive and cultivate those ways. When we use power, we seek always to use power to unite ourselves, elevate ourselves, not to harm others.

0:25:08
If you ever use power to harm another, then there's a very bad karma. there's a very bad karma. If you ever get, use power to get ahead of someone while pushing them down, you want to get something, so you want to win the race, so instead of just running faster, you trip the other guy and then win the race. That would be a use of power that's incorrect, And that has a very, very bad karma. That would bring... You might win the race, but it'll bring you further down in the bands of awareness. So we always seek to be the best... Use power to be the fastest runner. And if someone beats you, it doesn't matter.

0:25:58
You ran... You did your best. That gives you greater personal power. So we always seek to do things well. And we also are careful with others, because others might try to do that to us. They might try to push us down, trip us, hurt us, harm us. And so when we're learning about power, we also learn about being careful about other Learning about power, we also learn about being careful about other people. Not paranoid or afraid of the power of other people. Just an intelligent apprehension.

0:26:37
Someone might just try to push you down. So, just careful. And when you're careful and someone tries to trip you, just lift your foot, you don't trip. And then you save them from getting that bad karma from tripping you. So when we have this power, this is what we're aware of all the time. And people can't really hurt you. They can't really harm you with power. They can just trip you up a little bit. The biggest way that people can trip you up is if you become afraid of them.

0:27:12
If you're afraid of someone, then you're immediately giving them power over you. So no one can really harm you. They can just maybe trip you up a little bit, get you a little confused. But if you decide never to be afraid, then you have power. So these are important ways. So these are important ways. Now, a very significant part of the practice is working with an esoteric teacher, because an esoteric teacher can transmit power. They can give you power the same way someone can give you money. If someone has a lot of money, they can give you money.

0:28:00
An esoteric teacher has a lot of power from their cultivation of the Dharma and they know how the inner teachings of Transmitting that power to you and then this helps you you can move faster so if you had to go to The university, but you had to also work to pay your way through had to also work to pay your way through, you might go through slower, and you might not do as well, because you have to spend half your time working. But if you have some person in your family who's got a lot of money, and then they pay for your tuition then your energy's completely focused on your education, so you can learn more and learn faster.

0:28:48
learn more and learn faster. So this is the thing that we get with an advanced teacher, an esoteric teacher. It's like your wealthy grandpa who gives you tuition money. And this way you're able to develop yourself, gain the insight and awareness that brings you and awareness that brings you to a greater awareness of truth. Now, when you use power correctly, in all these ways, developing yourself, just using it to become strong and bright, is spiritual balance. If you use power incorrectly, then there's spiritual imbalance. But the correct use of power brings happiness. Now, spiritual balance is dealing with all the difficulties of the world and still being happy.

0:30:00
It's dealing with opposition, obstacles, It's dealing with opposition, obstacles, difficult people, hard work, everything. All the difficulties, all opposition. It's dealing with life, all of its hardships, and still being happy. In Buddhism we see that the purpose of life is happiness. But we really see that there is no purpose of life. But we prescribe one. We select one. We select happiness. And when you select a purpose, you select an outcome. When you choose life to be a certain way, then life becomes that way. to be a certain way, then life becomes that way.

0:30:52
It's the pursuit of that. And what you seek, you'll find. When you're focusing on, this is my goal, enlightenment, happiness, success, if that's your focus, then that's what's going to happen to you. What you focus on, you will become. It's a yogic principle that we choose what we want. We pursue that, and then that's what we find. So the path of happiness is a good path, because it's very, very conducive to enlightenment. It follows the Dharma. Every time you experience the Dharma, it makes you happy.

0:31:36
Every time you experience the Dharma, it makes you happy. There's truth, there's clarity, there's power, but there's also an automatic happiness. So choosing happiness as the way is a good thing. Now a lot of people try to find happiness in love. They've been conditioned with stories of love will bring you happiness. conditioned with stories of love will bring you happiness. But then you look at the people who've conditioned you with those stories, and you go, wow, they're not happy. So you want enlightenment through love, but a lot of the time, the way that people go about it with conditioned awareness, they don't find that at all.

0:32:24
They find expectations, having expectations, and not meeting expectations, and they find their romantic ideas just don't work out. They just find a lot of frustration. This is the human drama. Love is not a drama. Love is a beautiful energy of unity. But when you personalize it, and when you have attachments, when you have expectations, and you have personal history, and karma, and all your, you know, that's the self. And the self in love is rarely happy. Love is rarely happy. It's happy for a little while, but that's desire fulfillment. Then that satiates.

0:33:20
That's not true love. And if you go into that experience, there's just going to be a lot of frustration. So you want to love, love life, but you want to love in an unattached way. Love life, but you want to love in an unattached way. You can't love with expectation. You can love other people, but you can't love in a selfish way. We learn to love selflessly, because it's the only way that makes us happy. If you love because with this condition, this condition, that condition, and if you do this, this condition, that condition, and if you do this, oh boy, I'm going to get mad, you know, then you're just, you're not happy. You're miserable. That's a sad way. So, love selflessly. And if you're hurt, then don't stop loving, but you can move your love. So but you can move your love.

0:34:27
So if you're with someone, then all of a sudden it's a bad situation. Like you're with someone and then all of a sudden they're doing drugs and hanging out with gangs. They weren't before, but you love them. That's a situation that if you look at your power, it might say, this is bad. And the answer for the heart is to just move your love somewhere else. So if you're banking and then you're getting bad interest at a bank, and then you hear about a better investment, you can take your money and put it there, where it works out better for you. You could be at a bank and get poor customer service, and you could be like, oh, this is not good, I'm going to go somewhere with better customer service.

0:35:12
is not good, I'm going to go somewhere with a better customer service. Just because you have a bad experience banking somewhere, doesn't mean that you should quit banking altogether. So there's this wisdom in just moving your love. We think sometimes, oh, but this is the person, but that's attachment. I must find the person, that's attachment. You can love many people. You can love many people. Once you get out of the way, you can love many things. Love everything.

0:35:45
You can love life, feeling of being alive, the wind, the sun, the sky, the ocean. You can love challenges, athletic challenges, business challenges. business challenges. You can love Scotty dogs. You can love many things. So when you love, we seek to love completely, selflessly. In meditation, we come to love. This is the heart chakra.

0:36:24
heart chakra. And this is the chakra of love and balance. So when we meditate and we focus on the heart, we open these dimensions, these doorways to beautiful awarenesses of love, perfection, balance, happiness. These are ways of light. So it's important. Now a lot of light. So it's important. Now a lot of people, when they are on the spiritual path, they focus on power, and they focus on wisdom, because they say, I've got to be powerful, or I've got to figure something out, I've got to be wise. And then they just kind of forget about balance. But balance is important. You've got to have balance. Otherwise, the Otherwise, the path is... you know, you don't gain the power if you don't have balance. You don't gain the wisdom if you don't have balance. So, you have to really recognize that balance is valuable.

0:37:29
A lot of people say, oh, I'm just overlooking it. Like in martial arts, the first thing where you gain power is by having a stance. thing where you gain power is by having a stance. It gives you balance. Then your techniques, blocks, attacks, they're all strong because you begin with stance. If you don't have a good stance, then you can fall all over the place while you're trying to punch and kick. I remember when I was first learning martial arts, I wanted to do swords and all sorts of kung fu stuff, but you know, these I wanted to do swords and all sorts of Kung Fu stuff, these different forms, and my teacher just had me stand there in this horse stance, horse riding stance.

0:38:11
And I was just like, oh, I want to do all these other cool things, but I guess I just have to stand here and just be punished. But later on I found out that it was the most powerful exercise, the most powerful practice, because it gave you the power of balance. the most powerful practice because it gave you the power of balance and then from there you can build on to things. In the practice of Buddhism we we go into the light.

0:38:44
We go into the dimensions of light. These are dimensions of enlightened awareness. They're called the causal These are dimensions of enlightened awareness, they're called the causal dimensions. And these are the very, very highest experiences of mind. When you go into Samadhi, perfect meditation, you merge with these dimensions of life. And in that experience, you are transformed. You are happy.

0:39:12
transformed. You are happy. That's what gives you happiness, true spiritual satisfaction, is to let go of the self, merge with the light, and be transcended into a higher enlightened awareness. And that's what wisdom is. Wisdom is being in that light. To be in that light That's what wisdom is. Wisdom is being in that light. Wisdom is, for all practical matters, wisdom is being in two places at once. It's being in the world, doing your work, maybe sitting in traffic, maybe doing your laundry, but at the same time, being in the dimensions of light. Being in the dimensions of light Now this is very advanced It's uh, it's really not just an idea but it is a spiritual connection Now wisdom is Very practical. It's how to make good decisions how to manage your life. Well good decisions, how to manage your life well, it's how to have a strong career and a good exercise program and a good diet. This is practical wisdom. Wisdom and common sense walk hand in hand. There's no magical insight. There's no great wisdom that throws out insight, there's no great wisdom that throws out practicality. In fact, the more enlightened that you are, the more practical you are. So, one aspect of wisdom is just having a very practical, pragmatic, moderate, powerful, strong life. Now, another aspect of wisdom is seeing. It's knowing.

0:41:12
wisdom is seeing. It's knowing. It's like seeing what is right for you in life. For you a certain spiritual practice. For you a certain career. It's seeing what will work for you. That's a good kind. Now, a lot of times when people think of wisdom, they get people think of wisdom, they get confused with just knowledge. Wisdom is different than knowledge. Wisdom is the awareness of truth, the truth of life, the truth of being. Knowledge is something very particular. So if you know how to fix a motorcycle, that's what we would fix a motorcycle, that's what we would call knowledge. Now if you go over to some enlightened guy and say, hey, my motorcycle's broken. You're enlightened, so you should know everything.

0:42:12
Fix my motorcycle. Well, the enlightened person might not know. They might not have that physical knowledge. So physical knowledge is just the things that we can learn. just the things that we can learn. But wisdom is the essence of knowing, the essence of life. So somebody might be able to do all sorts of amazing things, fantastic things. They might know everything about this, that, and the other thing, right? They might be a doctor and, you know, have three PhDs and all sorts Right? They might be a doctor and, you know, have three PhDs and all sorts of stuff and be miserable because they don't know how to Stop being sad or stop being angry Wisdom is knowing the essential truth of life how to be at peace How to be happy how to direct your power How to how to still your mind These are the truths of life.

0:43:17
This is wisdom. Wisdom isn't just being able to know what some book says. So Milarepa was a famous enlightened master of Tibet. And he never read a book. He just meditated. he just meditated. He did karma yoga and then he meditated and he became fully enlightened. And there was a another Buddhist guy who was not enlightened, but was jealous. And he had read every book. So he would often go over in front of Milarepa and hit all of the students and say, so Milarepa, what do you think about this point from this book that everybody knows? Miloradov would just be like, I don't know.

0:44:03
You know, I don't know, I didn't read that book. The stuff they're talking about, I don't know what it is. But then he would talk about enlightenment, and then everything would be bright and beautiful, and everybody would be transformed. And the thing that the guy reads from the book is interesting, but it doesn't transform people. There's no... transform people. There's insight, there's knowledge, and it's good, but wisdom is much, much more powerful. So we seek to be wise. There's a great wisdom in Buddhism. It's the Etiquette is a way of being, it's a way of acting, a way of thinking that works. In Buddhism, there's no rules, there's only etiquette, and etiquette comes from wisdom.

0:45:03
If there were just rules, they would be fixed, but etiquette, being born of wisdom, is appropriate. It's appropriate for every situation. appropriate. It's appropriate for every situation. Etiquette has inner guidelines. You can see how things are. So in Buddhism, we don't try to say, my idea is what I want. We try to look at things and say what is right. In the In the West, we see the most powerful people as the person who goes, we're going to do it my way. It's going to be tremendous. I'm going to do it my way. And they push forth the my way, and that's power in the West. But that is not power. That's egotism. not power. That's egotism. In the East, we rather see the ancient East. We see that to be truly powerful, instead of being a leader, we want to be a follower. We want to follow nature. We want to follow the way things are. We don't want to force ourselves. So let's say you wanted to build a to build a house. If you go, okay, I want to build a big Victorian house, then you go to Santa Fe, New Mexico, and you go, I'm gonna build it right here in the desert, then you'd be coming with some idea, and you'd be going to a place and maybe doing something where it doesn't work out, right? So what we rather do is we follow nature. We go to the land, we look at the nature. We go to the land, we look at the land, we meditate there, we feel the energy of the land, and then we make a architecture or design for a home. Even if we first see if it's meant to be there, a house, and then if it is, what is the feeling? So then we might, instead of doing art, is the feeling. So then we might, instead of doing our, I've always wanted a Victorian house, you might say, oh wait, wait, I'm going to do an Adobe house here in Santa Fe. It has a better flow with the place. I follow nature and not myself. And then things work out better. So we seek to do that. And when we do that, we find that there's a great wisdom.

0:47:36
When we do that, we find that there's a great wisdom, there's a much more profound experience. This is Buddhist etiquette. This is the way that we come to life. Not with the self, but observing, seeing how life really is, and then acting appropriately. It's a beautiful way. Now, the ultimate wisdom comes from samadhi. So Buddha said that samadhi is wisdom, wisdom is samadhi. You can't say what it is or how, but if you can stop thought, go into the dimensions of light, completely dissolve in that light, then you don't exist. completely dissolve in that light, then you don't exist. You're gone. And you are enlightenment. And then when you come back out of that state, you have wisdom.

0:48:38
It just happens. It's the magic of life. That's where wisdom comes from, So, a very wise person will do this again and again, many times a day. That's how they gain a tremendous wisdom of life. But it's not something that you can describe. When you go into Samadhi, there's no you anymore. But then there's everything in its essence, in its eternal form. in its essence, in its eternal form, and you are that. There was once a Tibetan monk who was doing a pilgrimage, and he went to a place called Mount Kailas. It's a very spiritual, sacred place for the Hindu and Buddhist religions in Tibet.

0:49:35
And he climbed up this mountain, all the way up, and when he got to the top, climbed up this mountain all the way up and when he got to the top he went into samadhi And then he climbed down went back to his monastery and Everyone can see that he was totally transformed he was Definitely a very beautiful transformed being he became very very wise being, he became very, very wise. So they said, what happened? And he said, well, I went on my pilgrimage, climbed the mountain, and then, yeah. And then they go, what happened on the mountain? And he's like, I don't remember. Nothing, everything. And then I came back It's that peak experience of awareness, of being, that yields the true greatest and ultimate wisdom of life, which is enlightenment.

0:50:37
Now wisdom must guide power. If you use power without wisdom, then you can hurt someone, maybe hurt yourself. hurt yourself, you'll use it wrong and then you'll go lower on the band. So all of the practices of wisdom are ways of directing power. Now, you've got to have the right balance, because there can be a person who's got tremendous power. Maybe even they're a Buddhist monk, and they'll sit there, and they'll have tremendous power and focus. But then they might not have wisdom, and they might think that there's very, very fixed rules, no etiquette, but just my Victorian house of spirituality, my ideas of spirituality. Without wisdom, you lack that etiquette, that way of overlooking beyond the you lack that etiquette, that way of over looking beyond the self and seeing the way that things are.

0:51:44
So then you might sit there with tremendous power even in meditation and because you can't direct your meditation with wisdom, you're stuck. You're stuck. And then you know you might have a new-age hippie who's all excited about all spiritual hippie, who's all excited about, you know, all spiritual, all focusing on their heart, but without wisdom, they won't know to direct to develop power. They might be a little bit happy, but wisdom would show them you need to develop your power, and then that optimistic, open-minded, spiritual way of open-minded spiritual way of looking at things becomes positive.

0:52:31
Wisdom directs power. Power is the doing. Wisdom guides power, and the result is balance. And that's why we focus in meditation on the third eye for wisdom. the third eye for wisdom. This is the chakra of seeing, of wisdom. And when we focus on the third eye, we go into the planes of truth, of discrimination. And that gives us the insight to apply our attention and power in every moment of in every moment of every day. And the result of this gives us balance. And it is this method, this awareness of power, balance and wisdom that is the Buddhist pathway to enlightenment.

