0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about living and working in the world. So traditionally, spiritual seekers seek to get out of living and working in the world. cave or out into the forest or some distant monastery or ashram. So they always go away from people. They go away from the world of commerce and war and politics and families and everything that the world is. and everything that the world is, they seek to get away from it. But it's not always true. There were different schools. There were the schools for the laymen.

0:01:04
And for the laymen, there were different teachings. They didn't have to follow the teachings of the monastery. follow the teachings of the monastery. They had different rules, like the Siddhalika Sutra is the pathway to enlightenment for the layman. And it really just depended on what someone was capable of, or what would work better for someone. There was once a man who came to a Buddhist master, and he said, I want to to a Buddhist master and he said, I want to join your monastery. I want to become a monk. And the Buddhist master said, hmm, no, I don't think it's a good fit for you.

0:01:50
And then he said, no, I really, I want to be enlightened. I must be your disciple. And then the Buddhist master says, well, here's what I would like you to do first. Well, here's what I would like you to do first. First, I'd like you to go out into the world and become a successful merchant. Become rich. And then he said, why? That's horrible. You know, I want to be a monk and you're telling me to be rich. And then the master says, well, the thing is, you know, for your enlightenment you need to get over the attachment to money. enlightenment, you need to get over the attachment to money, so you have to go out and make that money, and then you can become a monk." So the man said, okay, I'll do that. So he went out and he became wildly successful and became rich. Now, at the same time he was following of the lay practitioner. And after becoming rich, he didn't go and become a monk. He continued running his business and he kept practicing. And eventually he became enlightened. He became a very famous, enlightened lay person with means, because he was so wealthy, to feed with means, because he was so wealthy, to feed the poor, to construct Buddhist monasteries.

0:03:21
So he was a tremendous aid to Buddhism. This is because the master saw that he wouldn't have done so well in the monastery, and that there was something in the world that would work for him. in the world that would work for him. Now, when spiritual practitioners or spiritual seekers look at the world, we see a lot of terrible things. We see war, we see this world of business and commerce that's pretty cold and pushy, and we see mean people, you know. and pushy and mean people. The way that the world is, is a pretty heavy, unhappy, not spiritual world. So a lot of people want to run away from this world and go to a monastery the cave in the Himalayas. However, this would not be, this would not suit a lot of Westerners. This would not be the thing that really works for them. They probably would not have as much development doing these things. And the reason why is because if you're born in the is because if you're born in the West, going into a cave is just so very strange for you.

0:04:57
If you're born in the Himalayas, then it's what people do. It's normal for your karma to understand life that way. It's always odd when there's the one American guy a one American guy in a Chinese monastery. It's not within our culture, so it's a little strange. People do it because they wanna get away from the ugly world. Some people do it because they're drawn back to the karmas of previous lives where they were in that monastery.

0:05:36
lives where they were in that monastery. But it's always a little odd. It's not congruent with the karma of, the regular karma of a person born in the West. So in the monastery, you know, you have to learn Chinese to be able to understand the teachings. And then you have to be able to see what is cultural about what's going on and what's actually spiritual. So a lot of people are very, very enamored by the little aspects of the monastery life or spiritual life in India. They go, oh, it's so beautiful. There's something so special about it. But a lot of what they think is so special is the culture, and they're about it. But a lot of what they think is so special is the culture, and they're not really getting to the spiritual essence within those teachings. So it's a little bit better for a Westerner to address their lives in the way of the story, where you don't go away where you don't go away from the world, you don't run away out of fear, aversion, or attachment.

0:06:58
You face the world, you face life, and you, in the world that you've been given, you are successful. So that's what we seek to do. do. Now, there's over 7 billion people on the planet, and not too many of them are very a lot of sexual energy, a lot of attachment. And all of when people are just experiencing their lives with these motives, they create a kind of toxicity. Their energy is not very energy is not very good. So every being, every human has an energy body and when they think thoughts they put out a little bit of that energy. So if you walk into a room where there's a bunch of angry people, you might find yourself getting really angry. Or in a room where everyone's Because people put out this energy.

0:08:27
Now even a hundred years ago, there was only 1.5 billion people. And a hundred years ago, you could actually go to a monastery and get away from the energy of people. Because there was a much smaller population. Now, there was a scientific research. They took rats and they put them in some big box and they wanted to see what would happen if there's more. This was a population experiment. And the more, so for a while there was just balance and the rats would act pretty normal. But for a while, there was just balance and the rats would act pretty normal. And then they got to a certain point where there was so many of the rats that their behavior changed.

0:09:24
The rats got more, there was more violence and more sexuality. That was the result of the greater population. So with much more people, it's not the same as if there's a couple billion. more people. It's not the same as if there's, you know, a couple billion. When you have seven billion, it changes. Something becomes toxic. There is more violence and sexuality. But there's a greater toxicity that everybody feels and everybody reacts to. Now, because of there being so many people and that aura being there being so many people and that aura being pervasive throughout the world, you can't get away from it. You can't go up into the Himalayas, into some monastery, into some cave and get away from that energy. So there's no escape. There used to be, but no longer.

0:10:24
Going away, trying to go into a cave or something, is a moot point, because you can't. You can't get away. So, therefore, it's another reason you have to face your life and deal with your life. And there are ways. There's a practice of succeeding on the pathway to enlightenment while living in the world. Now, when we're facing the world, we experience traffic, angry co-workers, pushy bosses, lines at the post office, everything, right? you know, lines at the post office, everything, right? And when we experience these things, they are to a spiritual seeker pretty unpleasant, right?

0:11:24
And what we seek to do is make our life so powerful that we're not taken out by the world. So the way that we begin is with meditation. begin is with meditation. Meditation makes you sensitive and it opens your awareness so that you're aware of more, you see more, but meditation also makes you very strong. It makes your energy body strong so that you can deal with the toxic energies. Every time you meditate you're cleaning, you're clearing out your mind, you're clearing out your aura. you're clearing out your aura. And it makes your resolve and personal power strong. So that when somebody is near you who's putting out bad energy, you're just so strong and bright that that bad energy doesn't push you over. So we begin with meditation. And mindfulness So we begin with meditation.

0:12:26
And mindfulness is very important. We constantly monitor our minds, see what we're thinking and feeling. And we direct our mind to positive, constructive thoughts. We direct our mind to compassion. And through this, we're able to keep our energy stronger during the day and not get taken out our energy stronger during the day and not get taken out because we're not observing what's happening.

0:12:57
We can course correct when we experience negativity by directing our mind to something that is congruent with truth. We also join a sangha. join a sangha. We work in an organic fellowship of people of like mind. When you're out there by yourself, if you're a spiritual seeker, your progress is slow and ponderous. When you're with a group, your progress is faster. You refine yourself. Being with a group immediately you refine yourself. Being with a group immediately puts you into a condition of humility. When someone is kind of out there trying to figure it out on their own, they end up with a lack of humility. They can't work in a team, a spiritual team. And a group also helps you to refine yourself And the group also helps you to refine yourself in the way that, you know, if you're sitting there by yourself, you're like, hey, I have no ego problem.

0:14:13
Obviously. I'm great. I'm awesome. But when you're sitting there with a group, then you might do something that bothers someone a little bit, and then you refine yourself by saying, oh, I don't want to bother them, so let me change. And then someone does something that bothers you, I don't want to bother them, so let me change.

0:14:26
And then someone does something that bothers you, and then you say, let me not get upset with them. So it's through these interactions with other spiritual seekers that you gain a greater refinement. It's kind of like when you take a piece of glass. It's very sharp and cuts you, but if you throw it in the ocean, over time it wears down the edges. cut you, but if you throw it in the ocean, over time it wears down the edges. And then it becomes harmless glass. And this is what we do in Asanga. We have the waves that are constantly coming, and we're constantly refining ourselves, and getting rid of our harmfulness.

0:15:12
A sangha is best represented by the I Ching hexagram, lake over lake. And this is where we all gain from each other and we all give to each other. And it is the way that a group really grows. really grows. Now I remember when we were first reading the I Ching here, I threw the I Ching points to see what would be the hexagram for our Sangha, and it was lake over lake. Then I threw the hexagram again, and it was again lake over lake, just recently. So I just recently. So I say, okay, that's good. The book of changes didn't change. Exactly. So a sangha is a place where we gain strength and support. We have an inner connection because we're all following the pathway to enlightenment. And therefore, even when you're by yourself following the pathway to enlightenment.

0:16:28
And therefore, even when you're by yourself at work, you've got an inner connection to a team. And you're like, alright, we're on a mission. Our mission is to be strong, to gain personal power, to see enlightenment even in our day job. So this is very, very helpful. helpful. Now when we're outside of the Sangha, we have to deal with people in the world. And a lot of reasons why life is difficult is because of dealing with other people. You know, maybe people at work, family. So it's important to learn a proper etiquette to deal with people in a positive way. And that means that when you're talking to people, that you And that means that when you're talking to people, that you talk to them in a way that is conducive to things working, to them feeling balanced.

0:17:30
And so we always seek to have these positive, constructive experiences with other people, at least not draining experiences. experiences with other people, at least not draining experiences. But we follow an etiquette in a book, a book called How to Win Friends and Influence People. And this book tells you to do things like smile when you talk to people, use their names, talk to people in terms of their interests. So it gives you interests. So it gives you little ways to learn etiquette. And if you operate this way in society, then your life kind of goes better. You don't have as many problems with people. You're able to solve problems and influence people in positive ways. So this is a book ways. So this is a book that we all read and we practice these. We practice these interactions out in the world and also in the Sangha. So it's also important when you're out in the world to be very aware of security. Now, there's a lot of people who are very, very, very, Now, there's a lot of people who get robbed at some point in their life.

0:18:58
However, if you are very aware of security, maybe you won't get robbed. You have to be aware. You have to look around when you're walking down the street. If you see somebody who looks shady or something, then cross the street. Don't walk right into them. See, as spiritual seekers, we don't have just some aura of protection. I'm on the pathway to enlightenment, so nothing bad is going to happen to me. Yeah, if you carry an EK-47, maybe. If you're aware, this is what spiritual seekers are, we practice awareness.

0:19:45
So we use our awareness to see and sense danger. So if you're aware, you look down the street and say, oh, this isn't so good, let me change. Or you have an intuition, you say, oh, I feel like I shouldn't walk that way today, I'll walk this way. Follow your intuition. Be aware of your security. Follow your intuition. Be aware of your security. It's good to get a black belt. Take martial arts. That way if something does happen then you're prepared to be able to deal with it. Drive a nice car, a car that is reliable. If you're in a car that breaks down on the side of the freeway then it puts you in a bad it puts you in a bad situation.

0:20:26
So we always want to be, when we're dealing with the world, we want to be very security aware. And lastly, money. Money is very, very good. A lot of spiritual seekers kind of have a bad kind of have a bad idea of money. They see that people in the world do bad things with money and that money causes people to do bad things and money controls people. They just see a lot of bad when it comes to money. But money is not bad. It's a power. Money is power. money is power, money can be used to do good things. It just depends on how you do it. That's what Buddha said. Buddha never said money is bad. Buddha said money can be bad if you use it bad or seek to gain it in a bad way. Then that would be unevolved for you. However, if you seek money in a good way and use it for good things, then money is wonderful. Anapatintaka, one of his students who ended up being very wealthy, said, Hey Buddha, what's the best thing I can do to gain merit? Buddha said, Make money as much in a harmless way, a blameless way, and then make yourself happy, make your family happy, make your friends happy with it, and then, you know, help the poor and help the spiritual. So money is a power that we can gain in a positive way gain in a positive way and we can use it to make our lives better so that you have that reliable car so that you live in a beautiful place.

0:22:37
Where you live is important. If you live in a beautiful place, a place where you feel happy, if it's near the ocean, a lake or a river, it's even better near the ocean, a lake or a river, it's even better. Because the energy of water has a very beautiful effect on a meditator and a mystic. So we seek to live in a very beautiful place and if you make money you can afford that place. And then you make the place beautiful. beautiful. You set up your room in a way where you add beauty. You don't just get a nice house and then have a mattress in the middle of the bedroom. That's it. So you actually make your room feel the way that you want it to feel. And this has a, it adds a dimension beauty to your life. Money supports your spiritual practice. It supports your spiritual group.

0:23:48
It helps you stay away from things that are difficult. Money gives you insulation from painful. If you have money, you can push off from experiencing a lot of the pain. So we seek to gain money for that insulation, for the support of our spiritual path, and we seek to make as much as possible. But we want to do it in a way that is spiritual for but we want to do it in a way that is spiritual for us. So there was once a man who came to the Chinese Zen master and he said, I want to be a monk. And the Chinese Zen master said, no. Now this man was a farmer. The Zen master saw that this wouldn't work for him. So he said, no. He The Zen master saw that this wouldn't work for him, so he said, no. He says, you could be spiritual in your work. And then the man was like, what?

0:25:04
How is shoveling dirt or tending to pigs spiritual? And then the Zen master said, do everything perfectly. Focus on it. Don't just do it for the easiest result. Do everything for the perfect result. Every single thing. So the man went out and decided to do it. And so he learned to shovel with intent and focus. focus, excellence, and to feed the pigs perfectly, everything. And by doing that, he gained a very, very, very strong attention, and he became enlightened. Another enlightened layman from practicing. So we seek to be the same as the farmer. seek to be the same as the farmer. When we work, we work with impeccability.

0:26:07
Total focus, seeking excellence, no matter what we do. If you're working at McDonald's flipping burgers, flip them perfectly. Total focus. your work is a spiritual practice, and you gain personal power and light and energy from your work. And then you will ascend. You will gain a greater success because you're refining your attention. But you can just work all day, and it's spiritual practice all day. This is a Westerner's way to enlightenment in this world. So we seek to work on things that are going to get us higher. So, for example, in computer programming, you're developing your mind. You're making your mind strong.

0:27:12
So if you're going to do a job and you can gain something, then maybe be a computer programmer, because while you're doing the job and doing it impeccably, you could also develop the strength of mind, greater concentration, clearer mind. Computer programming structures the way that you think. A lot of people have very murky thought processes. people have very murky thought processes. But when you learn structured programming, you learn how to think in a much clearer way. When you do object-oriented programming or relational database programming, you learn to, you learn some things that are very similar to Tibetan yoga practices and meditations. You learn to hold hierarchies in your mind, meditations. You learn to hold hierarchies in your mind, hold relationships in your mind.

0:28:08
So very often in Tibetan yoga, there will be a meditation where you see the twelve-armed goddess and in each arm, every hand is holding something specific and it has a symbol and it means something and it's all connected. And you have to see that vision and know all And you have to see that vision and know all of those symbols. Sometimes there's the thousand-armed goddess, but then sometimes there's the thousand-table database. So you develop these same skills in computer programming. So if you are maybe learning something different, like sales, be learning something different, like sales, that's where you can use how to win friends and influence people. So you can learn to have power in sales, but you can also learn positive influence in sales. You could learn, I like to call it Darshan. Darshan is the meeting with enlightenment, right? But when you're doing sales, you see the enlightenment When you're doing sales, you see the enlightenment in what you're selling.

0:29:18
You say, hey, this product is great, it relieves suffering, or it helps somebody stick these two things together, or whatever, right? But you see it as the greatest thing, and your spirit opens to the wonderfulness of the product. And then when you're bringing it to someone, you're sharing with them enlightenment. You're like, oh wow, let me share this thing, it's going to help you, it's going to heal with them enlightenment. You're like, oh wow, let me share this thing. It's going to help you, it's going to heal you, it's going to help you stick those two things together. And then you say, all right, great, this is wonderful. So sales is also a beautiful way. It's a way of developing the throat chakra as well, expressing the truth. And this is from speaking and through influence.

0:30:00
And one very important way that we practice making our work enlightening is by creating businesses, succeeding in businesses. So we'll make a company together, a bunch of Buddhist monks making a company together. And we will make a product, we will sell the product, market the product. a product, we will sell the product, market the product. And this way gives us freedom. When we're in our own company working for ourselves, not under somebody else, but just out there on the market seeking customers, we have a great liberty. We can do things We don't have to have the pushy boss and you know Do things the way that he wants to do it It's a totally different aura a totally different energy and then when we have success in our businesses because we do them in a way of yoga, we also have a spiritual strength there's a there's spiritual learning When we have spiritual learning when we have success in our businesses.

0:31:18
So these are ways that we take the world, we take on the world to succeed, to be strong when things are hard and harsh, and to be successful in our spiritual practice and refined spiritual practice and refined in our interaction with the Sangha. So advanced seekers are very good at bouncing back. Things are tough, they get knocked down, they get back up. Something's broken, we work the solution. We make everything in our lives the spiritual path. We don't We make everything in our lives the spiritual path. We don't have to run away from the world. We face the world and we become victorious. And that is the Buddhist way of living and working in the world.

