0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about pleasure, pain, and the senses. It's important for spiritual seekers to be aware of the limitations of the senses and Because if you don't get out of a limited view of life and pour discernment and discrimination through the senses and pleasure and pain, then you experience great suffering. To begin we understand what illusion is. Illusion is an experience of life that is somehow modified. truth. Now everything that you see, hear, touch, smell, and taste is illusion. Everything that the senses can apprehend are illusions. And you could say, well, I could see this It looks like a duck, smells like a duck, it tastes like a duck. Oops, I ate the duck. And everything that you can sense is real, but it is limited.

0:02:00
we find things to be so real is because we have a body, and we identify with the body. We say, I'm this body, this is me. My hair is like this, my eyes are like that, and I go here and I go there, I experience this, I experience that. body consciousness that agrees. The body is the baseline for understanding the self. So when you first start to look at life, it is through the body. But then what you learn in mysticism is that the body, your physical body, isn't real. It's only real because you isn't real. It's only real because you think it's real. But the physical body is an illusion. Just like, you know, in your dream last night, in the dream you thought your body was real. But in the dream, when you woke up, you said, oh wait, that was just an illusion. And it an illusion. And it is the same with this physical body. We believe that it's real.

0:03:18
We have evidence that states it's real, but it's actually an illusion. The senses are the ways that this illusion perceives life. So the body itself is an illusion, as an illusion and our perceptions through the senses are dreams as well, illusions. They are ways of observing life that are obscure, that are limited. So they're real to some degree, but not ultimately. ultimately. I think last week I was in the park hiking in the mountains on the coast and I got to a point where I looked off over the hills and I could see the ocean. I looked out into the ocean and there was nothing.

0:04:23
No boats. Just the ocean. no boats, just the ocean. There was just the beautiful ocean, nothing else. Now the next day I did the same hike and I got up there to the same spot and I looked out into the ocean and I saw the Farallon Islands. Now the day before I couldn't see them. There was there was atmosphere. And not like there were clouds, it was just a little hazy.

0:04:55
And 29 miles out there, where the islands are off of the coast, there was enough atmosphere where I just couldn't see the islands that were there. And then a wind comes, clears away that atmosphere, and you can see the islands. atmosphere and you can see the island. So our senses tell us some information, but they may not tell us all information. The senses are limited in showing you truth. And when you are in a dream, what you are perceiving through your senses are very what you are perceiving through your senses are very limited, very limited to the awareness of that dream, but not necessarily aware of the truth, the greater truth. So it's as if you go into a house. This is your house.

0:05:56
It's got ten rooms, right? It's got the room for sight, the room for hearing. All of the senses, there's a room for each. But this is where pleasure and pain come in. There's the good visions, the good sight, and then there's another room on the other side for the bad visions, the bad sights. bad sights. And there's the good sounds and the bad sounds. There's the pleasurable touch and then there's the painful touch. So, people experience this over and over, just going from room to room. And the experiences of the senses are really intense. If we perceive really intense. If we perceive something as good, we go, oh wow, this is really good, I like it. But then when you go across the hall and you go into the one that you don't like, you're, oh no, this is not good. So you like something so much and then you're adverse so much to the other thing. But people get so caught up in these experiences that they forgot that that they forgot that outside of this house there's a whole universe, a whole world, a whole country.

0:07:20
There's so many other things to be aware of, but they're just caught up in the house. So, a yogi can walk through the rooms, and a yogi can walk out the front door, because a yogi follows a pathway to enlightenment which leads beyond the senses. So, when we perceive something as good, we create that which is bad. by falling into this dualistic way of seeing life. So when we say, oh wow, that was great to look at, that was beautiful. And then when you see something that isn't that, you say, oh, that is not beautiful, that bothers me. Oh, that felt good. Oh, that feels bad. When you start to create these definitions of awareness, you fall into the dual attention. And in this split attention, you're always dissatisfied.

0:08:48
in pleasure and you're always having a hard time with pain. So what we seek to do, and the funny thing is, it's like one person's pleasure is another person's pain. One person will like something so much it'll be their favorite thing, and then somebody else will say, oh, it's the opposite. So what we start to see is that pleasure and pain are not fixed. start to see is that pleasure and pain are not fixed. They are transient. We see that nothing has to be pleasurable. Nothing has to be painful. So a yogi will try to experience strong feelings of desiring pleasure and such strong aversion to pain. Because when you're following that which you sense that creates pleasure, you're falling into a trap. And when you're running away from pain, you're falling into a trap. into a trap. There's a story from the Upanishads where a young prince, his father died and he became the king. And he said, now it's going to be great. I'm going to do everything that I want. I'm going to have the greatest pleasure. So first he said, okay, I'm going to have my favorite food. And I'm just going to have it all the time because it's my favorite favorite food. And I'm just going to have it all the time because it's my favorite food.

0:10:29
So he had his favorite food, favorite meal. He hired the best chef and had this giant banquet. And he loved it. And he was happy. But then he kept on having it. He kept on having it. Then after a while, it wasn't so great anymore. And he wasn't happy because It wasn't so great anymore, and he wasn't happy because of it. And he couldn't find any happiness in food, because his favorite food no longer brought him pleasure. So then he decided that he would wear the most beautiful clothes. And he wears the most beautiful clothes and he's happy, but then he keeps wearing it, and keeps wearing it. wearing it and keeps wearing it and eventually it doesn't bring him pleasure anymore. Then he's unhappy. Then the most beautiful dancers, for a while, they're the most beautiful. After a little while, they don't bring him joy anymore. And it goes on and on. But he ends up just a great deal of dissatisfaction in life, and then rejecting the physical world and becoming a yogi.

0:11:46
Seeing beyond the physical senses, pleasure, it's all a trap. All it does is bring you to suffering. So we've got to look for that way out. that way out. Something that really determines what we call pleasure and pain is our emotions. The emotions... the senses view the world through emotions.

0:12:23
So, you could be let's say depressed let's say, depressed in paradise. You could be in the most beautiful island, everything's gorgeous, everything's wonderful, and you could sit there and be caught in negative thoughts, sad thoughts, depressing thoughts, and you won't even see the beauty. So even though there's the sense of sight and it's the most beautiful island in the universe, you won't see it. You will see your state of mind. Or, if you're in a really, really good state of mind, a really high state of mind, you could be sitting you could be sitting on a garbage dump, where it smells and it's dirty and there's little critters walking around.

0:13:21
And you can be extremely happy. You could be the happiest person in the world sitting on the garbage dump. decide good bad. We're also viewing life through emotion. And that's why we practice meditation, mindfulness, and yoga and mysticism, because these are ways for us to change our mind, mind, brighten up our emotions, change our view of the world. So we can look at our lives in these really depressing, unhappy ways. Or we can, through meditation and mindfulness, look at life in really beautiful ways. And then what we perceive is beautiful, no matter What we perceive is beautiful, no matter where we are. We might be experiencing something mundane, but because of mindfulness and compassion, because of our focus on yoga, you could be doing a job that a lot of people would say is hard work or drudgery.

0:14:48
situation and we could be extremely happy, extremely bright, seeing enlightenment in all that we do. And this is our practice, this is our discipline. We set our minds to experience life in a higher, brighter way and then what we see tells us this is higher tells us this is higher and brighter. We're seeing life through a heightened attention through spiritual discipline. And then what we're perceiving is more pleasurable, less painful. There is pleasure and there is pain, but at the same time, we don't seek to be to pleasure or pain. We seek to just be even with whatever life gives us. You can't be afraid of pain. Buddha's first noble truth is that life is pain. There's suffering in life.

0:15:56
So we have to get a little bit stoical and say, all right, this is the way life is. I'm not going to have any and say, alright, this is the way life is. I'm not going to have any expectations for it to be another way. So, if there's pain in my life, I accept it. I can take the pain. We become strong at taking the pain. We can take the pain of life. There's a story of the master with his student. The student is complaining about the pain of life. It's so painful, it hurts so much. And then the master takes a glass of water and a teaspoon of salt puts it in. He says, drink this. The student drinks it and goes, oh this is horrible, right? It's so salty. And then the master takes the spoon of salt and walks over to a lake, throws it into the lake, and then he goes, the spoon of salt and walks over to a lake, throws it into the lake, and then he goes, no, drink from the lake. The student drinks from the lake. He says, okay, that's fine.

0:17:00
I didn't taste the salt at all. The master says, when your mind is small, small-minded, Even a little pain throws you off so much and ruins everything. But when your mind is vast like the lake, then that same amount of pain that's in life is hardly felt. So we seek to make our minds vast. and then the physical pain that we experience, the emotional pain that we experience, it all falls into place, into a higher perspective. We don't experience it anymore. It's there, the salt is there in the lake, but we don't experience it in such an intensity because of the vastness of our of our awareness. So we constantly seek ways of making our minds strong and vast. And then we also use pain as an ally. Sometimes, you know, when you're trying to do something at work and you're having consternation, difficulty and trouble, you feel like it's a pain. Well, difficulty and trouble, you feel like it's a pain.

0:18:27
Well maybe that tells you to learn to be stronger. So sometimes pain makes us strong. Sometimes pain is teaching us humility. Sometimes we can use pain as a catalyst to become stronger. Even in Zen, right? The Zen master would come over behind the student would come over behind the student and take a stick and hit the student, and that could act as a catalyst for awakening. Because you get hit, and then your energy shoots up, your focus tightens. It's not that the pain distracts you. So this is what we seek to do with pain. it, but learn from it and grow from it. Because we will experience it in this transient form.

0:19:24
We all will. And some people will have more pain than others. But we seek to grow from not run from pain. We become stronger because of pain. We're not crushed because of pain. So this is how we approach pleasure and pain. Now, a lot of spiritual seekers, monks and yogis, they'll try to cut themselves off from the senses. from the senses. Go into a cave, sit there, not looking at the world, not hearing, they're just, they're all fast. They just want to cut themselves off from the senses because they know that the senses are limited. But that's not necessary. It's not necessary to It's not necessary to cut off the senses. The senses are great. They are the way that we perceive life. But we also know that you have to go beyond the senses if you want to see truth. So what we do is instead of trying to cut off senses or fight the senses, like fight the senses. Like some people say, oh that felt pleasurable and now I'm fighting with myself. I hate myself because I felt something pleasurable that I see as pleasurable. So we don't get caught up in that. What we do is we direct our field of awareness toward enlightenment. Now this is a mystical mystical practice. It is as simple as focusing on it, but it is a mystical practice of focusing, where what you focus on, you become. And there are mystical means, mystical ways of directing your field of awareness from the world of the five senses to the world of enlightenment to the world of enlightenment everywhere.

0:21:39
And when you direct your field of awareness to the eternal illumination, then you transcend the five senses. You do experience life through the five senses, but you have a second attention that's in worlds of light. And in those worlds of light, you experience a greater truth. that. And in those worlds of light, you experience a greater truth. And in your experience of the world of illusion, you experience a greater truth. You look at a flower, and a flower is pleasurable. It's beautiful. And you also see God in that flower. And you have a loud and you have a loud noise that hurts your ears.

0:22:30
And in that loud noise, it's painful, but you also see God in that pain. So instead of being of the awareness of duality, you have an awareness of unity. unity. In nirvana, you go beyond the dream. This illusion fades away. And you can look back at the illusion and say, wow, I thought I was a body. I thought that that was pleasurable in nirvana. So ultimately, we transcend the five senses and the duality of pleasure and pain in nirvana, where all things are one. We're awake from the dream. The five senses limited idea and that we have a bright, strong awareness. The five senses are like holding a candle to the sun.

0:23:49
At first you look at it and you go, wow, this is something. It's real. But then if you hold the candle to the sun, the candlelight disappears. The sunlight is all there is. light disappears. The sunlight is all there is. And this is the truth beyond pleasure, pain, and the senses.

