0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about rapid mental development. Rapid develop rapid mental development is something that occurs on the pathway to enlightenment you start off in a certain stage of mental capacity and Then as you practice the disciplines of mind and spirit you rapidly develop So rapid mental development is the escalation of consciousness is is the escalation of consciousness, is becoming more aware of the truth of life, and it is being able to be more productive and successful in life.

0:01:05
Now, when we think of mental development, we might be thinking of something like IQ as a certain dimension of the mind. IQ is a certain dimension of the mind. And IQ is the cognitive abilities to comprehend structures, to form reason and logic so that you can communicate, pattern match, solve problems. This is definitely one form of mental development, but there's a far more profound aspect of mental development, of intelligence, that you gain not in the regular scholastic pursuits, but you gain on the spiritual path. Now, if you have a high IQ, it doesn't mean you're smart.

0:02:09
It means that you have a capability of processing information. It doesn't mean that you're intelligent. It means that you're able to reason and communicate in somewhat an effective way. communicate in somewhat an effective way. But you might be all wrong. There could be someone with a very high IQ who is an angry person, a vindictive person, negative intentions, has lots of enmity, filled with hate, no peace of mind. this would be a person who is, you know, they have a high IQ, but they're stupid. So I always say that the stupidest person I ever met is the ego. And no matter how smart you are, if you have an ego, you're stupid. And so the And so the spiritual path, what creates rapid mental development, is that we go away from the ego.

0:03:22
We transcend this limited self to a higher awareness. Someone with a high IQ can get themselves into trouble. get themselves into trouble. I'm sure the people, the PhDs who put together the credit default swaps had a very high IQ. And what did it do? It created the Great Recession, financial ruin. But they were smart. If you're smart, you might make mistakes. Or if you're you might make mistakes. Or if you're smart, you might fool yourself. This happens very often. In Taoism, they always say, don't be too smart. Meaning, don't be too mental. Because when you're being too mental, you might not see things in the right way. You might talk yourself into following an idea, a desire, or something. And you go, no, no, I have this desire, this feeling. And then or something and you go, no, no, I have this desire, this feeling, and then you back it up with all sorts of logic and you go, it must be right.

0:04:33
It's kind of like when the United States decided to attack Iraq. They said, you have weapons of mass destruction. Our intelligence has made a full plan of why you guys have it. And then we go to war and find out they didn't really have it. They didn't really have it. There was the will to do something. Someone's desire, the president's desire to attack. And then they used intelligence to come up with a case for it. And that's where being too smart doesn't work. Being too smart will only actually frustrate things.

0:05:12
being too smart will only actually frustrate things. So you want to actually let go of being too smart sometimes, and you want to be able to just have a proper feeling of how it should be. It's a kind of an intuition. of a mathematician and he decides he needs to get new shoes. So he measures his feet, he draws this diagram, and he writes down all these details that are very, very, very important about how the shoe should fit and everything. Then he goes to a shoemaker and he's going over this plans. He's like, look, I've got these measurements here, this and this here, and here's all the details, and he's going through the details and this and this here, and here's all the details, and he's going through the details, and the shoemaker's just like, oh my gosh, look, he said, let's just try on the shoes.

0:06:10
And then he tried the first pair of shoes on, and the shoemaker kind of looks at his foot, puts the shoe on it, and then he goes, perfect. And the shoemaker said, you know, you didn't really have to do all this, all this figuring, it would have only gotten me all this figuring, it would have only gotten me to get confused. Sometimes you just try it on. So, when we look at intelligence, it's not just thinking. It's also feeling.

0:06:48
they might be able to do amazing things with calculus. But if you ask them to solve the value of love, they would be like, what? So thinking is good, but there's other dimensions of life that thinking doesn't work for. thinking doesn't work for and Mathematicians are always very troubled because they have so many problems and The the thing about IQ is that IQ is only a one dimension of looking at things now we do develop our IQ on the spiritual path. You can't be stupid. You actually develop your thinking mind.

0:07:46
Because you don't want an IQ that's so low that you have to dig for it. You want to be able to be sharp. And this is what we call in the physical world, strong attention. But we don't want to overlook that there are other dimensions. But we don't want to overlook that there are other dimensions other dimensions of awareness of life where intelligence is important now Ramakrishna famous Indian enlightened saint He was he didn't go to school. He knew You know very very basic math and knew nothing of science very, very basic math and knew nothing of science. So he was considered to have a very low IQ, didn't know much about the educated world.

0:08:38
However, when people would sit down with him, there would be scholars and politicians, and Now, he would say things that were so wise, so intelligent about life, where when they were having these really, really, really smart people, when they were having difficulties with their life, he'd be able to point out the solution, the solution in spirit and understanding. And then they said, wow, he's a genius. He's a genius. He's not stupid. He's brilliant. Because what really creates intelligence is knowing your spirit, or it's knowing spirit in general. Now in Buddhism, we recognize The essence of life is light. When we examine anything, when we examine our mind or we examine anything in life, we come to an awareness of light, that all things are God or enlightenment, anything there in its essential condition.

0:10:06
There's a condition of light. That's its eternal side. So we recognize that light is intelligence. Life is made up of intelligent light, enlightenment, God. So, for rapid mental development on the spiritual path, we're always seeking to really just get in touch with what we're made of, our eternal side, that intelligent light, the mind of God. our Spirit Then we have this innate intelligence Wisdom some that this is a wisdom that you can't learn in a book it's a Intelligence that is just automatic it is it is who you are Now we come to We come to this awareness of our eternal side through meditation.

0:11:21
We meditate on light. We meditate on that which we are, eternity. And we see the light, we come to the light. And in the light our mind transmogrifies and we shift and change, we evolve, mind transmogrifies and we shift and change, we evolve, we elevate into a higher view of being. Enlightenment is the ultimate view of being. It is all being complete. And in that completeness there is perfect intelligence, perfect wisdom. So in meditation, when you still your mind, the doorway to that realm of light opens up. The longer you can stop thought, the deeper you go into the light.

0:12:15
And the deeper you go into the light, it transforms you into a greater view of that truth, of view of that truth, of that light, of that spirit, that is intelligence, that is wisdom. So it is through meditation that we follow the path of rapid mental development. Now, it's important not to follow desires. It's important not to It's important not to have negative thinking, angers, because when you gain the light, you need a... Light is like an energy, and you need a structure for it. If you don't have a structure, that energy will just spill out everywhere, in every direction that your mind points. that your mind points. So if you get angry in traffic, then you meditated for maybe an hour and picked up a lot of light, and then that light will just be dispersed, or maybe you'll be better driver and have road rage. So undirected, gaining a greater energy, greater power through meditation, is not enough. You greater power through meditation is not enough.

0:13:40
You have to structure it. So you must live your life in a way where your work is constructive for holding light, energy and power. Your sports and athletics, martial arts, your friends and relationships, that these are and relationships, that these are things where, instead of losing energy, you're able to be constructive in your life. You're able to be constructive and grow energy with this structure. If you have desire and you have the light, then what you'll do is you'll take you'll take that light and you'll use it through your desire to manipulate people. You'll say, I'm going to make you do what I want. And without having wisdom because you're in desire, you might be forcing them into something that's not elevating for them.

0:14:42
And therefore, we never want to follow desire. We just want to let that go and try to seek a I always want to let that go and try to seek a higher truth. And if you're angry or jealous, then that energy, that light, then is going through that feeling, because that's the way that you're directing your attention. You're directing it to anger, but you've just taken light from a meditation, and then you push it through anger, and then it actually hurts somebody. and then you push it through anger, and then it actually hurts somebody. More importantly for you, is when you have desire and anger, you fall into lower states. So you've moved up into a high state of mind, you've ascended through your meditation practice, not mindful, you don't create a structure of mindfulness, positive thinking, directing your emotions, and then you actually crash into lower states of mind. You're taking this energy that can bring you up and you're using it to bring you down. So on the path of rapid path of rapid mental development, because there's an energy to go up, if you don't do it right, you could fall. So it's important to do it right. Now, when you do it right, you see good things happen in your life. There are natural results from the path. And these results are being able to have a grace and refinement in your life. You will naturally do things like having better grooming habits. You might start to say, oh, I want to dress responsibility becomes refined. Maybe you get more precise on a diet that makes you feel good. These things happen as your awareness grows. You also can see things that your mind becomes stronger. You'll see that it's easier to learn things because you meditate. You because you meditate. You say, wow, I used to struggle to learn math and now I can do math very easily. I thought that I would struggle to learn computer programming, but because I meditate, I pick it up very easily. Meditation is the essence of all practice. It's the essence of So if you can meditate, then learning computer programming or a language isn't too difficult.

0:17:47
This is a natural outcome of a still mind, a mind that goes into the light. You'll see things like you go into artistic endeavors, and where you had no artistic interest or ability, you see that there's, you have proficiency and awareness and excitement. When you're practicing, you'll see that your career works out, your life works out, things happen for you. And this all happens just because you're meditating, you're following, you're living your life in a bright structure You're following, you're living your life in a bright structure that holds the light of that meditation and You're being mindful. You're not going into negativity desires fears angers And you're just enjoying the pathway to enlightenment and this brings you to a very beautiful high state of mind which is high state of mind, which is intelligence, which is the eternal light of being.

0:18:57
Okay, thank you.

