0:00:00
I thought that maybe I would have another subject tonight. Because I had an inspiration. So tonight I'd also like to talk about inaccessibility. So, inaccessibility is really being careful, hiding, veiling that which is valuable to us. So, if a woman would be wearing expensive jewelry and walk in a bad neighborhood, she's liable to be robbed. So if we are going through a bad neighborhood and we have something valuable, we need to hide it so that others can't see it and want to take it. can't see it and want to take it. Now, on the pathway to enlightenment, what is valuable to us is light. It is the spiritual illumination that we gain from our discipline of meditation, yoga, compassion, we gain a light in our auras. We gain a connection to light. And that light to us is extremely valuable. Because if that light goes away, then life is just physical limited. But every time we experience a little bit of light in meditation, our life is brighter.

0:02:08
So for us, what is valuable for us is that spiritual light. And we carry that spiritual light in our being. But if we go into a situation where you're around the wrong people, and a situation where you're around the wrong people, and if you just shine your inner light, then those people might react negatively toward you. You know, there's 7.3 billion people on the planet. You know, just 100 years ago, there was 1.5 billion people. So when my grandmother was born. 1.5 billion people. So when my grandmother was born. And now there's a lot more. There's so many people. And most of the people on this planet are not very evolved. And when they're exposed to a very evolved energy, a light that they can't even comprehend, then a light that they can't even comprehend, then they might get upset. They might not like it. They might not understand it. And what it does to them is it makes them have fear.

0:03:29
Essentially this is why Christ was killed, because they couldn't deal with the light, with the light, the power of enlightenment that came through him. So we have to be careful in the world because if people don't understand the light and are afraid of it, they might harm you. Or they might just be blundering idiots and damaging you anyway. They're uninvolved They're just uninvolved people. So we have to be careful. There was a woman who went to see the Buddhist dharma talk. And when she came home after the dharma talk, she was filled with light. She just loved what she learned. what she learned. And her father noticed this because she was so happy, alit with this new knowledge and truth, and she was talking about how wonderful it was. And her father, she was a young woman, her father thought that she might leave and go study with the Buddha.

0:04:46
And he didn't want that. He wanted her to be there. So he, the next day, found a husband to be there. So the next day, he found a husband for her and got her married that day. And then he put his daughter in the home of the other family and he told them, don't let her out of your sight. And so the whole family is like watching this girl and she can't go. So the whole family is like watching this girl and she can't go. And then she says, oh, I want to go hear another dharma talk of the Buddha. No, no, no, you can't, you can't, you can't. And then the husband very quickly starts a family with her and she really wanted to go learn more from the Buddha, but she just couldn't. the greater part of her life, just having found Buddha, but not being able to learn from Buddha.

0:05:47
And she had kids, they all grew up and everything, and then her husband died. And her kids were out of the house, or they were adults. And Buddha had died. But then there was an arhant, an enlightened student of the Buddha's who was coming through her village. And then she was able to go out of the house and she went over to him and said, Oh, hey, can you teach me something? I saw Buddha once. I really And she started to get teachings from the Arhat. Now she was able to have the first level of liberation which is called the stream entry. But if she had been able to study all of those years with the Buddha, she might have made a lot more progress in that lifetime. When you are not You know careful and someone sees that you have light they can try to hold you back from the light Yeah, boyfriends and girlfriends Husbands and wives they do this to each other all the time if someone comes onto the pathway Of enlightenment and the other one doesn't then they very often have some trouble with it some trouble with it. They go, whoa, all of a sudden my girlfriend is looking very bright and she's very interested in this spiritual stuff. And what does it do? It makes them afraid. So then what they start to do is they start to do things to say, don't go to that anymore. Pull them away and try to get them, you know, like, here, let me get your desires and pull you into, get wrapped up in my world. So they very often try to pull their significant up in my world. So they very often try to pull their significant others off of the pathway to enlightenment. It's very, very common. And sometimes they work. So you have to be very, very inaccessible. You can't just go around to everybody you know and tell them everybody you know and tell them everything about enlightenment that you've experienced.

0:08:07
You can't go over to them and say, oh wow, you know, I sat with Sambara and I experienced this and I saw this and I came to this awareness. And the reason why you can't do it is because they have no idea how to comprehend that information. To sit with me is a very powerful spiritual experience, and there are many dimensions involved. There's transmission involved, and it opens up new states of mind, and that's what you experience. But if you tell somebody about it who has never experienced those states of mind, has who has never experienced those states of mind, has never seen the light, then they cannot understand it.

0:08:56
So what you're doing to them is you're setting them up for frustration. You're setting them up for reaction. You're sharing a light with them that they can't access. So you shouldn't sit there and tell all your friends and all your family about all your spiritual experiences. It's improper. all your friends and all your family about all your spiritual experiences.

0:09:15
It's improper. If there is a friend or family member who you know is sensitive and aware, who, when you tell them a little bit, they respond powerfully and bright, then you can share things with them. But you can't just go around telling all your co-workers co-workers, the guy at the drugstore, your butcher. You can't just go around telling everybody everything that you've experienced, because they're not going to understand it, and it's going to, in the end, just confuse them and hurt them. So when we are dealing with people, we're doing something we call veiling the light.

0:10:00
with people, we're doing something we call veiling the light. We have a lot of light in us, but we're not showing it all the time. We're just like a normal person. When we're dealing with the world, we want to veil the light, we want to appear the way that everybody else appears, and we want to blend. We want to blend into every situation. We don't want We want to blend into every situation. We don't want to stick out. Sticking out would be like a woman wears a beautiful, sexy dress, right? And she wants to be noticed. And then she walks past the construction workers. And they all whistle, right?

0:10:46
And then what she's done is she's become accessible because she wants the attention. What she's done is she's become accessible because she wants the attention. But what happens is she's getting bad energy. She's getting, you know, so if this is a planet with not evolved people, the more attention that you get, you're probably going to get bad energy. And then in this case, they're throwing sexual energy at her. It hurts her it lowers her vibratory rate. And if she wants to meditate, it's difficult to meditate. If she wants to hold light in her aura, it's difficult to hold light because she's getting bombarded with the attention of others. When anyone thinks of you or focuses on you, their attention, their energy is touching your energy. So that's why we don't want to get noticed. energy. So, that's why we don't want to get noticed. We want to just fit in. We want to blend. And that way, we're not getting too much focus from people. We're not taking too much energy. And then we're able to maintain a high degree of light in our being.

0:12:00
in our being. Now, I was very inspired by a story. So this week I met with Yuan Miao master in the Nyingma tradition. And she told me a wonderful story. She was in China, an executive at China Television. And she was working there and then had a spiritual realization. realization. She went into light and got tremendous knowledge, wisdom, and she was transformed. Up until that time, she was just like, oh, I'm just a successful businesswoman. That's all she wanted to be. But then after this spiritual transformation, she was definitely she was definitely focused on everything is spiritual now. And yet, she had to provide for her life, so she lived in the world. So, she continued to go to work. But instead of wearing her designer clothes, she started to dress like a nun. And the people that she her, you know, the people that she worked with thought it was really strange. Oh yeah, she would give like meditation beads to her, to the people who worked under her, and telling them all about Buddhism and stuff. And, you know, the other executives started to talk.

0:13:56
They're like, wow, what happened to her? And, you know, this is a little strange. Now, fortunately, And, you know, this is a little strange. Now fortunately, the head of China Television, I mean, top executive, you know, the CEO, he heard about this. He heard the murmurings of people saying that she was being a little weird and they didn't know what was going on. So, he said, alright, you have to come and meet me. So he said, all right, you have to come and meet me. And she went and had a meeting with him. And he said, so what's going on with you? And she starts to tell him about her beautiful spiritual realization.

0:14:41
And then he goes, okay. He thought, that's great. And he said, I'm a Buddhist as well. He said, I'm a Buddhist as well. And the reason that I wanted to meet with you is because I want to help you. Pretty rare. And he said, well, here's the thing. If the other executives are talking about it, they might get you fired, right? And he's like, but since I'm a Buddhist as well, I want to make sure that you're going to be okay.

0:15:12
I want to make sure that you're going to be okay." So then he said, Yeah, you can have the light and the spirit and all that in you, but he said, You've got to dress how other people dress. He said, He gave her a budget for her business suits. He said, So yeah, take that money, go buy amazing suits, and this is how you have to dress.

0:15:36
suits and this is how you have to dress. So he was looking out for her with talking about inaccessibility. He told her how to do business where she would keep the light inside and where she would look appropriate, talk appropriate so that people wouldn't get strange. So she So she became inaccessible and was able to be successful in her work, but at the same time, on fire in the world of spirit. I also like another story about this executive. shows and stuff. So he ended up saying, okay, we're going to do this. The backdrop is going to be a Buddhist temple. So we have to build one. So he was in charge of the budget. So he went out and built three Buddhist temples, where they shot some TV show or something. And then after it was shot, then he was like, oh, some Buddhists can have it. So I thought some Buddhists can have it. I thought he was very clever. Yeah, but yeah, when we're talking to people out in the world, we have to talk in terms of their interests. We can't sit there and tell them everything we're interested in, because they're not interested. The vast majority of people don't want to hear it. So we have to talk to people about what they're don't want to hear it. So we have to talk to people about what they're interested in.

0:17:19
And then we can get along. We can't just go out there and share what's in our heart. Only with the right people, then we can. But most of the time we have to be careful, because to be careful because the light is valuable. And if you tell people, if you share the light and it's too much for someone, then it's not balanced and they get hurt. Now you can take this too far. So I remember hearing stories about some of the older students some of the older students of my teacher, when they heard about inaccessibility, then they started wearing black trench coats, sunglasses, you know, and like, and then they would just like, kind of hide in the corners of rooms, looking down. No, I don't know. But, you know, they thought that being inaccessible is trying to be invisible.

0:18:24
to be invisible, but then when you're trying to be inaccessible, like, don't look at me, don't look at me, don't look me in the eye, then what happens is you become very accessible and people start to look at you, you get a lot more attention. So you don't want to try to like, just, I don't know, yeah, you don't want to be at work and just be like the weird I don't know, yeah. You don't want to be at work and just be like the weird, odd man out, hiding in the corner with your little Buddhist book. Right? Because then everyone thinks you're strange. So what you want to do is you want to, you know, let's say you're at work. You want to be friendly. You want to connect to people. You want to talk about you want to talk about work, or talk about what they're talking about, their interests. And so inaccessibility doesn't mean that you hide, and that you're all weird, and like, don't talk to me, and stuff like that. That's not inaccessibility.

0:19:27
Inaccessibility is being completely successful in being in any situation with people. situation with people. And then that way, they're happy about you, you're participating, you're giving energy in a positive way to the situation, giving proper attention, you're talking about things that work for people. So if you're at work, you talk about work. If you're in a karate class, you probably talk about karate. So in the different places that you are, in the different situations that you're in, you participate. And that's places that you are in the different situations that you're in, you participate. And that's being inaccessible. You participate so excellently that people are happy about it. That's inaccessible. That's blending in. Now, when you're with your spiritual friends, inaccessibility is important as well. So when So when you're with your spiritual friends, you have to have some considerations of etiquette.

0:20:31
So you can't sit there and tell everybody everything about yourself. You can't just sit there and say, oh, let me tell you, when I was four, this happened to me, and that happened to me. And then, you know, that's like, you know, barfing up your personal history on someone, and then barfing it back. barfing up your personal history on someone, and then barfing it back. And then we all call it sharing. So, we don't do that. We don't demand from our friends that they tell us stuff. We don't say, hey, tell me about when you were four. And we also don't say, hey, let me tell you about when I was four. say, hey, let me tell you about when I was four. We have a certain kind of etiquette where we let people share what they want to share and we all know that we're not going to just share garbage. Because when someone's just sitting there constantly talking about themselves, it's draining. So we don't do that to our friends and they don't do that they don't do that to us. But when we're in a Sangha, we also don't get weird towards each other. Like, oh, hey, you asked me a question about myself, and now I'm going to get weird trying to get a line on me or something, trying to figure me out. So we never do that. We always participate in a spiritual group. We participate with our spiritual We always participate in a spiritual group, we participate with our spiritual friends in a super positive spiritual way.

0:22:08
We always look for the positive intent in people. We never look for the negative intent in people. We always share that which is bright and constructive with our friends. with our friends. And that way we support each other and inspire each other. So participating successfully in a sangha means that we don't push ourselves too far and we don't demand focused on sharing light and brightness and positive energy with our friends because then that makes our sangha strong and positive. So the outside world, gotta, you know, be careful, but the inner world with your spiritual friends, we make that a bright beautiful place. And together we're a team We make that a bright, beautiful place.

0:23:15
And together we're a team that is inaccessible, right? Because when we go into the world, we just, as a group, you know, we'll act and dress in an appropriate way. But we'll sit down and share a spiritual experience that is, you know, out of this world. out of this world. So, there's the outside world etiquette for inaccessibility and the inside, the spiritual world, your sangha etiquette. So, the place where we find inaccessibility is often, or the place where we need to create inaccessibility is from ourselves.

0:24:00
or the place where we need to create inaccessibility is from ourselves. We figure ourselves out and we define ourselves. So it's really important for us to ultimately break our patterns. So you've got to go new places. places. If you've always been going to a certain beach and you love the beach, you've got to try going somewhere else. Go to the hill, go to the mountain. If you're always talking to the same people, talk to some new people. If you're always hanging around the same people, you're kind of getting into a little groove, a click, and talking about the same things. same people, you're kind of getting into like a little groove, a click, and talking about the same things. You have to be open to talking to new people, to making new friends. So you have to break patterns. If you find that you constantly do something in the same way, even if it's a good thing, make changes. We have to break our personal history. Our personal personal history. Our personal history makes us not accessible to light. We have defined views of ourselves. We're very fixed. And so we have to break up this definition of So in the study of inaccessibility, to be inaccessible from our self-definitions, we meditate.

0:25:47
And in meditation, we go beyond our description of self. We go into the light. We access our eternal nature, our eternal luminosity. city. And then that is where we find the truth. Okay, thank you all very much.

