0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about the Tibetan rebirth process. Death, dying, and that other thing that happens after. Rebirth. The bardos, the place between life and death. Place between death and life. death. A place between death and life. So there's an interesting thing. I mean, it's scientifically proven already. Any culture around the world, people have had experiences where they died and they had awareness and then they came back. And it's also been scientifically And it's also been scientifically proven. People have gone, their hearts stopped. Their brain had no, there was no brain activity.

0:01:02
And yet they had experience and awareness. And even experience and awareness and knowledge of what was happening in the room while they were dead. They were like, oh yeah, I saw the surgeon doing this. They were like, oh, yeah, I saw the surgeon doing this, you know, I saw the surgeon did this that person's the nurse did that And then they come back and they're all like wow while that happened you were dead. No, I was floating above you guys watching, you know, so Across every culture people have had similar experiences of dying and have been reporting Certain awareness and certain awareness. And what people normally see once they die is a light. They say, they might see the physical surroundings, but they see that they're heading towards the light.

0:01:54
And in heading towards that light, they might see God, Jesus, Krishna, whatever they're whatever they're into. They might see ancestors and they come to, towards that light, and towards that light they come to the divine, whether it's a family member or God or Jesus or something that you believe in. Whatever it is, it is the divine. But it manifests to some people just light, to some people as family members, some people as comic book heroes. I don't know. I actually haven't heard of that, but it could happen.

0:02:45
You go to the light, you go towards the divine. And this is the beginning. And this is the beginning This is the beginning of what happens after that is the first Bardo the Dharmakaya and Then lots of other great things happen after that, but the people who go further They don't they don't come back You can only go it towards the first Bardo And then come back And then come back.

0:03:15
Once you hit the second bardo, you're gone. You're on your way. So, in Tibetan Buddhism, they did something really cool. They said, hey, you know, so there was this enlightened master, Padmasambhava, who knew the deal of life and death. And he said, well, you know what, there's this thing you can do. It's called the yoga of And he said, well, you know what, there's this thing you can do. It's called the yoga of death, dying, the intermediate states, being born. It's called the Bharata-tattva, the intermediate states. And so he created a yoga of what to do when you die, what to do when you're born, and what to do in between that time. what to do in between that time. And it is a yoga that's practical, because you're all going to die someday.

0:04:10
It's a yoga that's practical, because you're all going to be born someday. And it's a yoga that's practical, because you're in between that right now, usually. So he taught this amazing new yoga. It's fascinating. amazing new yoga. It's fascinating. Now, the whole reason that you would practice it is, of course, for enlightenment, but it's also practical because at the time of death and at the time of birth, there's opportunity for change. When you're locked in to a karma, When you're locked in to a karma, then it's harder to change.

0:04:53
But when there's that ending or that beginning, then there's a possibility for rapid transformation. So you can go from a lifetime, or you can go from a state of attention that's karmically bound path at those times of birth and death, you can grow, you can change, you can rapidly transform into a higher, brighter condition. So that's why it's particularly useful to know the yoga of the Bharata-Vanal. So, when we think of death, we always think that it's a bad thing. Yet, for the people who've reported their after-life experiences, they report a light that is beautiful. ancestors and gods that and Christ's and Krishna's that are that are wise beautiful and There's just light and magic So why is death so bad?

0:06:15
We're afraid of death But death is not so bad Death in the in the in the bardo yogas There's three primary places Vardo yogas There's three primary places for enlightenment One is that first place you die you see the light Go into the light that is that light is called the Dharma Kaya. It is enlightenment itself. It's the direct connection So if you're a Buddha or you've been meditating for a long time You good at it. You'll you'll see that in meditation you go to that light You're good at it. You'll see that in meditation. You go to that light.

0:06:54
And when you die, that light is present. In life, people try to run away from everything. But in death, you face everything. You can't run away from it. You're going to experience it. I mean, you do run away. That's how you get from the first spardo to the second spardo, by running. But the first spardo is Dharmakaya. But the first bardo is Dharmakaya, the direct connection with the essential light being, the clear light of reality. Everyone sees it when they die. So you die, there's the light.

0:07:28
And all gods and ancestors and divinity comes from that light. So you go to that light, and you merge your mind with that light, and you become that you merge your mind with that light and you become that light and you are that light. Now that's the first place for liberation. But usually what people do is they go, whoa, I'm getting close to that light and now I'm getting kind of afraid. It's getting intense. It's like I often consider when I'm flying to Europe or something, I'm like, what to Europe or something, I'm like, what if my flight, you know, what if the plane crashes? I've had dreams about this. I love it. I'm like, I will meditate.

0:08:14
I'll sit there and focus on the third eye while crashing. I won't let the crash break my concentration. I've had dreams where it hasn't happened in real life, but not yet. I've had dreams where I've done it. It hasn't happened in real life, but not yet. But it's an interesting thing to consider. Total focus during total destruction. So when you can face that intensity, you can face the Dharmakaya. Because the Dharmakaya, as you get closer to it, is intense. It's everything. So in learning meditation, you learn to be intense. Intense focus, so that you can become aware of being, the radical essence of being.

0:09:18
So then there's the third bardo you go into, where there's lots of different dimensions of enlightenment, and all aspects are places where you can learn. That's the thing about the bardo. thing about the bardo, you go from bardo to bardo, place to place, enlightened influence to wrathful influence, and all places are places where you can become enlightened. Every And if you are not adverse to it, if you're not afraid of it, or if you're not drawn in desire, which will bring you to imbalance, then you will be able to see it purely. And you will be able to access the Buddha mind in all forms. the Buddha mind in all forms. So in the bardos there's many dimensions of the Buddha mind.

0:10:33
They classify them as the five Dhyana Buddhas, the five Harukas. There's just different aspects of enlightenment and they're accessible in every way. And you experience those energies going through the bardos. Everyone faces it. Most people run. Most people hide. Everyone faces it. Most people run. Most people hide. Most people are adverse or they have a desire that brings them into an imbalanced view, so they can't see the divinity. They can only see the self. So, at every stage, this is what I like about the yoga of the bardos, at any point, there's enlightenment. There's an opportunity. At any point, there's enlightenment.

0:11:15
There's an opportunity. There's a perfect teaching right there and then for you. And that's how it is right now in your life as well. In your life, no matter if you're doing good in your job, bad in your job, good at meditation, bad at meditation. You know, like you're doing good, bad, happy, sad, whatever, you know, just got fired, or you know, girlfriend just broke up with you, whatever. Girlfriends broke up with you, whatever. Wherever you're at, the pathway to enlightenment is there for you. There's a teaching that's perfect for you.

0:11:44
The Dharma is there. There's the truth. There's enlightenment. If you're very, very high, if you're meditating well, going to places of power, doing well in your yoga, then the path is there and you see it. is there, and you see it. But if you're very, very low, everything's going wrong with your life, everything's... you're broke, hurt, everything's messed up, the pathway to enlightenment is there. It's like looking at the sunset, you're sitting there at the beach, and you see the sun setting, and there's the light from the sun coming right to you. But then, coming right to you. But then at any point, wherever you're looking, down the beach, up the hill, you'll always see that the Sun is directly coming to you. There's always a path of life wherever you are. So in the Bharat Bharat, it's amazing because it's like there's It's like there's the path and then oh wait you screwed it up now you end up somewhere else But there's the path. There's the teaching. There's the dark and And in the in the in the book the part of that all the Tibetan book of the dead They always say without a doubt This teaching will make you enlightened They say that like 87 times and they're all well now at least you can choose a higher birth Well, now at least you can choose a higher birth.

0:13:17
So there's a profound place in that teaching of the Bardo's that is called judgment. And I really like judgment. Because the teaching of judgment is no judgment. No judgment. Now here's the thing, in the Bharata-Pada, they talk about the king of death. At some point you come to the king of death, and the king of death says to you, Alright, what have you done that's good? What have you done that's bad? And if you deny your goodness or your badness, then the king of death does these great things, like he rips out your heart, he eats your lungs, he eats your lungs, oh, he eats your brains, he gives you a hard time, right?

0:14:07
You suffer a lot. But the truth is, and my teacher used to say that there's no king of death that judges you. You judge yourself. And the most important thing is, because you do come to this place in the bardo where you see yourself, you see what's good and what's bad, you come to this place in the bardo where you see yourself. You see what's good and what's bad, but you can't hide. You can't, you have to not, you have to be either adverse to anything that you've ever done, or you can't also, you can't also not be attached or desirous of anything that you've experienced, because that's where you'll experience suffering.

0:14:48
that you've experienced, because that's where you'll experience suffering. So we focus on learning to let go in our lives, let go of our fears and our desires, because suffer if you have fear or desire. And by experiencing detachment you see the bad things you've done, the good things you've done, the things you don't like, things you like, you see it in an essential way at that place in the bardo of time. The intermediate stage after death. And when you see that, if you can be detached death. And when you see that, if you can be detached, you don't care either way. It's you, but who cares? There's a liberation in there. You can be enlightened from the detachment.

0:15:54
So this is something that isn't, it's not stated in the Bartholomew et al. book, but but it is a profound opportunity for awakening. Then there's rebirth. There's death. What you should do after you're dead. But then there's the other side. Like, okay, I'm going to start being alive. So, when you're heading towards life. So when you're heading towards life, that's why there's the enlightened pregnancy book because it talks about hey You know, you're getting you died, but you're going to be born So the the yoga is not only about how to become Higher during the transit of death, but also how to become higher during the transit into a new life The Tibetan book of a new life. It's the Tibetan book of birth. And when you're going to come into a new life, I mean, that's where there's true possibility. Death cuts off something that had a limitation, had a limitation, but rebirth is where you're going into a new form.

0:17:21
So you can, and this is why people come to enlightened teachers. Enlightened teachers, yeah, they blow you up. They kill you, but they kill your negative habits, your low states of mind. They destroy those things. destroy those things. They get you into ways of shutting down personal history, shutting down bad habits, negative views, bad attention. It's a destruction of the lower self. But then they also place you into new states of mind, new structures of awareness, new disciplines mind. New structures of awareness, new disciplines of consciousness that bring a higher, more luminous awareness of life. So, the birth part of the teaching, the enlightened teachings of the Bharata Thadau is a powerful part and it's very much overlooked. We know there's It's very much overlooked.

0:18:26
We know there's that death thing, but the life thing, that part is where when there's, when you do it with enlightened insight, it's very very powerful. These are the structures. So the Tibetan rebirth process is not for just death, it's for life. It's not for when you die. Yes, it's for when you die. It's not just death, it's for life. It's not for when you die. Yes, it's for when you die. But it's also for right now.

0:18:57
It's also for your life, not just your death. So the yoga is a yoga that we practice when we're alive, not just when we're dead. It's an advanced yoga. It's for spiritual practitioners who are definitely very, very close to enlightenment. So it's called liberation through hearing. And so they say, oh, yeah, yeah, someone's dead, just read this to them, they'll become enlightened. But it's really an advanced teaching. It's a tantra.

0:19:36
It's really an advanced teaching. It's a tantra. So these are the secret esoteric lessons. So when you hear it, whether you're alive or dead, there's that awakening. It's not just for when you're dead. It's for when you're alive. when you're dead, or when you're alive. And when you're a spiritual seeker for many lifetimes, and you hear this teaching, it awakens something in you. And that in itself is a liberation.

