0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about how to be a successful student on the pathway to enlightenment. This is an important subject because the pathway to enlightenment, the study of liberation, it is very subtle. It's not straightforward. A lot of parts seem invisible to most people. There's the secret teachings that are obvious, if you can understand it. that are obvious, if you can understand it. Sometimes you read those Tibetan Tantras, and you're like, what are they saying? How do you get enlightened from this? So, it's very important to become a successful student on the pathway to enlightenment, so that you are able to actually achieve actually achieve enlightened consciousness. You're able to actually ascend spiritually.

0:01:21
Now, succeeding as a student means that you succeed, you become capable in the art, in the in the art or in anything like in career right if you develop your career if you learn how to do a career properly then it can change your life you can learn to be a computer programmer and maybe before you are working you know as a retail clerk in a supermarket or something like that right maybe you were working in a warehouse or waiting tables that could be work where you don't get working in a warehouse or waiting tables. That could be work where you don't get paid very much and it's hard work. And then you learn how to become a computer programmer.

0:02:13
And then you end up working at Apple or Google and making a lot of money in a very professional, respected environment. It changes your life if you learn how to do it right. if you learn how to do it right. And something like martial arts study, that can change your life. If you learn martial arts, if you learn to be a good student, you become capable, powerful. You learn the ability to defend your life or the life of another.

0:02:47
So maybe you're walking down the street, someone tries to rob you, Maybe you're walking down the street, someone tries to rob you, they have a knife, you're able to take them down instead of you being stabbed, instead of you being killed. So being a good student in a subject is significant. The most significant subject to be a good student in is the subject of enlightenment. a good student of enlightenment, then you become enlightened. You become free. Your spirit becomes merged with eternity. You find that still balanced point in your being. You're able to get rid of personal limitation, personal history, negativity, anger, all of the defilements of attention and being that create dissatisfaction and discord in your life, you're able to solve by being a good student on the pathway to enlightenment.

0:04:00
the kind of peak experience of the subject. Now, you've got to learn how to do it right. Being a good student means that you actually learn it, not fake it, or not learn it wrong. So, let's say that you learn martial arts wrong. And let's say you had a good martial arts teacher. The teacher was amazing, but for some reason you were just a bad student. A teacher was amazing, but for some reason you were just a bad student. Then you would learn to do punching and kicking and all sorts of techniques, but they would be completely ineffective.

0:04:36
So if you were walking down the street, you ran into someone who's attacking you, you might think you have techniques that work, but they might not. If you're a bad student, they won't work. So it's important to actually figure out how to be a good student, so that when you engage in any practice, any study, that you actually learn, that you actually accomplish the goal of the study. Many, many people who learn are bad students. The majority of people in spiritual study are bad students. One big reason is because they don't find a real teacher, an effective teacher, an authentic teacher.

0:05:36
And another reason is because even if they find an authentic teacher, they just don't get it. And another reason is because even if they find an authentic teacher, they just don't get it. You know, the Zen master says some weird riddle to them, and then they just say, oh, that was weird. And then they go, what a nice Zen master. But they don't really attain anything from the study, or very little. Very often, they'll attain a certain kind of conceptual conceptual understanding, but not the true heart of spiritual practice, which is enlightenment. It's transcending a condition of limitation of self. It's really moving from who you are being. It's a refinement of attention. So most people who are on the pathway to enlightenment are bad students. And it's really necessary to be realistic with yourself and say, hey, if I'm going to spend the time here and go through the motions, why don't I actually through the motions, why don't I actually learn this?

0:06:53
Yeah. It's like when people sit down to meditate, right? In meditation, this is spiritual practice. And a lot of people sit down to meditate and they just kind of like space out and think. They don't say, wait a second, I'm going to sit here for 15 minutes or an hour. 15 minutes or an hour, why don't I really try to do my best? That's what it takes to be a good student. It takes taking every moment of practice and doing your best with it. Now the teachings of meditation are very, very subtle. They are some of the essential teachings of the pathway to enlightenment.

0:07:36
the essential teachings of the pathway to enlightenment. And most of the teachings, only, most of the teachings are not even set in words. You know, the basics are, sit up straight, focus on the chakra. So there's many teachings that are in words, but those are just the very, very precursory understandings of meditation. A spiritual teacher teaches meditation in ways beyond talking. It's an experience of sitting together. The spiritual teacher's attention is strong in meditation. And through that attention, there's an energy called Shakti that teaches students. It's energy, attention, awareness.

0:08:24
It's energy, attention, awareness. The pathway to enlightenment is very subtle. You could be sitting with your teacher in meditation and realize beautiful dimensions of infinite light. Realize how to get beyond being angry at your friend. You know, it's something that you really get stuck on, something that hurts you. stuck on something that hurts you. You see beautiful spiritual things and you get out of dissatisfactions just from sitting. These are the lessons on the pathway to enlightenment. But if you're a bad student, then you kind of just sit there and go, hmm hmm hmm hmm. You know, you just don't pay attention, you don't focus right. You think the path is a think the path is a certain way, instead of being aware of what the path is.

0:09:19
So a good student is curious and eager. They're awake. They're thirsty for knowledge, for experience, for knowing truth. They seek truth. They seek truth. A good student seeks to know truth. A student of anything, you know, you want to learn how to do anything. Basket weaving, right? You say, how do you do this? And then once you know, you say, okay, I know something. You've come to a truth. Now, on the spiritual path, you're coming to very coming to very essential spiritual truths of being, of life, of the way of the Dharma, the pathway to enlightenment, the way to go from being stuck in your spirit and limited to being free.

0:10:16
So, when you seek that truth, you gain that truth, that truth, you become one with that truth. This is the way of a successful student. A successful student is always seeing newness. You're always learning more. You never get stuck. A lot of people get jaded. They say, okay, I've learned a little bit, I have an idea, I've made a mental concept of what this enlightenment thing means. I've made a mental concept of what this enlightenment thing means.

0:10:52
So, done. Got it. Right? Check that off my bucket list. Enlightenment is good. And then whatever concept you come up with, it's going to be very limited. student of enlightenment, you're always seeing newness in every meditation, in every day, and every time you do the same thing you did yesterday. It's not a routine. There's always newness. You could be, you know, working, going into the office, dealing with the same people, dealing with the same the same job, the same tasks. And in every moment, you're seeking to look deeper into it, to see the newness of the moment. So a true student never gets jaded, never falls into routines. It's always seeking to see what's new in this moment. A man went to a a man went to a meditation retreat, Vipassana, where they focus on breathing as their meditation.

0:12:10
And then, at a certain point, the man had an interview with kind of the meditation teacher, and he says, okay, so, the meditation teacher says, what did you notice about your breathing? The practitioner says, what did you notice about your breathing? That's the same as usual. Then he goes, oh, go back. Then he goes back, meditates for a few more days, comes over and what do you notice about your breathing? It's just breathing, it's just normal. Go back, meditate harder.

0:12:44
And then he goes back, meditates. And then finally he figures something out. He starts to see that breathing is not just a routine. he starts to see that breathing is not just a routine. You're not just going all the time, right? I mean, you are, but if you pay attention to your breathing, it opens up a profound dimension of power and awareness. So he finally was sitting and he was all, oh, my breathing, oh, my breathing. And then when he went back to the teacher, he was like, oh, my breathing's so amazing.

0:13:13
I've discovered all of these things about myself, my breathing so amazing, you know, I've discovered all these things about myself, tensions, my karmas, all these things, and I learned how to let them go and see all this light just from observing breathing. That is seeing the newness in the moment. That's what a student does. A student doesn't just sit there and go, yep, if you, you know, if you've breathed once, you've breathed them all. Then If you've breathed once, you've breathed them all. Then you're dead. But if breathing is always new, there's constantly new life. So a good student, a successful student, is always looking for greater accomplishment on the path.

0:13:59
It's like, oh, I learned this today. Well, I want to learn something new tomorrow. It's like, oh, I learned this today. Well, I want to learn something new tomorrow. Right? Or don't just get stuck. A lot of spiritual people read a spiritual book, heard something, maybe even had a little bit of a meditation where they figured something out spiritually. Then they go, okay, done. Right?

0:14:19
I had my little spiritual peak moment, or I figured something out in a concept, or some teacher gave me a mantra, and I say, done. All right. Some teacher gave me a mantra, and I say, done, all right, I've figured it out. That's the end, right? No, no, no, no, no, no. We always seek to learn more. Even a master, even Buddha, right? So Buddha, in his lifetime, he became fully enlightened, super grandmaster of everything.

0:14:46
But then his teachings kept on becoming more and more advanced. He would say, ah, well, now let me actually teach you guys kept on becoming more and more advanced. He would say, ah, well now let me actually teach you guys a new way that will be more helpful. So even a master will always work on having a higher accomplishment in their teachings. So too, a learner, a student, seeks to learn seeks to learn more and more each day, to go deeper into light and stillness and meditation, to see greater accomplishment and greater accomplishment in their lives. So we don't just get stuck.

0:15:30
A student accepts change, thrives on change. It's like, wow. It's like, wow, a student in school, right, goes from third grade to fourth grade. They don't learn the same things that they learned in third grade. They go on to the next thing. Then they go on from elementary school to middle school, middle school to high school, high school to college. Change is part of a student's life. A student doesn't say, oh, well, you know, I really like the third grade so much, doesn't say, oh well, you know, I really like the third grade so much, I think I'll just stay there.

0:16:07
Right? They embrace change. They go, yeah, I moved forward. Fourth grade. Right? Yeah. So, the students thrive on change because we know that every time there's change, it gives us an gives us an opportunity to learn more. Life is a school. The universe is a university. We're able to learn spiritual lessons in everything, in every moment. We never cling on to the past. Yep, I read that one spiritual book. That's it. I called it the Bible or something. I called it the Bible or something. That's it. End of story. Right? Yeah.

0:16:54
No, no, no. We always seek change. We always look for new things. And when life changes, we look for enlightenment, a deeper understanding, the next awareness in that experience. And successful students take on challenges. And they like challenge. Most students take on challenges, and they like challenge. There's a certain spirit, an attitude, to the successful student. And this is an attitude of, no matter what challenges you face, you have this excited like, wow, look, it seems impossible, but somehow we're going to do it.

0:17:37
Somehow I'm going to learn this. Somehow, I'm going to learn this. It was like that for me in meditation. When I first learned meditation, I thought it was a cool idea. Then after a while, I sat there struggling with it, going, wait, this is hard. This is difficult. How am I going to do this? And if I said, I can't do it, I'm never going to do it, then maybe I would have stopped meditating.

0:18:00
then maybe I would have stopped meditating. But I just said, well, somehow this thing's supposed to work. So I'm just gonna do my best, try my hardest forever, and then maybe someday it'll work. So whatever challenges we face, we just trust in life. We just apply ourselves to it. We just trust in life.

0:18:26
We just apply ourselves to it. We just say, alright, this is what I'm going to learn from. And we don't look for necessarily success. We could sit there with failure. Because we're not looking for a return on investment. So, if you sat there and said, okay, what do I want out of this whole thing? Enlightenment. You sit down, you go, all right, five minutes into my meditation, where's the enlightenment?

0:19:03
I'm waiting for it. Gotta get that enlightenment, gotta get that enlightenment. When you have expectations, then you're thrown off. You can't expect. off, you can't expect. All you can do is do your best and trust in life and have that spirit like, it's gonna happen, I'm sure, but I don't expect it. I'm just I'm just having an adventure, an adventure of being a student, trying my best, and these things usually work out. So you just have a bright, positive state So, you just have a bright, positive state of mind. The attitude is just like, hey, I want to get as high and bright as possible.

0:19:46
I want this meditation to be as bright as possible. Will this meditation result in my complete enlightenment? Who knows? Who cares? All I want is in this moment to have the brightest, happiest meditation I can experience right now. moment to have the brightest, happiest meditation I can experience right now. That's the attitude. And then you get out of your way, and that beautiful spirit of the successful student comes forth, and then you make success. Because if you're expecting enlightenment at every moment, you're like, where is it?

0:20:24
You're like, where is it? Then you're going to start getting into all sorts of Ideas and thoughts you probably will eventually convince yourself. Yes. I did it. It is that got the enlightenment. Ta-da Because I've defined enlightenment as something so We so we seek to just experience the path with this beautiful feeling beautiful feeling, this attitude of the successful student. Now, in Zen, they called it beginner's mind. Zen mind is beginner's mind. And this is to say that a beginner has a pretty good attitude when they're trying something new. And there's many possibilities for the beginner. They don't have a fixed mind.

0:21:12
possibilities for the beginner. They don't have a fixed mind. They don't have a fixed idea. Some people will do something for a long, long, long time and get bored of it, right? So I remember someone I knew was a scuba diver. He was a scuba diver, an instructor, for a long time, and then he just got bored of it. And then he just got bored of it. He said, yeah, that scuba diving's boring now. I did too much of it. Right?

0:21:45
And he lacked that beginner's mind. Because if you have a beginner's mind, you jump out there and go underwater, and you're like, oh my gosh, look, a fish. You know, and you're looking at like a little guppy, and you think it's the most amazing thing. I'm underwater. little guppy and you think it's the most amazing thing. I'm underwater. Yeah.

0:22:06
But when you have 3,000 dives and you've seen everything, then you go, ah, not so happy anymore, right? So in the mind of the beginner, everything's magic. There are many possibilities. In the mind of the expert, everything is fixed. the expert, everything is fixed. There are few possibilities. So we want to have the expert's knowledge, but we want to have that beginner's spirit. That's what we seek. I remember once at a karate school, this one guy comes in, he was in the school for just karate school, this one guy comes in, he was in the school for just like a week, and there was a special training coming up, where there was like an intensive training for a weekend.

0:22:59
And he said, I really wanna go, can I go to that? To the sensei? He said, I just don't know if it's okay because I don't know very much. And then the sensei said, well then you'll probably learn the most. Right? Everyone else knows things, Right? Everyone else knows things, but when you don't know, now you know. So, we seek to have that beginner's mind. In learning on the spiritual path, the most important thing to do is learn to Learning to learn. Learning the essence of learning. So, on the spiritual path, there are many things that you do. You know, it's not just meditation. You have to have a job, right, livelihood, right? You will learn all You learn about career, sports, martial arts, business, all the things that you need in your life to have a thriving life is part of your spiritual path.

0:24:13
And then you learn about it, and you learn how to make it part of your spiritual path. So there's lots to learn. And what you have to do is you have to learn the way to learn. Or let's say a Tibetan Kempo, right? Or let's say a Tibetan Khenpo, right? In Tibetan Buddhism, a Khenpo is the highest level of learning. And a Khenpo has to learn history, theology, philosophy, sutra teachings, tantra teachings, music, meditation, divination, sorcery, I mean, bone. So they learn everything under the sun about spiritual stuff, about Buddhism. And so us too, when we're learning, there's so many subjects.

0:25:05
It's not just Buddhism. There's many, many, many, many, many areas within Buddhism and the spiritual path that we need to learn. and the spiritual path that we need to learn. So what we learn is we learn the essence of learning. So for example, in our technology classes, we don't just learn a computer language so that we can get a job and do that computer language. We learn how to be a programmer. We learn how to be a professional technologist. We learn how to think.

0:25:36
We learn how to be a professional technologist. We learn how to think. We learn how to be able to, if that language went out of fashion the next day, you would be able to learn another language. So we learn how to learn. And if there's a subject that we don't like, the thing that is fun is is learning, not the subject. So if you're like, oh yeah, we're reading some book on tantra or something, and it's very boring. Reading some book about Ramakrishna, the book is this thick, they keep on saying the same things over and over and over and over, and it's just boring.

0:26:26
So, whatever you're learning, and it's just boring, right? So, whatever you're learning, you are learning about enlightenment. So even if something's a little bit challenging or a little bit boring, you learn the essence of learning. And that's the fun thing about learning anything. And then when you're learning something, you go beyond like and dislike.

0:26:48
go beyond like and dislike. You go beyond personal preference. And by learning a subject, even if it's hard, sometimes spiritual subject is sales. Some people don't like learning that subject. But when you learn that subject, when you go beyond, I don't like it, go beyond personal preference, you're going beyond self. You're learning that that subject is super fun and really You're learning that that subject is super fun and really bright.

0:27:17
It's the pathway to enlightenment. And that if you said, Oh, you know, my teacher, my Buddhist master told me to do sales as an exercise of karma yoga, of right livelihood for myself, and I don't like that. What would happen is you would hold yourself back from learning it, and then you would never learn it. happen is you would hold yourself back from learning it, and then you would never learn it. But if you learn it, you go beyond self. That is the exercise of learning. That's the essence of learning. It is going beyond the self to acquire the truth of that teaching. So when you're a successful student, you're not just in your head, you're out in the world. If you're a successful You're not just in your head, you're out in the world.

0:28:04
If you're a successful student, you're not just in the classroom looking at books, you're out in the world. Where would we be if Isaac Newton wasn't sitting under that apple tree? We'd probably be floating around because we wouldn't have discovered gravity. So we've got to go out there and see the world and in our experiences, we learn. It's tremendous.

0:28:24
and in our experiences, we learn. It's tremendous. Now, we don't just do things that come natural to us, things that we like, right? We try new things. You know, so sometimes your spiritual teacher tells you to do something, you really just like, I'm really bad at this, right? So I remember my spiritual teacher at this. So I remember my spiritual teacher told us to do martial arts. And a lot of people were just really bad at martial arts. They just were like, I never thought of doing this because I don't like violence, and also I can't punch and kick, I'm totally not into not into that kind of movement and vibration.

0:29:15
But then they went and tried, trying something new. And then, when you try something new, when you go beyond your likes and dislikes, then you learn new things. You learn how to gain a certain power and awareness that you never knew before. And then you say, Wow, actually, that's an okay thing. I like it. It wasn't my cup of tea.

0:29:36
okay thing, I like it. It wasn't my cup of tea at first, but now it is. So you're able to learn new things, try new things. I remember for myself, when I was very young, when I first started learning Kung Fu, I was like six years old and I was learning this one kick where you had to balance in a certain way, and I kept falling. this one kick where you had to balance in a certain way, and I kept falling.

0:30:05
And then the other kids in the class, well a lot of the other kids, could just do it right off the bat, like really easily. And it took me months and months to be able to do this thing. But at first I thought I was just really lame. I was like, oh, I'm really, really lame. But then the teacher came over to me and he said, you know, when I was your age and when And he said, you know, when I was your age and when I was learning this, the same thing happened. I was falling over, I couldn't do this technique, it was really tough for me, and all the other kids got it really fast. But then he said, if you stick with it, you could be like me, a master of the art. And then that got me to say, oh, okay.

0:30:48
Then I tried and tried and tried. It took me months, but eventually I could do the technique. So even if it's something that's very alien to you, if it's on the pathway to enlightenment, you try new things. And I think The most important thing is that you challenge yourself. That you accept challenge. So when something's really hard, in any way, you kind of like do a trick in your mind. So let's say, oh yeah, there was a monk who really, really, really loved meditation, loved really, really, really loved meditation, loved chanting, loved studying the sutras, but in Tibetan Buddhism they have this thing called debate, where they have, where two monks will get together and they'll say, hey, what do you think Buddha meant when he said this?

0:31:53
I think he meant yes. And then they went, he says, well, I think he meant no, but in a more enlightened way. And then he goes, no, yes, in a bigger enlightened way. So they just kind of debate. And then he goes, no, yes, in a bigger. So they just kind of debate. They got their, they got their rules. It's part of the way that they develop the intellect. So this, this one monk, he really didn't like debate and he was bad at it. So he would get there and someone would say, yes, and he'd be all, I don't know what to say. And he, and, and everyone would just destroy him in debate. And everyone's all, yeah, And everyone would just destroy him in debate, and everyone's all, yeah, he doesn't know anything.

0:32:31
And so he struggled with it, and struggled with it, and struggled with it, and he just didn't want to do it. So he goes over to the abbot of the temple, and he says, hey, you know, or the lama, and he says, can I just not do the debate part? Because I really love everything else. And then the lama said to him, And then the Lama said to him, you have to make debate your favorite practice. And he said, but my favorite practice is meditation and chanting.

0:32:59
And then he said, no, no, you have to make debate your favorite practice. So then the monk took that to heart. And he said, okay, this thing that I don't like, that I don't like, that I feel bad doing, that I struggled with, that I already got personal history saying that I'm bad. Everything tells me I'm bad at this. And then he says, now it's my favorite. And he changed his heart, he changed his attitude. And he made debate his favorite thing.

0:33:33
Then he goes to debate the next day and totally loses again, right? and totally loses again, right? But little by little, because he made that change in his attention, in his attitude, he became a master debater. And he ended up being, you know, excelling in the art. And then he got the benefits of that practice. And then he got the benefits of that practice. So this is what we do.

0:34:10
Like if you're facing something that you just don't like, like, oh boy, on the pathway to enlightenment, I've got to get my right livelihood strong. Well, if it's not strong, I've got to do something to make it strong. What am I going to do? Have a bad attitude? Struggle with it? strong. What am I going to do? Have a bad attitude? Struggle with it? No, no, you make it your favorite thing. This is Tantra. It's taking something that's bad and making it good. Something that would normally hold your spirit down and making it the strongest thing for you. This is how to be a successful student on the pathway to enlightenment.

0:34:48
But you've got to accept challenge. A successful student always challenges themselves. See, in ways like this, right? So like, oh, I don't like that, but I'm going to learn it. I'm going to go beyond the self and learn it. Oh, I don't like that, I'm going to make it my favorite thing. Oh, this isn't my cup of tea, I'm going to make it my cup of tea. So, you've got to challenge yourself. So, you've got to challenge yourself. You've got to accept challenge.

0:35:19
You've got to take chances. You've got to push. You have to like the feeling of striving for greater wisdom, for learning more. You gotta have that feeling over, you gotta like that feeling over chilling out, relaxing, playing video games and hanging out. Most people don't strive. Even monks in the Far East. You go to the monasteries, and most of them are just totally chill.

0:35:56
They're all, yep, got my robes. Certain way of life, kind of like Catholic school. certain way of life, kind of like Catholic school, and then, you know, that's just life for them. And they don't strive. But a successful student on the pathway to enlightenment is always striving. Not in a stressed out way, but in an excited way. I'm looking for something to be happier, to be brighter. And when everybody else would rather be sitting on the couch When everybody else would rather be sitting on the couch watching TV or You know hanging out on a beach or hanging out with friends. You know most people want to just chill and relax Successful students going to say all right. I want to do the next thing I'm going to get higher I want to get brighter. I want to do more. I want to find a greater awareness of truth Be more empowered be more successful. I want to be able to meditate better Be more empowered, be more successful.

0:36:51
I want to be able to meditate better. There's constantly in your heart and your spirit a part of you that is looking for that. And sure, sometimes you relax, you take a vacation, and all sorts of things. But the main thing is that you and your heart seek to challenge yourself. to challenge yourself. You seek to strive for a higher wisdom, a higher assertion of truth. So you got to hang out with good people. If you're hanging out, if you're interested in enlightenment, and you're hanging out with a bunch of people or have very close relationships with people who aren't, then what happens is you're not then what happens is you're not developing this support group.

0:37:46
So let's say that you're in school, and you want to be successful, you want to get good grades. If you go and hang out with the nerds in the study group, people, guess what? You're going to get good grades. They're like, hey, what do you guys want to do Saturday night? what? You're gonna get good grades. They're like, hey, what do you guys want to do Saturday night? Oh, let's study biology. But if you go and hang out with a different group of people, hey, what do you guys want to do tonight on Monday night? Let's just actually run away and go to this bar and you're going to end up doing all sorts of things but learn. So sorts of things but learn. So it's the same way in spiritual practice, on the spiritual path. If you hang out with people who also are striving for knowledge, truth, wisdom, enlightenment, then you're going to create this energy. The whole group is going to be focused on that. And then you guys are going to make progress in that direction. But you are going to make progress in that direction.

0:38:51
But you gotta be careful. If you're hanging around, even a close association with one person who's angry at you. Hey, I don't want you to study tonight. I want you to come hang out with me and do other weird things. So if you are associating with these people, their vibration draws you away from success. draws you away from success. Now, the most important thing is to have a proper teacher, an authentic teacher, because if you have a fake teacher, you will learn fake stuff.

0:39:28
If you went to the foot fist way dojo, and there's like this big fat guy with a belly, 10th degree black belt on, Big fat guy with a belly 10th degree black belt on and he's all like yep started my own You know system of martial arts based on some movies. I watched And if you go and learn with that person, they might have you doing all sorts of techniques and stuff But it won't be effective in reality however, if you go to a real teacher an authentic sensei If you go to a real teacher, an authentic sensei, what you learn will be very, very, very solid.

0:40:10
It'll be very, very powerful. It'll be real. Because a real teacher not only teaches you techniques, physical forms, how to condition yourself, but they teach you awareness. but they teach you awareness. A martial arts teacher does this, and a spiritual teacher does this. So when you're looking for a spiritual teacher, you have to find an authentic one, one that's real, so that the stuff works.

0:40:40
Otherwise it won't. Even in the Buddha's time, Buddha had a cousin. And his cousin at some point got jealous, His cousin at some point got jealous, and he went around telling other people, hey, you want to join Buddha's group? Actually, just join me. So he got his own little group, and then he ran away from the Buddha and took his little group, and then he started getting other people to join his group. Now, he didn't even have the first level of realization. He was just egotistical, right? And he just saw Buddha as the king of some little spiritual group, right? And he just thought Buddha as the king of some little spiritual group and he wanted to be that. So he was like, oh okay. And he made, he was clever and intelligent, so he made a good sales pitch for himself. He said, I want a following, so you guys should do this, this, and this. And he saw Buddha do a few things, so he kind of was doing the same, he was like running the same game, only it wasn't enlightened. So none of his monks learned anything. They just learned, you None of his monks learned anything. They just learned, you know to follow this egotistical guy But the people who followed Buddha there were hundreds of enlightened monks Because Buddha was an authentic teacher So it's very important to have an authentic teacher in martial arts and in in the inner arts and in spiritual practice and in the inner arts and in spiritual practice.

0:42:04
That's the way that you truly learn. Now, an enlightened teacher, they have the wisdom, they have the enlightenment inside, but they also have the ability to teach. So, an enlightened person might not be a teacher. An enlightened person might not be a teacher. An enlightened person might just attain enlightenment for themselves and then just have a refined, beautiful life. They might not teach anyone.

0:42:36
In our school, there are many, many, many structures for teaching. There's many, many lessons. There's many, many structures. There's inner structures and outer structures for a student to actually progress. for a student to actually progress. So an enlightened teacher both has the enlightenment, that's the most important part, but also they have the structures, the ability to teach someone effectively how they can become enlightened.

0:43:07
So those two things don't always go together. Sometimes in a university, you'll come across a well-published scholar you'll come across a well-published scholar, and they'll be a professor, and they'll know everything about the subject, and then they won't be able to teach it. They'll just be like, they might be a horrible teacher, but they're a genius, but a horrible teacher.

0:43:30
And that's good for them to be the genius, and you can read their books and say, wow, they are a genius, but when you took their class, you didn't learn anything. but when you took their class, you didn't learn anything. So an enlightened teacher, when I say teacher, I'm saying it the way that we talk about it in our school, in our lineage, has structures.

0:43:52
Gotta have that genius, you gotta be really enlightened, but you gotta have those structures to actually help somebody. And that's something that in our school, And that's something that in our school, I've learned from my teacher and I teach to my students. Not only how to be enlightened, but how to teach enlightenment. An enlightened teacher does something tremendous. It's the greatest boon for a successful student. And this is an enlightened teacher can transfer light Can transfer spiritual consciousness can transfer power Okay, and then they call it the transference of the lamp It's like giving a light to another and it's very beautiful another analogy similarly is a analogy simile is a Log Right. So the enlightened teacher is on on fire on fire with the fire of spirit and If there's a fire and you and you have a log next to that fire, even though the flames don't touch Eventually that log will light up and it will be on fire as well light up, and it will be on fire as well.

0:45:15
So this transference works like this, almost like heat in that way. The enlightened teacher is so fiery with the spirit of enlightenment that it can transmit to you. But you've got to be ready. as a successful student to be enlightened in that way. If you don't develop yourself and don't learn properly, then you'd be a log, but you'd be a freshly cut green one, still bleeding sap. And then that fire doesn't catch very quickly. But if you become an old, crusted, dried out log, well seasoned, right?

0:46:00
trusted, dried out log, well seasoned, right? So if you prepare yourself right, then you'll light up very quickly. So this transference is what is the ultimate destination for a successful student. So for myself, I was a successful student. I worked very hard to be a successful student. And then finally, when I got to the advanced teachings to be a successful student. And then finally, when I got to the advanced teachings where there was that true transference of enlightenment, it worked. Okay, this is the teachings of how to be a successful student.

