0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about personal power. Personal power is willpower and awareness. willpower and awareness. It's your ability to push and get things done. It's your ability to have enough energy to accomplish the things in your life that will give you strength and balance for your spiritual practice. spiritual practice, but it's also awareness, being aware of where to use your willpower. So it's a smart kind of willpower. Willpower by itself, applied in the wrong place, is useless. There was once two brothers who needed to return home from a long journey. Upon returning home, they came to a river, and the river had swelled. Before, they were able to just only inches deep, but now it was very, very deep and very, very wide, fast moving water.

0:01:46
So the first brother, oh, and there's a holy man, a Sadhu at the edge of the river. So the first brother goes to the Sadhu and says, Sadhu, you've got to give me a blessing because I've got to make it home, it's urgent, and I got to cross this river. So he says, give So he says, give me the strength and the willpower to swim against the current. So then the Sadhu gave him a little blessing and then he goes swimming across. He swims across this great river, struggles with the current, barely makes it across alive. Now, the younger brother, seeing his older, stronger brother having so much trouble, he says to the Sadhu, Sadhu, please give me a blessing of intelligence so that I can cross this river. And then the Sadhu just points up the river, and there's a bridge.

0:02:48
So willpower is good and it's necessary sometimes, right? But if you look around, if you have awareness, then you know where to apply the force or where you apply your power. So personal power is both willpower and awareness. Now in the beginning, it's extremely important So in the beginning, it's extremely important to develop this willpower, because without developing willpower, you can't operate in the world. You need to be very strong, very impeccable. And then you start to gain greater awareness.

0:03:32
We all say, wouldn't it be great if I just got awareness first? Then I would never have to swim across anything. Never have to swim across anything, I just find all the bridges and elevators and everything in the world, right? Oh, elevator to enlightenment. Better way, right? So that would be good. However, the way that you develop awareness is by developing that power, the willpower.

0:03:59
So it's like a lot of pushing on willpower, and then there's the awareness. So it's like a lot of pushing on willpower, and then there's the awareness. So we have to develop both of these things. Now personal power is invisible. It's like the wind. You can't see it. You can see what it does. So a nice breeze comes by, blows a leaf, and you go, oh, there's a wind. I felt it.

0:04:27
I saw it blowing a leaf. leaf and you go, oh, there was a wind. I felt it. I saw it blowing a leaf. A bigger wind comes by, it can knock over a tree. So power is invisible this way. You might take, let's say, a karate sensei and say, look at them and say, is this person powerful? It's invisible So they could look like a little wimpy person, right? But they might be very, very, very powerful because of developing power through karate. So power is not something that you can see. It's something that is very real. And it's something that you develop to create those effects. But it's nothing that you see.

0:05:12
to create those effects. But it's nothing that you see. Because what you'll see is outer things. And the things that you might consider to be powerful outwardly might not be. Like if you take, let's say, a big strong guy. Big muscles. And you say, wow, he must be powerful because he's strong. Wow, he must be powerful because he's strong. And yes, he has a certain kind of physical strength, but what if he was walking down the street and he was attacked?

0:05:46
Just because he's big and strong doesn't mean that he can use that strength to defend his life. He might just get beaten up by a karate master. Or let's say money. Or, let's say, money. So we very often look at people with a lot of money and say, well, they're powerful. And it could be true, but it also may not be. For example, if somebody inherited millions of dollars, they'll have a lot of money, but they didn't have personal power.

0:06:25
Some people develop great personal power by developing their careers have personal power. Some people develop great personal power by developing their careers and their businesses. So just because someone's got the money doesn't mean that they developed the power. You could take someone else who goes from working at McDonald's to developing a technology career where they're making a couple hundred thousand dollars a year. And a couple hundred thousand dollars a year. And that person, even though they only make a couple hundred thousand dollars a year only, they've made a lot of personal power from that career development versus the person who just got the money, inherited it. So and the way that you can tell is if you took away all their money, because one day, Because if you took away all their money, because one day, bing, money's all gone, the millionaire who didn't make the money will be poor and won't know what to do.

0:07:27
And then the person who developed their career, they will very quickly get back to the same amount of money. So that's personal power. So that's personal power. It's not something that you can see outwardly, but it has to do with your attention and the results that you can gain in the world. Personal power is within you. things outside of us and say, well, that's personal power. Right? Like the money.

0:08:08
If you got the money, that would be powerful. Not necessarily. But if you see the truth, you'll see that the ways to access personal power are within you. We might, if you know how to do it, are within you. We might, if you know how to do it, you can apply the same inner awareness of how to reach personal power. You can apply it to anything, but the power comes from you. So I remember I knew a woman who, she was taught her whole life the most powerful thing powerful thing for her would be to find a rich husband. And that's what she believed growing up, and that's what she wanted to do.

0:08:57
So she found a husband who had a business and was doing pretty good, he could provide for the family. And then after some years, he started doing poorly in his business, it just turned bad. And so what she did, turned bad. And so what she did, seeing that this wasn't working out so well, she went out and started her own business. And her business became much more successful than his. So even though she was told what is powerful for her is to marry the right husband, she greater power is within her capability. This is the truth.

0:09:43
We find this in spiritual practice. We see all these ideas of power in the world, but we find the greatest power in our own spiritual practice, in our meditation. and never be powerful. But if you conquer the self, the ego, then you have the greatest power. There was once a samurai, well, wait, there was once a great Zen master who was previously a samurai, Hiroo Ozeki. He was a famous Zen master who was before a famous who was before a famous samurai. Now, he loved to be a samurai because he got a lot of power. He said he got a feeling every time he won a battle. Every time he won a battle, he would get this very powerful, happy, beautiful feeling. And he said that that was the thing, that was his to just keep winning battles.

0:10:51
And then he came across Zen, and he meditated with a Zen master. And in that experience of meditation, he had a higher, brighter feeling. So then he immediately laid down his sword and said, I'm going to do this thing because this is higher and brighter. So he found that he would go around brighter. So he found that he would go around trying to have these powerful experiences by winning battles, but that his greater experience was just meditating, winning the battle of stopping thoughts. So this is the true way of power. It's finding power within you. But way of power. It's finding power within you. But like I said, the power is within you, but you can gain power in doing anything. So you can use business and career development as a way to gain personal power. A lot of people gain power that way. Martial arts and and sports, you can gain personal power. A lot of people gain power that way. When you know how to do it, the inward way, then you gain great personal power. Now, it's important in considering personal power. So everything that you do either gives you energy or takes energy away. So what we try to do is gain energy and not lose energy. We want to gain as much personal power as possible. That way we're strong, we have a lot of willpower to push through things that we need to, and we have more awareness, more have more awareness, more ability to see different options for success and happiness and enlightenment in our lives. So we use the different forms and methods of practice, including mindfulness not lose energy.

0:13:16
So we have to consider the people that we hang around and deal with on a daily basis or even once in a while, the activities that we engage in. We have to see the things in our lives and evaluate them. Do they give us power or take power away from us? or take power away from us. And one of the ways that you can tell is to observe your attention. So let's say that you're hanging out with someone. After you leave them, you observe your attention.

0:13:55
Fifteen minutes later, you say, hmm, how do I feel? If you notice that you feel worse, then maybe something isn't good about hanging out with that person. worse, then maybe something isn't good about hanging out with that person. You might have to observe it over a couple times, maybe look at your attention the next day, but definitely you'll be able to see over a little bit of reflection, if someone is bad for you, if their energy is wrong, if wrong, if they're not elevated, if they're psychically toxic, then you'll feel not good around them. And after you're with them, you'll feel unwell. So if that's the case, then the best idea is to limit your time being with that person. You just can't be around someone if they make you feel bad. They You can't be around someone if they make you feel bad.

0:14:53
They take away your energy and your power. So same thing with activities. So you have to observe the activities, the places you go and the things that you do. So if you find yourself hanging out in the mall on a Saturday because that's what you thought was cool in high school, you can reevaluate that and say, school, you could reevaluate that and say, wow, how do I feel? You might notice that you are not as happy afterwards as if you were able to go out and meditate on the beach.

0:15:30
So we have to observe the things in our lives, people, places and things, all the nouns in our lives. places and things, all the nouns in our lives. We have to see how we, you know, if things elevate us, or if we lose energy. Now, in Buddhism, we seek power. There's different kinds of power, like I said. There's the power to gain, you know, martial arts power. There's There's the power to gain martial arts power. There's the power to gain money power, to succeed in business power, and to succeed in enlightenment power. Now succeeding in enlightenment power classically is sitting there and meditating. Because if you can stop thought, if you have the power of mind to stop thought, then you So to stop thought then you start to go into really high spiritual states of mind and it eventually leads to enlightenment however You can find this enlightened power in in career development and in martial arts right the Shaolin monks a famous famous Buddhist master Bodhidharma taught them how through martial arts to gain enlightenment.

0:16:54
And in Wu Wei Do, we have the same thing. In the practice of Wu Wei Do, we see these teachings, the Dharma of enlightenment in a martial arts practice. We do the same in career development career development and business development, we're able to, because the teachings guide you to not only gain a sort of personal power of will for business success, but also enlightenment through career development and business success. So we seek enlightenment in many different disciplines We seek enlightenment in many different disciplines.

0:17:43
We seek enlightenment in our meditation, mindfulness, martial arts, career success, business development. And by seeking enlightenment, we are seeking a very, very, very refined power. refined power. It's a power that most guys who do martial arts don't get. It's a power that there's a lot of people successful in business, they don't get this kind of power. This kind of power is spiritual power. It's enlightening power. It's dimensions of light. There are dimensions of light we There are dimensions of light we call the causal light. These are very, very bright, powerful, enlightening dimensions of mind. They're the inner dimensions of spirit. And when we are engaging in meditation, mindfulness, exercise, martial arts, all these things, we're actually working through these structures of light.

0:18:53
And when you connect with the light, you immediately gain personal power, a very luminous spiritual power. It's kind of like if you're sitting down listening to some music and you listen to some beautiful music. The moment you hear that music, all of a sudden something opens in you, The moment you hear that music, all of a sudden something opens in you, a feeling, an awareness. You're moved by the music. When you connect to these dimensions of light, you're able to just immediately have a shift in luminosity, in spiritual awakening, and in personal power. in all of our practices, we are walking through a structured method of going into the dimensions of light. And it's kind of like in martial arts where you go from belt rank to belt rank, it's like first you learn some basic things, and then you learn a little bit more, Then you learn a little bit more, and then after you have really mastered these basic things, you learn the next level.

0:20:10
So there's many dimensions of luminosity that you can use to gain greater personal power, and that's what we learn in the practice. is someone who knows these dimensions. They know how to take martial arts and say, here's enlightenment in martial arts. Boom! And it totally transforms martial arts. It makes it, yes, the power of martial arts, which is fun, right? And good. But it's also the power of enlightenment. So an enlightened teacher is someone who could An enlightened teacher is someone who could know different dimensions, like in this room, in any room, or a lot of rooms, there's electric outlets.

0:21:03
Now if you never saw electricity before, or never in a room with electricity, you wouldn't understand it, you wouldn't know that there's something that you can do. you wouldn't know that there's something that you can do. But the enlightened teacher says, now if you take this light bulb, you know, this lamp and you plug it in here, look what happens, something cool. So they have that awareness. Where does the enlightened electrician shop? At the OM Depot. Oh, double joke. Sorry. So, they have awareness of what's around, how to access power. Power is everywhere.

0:21:53
Everything is power. But the enlightened teacher knows how to access it. A structured way for you to use it, way for you to use it so that that power is connected to you, which is personal power. But in all of our practices, we seek these dimensions of light. Now, it's important not to have expectations. All we do is practice. We're just here to become impeccable, to try is practice, we're just here to become impeccable, to try to do the best that we can. And it's kind of like, let's say, it's exercise. It's like little by little, you learn more and more, you gain greater and greater power, personal power and connection to this light.

0:22:45
It's like lifting a barbell, right? So you do it, and at first it's a little difficult, and you don't know what's going on. Right, so you do it and at first it's a little difficult and you don't know what's going on. And if you do it right, you end up becoming very strong. If you do it wrong, if you go crazy with it, you might injure your elbow and that makes it weaker. So there's definitely a structured way to develop yourself and it's measured.

0:23:13
And if you do it correctly, measured, and if you do it correctly, then through these Buddhist practices, you gain tremendous personal power. Thank you very much.

