0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about dressing for power. transform your wardrobe into the pathway to enlightenment. Now this is serious. So, in Buddhist mysticism, there are two aspects of the study. There is the outer aspect and the inner aspect. The tonal and nahwal, the first attention, the second attention. The seen world and the unseen world. So there's a part of the study that has to do with physicality. Everything in the world that we can see, touch, understand, think about. that we can see, touch, understand, think about.

0:01:16
But then there's the other side. And the other side, the unseen world, the second attention, is a world of enlightenment, a world of spirit, a world so far beyond the first attention, the physical world, that you can't even think about it. you can't even think about it. It's a complete spiritual attention. So in Buddhist mysticism, we address and learn in both the seen world and the unseen world. Now, there are structures in structures of the outer attention, the seen world, that when we focus on them appropriately, we learn something in the world of spirit. a practice of painting thangkas. And these thangkas, these paintings, are images of bodhisattvas, images of goddesses, of Buddhas.

0:02:38
And the practice is to paint it perfectly, is to paint it the best that you can. And when you paint the goddess perfectly, And when you paint the goddess perfectly, then because you were able to make the image so perfect, through that image there's a connection to that actual divinity. So the painter comes to see and be aware in the second attention, in the world of spirit, of that divine source by making the painting perfectly. source by making the painting perfectly. Now, if the painter paints the goddess or the Bodhisattva in a way where it's just really sloppy, stick figures or finger paints or something like that, then the divinity does not come across. They don't realize anything about the spirit.

0:03:36
not come across, they don't realize anything about the spirit, they're still developing the ability to make the practice of the outer world perfect. And then once the practice of the outer world is perfect, then that's when you can access the divine in the inner There's always a balance in Buddhist mysticism, a balance of the inner world and the outer world. If you're able to do something perfect in the outer world, that's when you have that access to the inner world. And then when you do something more perfect, then you have more access. But the inner world's attention, that second attention, awareness and teachings and spirit, they're limited by your ability to do things properly in the outer world, in the physical.

0:04:39
So, you know, if you want to have that awareness of the divine through the Tanka painting, you have to learn to paint beautifully, perfectly. You have to become a very, learn to paint beautifully, perfectly. You have to become a very, very, very strong artist. Otherwise, you will never access that divine teaching. So it is the same in all aspects of your life. You have to have great refinement, impeccability in the physical, in every aspect discipline so that you can actually access those inner teachings. And then as you discipline yourself and become more impeccable, then you are able to get more and more of those inner teachings. So we practice this attention through dressing properly. We pay attention dressing properly. We pay attention to dress the way we dress. It is part of our discipline and by dressing with this attention, we're able to gain awareness in the second attention. We're able to learn something in the world spirit by focusing on the way that we dress.

0:06:00
focusing on the way that we dress. Now, the way that you dress really matters. It matters in very, very practical ways in this world. The way that you dress is your user interface to other people. And this is important because people are constantly aware of you, and they People are constantly aware of you, and they're constantly giving you energy. Might be good energy, might be bad energy. So you think that when you walk through a store that people hardly notice you or something like that? Everybody notices everybody. And everybody has an idea about everybody.

0:06:51
And so if they have a good idea about you, has an idea about everybody. And so if they have a good idea about you, then they'll either send you good energy or just not bother you too much. But if they have a bad idea of you, then they'll throw bad energy at you. So when you're going through the office, going throughout your day, people are constantly pinging you with what they think about you.

0:07:14
Strangers, they're constantly saying, they think about you? Strangers. They're constantly saying, oh, I think that you are this, so I'm going to push that back at you. So you might be getting hundreds or thousands of pings a day in your aura from people thinking, seeing you, and just coming to a first impression about you. And then they have a mental model of what that means, and then they have a certain of what that means, and then they have a certain kind of energy that goes to you. So it's very important that you are appearing in a way so that they don't push that energy at you. You want to appear in a way where people either push good energy at you, hold you up on a pedestal, or at least don't even good energy at you, hold you up on a pedestal, or at least don't even push anything at you.

0:08:06
So this is why it's so important to dress well, because you're constantly, constantly getting pinged by people's energy. And in Buddhist mysticism, we always seek to gain energy and and not lose energy. And if you dress wrong, you can lose a lot of energy. And if you dress right, you're able to go through the day without losing so much energy, and even gaining better energy. So dressing properly is very important. You have to look at the way you're dressing. It's kind of like dressing, It's kind of like dressing, the way that you dress creates opportunity and experience.

0:08:55
Kind of like in high school, right? So if you walk into some high school and you're the new kid, the new kid, you know, the way that you dress is gonna define your experience. So if you walk in pale, dark hair, and eyeliner, with dark hair and eyeliner and you're a goth, right? Then you're going to go over and be with the goth kids and do what they do and listen to their music and hear them bemoan the world or whatever they do, right? If you walk in and you're, you know, Caucasian and have dreadlocks and a Bob Marley shirt, and have dreadlocks and a Bob Marley shirt, you're going to go hang out with the white Rasta guys.

0:09:43
And you're probably, what are you going to do? You're going to listen to Bob Marley and smoke ganja or something like that? Your experiences are defined by the way that you appear. Or let's say that you're all gangsta, and you go into school. You might get into a fight. all gangsta, and you go into school, you might get into a fight. Someone might be all, hey, you're a new and you're not wearing the right color or something like that. And since you're dressed this way, I'm going to respond to you. So in school, it's just pretty obvious, you dress a certain way, it means something about who you are. But it's like that in life people. The way that you dress, people will think things about you, and you will have opportunities and experiences and energy coming back and forth accordingly to how you dress.

0:10:41
So if you dress in a way that is sloppy, people will always look at you and they'll immediately sloppy, people will always look at you and they'll immediately go, oh, there's like some sloppy lower person. And that's the energy they'll throw at you. And you'll just keep getting that, oh, just a normal regular schmuck. Just that energy will constantly go at you. So, you have to really think about how you're dressing, because you don't want that. That's low vibe energy. That's low vibe energy. You want more positive energy.

0:11:18
So what are positive ways of dressing? You want to appear to be, let's say, maybe athletic. There's a way to dress in a very athletic way. And people hold that up and say, wow, that's someone who's healthy, someone who's strong. So if you're dressed in a way that's very athletic, So if you're dressed in a way that's very athletic, then people say, oh, wow, an athlete, someone who is taking care of themselves. And they throw good energy at that.

0:11:46
If you dress in a way where you seem like wealthy, people in the West really appreciate wealth. And they say, wow, that person seems like, I don't know, wealthy. And they go, wow, that's really cool. I like that. that person seems like, I don't know, wealthy. And they go, wow, that's really cool, I like that. And they throw good energy at them. And they don't say, oh, you're just some slob. They go, oh, you're special.

0:12:14
And they kind of put you up on a pedestal. Or, you know, there's all sorts of ways. Like, if you dress like an intellectual, people think that's nice. Like, oh, he looks smart. people think that's nice. Like, oh, he looks smart. You know? So there's good ways that you want to appear so that people kind of put you up on a pedestal and say, oh, that's something that I would like to be athletic, I would like to be wealthy, I'd like to be intellectual.

0:12:47
And then they look at you in a different way. But if you just look like anybody else, they'll just say, oh, you're like anyone else. at you in a different way. But if you just look like anybody else, they'll just say, oh, you're like anyone else, and they'll push that on you. You'll lose energy. If you dress like a slob, you're a slob. Push energy at you that doesn't feel good. So you have to really look at how you're dressing. If you are wearing clothes that have an association to something lower, like you gotta look at yourself. You're like, how do I dress? Am I dressing like a wealthier person, a more athletic person, a smarter person?

0:13:24
How am I dressing? If I'm dressing with clothes that have an association to something else, like a teenager, then people will say, you're an adult. Why are you dressing like that? If you look like a motorcycle gang, If you look like a motorcycle gang, you know, got person, then they'll go, oh, that's that, that's not good. If you're wearing clothes that a plumber wears, then people go, it's just a plumber, right? You got to really look at it, you know, do you dress like those kids who go to the mall?

0:14:00
kids who go to the mall, then you're a mall kid. So you have to really look at yourself and say, the way that I dress, who wears these clothes? I mean, who wears this stuff? I mean, I wear this because I'm about to do Wu Wei Do. I wear this for martial arts. But when I'm not doing martial arts, I wear clothes that are always a step higher. I don't want that's always a step higher. I don't want to get bad energy from people. So you have to observe that. You have to observe the associations of what you're wearing. Like there's this international brand, Hollister, right? International brand, I've seen it in Europe and Asia.

0:14:47
And Hollister, California is just this weird little town. I don't know why it's an international brand. Hollister, California is just this weird little town. I don't know why it's an international brand. But anyway, who wears that? Do you know who wears that? Like, what do you call it? Poor people, people who shop at Walmart. I don't know. It's not an elevated brand.

0:15:06
And it's in everything that, every article of clothing from that brand says it. Hollister. And so if you're wearing that brand, Hollister. And so if you're wearing that brand, someone will look at you and they'll think, oh, Walmart shopper. You know. They'll just, that brand says to people, oh, this is nothing special. Regular person, at best.

0:15:34
Right? This is like, not an elevated thing. This is like, not an elevated thing. It would be better to wear a shirt that didn't say anything rather than a shirt that's, you know, like just a plain shirt, doesn't say Hollister. Because that would be something where people wouldn't have an idea, oh, you're just, mm. Because that would push you down. because that would push you down.

0:16:02
So we really want to observe what we're wearing, what it means, what are the associations, and start to dress in a way where we're more elevated. Now it really matters. judged by clothing, even in spiritual communities. So I was recently visiting with a Khenpo Rinpoche, and he was in the eastern part of Tibet, even after most Tibetans left because the Chinese came in, and he was a very, very prominent spiritual leader. And he was a very, very prominent spiritual leader. 20 years ago during Tiananmen Square, there was a bunch of people at that uprising, we would call it, who had photocopies of some of his teachings because they found it very inspiring and they were Buddhist.

0:17:09
And then after the incident at Tiananmen Square, the Chinese government found that they had these Square, the Chinese government found that they had these from this one Rinpoche, these teachings and they said, oh, this guy must be a religious person informing them to revolt and things like that. So then he got the news that the Chinese army was going to come and And he escaped over the Himalayas in the winter and got to Kathmandu in Nepal. And the winter, it's not easy to trek across the Himalayas from the complete eastern border all the way to the western border to Nepal. It's not easy in the summer, but in the winter, it's dangerous. Some of the people that went with him actually died on the trip.

0:18:00
people that went with him actually died on the trip. When he got to Kathmandu, where there are many, many, many Tibetan Buddhists, many monasteries, he was kind of sickly looking, a little scraggly, and his clothes were shredded and just, he was just wearing rags. And he was also sick, but very ill He was also sick, but very ill by the time he got there. And he ran into a Buddhist who said, there's a monastery over here where they give free medical help.

0:18:39
So he went to that monastery to get the free medical help. And then there was a meeting of these kind of higher level Rinpoches in that monastery. And they would get together and they're talking about in that monastery. And they would get together and they were talking about some of the higher aspects of Buddhist learning. So then he walked into the meeting, kind of just sat in the back. Now he's very, very learned.

0:19:04
One of the most learned kind of professors of Buddhism. So while they were talking, he would just kind of sit in the back and then he would add something. And then they would go, oh, interesting. Yeah, that's a good point. and sit in the back and then he would add something. And then they would go, oh, interesting. Yeah, that's a good point. And then they keep talking.

0:19:19
And then he would add something and add something. And eventually, they said, my God, this guy's, he's really smart. So they eventually asked him, who are you? And then he told them who he was. And he was a famous Rinpoche that they all recognized. And then they were in shock to see him And then they were in shock to see him, because they knew he was in Tibet, but they were also in shock because he looked so horrible.

0:19:45
But the thing is, if he had walked in and he was wearing the regular robes, they would have immediately said, oh, hey, come on in. You know, who are you? But at first, it took them a while, because he just was like, he looked like some person from the street, which he was. It took them a while because he just was like, he looked like some person from the street, which he was, in rags.

0:20:09
And then it took him many times to say amazing things before they actually even realized it. So it even happens in spiritual communities where the way you appear really gets you in or connected. really gets you in or connected. So we seek in the world to really create a form that the world can understand. We say, okay, I want to be successful in this way, this way, way, this way, and this way. So I'm going to dress in a certain way so I can be successful at these things. There was a Wall Street VP at a bank and he was talking to an intern. The intern, there were a number of interns, and the interns were basically kind of like college kids, dressed okay. They would wear slacks and a button-up shirt. And this one intern said to the VP, he said, hey, how can I succeed? I want to get the job. You guys are going to hire maybe one or two out of these 12 interns. I want to get that job.

0:21:36
the VP at the bank said, dress well. He said, I've always followed this rule, dress to make money. He's like, I've always said, how can I make money? How can I dress today to make more money? And so he said, the intern's like, I don't really have a lot of money to dress well. And he said, I don't care if it's $100 suit, go out and get that suit, just make sure it fits well. suit, go out and get that suit. Just make sure it fits well. He said, just put it on if it fits, that's great. Don't care about anything else. Well, maybe the color, shouldn't be orange. So he said, just dress well. So then he became, the intern became the only intern who wore the same suit every day. But he wore a suit and the others didn't. And and the others didn't.

0:22:25
And then that intern eventually got hired. So it's true, in work, if you dress well, if you pay attention to dressing well, then all of a sudden you're gonna be more successful. It happens, it absolutely happens. Because people look at you, and then they see that you look more elevated at work. and then they see that you look more elevated at work. And then they say, oh, you look better and you're at work, so then you're gonna succeed more.

0:22:59
The way that you dress is your visual communication to people. So even if you're a really good worker, but if you dress with associations to Hollister or things like that, I'm giving them a hard time. Hollister or things like that, giving them a hard time. If you dress with associations to lower things, you're not gonna do as well. If you dress with associations to higher things, I'm dressing like somebody in my line of business who succeeds, who's really at the top of their game.

0:23:32
When you dress like that, then people say, oh yeah, you are that. You are visually communicating that you are successful You are that. You are visually communicating that you are successful in your area. So it's important that we follow this, that we are able to make ourselves aware of what we want and how to align our visual communication and what we wear to that thing that we want to succeed in. to that thing that we want to succeed in. So it's something that we constantly focus on. We're constantly trying to be better and stronger in this regard. Now we don't just follow trends. So, you know, skinny jeans might be a trend, right?

0:24:31
Yeah, they're skinny. Yeah, I'm not really into that. I can't really get into that one. That fashion trend. So, but you know, skinny jeans might be something that's very trendy, but like, what does it mean? You know, like, look in your company, and like, who wears skinny jeans? Does this matter? look in your company and like, who wears skinny jeans?

0:24:51
Does this matter? You don't want to get into the trends. You want to be classic. You want to be more conservative and classic rather than following trends. So I remember seeing a picture of a CEO and some employees from the 1970s. and some employees from the 1970s. Now, the CEO was wearing a blue suit and a red tie, and he looked classic. He looked excellent. And then a couple of the guys standing next to him were wearing, like, there was this one guy wearing kind of an orangish suit, kind of an orangish suit, brownish-orange, with bell bottoms. The other guy was wearing a really bad plaid suit with this giant, horrible paisley tie. And you look at those guys, they were following trends, but then we want to be like the CEO. Very classic look. If you Very classic look.

0:26:01
If you were in that time and this time, both works. Maybe even, you know, a lot earlier. So we always want to find that classic look. It's a little more conservative in the 70s. Maybe that orange suit with the bell bottoms was the coolest thing. But we want to be a little bit more conservative. Nothing flashy. a little bit more conservative, nothing flashy. Because when you're flashy, then people see you more.

0:26:31
They say, oh yeah, there goes something I'm more aware of. If you're conservative and classic, then you kind of just go under the radar and not as many people are pinging you. But we want to address in a way, of course, very important, of course, very important, where people don't notice us, but we can be very successful, where we're very, very subtly lifted to a high position in the minds of others. Now, when you're looking into clothes, into what you're going to wear, into what you're going to wear, it's important for you to have kind of quality in mind. So you don't want to go to a place and shop where you're going to get discount clothes.

0:27:31
You can't be worrying about the price of your clothing. have to really get clothing that has the right feel to you, the right look to you, the right quality. So when you're shopping, that's the most important thing to find, the right quality, the right look. When you're shopping, when you're thinking about your wardrobe, the colors are very important, right? when you're thinking about your wardrobe, the colors are very important, right?

0:28:05
So you have to have the proper colors that work with you. You can't wear colors that don't work with your skin tone or your hair or your eyes. It's important to have the right colors. It's important to have the right size. Clothes that fit, it's important. It's important. It's important to know what kind of style or what kind of cut of clothing works for you. So this is why it's good to work with a stylist. A stylist can tell you these things.

0:28:41
It's an important consultation because they are able to just say, and oh, by the way, because of your body type, here's the proper fit and proper cut for you. And then you go, oh, okay. And that sets you in a very good direction. So that's important. When you're shopping for clothes, you always want to make sure that you have in mind that image of success. You say, okay, I have this image of success.

0:29:12
of success. You say, okay, I have this image of success. Maybe you saw somebody in your line of business or you know what you want to look like. You go, okay, that's good. I'm going to do that. I want to do that. I want to look like that. So I'm shopping for that look. So this way you're actually stalking the right attention. When we're wearing something, it brings us power. So, that's why, you know, they have this saying, the power tie? It's true. You might have a special tie that you'll wear to interviews. You say, yeah, this is my power tie. I wear it to interviews. yeah, this is my power tie. I wear it to interviews because it is strong and bold and it commands attention and respect. It's what I'm communicating.

0:30:12
So the power tie might work, but also you might, for any time that you're going to do something powerful, like an interview like an interview for a new job or just going out to have a special dinner, or if you're coming to a meditation event, it is always good, it's always very good to wear something special. When you're doing powerful things, wear something special. It gives you power. It elevates you. So you go, okay, to this interview I'm going to dress this way and So you go, okay, to this interview, I'm gonna dress this way and I'm gonna have my power tie or something, right? Or you do something a little bit special, something classy, like a handkerchief in your coat pocket or a scarf, right?

0:31:06
Something that's a little bit elevated and something that is your special, classy thing special classy thing that is just a little bit of a step up than most people, that gives you a stronger power. When you dress well to meditation, you say, okay, I'm coming to meditation and I'm going to dress really well. I have a very special jacket that I'm wearing. wearing. And this jacket just really is, it's really beautiful, I really like it, I wear it only on special occasions. Then when you come to the meditation, you actually shift your attention because of how you dressed. And you end up going into higher states of mind in your meditation. You have a brighter spiritual experience because you dressed well.

0:32:00
So, dressing well gives you power. Power to have higher experiences, both in the physical world and also in your spiritual attention. So it's important. Now, there are also considerations of good power and bad power in how you dress. So some clothes might be powerful in one regard, but also have a bad vibration in another regard. So for example, Armani. Armani is a very, very nice vibration. It's expensive, but it's a very nice vibration. So if you're wearing an Armani suit, So if you're wearing an Armani suit, then it has a refinement and a good energy and very refined quality. And also it's something that when the people see you wear it, they go, oh, that looks really nice. It puts you up on that pedestal. Now, then there's another designer, Hugo Boss.

0:33:12
And this also is an expensive, nice looking suit, really excellent cut and everything like that, but it has a bad vibration. And the bad vibration, I call it Nazi wear. It's a German, it's a German designer, and for me, I'm just like, whoa, this feels bad. It's like not a good vibration. this feels bad. It's like not a good vibration. So it's like to wear that, one, you'll look really good, but two, there's a weird vibration. And it is very much like, you know, the Nazis looked awesome. I mean, really.

0:33:54
What's that? He did? Yeah. He did? Hugo Boss designed the Nazi uniforms. That's why I call it Nazi wear. I didn't know that, but every time I came next to Hugo Boss, I'm like, don't touch this stuff. So the thing about it is that's bad vibration. And as I said, the Nazis looked really stunning. They They had cool uniforms, they looked better than the British. So different designers have different vibrations. When you're going to wear something, it's got to look good, but it also has to feel good, like spiritually.

0:34:48
By understanding energy flow when people look at you, and understanding that your attention shifts when you wear different clothes, and understanding that if you look better in certain areas, you actually achieve more, you can, through this practice, follow fashion to raise your outer world attention, and it also brings you to an inner world attention, an actual spiritual teaching by following these considerations. Okay. Thank you very much. these considerations. Okay, thank you very much.

