0:00:00
Transience Tonight I'd like to talk about transience. In Buddhism, transience is something that we learn about is something that we learn about to understand the impermanent nature of the universe. Everything that we can observe is always changing. Everything in the world, everything in the universe, everything in our mind, in our lives, constantly changing. A tree changes. It has leaves, It has leaves, then we come to the autumn, and the leaves fall off. There's no leaves for a while, then the spring comes, and there's leaves again. Life is like this. Cycles, changes. I went to the desert in Southern California, and this dry, arid land with giant mountains.

0:01:19
It used to be an inland sea, and now it's a desert. This is the truth of everything. Everything that's one way becomes another. A mountain will become a valley over time. Things change. And we change. The way that we, even our physical bodies. We, the way that we, even our physical bodies. One time we were six year old kids. Then you get older, become an adult.

0:01:48
Eventually you'll die. This is a, this is impermanence in the physical body. So we observe that, but we also observe that the way we think changes. The way we think changes. At one time, we believed in Santa Claus. Another time, we didn't. Easter bunny's real, though. So we look at things differently. The things that are important to us change. We learn new information.

0:02:19
It changes. The people that we hang around change. There was a study where researchers for decades There's a study where researchers for decades took a group of people and they asked them very, very specific questions about how they thought their happiness would change over time. They said, in the next 10 years, how do you think your happiness will change? The friends that you're with now, your best friends and the people you're associated with, your best friends and the people you're associated with, how do you think that will change? And everybody would say, oh in 10 years, no it's going to be the same.

0:02:58
I'll be as happy and I will have the same friends. And they asked a lot of very detailed questions about personal happiness, associations, basically kind of like your state of well-being. Ten years later, they came back to them and they well-being. 10 years later, they came back to them, and they said, we would like you to validate your answers from 10 years ago. So everybody thought nothing would change, and then when they started going through all those questions again, they go, nope, that changed, yep, that changed, gosh, yeah, I thought Steve and I would be best pals bowling together on the weekends, but Steve got married, moved off to Vietnam, I don't know, right?

0:03:36
moved off to Vietnam. So things change. It's just that you never expect it to. We all expect that the future is going to be the same. No one expects the Spanish Inquisition. But really, But really, nobody expects death. Yet at some time, your death will come. But from the point of view of right now, you say, no, no, no. Tomorrow's going to be just like today. So we always look at things in a way of permanence, when the truth is that things are not permanent. But it's good that there's impermanence. It's good that things are transient.

0:04:24
But it's good that there's impermanence. It's good that things are transient. It's good that things change. Otherwise, if we had it our way and things stayed the same, life would be very boring. You'd be very stuck. You'd always be the same. And you'd get bored of it. Now the truth is, when someone's on the pathway to enlightenment, and they're meditating, When someone's on the pathway to enlightenment and they're meditating, practicing different practices of Dharma, mindfulness, yoga, they start to realize that the self, that continuity of limitation, is extremely boring.

0:05:08
Because the self wants to be the same, and it strives to be the same. and it strives to be the same. It's only fascinating when you move beyond the self, when you have a spiritual experience, when you see the inner light for meditation. When you start to get a sense beyond the self, you start to realize that the self changes, and that the changes are good, and that the self would just sit there experiencing a boring experiencing a boring universe again and again and again, when actually the universe is constantly changing. It's changing right now, in this very moment. There's unlimited change happening right now. The thing is that when the self is is grabbing on, you can't see it. You can't see eternity in the transient moment. The moment is an interesting thing, because the moment has to do with our perception of time. And time is transient. Time is not fixed. Our experiences of time are different. So let's say we all live on So let's say we all live on earth and we think that time runs a certain way and that our perception of time runs a certain way. It's all fixed, it's all the same, but it's different. Let's say that someone was throwing a rock at you, and it comes too fast, you don't have time to move out of the way, it hits you in the head. Ouch! But let's say someone threw the same rock at a at a hummingbird. Hummingbird would get out of the way plenty of time.

0:06:54
Hummingbird would see it. The hummingbird sees it coming slowly and the hummingbird gets out of the way. The snail wouldn't even notice it. What I get hit with. So even on our planet, beings perceive time differently. beings perceive time differently. Yeah, and the moment, even the moment, it changes. So, when you're experiencing, let's say, pain, you're getting a cavity filled, the dentist is drilling your teeth. For that moment, it takes a long time, right? It's a long It takes a long time, right? It's a long moment. You're like, ah! Every moment is long and you just, it's excruciating and there's a lot of things going on in that one moment.

0:07:52
But if you were to hang out with a bunch of good friends, having a party, the moment, a moment might just be four hours. You go, wow, I thought that was just a moment long. Before hours you go. Wow. I thought just was that was just a moment long It was four hours of us sitting around having a good time So The moment changes if you're in a car accident Do you think you're gonna die your your life flashes before you right in a moment you can Go through everything it could take it could take your whole life in one moment It could take your whole life in one moment. So the moment is also something that is transient.

0:08:34
It could be short, it could be long. And then in physics, I think in physics, there's not even a moment, right? They can't say this is the moment, they could only measure the past and the future. So where's the moment? So where's the moment? It's a psychological illusion. There's no moment in physics, which is actually that kind of agrees with Buddhism. Actually, I'm not a physicist. So I'm just, this is what I think. So the moment that we observe would be like, if there's a lake and If there's a lake and the shore, there's water and there's sand, and we see a coastline, we say, that's the coastline. No, it's just there's only two things, water and sand. But we make something up, which we call the moment.

0:09:32
Now, in Buddhism, we recognize that there's no past and that there's no future, that these and that there's no future, that these are transient experiences just like the moment. And the past and the future and the moment only exist when you think about it, when you bring it into transient awareness. You think about the past, then you start creating the transient awareness of past. You think about the moment, transient awareness moment. A lot of spiritual teachers say, A lot of spiritual teachers say, bring your mind into the present moment. Now Buddha never said that. Buddha always said, observe phenomena arising.

0:10:16
Now bringing your mind into the present moment brings you into time. observing phenomena arising brings you outside of time. Time is transience. And what Buddha spoke about is the way beyond transience. So it's to observe. It's quite profound. It's observing the physical transient world, but it's also observing eternity. So Buddha had a very interesting observation. So Buddha had a very interesting observation, but at the present moment, things are very popular thing. But it brings you into time, and time is still transient, it's just an idea.

0:11:04
So in Buddhism, we learn about transience. We learn about this because it helps us to bring because it helps us to bring our focus and our power into profitable pursuits, rather than wasting our time and attention on things that don't matter, that don't work out. So there was this one emperor of China who was very, very powerful and very, and very, very successful, and he didn't want to die. So as he started getting older, he started worrying about, oh no, I'm gonna die. Gotta figure out how to get around this death thing. So what he decided to do was, he sent his sages throughout the land to find elixirs and potions for youth, and they came back and he tried them, they didn't work.

0:12:00
youth and they came back and he tried them, they didn't work. He tried to find the seven immortals. They had these secrets of how to live a long time. He tried to find those ways to live a long time. Couldn't find the teachers, the seven immortals, to teach him how to live longer. There was said to be a peach. If you eat the peach, you live forever. Couldn't And there was said to be a peach, if you eat the peach, you live forever. Couldn't find the peach. He had all sorts of people read scrolls and cast spells on him that was supposed to help him live long, wearing trinkets and charms and everything. He did everything possible to live long. And then he died in anguish, seeking to live forever, but he's going about it in the wrong seeking to live forever, but he's going about it in the wrong way.

0:12:54
Now, if you know the story of the Buddha, once the Buddha in his sheltered life realized that he, a prince, was going to someday die, he said, this certainly just will not do. So he also said, I got to go out there and figure out a way beyond this death thing. I gotta go out there and figure out a way beyond this death thing. But he pursued it in a profitable way. He sought not within the transient to find a way beyond life and death, but he went into his inner awareness. of consciousness, the nexus of all being. He found that in his spirit. And through meditation, mindfulness, and yoga, he came to a place in a spiritual being, spiritual awareness, He came to a place of infinite consciousness that exists beyond transience.

0:14:10
And in doing this, in following this inner path, this middle way to enlightenment, he came to actually really, in a useful way, solve that problem. He solved the problem of life and death. way, solve that problem. He solved the problem of life and death. Oh, he died. His physical body got sick and passed away, but his consciousness, his awareness, had already reached a level beyond life and death. This is the People are afraid of transients a lot because they cling to things. They become attached to things. They say, oh, I really desire this, so I want it. And if I don't have that, I'll be unhappy.

0:15:08
I have this thing I like. I want it. If I don't have it, I'll be unhappy. There's something I'm afraid of. I've got to keep away from it. If I don't have it, I'll be unhappy. There's something I'm afraid of. I've got to keep away from it. So it's this aversion and desire and attachment that exists in the transient. And if you're grabbing onto things, holding onto things, trying to run away from things, you're always caught up in the transient world, and you're missing the truth. the truth. You're doing something where you're putting your hopes and happiness, you're connecting it to something that's going to change. And when it changes, when it goes away, then you'll lose your happiness. So my teacher used to always Don't bet on a horse that you know is going to lose.

0:16:06
And this is what people do. Well, this is our secret. So if you know transience, then you say, okay, wait, let me not bet on a horse I know is gonna lose. If I'm gonna put my happiness in a relationship, you know it's going to change. If I'm going to put my happiness into money, happiness into money, it's going to change, at least at death. You can't take the money with you. So anything in the physical world, family, possessions, any kind of stuff, if you attach your happiness to it, it's going to change. It's going to change while you're alive or it'll change at death, because nothing in the transient world is something that will at death, because nothing in the transient world is something that will really bring you eternal satisfaction.

0:16:58
So even if it's something that seems so right, it seems so perfect, in the end it won't work out. So don't bet on a horse that you know is going to lose. So this guy wakes up five in the morning. So this guy wakes up, five in the morning. He goes outside, it's five degrees Celsius. It's cold. Then he gets in his car, starts driving. His car has 5,000 miles. Reaches into his pocket, there's $5.

0:17:32
He's like, this is a sign. He goes to the racetrack. That's on horse number five. track that's on horse number five. And then it comes in fifth place. Even when you think it's so right to bet on that horse, it's never going to work out. Yeah. I bet on a good horse though, but it took like seven horses to beat him. So you So you can't always just bet on something when you know it's going to change. You can't put your your power into a place where it won't be profitable. Yeah, so there was a woman back in India, There was a woman back in India, let's see. She ended up being actually an enlightened student in Arhat of the Buddhas, but she started off just putting all of her energy into the wrong place, wrong bet on the wrong horse.

0:18:48
horse. And what she did was, she was extremely beautiful and she got everything in her life from her beauty. So growing up, everybody would do things for her. And eventually she found a husband who was really wealthy. So she got him because of her beauty and she got jewels and she got position and adoration and attention. Everything that she got was and adoration and attention. Everything that she got was because of her beauty. She used her beauty to get things in life. And she was content. She was happy because of that. Now, eventually, her husband left and joined Buddha and became a monk. And then, so she just had a whole bunch of stuff and she was happy with it for a while. And then, eventually, she said, hmm, I kind of miss my husband. with it for a while.

0:19:37
And then eventually she said, hmm, I kind of miss my husband. I'd like to go see him again. And yes, listen to see what this Buddha's all about. So she went to go see Buddha, said hi to her husband. And then Buddha saw that she was attached to her, to using her beauty. And so he used his Buddhist magic And so he used his Buddhist magic and he gave her a vision. And in her vision, there was a woman much, much, much, much more beautiful than she.

0:20:13
And she thought, wow, I thought I was beautiful. This woman is like celestial beauty. She's like, I don't look like anything good compared to her. anything good compared to her. And then in the vision, the woman very rapidly started to age. She became wrinkled and old, and eventually she fell over dead, like dying her own excrement. And then her body started to fester and puff. Finally, she started to be eaten by maggots. finally started to be eaten by maggots. So she had this vision and Buddha projected it to her. And in seeing that, she realized that she was betting on the wrong horse. Because if she put her power and her focus into life through getting what she wants because of her beauty, it would through getting what she wants because of her beauty, it would change. She would eventually become old and lose that power. She would eventually die and in the end that would get her nowhere. So in having this experience and actually seeing this vision, she learned that putting her energy into the wrong that putting her energy into the wrong place wouldn't bring her satisfaction.

0:21:42
She learned the truth of impermanence and then she joined Buddha's Sangha as a bikini. And then she eventually became enlightened from the practice. So it's really important to recognize transience So it's really important to recognize transience and not to ever attach to something that's not going to work out for your enlightenment. If you're attaching to people and places and things, I mean, when you're operating through a way of desire or a way of limitation, a way in the transience and not something way in the transience and not something deeper, the Dharma, the truth. You're always going to find limitation. You're always going to find that you have suffering.

0:22:35
Many people suffer about transience because they don't want to lose things. I like this, a story about, her name was Gotami. She had a son who died. And she goes to Buddha and says, Buddha, my son just died, like little kind of baby. She's like, my son just died. Can you bring him back to life? Please, please, you must. I love my son so much. And then Buddha said, I can do this. And then he said, but I will need first a mustard seed from I can do this. And then he said, but I will need first a mustard seed from a house anywhere in the village where someone has not died. So she goes, Okay, great. Thank you, Buddha. So she goes around the village. And she goes to the first house and she says, Do you have a mustard seed here? I say, Yeah, sure. And then she said, Has anyone died here? And then And she said, has anyone died here?

0:23:39
And then, well, yeah, grandma died a few years ago. Okay, can't be here, bye. So goes to the next house and the next house. So she goes throughout the whole village asking at each house, can I have a mustard seed and has anyone died? And at every house, someone had died. died. This is before the old age homes. Now we just kind of shove them away so they can die somewhere else. But back then, people would live in their house until they die. So in every house, someone had passed away. And by going through this experience, she she realized that she was clinging to something that's impossible.

0:24:31
She's clinging to something in the transient and everything's going to change. Life doesn't last forever for anyone. So when she returned to Buddha, well, first she went and brought her son to the funeral First she went and brought her son to the funeral prior and had him cremated. Then she comes back to Buddha, having learned this lesson of attachment to something in the transient being a false view. She was able to move beyond that. And that was her lesson. that was her lesson. See, one of the great things about loss is that in loss you can gain something new. If you're holding something in your hand, that's it, right?

0:25:29
If you hold it forever, that's all you're going to hold. But if you lose it, you can pick something else up. Things change. They always change. And if you grab onto Things change, they always change. And if you grab on to something and it changes, you got to look for the good in the change. Because there's always a view of truth, a greater power when there's change. And that's taking a positive view of life. That's looking for truth and dharma in all things that change, even if it's difficult. things have changed, even if it's difficult. Her son died and she was able to learn to let go of the suffering of that tragedy and understand a greater spiritual truth. This is what we always do. So we always say change is Change is good. And in every change, even if it's painful, even if it's difficult, even if it's a horrible loss, we look in that change for enlightenment.

0:26:38
We look for the truth, a greater awareness of life in that change. And from saying change is good and finding that greater truth, we're stronger, we're and finding that greater truth, we're stronger, we're more conscious because of it, we're more enlightened because of it. So we continually are seeking that, that greater view. Now, there's a lot of things that you can't take with you in the transient world. You can't take money in the transient world. You can't take money with you, you can't take your nice dress with you. When you leave this world, you can't take anything in the transient with you. But there is something that you can take with you, and that is your awareness, your consciousness. At the end of your awareness, your consciousness. At the end of this lifetime, your spirit will move on into the bardos, into a new incarnation.

0:27:51
And when you go, the things that you accumulate don't go with you. But if in this lifetime you set your mind on learning about truth, learning to be more aware, then that goes with you. Your awareness continues. Your consciousness continues. in a way of the essential you know practice of meditation expanding awareness and consciousness developing personal power Then this awareness that you develop when you when you see life in a bigger way You're more aware of life. You're more conscious of what's going on. You've got greater Personal power these go with you You've got greater personal power.

0:28:50
These go with you. When you leave the body, as you go into the after death stages, the bardos, your consciousness, your greater awareness is there. When you're aware of something, once you're aware of it, then you know. So it's like, what's in my hand? Right? So it's like, what's in my hand, right? You don't know until I show you, there's nothing. Enlightenment, Zen, bam. There you go.

0:29:24
So, you don't know until you know. But once you know, then you have, you're aware of it. And that never leaves you. So we, what we do in life does matter. life does matter. So we'll focus on expanding our awareness, developing personal power, knowing the truth. The greater our awareness of truth, then when we enter into the bardos or our next lifetime, we have a greater power and a greater truth, greater awareness of This is how, even in the world of transience, we keep on developing ourselves. Now, meditation is the foundation of all practice.

0:30:11
It is the primary spiritual practice of seeing beyond the transient. We, in meditation, stop thought. The moment that you stop thought, you're completely connected to eternity. you're completely connected to eternity. You move beyond the transient and you experience what is eternal. If all you can experience is the transient, then you're never meditating. If you're just sitting there thinking, you're still experiencing the transient. To get beyond the transient, you have to stop thought completely.

0:30:52
Because once you stop thought, you see eternity. So we do this again and again and again and again. We find that the self is infinite consciousness beyond thought. That thought is transient. But we also see that we are not our thoughts. is transient. But we also see that we are not our thoughts. We're not our thoughts. We're not our ideas. In meditation, this self that we grasp washes away, and we see our eternal nature. We see that when we're sitting there outside of meditation, if you're angry, depressed, confused, just having you're angry, depressed, confused, just having a difficult day, or you're happy and hopeful. You see that that whole self is not you.

0:31:49
In meditation, you're able to go beyond that limited self of ups and downs, of joys and a lot of limitation and dissatisfaction and pain. of limitation and dissatisfaction and pain, you go beyond it completely and you see your true eternal nature. And that true eternal nature is what Buddha found. It is enlightenment. It is the eternal light of being that is both in the transient and beyond. and beyond. And the self that we have in our waking moments is completely limited and stuck in the transient. But that's not who we truly are. We truly are that light of eternity. And we're that light of eternity experiencing limitation sometimes. Again and again we go through different experiences of self, different Again and again, we go through different experiences of self, different thoughts, everything's transient, different feelings, different experiences.

0:32:58
But that is not who we are. We can't say, I am this way. That is who I am. Because the truth is that you are that eternity beyond it. It's kind of like, if you're driving in a car, and you're looking out the window, you're and you're looking out the window, you're in traffic, you're driving through a bad part of town, it's all dirty. We don't say, I am this place. You're a being driving through a place. So when you have angers, depressions, limitations, confusions, it's not you. Your consciousness is limitations, confusions. It's not you. Your consciousness is moving through that experience. So we let go of grasping. These things will come up, but we don't grasp. We don't say, this is me. Because if you grab onto, this is me, this anger, this is me, the sadness, this is me, this personal history, then you're grabbing onto the transient. You're betting Then you're grabbing on to the transient. You're betting on a horse that you know is going to lose.

0:34:06
So we just say nope, just driving through, going on to the next place. And we know that the person driving is eternity. And that's our true self. So in meditation, we see that truth self so that we can come back into our lives and truth self so that we can come back into our lives and be more connected to truth, more connected to what is real, what is eternal, so that when we're experiencing the ups and downs and the difficulties and the joys and the pains of life, we're not bound by it, to it. We're constantly going to that deeper light. And enlightenment is being in both the transient and the eternal. To see that in this physical transient world, there is also the eternal and that there's truly no difference. And in that awareness, there's tremendous satisfaction, tremendous joy.

0:35:16
Because there's no limitation even in the transient, when you're aware of the eternal at the same time. This is the understanding of transience in Buddhism. Thank you.

