0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about spiritual experiences, dreams, and visions. Spiritual experiences are things that really expose us to illumination. It's what brings us to awakening. The art of dreaming is the way that we navigate the world of illusion. We go through the transitory world, the world of maya, in a way that is constructive and powerful and illuminating by dreaming. Visions, they show us the truth. They show us the truth. They show us the way to truth. And they show us directly how to find truth, how to access it, and the appropriate things to do and not do when interacting with truth and the pathway to truth.

0:01:12
interacting with truth and the pathway to truth. So you embark on the spiritual path because of a vision. The vision might come from an experience in nature. It might come from a book that you read. It might come from meeting a spiritual teacher, but the vision comes as But the vision comes as a result of your spirit seeing, seeing the pathway to enlightenment, seeing the spiritual truth of life, seeing eternity, seeing light.

0:02:00
wakes up, opens its eyes, your third eye, and you see past the physical world, you get a glimpse of spirit, you get a glimpse of truth, and that's how you start the spiritual path. Then at that point, you start to realize, oh, I want to know more. You have a choice at that point to follow the path of spirit. You have the option. And you often get the information in that vision of what you need to do next. So there was a famous Zen master, but before he was a Zen master in China. now. He didn't know anything about Zen, hadn't even heard about Zen. But one day, sitting out by a river, he had a vision. And he had a vision of a mountain. It was a mountain that he had never seen before, but he had a feeling that it was in the north. So he left his family and set out to see that, to go to that mountain, just because he had that vision. In having a spiritual vision, it is illuminating. You see the truth. You're able to apprehend truth a little bit. And so it compels you to see more truth, to learn more So he left his family, traveled north for weeks until finally he came across the mountain that he had seen in his vision.

0:03:48
So he goes walking to the mountain and then at the foot of the mountain he meets his enlightened teacher, his Zen master, who is sitting there in meditation and then when he appears he in meditation and then when he appears, he opens his eyes and says, Oh yes, please sit and I will teach you. So visions awaken us to the path that we must follow, the things that we must do, and it also shows us the things that we shouldn't do. So we might say, we might have a vision and we might see that our whole life, everything that we've been doing is all wrong. and we might see that our whole life, everything that we've been doing is all wrong.

0:04:28
Sometimes someone will have a spiritual vision and say, why am I at this job? I need to change my career. Sometimes someone will have a spiritual vision and then they'll say, I need to move from this city. I need to move to the country. I need to move to the ocean, by the ocean or something. So we have information of what we gotta do So we have information of what we got to do and also what's going wrong, what's blocking us in these spiritual visions.

0:04:58
But when we follow a spiritual vision, we come to a greater spiritual experience. So you see the way to truth and you follow it, and then it brings you to a powerful experience, a spiritual experience. brings you to a powerful experience, a spiritual experience. And spiritual experiences are where our spirit gets high, bright, our consciousness expands, we become more aware of the transient aspects of life so that we don't suffer so much, and we become more aware of the eternal the eternal enlightened aspects of life and We have a greater fulfillment of spirit through spiritual experience now Books and Concepts and ideas that you could read or hear are not good enough. They're always limiting limiting. We seek on the pathway to enlightenment to experience it, not to conceptualize it, not to read a book and go, I get the basic idea about this thing. But we seek to actually experience every aspect of the pathway to enlightenment directly. It is because of direct It is because of direct experience we come to know the truth.

0:06:31
Now once Buddha gave a beautiful Dharma talk telling a very beautiful truth of life, and then after speaking, he says to one of his senior students, he says, so do you know what I mean? So, do you know what I mean? Am I right? And then the student said, I don't know what you mean. And I don't know if you're right. And then the Buddha said, very good. Because the Buddha always taught that whatever teaching he said, even if it makes a lot of sense, you shouldn't just accept it.

0:07:12
lot of sense, you shouldn't just accept it. You should practice it. You should go see if it is true in your experience. So when you receive a teaching, you have to meditate on it, reflect on it. You have to put it to use in your life. And then when you see that it is true in your experience, then you have come to wisdom from the teaching. Otherwise come to wisdom from the teaching. Otherwise it was merely a schematic direction, just a concept. So we come to see at some period of time that all of life is a spiritual experience. In the beginning we want to have these certain experiences, but we come to see that everything in our lives experiences, but we come to see that everything in our lives is a spiritual experience. Doing laundry, spiritual experience. Sitting in traffic, a very spiritual experience. So the thing is, when you are awakened to the teachings, then everything that you do is a spiritual experience. You are a spiritual experience. But in the beginning, we have to focus on what we call the higher Dharma. Higher practices, disciplines of enlightened awareness and attention that direct you to a profound growth, transformation. Because until you have that profound transformation, Because until you have that profound transformation, then sitting in traffic will be horrible.

0:08:55
And you don't see the enlightenment in it. You don't see the spiritual experience. But when we have these practices, the high Dharma, then we see tremendous growth. And then we start to see a glimpse of spirit in everything. But the high Dharma practices begin with meditation. The high Dharma practices begin with meditation. Meditation is stopping thought. And the moment that you stop thought, you have a direct spiritual experience. So that's one of the fastest ways to have a tremendous, powerful, luminous, eternal spiritual experience.

0:09:37
It is to simply sit down and stop thought. spiritual experience, it is to simply sit down and stop thought. When you stop thought, the world as you know it disappears and all there is is spirit. All there is is spiritual experience. So meditation is a profound way. Another way is mindfulness. When you cut out negative thinking and you introduce expansive thinking, when all of your thoughts are about and you introduce expansive thinking. When all of your thoughts are about love, compassion, and enlightenment for others, then what happens is you enter into much higher states of mind. And then in those higher states of mind, when you're dwelling on compassion for others, then what happens is you start to experience really high spiritual experiences. And then you start to experience really high spiritual experiences.

0:10:28
And then that's when you can be sitting in traffic and then think about compassion and love for all the other drivers who have to sit in traffic with you. And then you start to go into high states of mind and you start to have spiritual experiences. Another important way to experience spirit is to have a teacher, an esoteric teacher, is to have a teacher, an esoteric teacher, a teacher who has mastered meditation, a teacher who can go into Samadhi, an enlightened teacher. These types of teachers will be able to create a field of energy that is so luminous from their practice that when you are with them, with them, you experience that field of energy, that enlightened, perfect state of energy.

0:11:21
And then you have a spiritual experience. So it is in that transference of luminosity, of consciousness, when you're sitting with your teacher, where there is a spiritual experience. where there is a spiritual experience. It's also possible to have spiritual experiences with your teacher when your teacher is absent, maybe far away, or maybe your teacher's passed on, passed away, you can still focus on the teacher and connect with their eternal mind. So a teacher is a profound tool for the student to have a spiritual experience.

0:12:00
tool for the student to have a spiritual experience. Now it's very important when we have spiritual experiences to integrate them into our lives. So we don't want to just go out and have some experience and then just leave it behind. We always want to focus on, wow, okay, I've gotten some insight from my meditation. to focus on, wow, okay, I've gotten some insight from my meditation. So now I need to take this insight and I need to put it into my life somehow. I need to see that this truth that I saw in meditation actually makes my life better. So we do this by paying attention to our lives. We pay attention to our physical lives, our physical health. We pay attention pay attention to our physical lives, our physical health. We pay attention to our careers, our businesses, our exercise, everything in our lives. We start to look at our spiritual experiences and we say, did that meditation, you know, is my career becoming stronger, for example, because of all these spiritual experiences I'm having? If it is, then something, I'm If it is, then I'm learning something in my spiritual experiences that is true.

0:13:19
This is how I understand life. This is one of my favorite mudras of the Buddha. The Buddha, after becoming enlightened, the moment he became enlightened, he said, this is wonderful, but is it real? high, beautiful, ecstatic awareness balanced with reality. And then he just touched the ground. And in touching the ground, he came to the awareness that the ecstasy and bliss of enlightenment is also the physical world. And then he said, OK, this is great. Now this is what we want to do. We want to say, wow, I had this amazing spiritual experience and we want to do. We want to say, wow, I had this amazing spiritual experience and now how's my martial arts? How's my career? How's my health? How am I doing in my physical reality?

0:14:11
We want to see that if the physical reality is going well, then it shows you, it's a confirmation that your spiritual practice is going well. It's important to let go. Sometimes we're holding on to things, and when we hold on to things, ideas, people, old practices, when you hold on to things, you hold yourself back from spiritual experiences. let's say, to be detached and just be ready to let go of any thought, anything, at any time. And then when you sit to meditate, those things won't grab you and you'll be able to let go of all thought and you go up to high states of mind. Now, when you're learning to mature your spiritual experiences, your teacher teaches you the spiritual art of dreaming. This is a way for you to make stronger shifts away from attached ways of looking at life, so that you can have stronger, higher, brighter spiritual experiences.

0:15:36
stronger, higher, brighter spiritual experiences. Spiritual experiences only take you so far in the beginning. Then you have to do some more work. And we do some work through the art of dreaming. So in traditional Tibetan dream yoga, you would practice seeing life, this seeing life, all of life as a dream. I think dreaming is fascinating. I just, just what normal people think is dreaming, right? They say, everybody in the world goes to sleep at night, they leave their physical consciousness, and they enter into a completely different perceptive reality. And they have experiences, fantasies, adventures, horrors and fears, all sorts of amazing things happen. And then they take it for granted. They take it for granted because they just wake up the next day and then they go, oh, it was just a dream. And dreams are reality. Dreams are transient experiences of life, but they're all valid.

0:16:57
When you had that dream, you thought you were there. You were experiencing that dream, you thought it was real, even though some impossible things are happening, or mundane things are happening. You think that that's real, that's reality. And it is reality, for a very short real, that's reality, and it is reality for a very short time. So I think dreaming in general is just fascinating that way. But when you get into, you know, dream yoga, that's where you start to look at things differently. You start to say, okay, I had a dream last night and I'm, and I thought it was real and I think this is real. So, and then we learn, And then we learn, no, no, no, this is also as transient as that dream upon awakening to enlightenment. Then we go, oh, okay, that's an interesting idea.

0:17:46
So then we start to try to work with our dreams at night to see how to affect them so that we can affect the dream of the day. So we would do something like, first of all, try to be aware in the dream. If you could be aware that you're dreaming in the dream, in the dream. If you could be aware that you're dreaming in the dream, then that's the first step. The second step is trying to exert your will in the dream. Try to do something to change the dream or to break out of whatever patterns are happening in the dream. And these are the first two things that you got to do. Once you can be aware in the dream and then These are the first two things that you gotta do.

0:18:27
Once you can be aware in the dream, and then once you can change the dream, then you can do some amazing things while you're asleep and have amazing experiences. Instead of having a mundane dream, you could say, oh, I'm gonna, in this dream, go and talk to Buddha and see what that would be like because I'm aware I'm dreaming, and then I can direct my will to do something different. dreaming and then I can direct my will to do something different. So then we'll try something different. And then if you're dreaming about Buddha, it could be an amazing thing.

0:18:58
See, something happens in dreams. A lot of dreams are just the mind just replaying things, having desires and fears and all sorts of boring stuff. But if you directed yourself to go to Buddha, then you can actually transform into what we call a waking dream. A dream that brings greater consciousness and enlightenment. So you go over to Buddha or your enlightened teacher and you say, Oh, I'm here. I want teachings. And then Buddha might give you amazing enlightened teachings. give you amazing enlightened teachings. And then it is an experience in a dream that is not a normal dream experience of just karma, but it is an awakening experience that draws you into seeing life in beautiful, amazing ways. So a teacher of dream yoga often goes his or her students' dreams and teaches them.

0:20:05
The teacher might bring them into other dimensions that are only accessible from the dream plane, other worlds that you can't even think about here, but in the dream plane they're accessible. They're places we can say, hey, come on, let's go over there. And then in that world you have a beautiful view of life. The teacher could also teach teachings that are sometimes remembered and accessible, and sometimes the teachings are so big that you can only understand it in the dream plane, while dreaming. When you wake up, you're like, there was some dream, but I don't know what it was. It was a great dream, don't remember. Because on this side, outside of dreaming, consciousness has a greater limitation.

0:20:56
So, in a dream you can have a joy that is so deep, so profound, that if the same thing happened to you while you're awake, it wouldn't be as big. So in dreaming, you can go farther. a teacher of dreaming will teach a lot in dreaming, because they can teach you to go farther. Now, if you can't remember it, then you don't lose it. Your spirit, your second attention, the unseen part of yourself that's bigger than you're aware of, still retains it and learns from it. And eventually at some point, your awareness of the physical catches up of the physical catches up with the depth of awareness of your spiritual being. So we work on dreaming while we're asleep in that way. And to prepare for dreaming when you're asleep, you would meditate on the third eye, because this is the dimension of dreaming dreaming that we access. So meditating before you go to sleep, even for just a few minutes on the third eye helps. And setting your intent. So you say, I am going to go talk to Buddha.

0:22:14
Going to do it, that also helps. And then a simple practice that you might do in mindfulness is constantly doing what I call checking. You're like, you gotta check to see if you're dreaming. You know, it's like a mind state check. A lot of times you're just going through your day, driving to work, going shopping, and you're just going through karma. You're just thinking whatever's, You're just thinking whatever's, you know, just kind of flowing through with lacking awareness.

0:22:54
But if you start at those times being like, hey, I'm awake. Let me think about, you know, you know, something powerful, something constructive, something spiritual. And I'm going to direct my mind during these times where I usually go into, you know, autopilot. And then, and then, and then you start to wake up. pilot. And then you start to wake up. And then when you're in your dream, you might just say, hey, am I awake? Let me start focusing. And you go, oh, wait, I'm dreaming. You start to realize you're dreaming that way. And then one thing you can do, I like to do, is when you're in a dream and you're like, hey, I don't know, am I dreaming? Or maybe you're when you're in a dream and you're like, hey, I don't know, am I dreaming?

0:23:40
Or maybe you're at the office, ah, am I dreaming, I don't know what's going on. If you're not sure, I always say, fly. So if you find yourself wondering if you're in a dream and then you fly out of your chair, you're in a dream. So these are good ways to prepare and increase your awareness. is to prepare and increase your awareness. To be strong in dreaming and awake and aware in dreaming and direct yourself in dreaming, it takes years and it takes a lot of practice.

0:24:19
There can be some pretty fun experiences and enlightening experiences. But the true way, But the true way, the true art of dreaming isn't done when you're asleep. It's done when you're awake. We awaken to this experience being an illusion, a dream, transient. And then we start to change the dream. We can't fly, but what we do is we start to use our willpower with the dimensions of dreaming to create things, to change things. So we might work on a business, right, where we create something new. And then we start to new. We, and then we start to use our willpower to change things, to grow that business. So that is a way that we take the yoga of dreaming, the art of dreaming, the dimensions of dreaming, understanding being awake and how to use the dimensions to create change. And we start to build that into our lives. And then when we see that happen, when we see that there that happen, when we see that there is success, when we see that there is growth, then we know that our dreaming is working because the two are connected. I think that Steve Jobs was an amazing dreamer. Just, I mean, he dreamed a lot of products into life. But an interesting one was iTunes. He just dreamed of another way of music commerce. And he dreamed He just dreamed of another way of music commerce.

0:26:05
And he dreamed it so powerfully that it became true. And do you think the record executives really wanted that? Because they probably were making more money under their own terms. But somehow he dreamed so strongly, they went along with his dream. So this is the other thing about dreaming. Other people dream and they can influence you. thing about dreaming, other people dream and they can influence you. So when you're learning dreaming, you have to learn to cultivate your dreams, but you also have to look out for other people dreaming. I guess companies do this all the time, advertising. They're pushing all the time. Dreaming is very, very powerful to influence people. So we have to be careful of who is trying to influence us. I thought Walt Disney was an amazing dreamer as well.

0:27:08
He created his whole company. He created characters. He created Disneyland, right? Even Disneyland, characters, he created Disneyland, right? Even Disneyland, you go in there and there's like all these different little dimensions, these little dreams that you go into. So I think he's a very interesting dreamer. Walt Disney also did what many dreamers do. He drew on a place of power. You can go to places of power to dream. Places by the ocean are the ocean are always very good for dreaming. Certain mountains, certain places where there is a higher vibration of energy, where the dimensions of dreaming are more accessible, if you go to those places or have a connection with those places, you can use those places, the powers of those places, awarenesses from those places to be more effective at dreaming. places, awarenesses from those places, to be more effective at dreaming.

0:28:05
Now Walt Disney went to the Matterhorn, which is a mountain in the Swiss Alps. He went there every summer. And it's a fascinating place. That mountain is a vortex of dreaming dimensions. And so he drew from that place all sorts of characters and vision for his Disneyland and everything. He drew from that place. He even has, that's one of the rides in Disneyland, the Matterhorn. And it's just fascinating. I've been to the Matterhorn and just sitting Matterhorn and just sitting there looking at it. Very magical, amazing dreaming dimensions that he drew from them all the time. And you could see that. So if you meditate on a picture of Matterhorn, you'll start to see some of the things that Disney drew from. He drew out of intangibility, he dreamt them into the physical world, and then they became things and then they became things where he was able to make a business.

0:29:16
So that's the kind of powerful thing that a dreamer does. But you got to be careful about bad dreamers. Like for example, right now there's a lot of politicians who are pushing a dream, a powerful dream, and it is a dream that you're not safe from your enemy. Your enemy might attack you. Your enemy is taking over the world. Be afraid. enemy might attack you, your enemy is taking over the world, be afraid, be afraid, right? So they're pushing this dream, and this dream is a very powerful dream, it gets people, you know, it gets control over people. And then people will vote for them, that's pretty much it. And the thing is, the dream that they're pushing is not a happy dream. It's It's a dream of control, it's a dream of fear.

0:30:04
And if you fall for that dream, your life is diminished. And then, and in that dream, you'll probably go along with war and the alarms of war. And then your life gets even worse. So you have to be careful with what dreams people are pushing on you. what dreams people are pushing on you. Also there's society, 7 billion people on this planet and they're all dreaming reality. They're all just dreaming up what's going on. So we call this often how it affects you and in your state is social conditioning. Everyone sees society the Everyone sees society the same way, your little town, your country, and they have expectations. In society, a person does this, this, and this, and if you do something different, then they get, people get upset, right?

0:31:03
So you have to observe societal conditioning and the dream society is pushing on you and say, do I want to do this? I have to have a meditation, I have to have a vision, a spiritual experience, and then I have to say, do I want to follow this dream? Sometimes we don't, sometimes we have to move away. But it is by being aware of the dreams of this physical world dream that we have. having dreams at night where we exercise awareness and control. And it is especially by creating, being aware of this life, and creating and changing the illusion of this dream, where we come to the ability to dream and dream and dream and dream through these ways and see beyond the dream.

0:32:00
through these ways and see beyond the dream. And beyond the dream is enlightenment. So we use dreaming and these exercises of dreaming to get beyond dreaming. And beyond dreaming is Samadhi. It is the enlightened states of consciousness. Okay, thank you very much.

