0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about how to know God. Many people are very confused about God. I think especially in the Judeo-Christian communities, Muslim communities. They all have the same God, right? It comes down to the Jews, the Muslims, and the Christian agree. The Jews, the Muslims, and the Christian agree. They all have the same God. But you just have to fight against each other about it all the time. Sometimes literally fighting against each other. Very confused about what God is, who God is.

0:00:48
God is definitely not an old white man sitting on a throne. That is one of the first kind of ideas that we get about God in the Western culture. see that God, for some reason, really has an interest in humans. God made humans in his image. So he really likes humans. He's really interested in what humans do when they're And, you know, God, you know, he just, you know, he's got a lot of rules about what's going on when you're naked. And God punished the sodomites because he didn't fancy that position. fancy that position. God also, according to the Church of the Latter-day Saints, God changed his mind about black people in 1975, which is great. It's too bad if he died before that. if he died before that. It was all hell. And then God, if he likes you, he sends you to heaven for the rest of infinity to be in a paradise. And then if he doesn't like you, And this God guy that people have constructed, he doesn't seem really cool or nice.

0:03:00
He seems like a jerk. But this is really not God. This is a constructed concept of God. concept of God. The God of Christianity, Judaism, Islam, they say this is the one true God, the God that created the universe and everything. And even this is a limitation in understanding God. Because they see God as being someone, Because they see God as being someone, some awareness separate that created the universe and is separate from the creation. And this is a limited view. This is why we don't understand God right. We're taught that God is a person. And then we look at God's effect on the world.

0:04:07
It's good to be God-fearing. God wants you to fear him. Good. That's great. just so many injustices for violence, social oppression, sexual oppression. And this world has gone to war with itself in the name of the same God. So people don't do too well interfacing with this God either. So people don't do too well interfacing with this God either and It's it is because They're they're looking at their own mind. They're looking at their own self and They build Spiritual beliefs religious beliefs Into some You know Santa Claus story Santa Claus story. There's somebody out there who's checking on you, seeing if you're naughty or nice. Somebody with a massive database, big data. God's sitting there, oh look, Sally just said a mean thing to Timmy. Okay, I'm going to note that. Then at the end, if I'm Okay, I'm going to note that.

0:05:39
And then at the end, if I'm pissed off at Sally, she goes to hell. But I'm just, I'm on top of this. I'm seeing it. So if God's always watching us, we should at least entertain him. Or smile and be pleasant. Or at least not pick your nose. So I don't know. I don't know. This is just an idea. And it's kind of, you know, we kind of have this, my dad is bigger and stronger than your dad.

0:06:13
My dad can beat up your dad idea about God. So then we go to war in the name of God. Or we just push our ideas in the name of God. And these are just ideas that we just put ourself into something called religion so that we can get even crazier and then we call it God. However, this is a limited way of seeing God. Now in Asia they have different ways of seeing God. of seeing God. So in Asia there are pantheons of gods. They don't have just one god. They have many, many, many gods. And then they see that these gods are aspects of eternity, So, how to know God in India is a very different way than how to know God in America, because they're just different descriptions.

0:07:25
But in India and throughout Asia, they have had a spiritual awareness of gods that had that had connections to, let's say, nature. So it might be Vayu, the god of the wind, right? So some seer, some sage, became aware of this divine presence connected with and associated with the wind, and became aware that this presence is real, It is real, that there is a divinity that exists, that is incarnated in a higher dimension, that is connected with something that we have here on earth, like the wind. The Native Americans have done that as well. But then we find out, through this sage, that you can connect with this divinity, you can that you can connect with this divinity. You can speak to this divinity.

0:08:31
And this divinity can grant you help, boons, awareness, advice. all of these gods that exist and have connections to this world, and how to talk to them, how to pray to them, how to make offerings to them. And by these different things like prayers and offerings, they are able to make a good relationship with God, these gods. So they able to make a good relationship with God, these gods. So they make these good relationships and then they get the positive attention and blessings of the gods. Now in Asia we start off with prayer and offering. So the prayers are not like the prayers in like the prayers in the West. In the West we say, Oh God, this thing is bad, I don't want to keep it away. Oh God, but this thing is something I want, give it to me. And then in Asia, we don't start with, I want this.

0:09:53
We just will repeat a prayer that is the religious spiritual prayer for that deity. It might be a mantra It might be a mantra or it might be just a specific set of words that's supposed to be the right thing to say. Some sage found out. So this way you're not bothering the deity. The deity is not getting bothered with your desires and aversions constantly. making a gesture to the deity of acknowledgement. And then there's a good relationship. So that's how to make friends with God. Then we make actual offerings on an altar. So the different deities have different qualities. Some like certain colors, some like certain flowers, like certain colors, some like certain flowers, some like just different elements, candles, incense. So when you would be contacting, seeking relationship, seeking to know God, you would find out the things that God responds to that will engender that relationship. And And then you make an altar with those things on it.

0:11:16
And then you give little presents. You make offerings on the altar. And the altar offerings can be something like an orange, something like that. It can be a little cake. So they have these little, like in Tibet, they have these special cakes that are these weird little strange cakes. that are these weird little strange cakes. But they're specially designed to be offerings to gods, goddesses, bodhisattvas, wrathful beings, wrathful gods. And they create this and they give it to them.

0:11:57
And it's just an offering. They call it torma. torma. And torma is a way of recognizing the divine, that divine being. And it is a way of codifying energy and attention that is food for that being. So then your offering, because it's given with spiritual awareness, then is something that nourishes the God. spiritual awareness, then is something that nourishes the God. And then the guy goes, wow, thanks. You brought me a cake. And then the God just having awareness of you and a good feeling about you bestows these blessings to you. But it has to be an authentic offering. Too often in Asia now, offerings are just done out of routine. That's just what you do, and it's not really a heartfelt offering.

0:12:59
There was a story of a man who was quite a wealthy merchant, and he really, really wanted to have the blessings of Kuan Yin. He really wanted to see Kuan Yin. of Kuan Yin. He really wanted to see Kuan Yin. So he would go to a temple every week and he would bring a cake. And then he had some money so he brought fancier and fancier cakes. And he kept like trying to buy the best cake. Because he thought that if he spent and he got the perfect cake that that offering would bring Kuan Yin's presence. So he kept on doing it, but one day he was going to the temple and he was robbed on the way. They robbed him of his bag, his money, and they even robbed him of his cake.

0:14:00
And he's like, oh no, no, no, that's my cake for Kuan Yin. And they're eating it. And he's like, oh no, no, no, that's my cake for Kwan Yin. And they're eating it. What are you going to do about it? And so then he's like, well, I don't have a cake. I don't have any more money. So what he actually does is he goes house to house to ask for alms. And he's like, I've got to go to the temple.

0:14:23
And I've got to get something. So he finally gets a little bit of barley, something. So he finally gets a little bit of barley, not even rice, sticky barley. And then he brings that and he puts that on the temple as his offering. And then Kuan Yin comes to him. And she says that she came because the way that he was doing it before was actually not selfless. And that there was true sacrifice in this offering of just a little clump of there was true sacrifice in this offering of just a little clump of rice or barley instead of the fancy, fancy cakes. So when you're trying to know God, God responds to selflessness and sacrifice. So often people in Asia will do work as sacrifice for God. They set their will do work as sacrifice for God. They set their intention. They say, I'm going to be a farmer, going to do my farming, but I'm going to do my farming for God. And then their work itself creates that energy of sacrifice. And that is something that is said to also And that is something that is said to also nourish the gods, and then the gods reflect positive attention towards you for that.

0:15:49
But the thing is, not a lot of people are interested in God. God is not the Christian God. God is not the pantheon of gods, the hundreds of gods from Asia. God is a bigger thing than that. God's not one specific person or many people. So people are interested in these divine deities. interested in their idea of the Christian God or the Muslim God. Those things are very graspable and it gets them to do stuff. But the truth of God is something that a lot of people don't even think about. Krishna said, there will be only a few in many, many, many, many, many people who will even wonder about the true God. And of those few, there will be maybe one that comes to So what is this true God that nobody wants to know about? Nobody thinks about. The true God that everyone doesn't see is really, it's Salvacopa Samadhi. This is what they call God Realization. So when you go into Salvacopa Samadhi, this very, very, very high state of spiritual awareness, you come to an awareness that you are connected with everything. You are one with everything. That you are everything.

0:18:00
are everything. So God is the active side of infinity. God is all things, not one thing, everything. So we come to see that we are God, and we come to see that everyone else and that everything is God. We come to a spiritual awareness of the unity of all being, and we see that there is no separation. There's no Christian God who created everything, who's I mean, he exists, but there's a greater God than that. So we come to see that all of eternity is God. And in that vision, you're said to have God-realization. You realize God. Not just a deity, but eternity. a deity, but eternity. And then that's God. Now it's very, very rare. Most people don't look for that. Most people aren't going there. Most people are very caught up in religion, Just life In order to know God You have to meditate It's only in going beyond the self that you can see God You stop thought you stop the self the individual awareness limited awareness self-awareness goes away and you have self-awareness goes away and you have direct awareness of the eternity that exists beyond the conceptual mind. And then that's God. Now people sometimes will experience God a will experience God a little bit when they have a great need. So let's say that someone you love dies and you're very upset about it and you don't know how to process it. You're in just great pain. That's when sometimes people turn to religion. They'll sit down connects beyond the transient to eternity.

0:20:55
And they might just touch it a little bit, but it shows them enough information so that they spiritually learn something, so that they can understand and process the death of their loved one. People usually don't experience God for fun, or they just don't pine for God. They usually experience God just a little bit when they have a really hard time, when there's something they really can't understand. If they're spiritual or religious at that time, that's when they reach out to God. And then they get a little bit of wisdom from that, and then they stop.

0:21:42
And they go, okay, that's good enough, I can go on. Now, someone who wants to know God will constantly, constantly be pushing to know God, to go beyond the self, to have the wisdom of eternity. the wisdom of eternity. So, someone who really wants God is always really working on it. And this is in meditation. Really, really pushing meditation. And, you have to be truly humble be truly humble and pure when you're seeking God, if you lack humility you will never find God. You'll only find yourself. You'll find self-reflection everywhere. And if you don't then you'll just be clouded, you won't see the light, you'll just see the clouds of self-darkness.

0:22:58
You gotta have a new kind of openness, humility, purity and openness. You have to see beyond the self, you gotta stop thought. Or sometimes we go to places of power, and in the place and in the place of power, you can reach beyond this world and see a greater eternity. And when you're able to do that, you start to see beyond yourself. In meditations and Dharma talks that we have together, there's a time where you're feeling the eternality that I'm feeling the eternality that I'm pointing to in God. It's a magical opening of talking to the Dharma, of pointing to the Dharma, seeing the truth of your mind, and you reach beyond yourself and you see a greater degree of God's consciousness. consciousness. So this is our practice. This is how we come to know God. We come to see that it is through meditation, humility, through consecrated work, through sacrifice, that That we purify ourselves and go past our limited views of self and we can see God.

0:24:34
Thank you.

