0:00:00
So tonight I'd like to talk about karma yoga and selfless giving. So, karma yoga is the yoga of action. Karma is action and the results of action. Now, the reason I want to talk about and focus on tonight selfless giving is because selfless to talk about and focus on tonight, selfless giving, is because selfless giving is really the secret to Karma Yoga. You know, in life, people are often unhappy. Most people live their lives in a way where they're very unfulfilled. Even if they have all of the wealth and health Even if they have all of the wealth and health that they could want, they still find themselves unhappy. And the reason why is because most people, everything that they do is for themselves. For themselves to get ahead. For themselves to be happy. And by doing things for yourself, you find dissatisfaction.

0:01:12
you find dissatisfaction. So, karma yogis found that there's this secret. The secret to happiness is selfless giving. So, you would think that doing things for yourself, you know, to make yourself happy, getting stuff that you like, you know, would actually fulfill you. you know, would actually fulfill you. And you would think that spending time doing things for others, helping others to be fulfilled, is just a bunch of work where you don't get anything out of it. But it's quite the opposite. When you do something for another, selflessly, then you get happy because of it. get happy because of it. If you do it selfishly, then you don't get as happy. Now there's different levels of selfless giving. The first, as we already talked about, is giving to the self.

0:02:18
You give yourself the food you want, the clothes you want, the car you want, everything you've got, give to yourself everything that you can think of that you want. And there's some happiness in it. You have some joy, some fulfillment, but it's very limited. You are ultimately dissatisfied. And then you go and say, oh, look, my wife or my brother, there's another person that you care about. And so you give selflessly to them. And then you find a little more happiness. And then them. And then you find a little more happiness. And then you grow your selfless giving, let's say to your family. You say, ah, yes, I have this great family and I'm going to selflessly give to them. Mothers and fathers very often are selfless to their children, very selfless. And there's a great happiness in that. And then one can grow their selflessness to, let's selflessness to, let's say, an organization like their church, their religious group, the Moose Lodge, the Neptune Club, you know, you can grow it to whatever group that you're in, right? And you can selflessly give to that group. And then you grow to be, you know, someone who gives to the community. And then you grow to someone who gives to the country.

0:03:36
to the community, and then you grow to someone who gives to the country, you grow to be somebody who gives to the world. So, the more that you grow in your giving, the more selfless that you are in that growth, then the more happiness and light and power you start to you start to experience through selfless giving, the karma yoga. Now, selfless giving, self-sacrifice, is the highest of human accomplishments. We see that in people like Gandhi, Martin Luther Martin Luther King, Jesus Christ. We see that they gave of themselves and we see that it is a very beautiful thing. Everyone is inspired by someone who gives in a powerful way. So to grow our giving, our purity, and experience in our lives, the power and satisfaction that comes from that giving. Now, most people give in a way where they want something in return. I'm going to give you this, but I want something back. A lot of people give in a way where they're A lot of people give in a way where they're trying to control. I'm going to give you this, but I want you to do that. So, you know, the teenage son turns 16 and the father gives him a car. He says, you can have the car, but you're not going to be able to drive it unless you do the house. So it's just little influences of control. Even though the father might think it's a bad, a good thing, there's still that control involved. Some people give in a way where they feel superior, or people give and get a greater sense of self-importance. And ways of giving where there's self wrapped up in it.

0:06:05
So what we seek to do is we seek to become perfect givers. And that means that we look at our intent, we observe why we are giving, and we try to see if there's any self involved. We really want to give perfectly. We really want to give perfectly. We just want to give to someone because they need it. And because it's for their well-being and benefit and not necessarily that it's for ours. There was a story on NPR today about Valentine's Day and that when couples are about Valentine's Day and that when couples are giving each other presents, they often give each other a present that they both benefit from.

0:07:01
And one of the examples was one of the women doing the research, her husband gave her a birthday present once actually, and it was a coffee maker. She doesn't drink coffee, but he drinks four cups of coffee a day. maker. She doesn't drink coffee, but he drinks four cups of coffee a day. You know, other people around the house drink coffee too, but that was his birthday present to her. So, we try to filter out our interests in giving, and we really try to see past ourselves and just give to people purely. And in doing that, we experience a lot of purely. And in doing that, we experience a greater satisfaction. So examine your giving.

0:07:47
Think about your giving. Who'd you give something to recently? And try to look at your layers You have to really look at if there was some self involved. And then we want to be able to eradicate that self. Say, I don't want that intent. Let me reflect on this. I want to give them something so that they can have it. My concern, I don't want it anymore. Because when you give again after having matured through that reflection, after having matured through that reflection, then you'll be happier, it'll feel brighter for you. So test yourself, see how you've given, examine it, and then go out and give again after that reflection, give more purely and see what it feels like.

0:08:44
You gotta test selfless giving. So when you're doing selfless giving So, when you're doing selfless giving and doing this reflection, looking through your layers of intent, you're really seeing more, seeing deeper into yourself. And you're catching some of the blind spots where you would normally not think about it. You say, oh, wow, that was there. I had some self rolling around in there, but I really wasn't aware of it until I reflected aware of it until I reflected on why I gave to that person. Another powerful tool in selfless giving is meditation. In meditation we clear our mind, the self goes away, and we experience luminosity.

0:09:36
luminosity, we gain wisdom, we learn how to give in a proper way, we learn how to be more selfless in giving, and how to give in a powerful way. So erasing the intent of self in giving is one important thing, but also you can give in a powerful way if you know how. So let's say that can give in a powerful way if you know how. So let's say that you had a million dollars and you selflessly gave it to a homeless person. That's nice that you were so selfless and it probably helps that person, but what if that person goes out and just buys a lot of drugs, remembers he had a grudge against someone so he spent some of the money on a hit man, spend some of the money on a hitman, you know, and just generally does bad things, right?

0:10:30
Then you selflessly gave this person money to make his life and the lives of others worse. So, is that enlightening practice? Now, versus the story of Milarepa. Milarepa, an enlightened master sitting in a cave, but he was meditating and he was in communion with God and he just didn't have time to go out of the cave and get food. So one day his sister came to visit him and she saw how thin he was. So she went and made him dinner.

0:11:13
And she's just all, oh my gosh, you got to eat. dinner. And she's just all, oh my gosh, you got to eat. So she just very selflessly, no self involved, brother needs to eat, makes him food, brings it to him, gives it to him. And then he eats it. And he says to her, you've gotten such amazing karma from that. You've got this amazing karma. You're going to go in your next life to the heaven realms, because you gave a meal to an enlightened gave a meal to an enlightened person. So you could give in powerful and enlightening ways, or you can give in ways that are useless or destructive. So through meditation we come So what we find is we find that truthfully and honestly the reason why we have unhappiness, dissatisfaction and suffering is because we think we are separate from God. We see ourselves as a a glass of water and see God as this ocean, and we say we're separate.

0:12:31
But in meditation, we kind of like take our cup of water and spill it into the ocean, and we see that there is that unity. And then in knowing that unity, we bring that into our We bring that into action through selfless giving. So in selfless giving, you do something for another. And when you can clean out your intent of self and do something for another purely, then something magical happens. A doorway opens out of the self. opens out of the self, and attention and energy go out of the self. So it's the door to getting out of yourself, doing something for another. And when that door opens, you see that the other, you see light, you see purity, you see that the other is filled with that light you see that the other is filled with that light and purity.

0:13:39
That light and purity came from them when you open the door, the way out of the ego, and then you see that there's light in you, and you see that you're one, that all of life is selfless giving. So, it's a magical experience to just purely give selflessly. It's the way out of self. So we try to give perfectly. We try to be, we try to make selfless giving our whole life. We see that going to our day job and working is an offering to eternity. So it's not just your boss or your customer that you're serving. You're serving them, yes, but your intent is to serve eternity.

0:14:48
Whenever you're giving, you're not just giving to a person, you're seeing whatever task that you're doing as giving to enlightenment, to God. And in having that intention to give all the time, in every way to every person, to every, in any occasion, if your intent is to give to eternity, then you have an experience of eternity. In selfless giving, we're always doing something for another, and one of the cool things about that is when you do something for another, you will do more than you would do for yourself. you will do more than you would do for yourself. So if you're, yeah, if you're, they have these marathons, right, for charities, and maybe by yourself you would run, you know, yeah, about 10 miles and that's it.

0:15:57
You couldn't possibly run 26. But, because you really, really care about the charity, and you are sponsored, and the more miles that you run, the more money you make for the charity, something in you, you get, you get this more power, and you push, and you run the whole 26 miles. Something you would never do for yourself. for another, you're always able to go farther. Now, when we are looking at the ultimate goal, which is enlightenment, we have to say, how does, how do we get there The I Ching says everything turns from yin to yang. Everything will fall and become its opposite at some point. And the pathway to enlightenment is going beyond opposites.

0:17:05
So the way that we do it is we keep giving. We become giving. We are like the sun. giving. We are like the sun. We burn ourselves up to give to all. And in doing that, there's a an unlimited connection with light. So it's like if you're standing, you're sitting in a boat and the boat's sinking, right? So first the boat's floating, but then it's going to You're sitting in a boat and the boat's sinking, right? So first the boat's floating, but then it's gonna turn into its opposite and sink. But if your concern is handing somebody else in another boat a glass of water, you say, oh, here's some water, you're thirsty, you need this.

0:17:57
And then you keep on handing people water, then your boat never sinks. then your boat never sinks. And you're forever in a flow of giving. So in giving, you go beyond the opposites. Now, if you want to become a perfect giver, you have to reflect on your intention, you have to meditate. intention, you have to meditate. But it's also very important to have a teacher who is a master of selfless giving, because you learn from being with that teacher, seeing them as an example of how they give selflessly, but also you learn something very deep in something very deep in the heart.

0:18:50
You see, psychically, you see in your heart, in a feeling with that teacher, how to do it, how to be selfless. I know it sounds kind of funny, because you go, oh well, you know, just give selflessly, just don't have a thought about yourself.

0:19:12
But through reflection and meditation you'll see that you have many, many Through reflection and meditation, you'll see that you have many, many layers of self wrapped up in giving. And a moment with a master of giving shows you a very clear way, silently, it just shows you a way past the self. And it is a way that is filled with light and wisdom. It's a way beyond opposition. It's a way beyond the ego. And it brings you truly to satisfaction in all that you do in life. And this is the way of selfless giving.

0:19:58
Thank you very much.

