0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about Zen, Taoism and Buddhism. There are many different pathways to enlightenment. Zen, Taoism and Buddhism are popular pathways. They are really aesthetics, really, aesthetics, different approaches, styles, different ways that bring you to liberation. In martial arts, there's an analogy. In martial arts, the goal is to be able to, let's say, In martial arts, the goal is to be able to, let's say, defend yourself, put your opponent down. In martial arts, there's different ways. There's karate, there's judo, and there's tai chi. These are very different looking. Karate is fast kicking and punching, judo is rolling around, wrestling, and then Tai Chi is like very slow movements. They look very, very different. But there is an essential aspect of them that is the same. And in Zen, Taoism and Buddhism, there's an essential aspect that is the same. That's what I'll talk about tonight, instead of all the different techniques, because they could look very different.

0:01:51
If you look at the external aspect of them, they look very different. There was once a and this was not too long ago, a Zen master who met a Tibetan Rinpoche. And the Zen master was sitting in the room first and their two schools decided that they would meet or something. And then when the Rinpoche came in, there was a bowl of oranges on the table. And the table. And the Zen master grabbed the orange and he says to the Rinpoche, what is this? Which is like a Zen thing to do. And then the Rinpoche looks at him like he's crazy and he's like, have you never seen an orange before? So two masters in their systems. On masters in their systems. On the outside, if he started doing Tibetan Buddhist debate, the Zen master would not know what to do. So, on the outside they might look very different, but on the inside there's an essence that is the same. So, I'll begin with Taoism because So I'll begin with Taoism because the essence of Taoism is to see the essence of life. The Tao is enlightenment. The Tao is the essence of life. And essentially, in Taoism, they're beyond this limited physical world, beyond the opposites, to see the essence, to apprehend and be aware of the essence of life.

0:03:48
Now in Taoism, there's three forms. There's Taoist philosophy, and Taoist philosophy, pervading, all pervading throughout Chinese culture. Taoism had teachings for society, how different jobs, the way of a certain job, the Tao of a farmer, the way of the farmer, politician. In Taoism, they taught a lot about politics, even the art of war. So, in terms of philosophy, this philosophy is everywhere in China. One of the teachings for all of One of the teachings for all of the philosophies are that one should perfect themselves if they wish to perfect their world. So when they wanted to achieve something as a farmer or a politician or in war, the place where Taoism would teach is the inside, the self. the inside, the self. You develop your inner self and then the things that you want to accomplish in the outer world are easy to do. So that's the philosophy.

0:05:30
Then there's Taoist religion. Taoist religion, they have kind of like churches and they pray They have kind of like churches, and they pray to a pantheon of gods. There's a hierarchy of Taoist gods. And it's a nice religion. But what's interesting is the third type to me, and that is Taoist mysticism. Taoist mysticism, they have a big focus on drawing energy and power from nature. They also practice qigong exercises, breathing exercises, learning how to develop inner power, chi and how to direct it through the body for health and also for gaining higher awareness. They also would meditate. There were three particular dimensions that the Taoists liked to go to. When they would meditate, they would try to go into white light. So they would So they would try to meditate and with their awareness just go into a white light.

0:06:56
Then they would like to go into the famed gold light, which the Taoist masters were they said to be the only ones who could accomplish. But they also had a special one, purple light. The purple light, the white light and the gold light are really the states of enlightenment. They're enlightened states of mind. The purple light is the highest light of the astral dimensions. So it's really beautiful. It's a beautiful state of mind. So these are the three dimensions of light that the Taoists speak of. speak of There's a story of an old Taoist master Who was sitting by the river?

0:07:45
with one of his students and his student Said I don't have any realization. You know I sit, but I can't go into the light and then the Taoist master He took took his, he had a gourd, he filled it with water, and then he splashed his student in the face with it. And when his student got splashed in the face, he immediately went into the white light. And then he sat in the white light, just experiencing enlightened consciousness. And then the enlightened master put some more water in and splashes him again. And then the enlightened master puts some more water in and splashes him again.

0:08:28
And then he goes into the purple light. And the purple light is the fancy, special light that the Taoist is like. Like a, oh, purple. So, this is a story of how a Taoist master, you know, really would use energy of water in this regard to help his student have these higher states of tension. higher states of tension. So, Taoism is really a very beautiful way of humility. Lao Tzu, the founder of Taoism, said that it is the way of the fool. You have no self-importance. It's the way of the child. It's a way of innocence. So in Taoism, there's just this really open, innocent beauty towards life. Lao Tzu would say that we don't want to be like a big, strong oak tree, because if a strong wind comes, then we'll break.

0:09:36
tree, because if a strong wind comes, then we'll break. He says that we want to be like the little sapling. When the big wind comes, we'll just bend over, and when the wind goes, we bend back. So Taoism is also a way that teaches you great power. It is the way of water. This is what It is the way of water. This is what they say very often. There's the analogy of water. Water being like the pure consciousness. So we seek to be pure like water. Water also water, it will travel in the way with the least resistance. It will go to the low places and it will find a way. So, we want to, when we're thinking about getting something done, we want to do things in the way of the water. We want to be humble also, where we can go humble also, where we can go to the low places. But also, water is very, very powerful. Water could go, you might take a mountain, and if there's water running towards it, eventually that mountain won't be there anymore. The water will win. I mean, just look at the Grand of the power of water. So, water little by little, in a very soft way, in the softest way, can overcome a mountain or can carve a Grand Canyon. So, water has a great power.

0:11:30
In Taoism, they essentially see beyond opposites. They see the essence of what is. If there's beyond opposites. They see the essence of what is. If there's an ice cube in a small thin glass, or if you fill up a small thin glass and you freeze the water in it, it becomes an ice in a certain way. And then if you melt it and put it in a wide short glass, then then the water is frozen in a different form. This is the way that Taoists look at the essence. They say the essence is water. In this life it might be in a certain form, but then after death it takes the form of water, and then it might take another form, and another incarnation. So, the essence is water, in just different forms. Now, in Taoism, you stretch your mind through these analogies, you stretch your awareness so far that you go beyond yin and yang, you go beyond concepts of good and bad, you go beyond the transient awareness of the universe, beyond the transient awareness of the universe. And you experience that which is beyond the pairs of opposites, which is the Tao, which is unity, which is the essence of life. So was a practice, an art, that was created from Buddha's experience of enlightenment.

0:13:25
So Buddha was a prince, he had everything anyone could want, except for he was dissatisfied. he was dissatisfied. Knowing that there was death at the end of his life, he became unhappy. He said, oh no, this just won't do. I have to solve this death problem. So, he left his kingdom and he went out and mastered the arts of the day, the meditations and spiritual way, the meditations and spiritual practices, but they still didn't bring him enlightenment. So then he went off on his own and worked out how to become enlightened, which he did, and he became an enlightened master, and then taught other people how to become enlightened Now, Buddha's approach is very scientific, it's very structured, and it's very exploratory. He created just very simple ways for people to understand their lives and how to approach their lives and how to approach liberation.

0:14:54
He had a primary teaching called the Four Noble Truths. The first truth is the truth of suffering. There is suffering in life. And the second noble truth is that suffering comes from somewhere. It comes from desire, it comes from aversion, it comes from you doing something. The third noble truth is that at some point suffering goes away. You can suffer a little bit, but then it will change. You can suffer another thing and then it will change. Fourth noble truth is that the pathway to enlightenment, which he called the noble eightfold the pathway to enlightenment, which he called the Noble Eightfold Path, that is the way out of suffering.

0:15:46
So it's kind of funny, because the first truth is that there's suffering in life, and then the fourth truth is that there's a way out. focused on relief of suffering, liberation from suffering. It's not just physical suffering, it's liberation from spiritual suffering, from discursive, dark, unhappy thoughts, disturbed disturbed emotions, limited thinking, existential angst. This is the liberation that he was teaching, the way to get out of the suffering of the self, of the spirit. And sometimes his students would come over to him and ask him all sorts of questions like, where's God? God?" And then he would just always point them back to the Four Noble Truths. They would ask all sorts of interesting philosophical questions and he always came back to very simple practices, very simple awareness in the Four Noble Truths. Sometimes people would ask about their suffering. Where did my suffering come from? And he would just say, just take And he would just say, just take it where you're at right now and practice the Four Noble Truths.

0:17:20
He gave a simile. It's like you have been shot in the leg by an arrow. And you're sitting there bleeding to death. And then you start asking, hey, who shot me? Why did they shoot me? hey, who shot me? Why did they shoot me? And he started asking all these questions. The thing that you really need to do is take the arrow out, stop the bleeding, bandage yourself up. So this was always Buddha's focus. Now, Buddhism is not a religion. of life. It's a way of perceiving. It's a way of handling things. It's a way of dealing with life. It's ideas, methods, concentrations, focuses that when you apply to your experience experience in life, you can experience a greater illumination.

0:18:31
Now there are no rules in Buddhism. For Buddhist monks, they have this book called the Vinaya and they have 222 rules of what a monk should do, rules for the monks, but they're really what a monk should do, rules for the monks. But they're really not rules. Most people look at them like rules, but they're not rules. They're guidelines. They're just pieces of wisdom of, here's how a monk should be. And if you do those things, then you do great. There's a lot of times where monks broke those rules, and they didn't get defrocked or anything. They didn't get defrocked or anything. They just learned from it. So there's no rules in Buddhism. There's an etiquette. When you want to have higher wisdom, if you want to then you start to develop a way of etiquette, a way of being, so that you expose yourself to a greater truth, that you don't do things that would bring you into lower states of mind. So Buddha created Buddhism because what he learned and had mastered about the existing about the existing spiritual practices didn't work for him. He went and learned Vedanta, which was the current spiritual practices, and he didn't become liberated. So, spiritual he said, oh, it's not working. And then he found a new way to enlighten it. And he said, ah, that works, so now I'm going to teach that. Now, the thing is, he taught it, and it was powerful. But even Buddhism ended up changing. After Buddha's death many years later, you see that a lot of the power and magic and enlightenment in his teachings aren't there anymore. So, in his lifetime, 500 of his monks became enlightened. And nowadays, there's many, many, many more Buddhist monks than there were in his time. And you never his time. And you never hear of a Buddhist monk in Theravada Buddhism saying they're enlightened. They also, they say, I've heard them say this, they say, if someone says they're enlightened, they're probably lying. And how could this be the case? If you've got all of Buddha's teachings written down, and during Buddha's life he had 500 enlightened students, Buddha's life he had 500 enlightened students. It's written in the books and nowadays just no one can do it. Well the reason why is because Buddhism became a routine. They lost the enlightened teacher and then they started to just believe the information in the books. And whoever and whoever wrote the books had a certain way of looking at things that was limited.

0:22:06
So, this is why Buddhism changed. So, Buddhism changed from Theravada Buddhism to Mahayana Buddhism. This is a Buddhism that is classified by the focus and discipline of compassion. the focus and discipline of compassion. Then it changed again into Vajrayana Buddhism. This is called the fast path to enlightenment. It's also practiced mostly in Tibet. Buddhism changed because it stopped working. There had to be other enlightened teachers to make So, there had to be other enlightened teachers to make changes. Eventually, there was an enlightened teacher who made a change called Zen. So, Zen is Buddhism as well, but it's so different than what Buddha taught, that it is kind of its own thing.

0:23:12
kind of its own thing. So, Zen was this reaction to the routine mind of Buddhism. Zen essentially is breaking all concepts of self. It's breaking all the ways of looking at life. It's looking life. It's looking directly at life, seeing the truth, becoming enlightened. That is what Zen is. And there was Bodhidharma. Bodhidharma came from India. He was the lineage holder Theravada Buddhism. He was invited by an emperor in China to come and be the main Buddhist guy in China, because Buddhism was growing in China and fading in India. Bodhidharma came over and he came to the emperor and the emperor asked him, who are you? And Bodhidharma asked him, who are you? And Bodhidharma said, no one.

0:24:31
And the emperor said, what do you know about the Buddha Dharma? And then Bodhidharma says, nothing. And then the emperor says, tell me about the good karma that I get for building temples and translating building temples, translating sutras. And then Bodhidharma says, none. And then the emperor says, I think he's a fake or something. He doesn't understand, so he throws him out. He says, I know I invited you, but get out of here. So Bodhidharma was demonstrating to him a teaching that he didn't understand, which is breaking all concepts. Who are you?

0:25:12
that he didn't understand, which is breaking all concepts. Who are you? No one. What do you know? Nothing. So then Bodhidharma went and meditated in a cave for a long time, and then he went and taught the Shaolin monks Kung Fu. This is another incongruous act. this act. In Buddhism, in Buddhist teachings, it says don't be violent. And then he teaches these monks how to fight really well. And everyone didn't understand what was going on with this guy. He was breaking concepts, breaking ways of looking at things. And then at things. And then this extended from there. He had many students who became enlightened and continued this lineage, so Zen became his own thing. One of my favorites is Dojin in Japan, and he exemplifies Zen. He kind of pulls the rug out from under you. He would say, here's a peach. He's like, this is a peach. And then the students would be like, okay. And then he would say, but it is not a peach. He would do stuff like that all the time. And then they would reflect on that, and they would stretch their awareness to And they would reflect on that and they would stretch their awareness to see what he's meaning.

0:26:54
And this goes into the next practice that he developed, which is a Koan practice. This is where he would teach by asking a question, an unanswerable question. What's the sound of one hand clapping? What does your original face look like? I don't even know what that means. your original face look like?" I don't even know what that means. So he would ask all these strange questions and then the student would ponder and reflect on it. And the only way that you could come to answer it is not in concept. You had to go beyond all conceptual And then you get to an essence of understanding. And then from that essence, you experience what they call Satori, which is enlightenment.

0:27:51
So in Zen they have this very special way to get enlightened, and it's through this koan thing. And when you got that koan, if you broke through the conceptual world and saw where the Zen broke through the conceptual world and saw where the Zen Master was pointing, you immediately have this instant enlightenment. You immediately go into this experience of story. And then you've figured it out. And then you don't even have to answer any words to the Zen Master. notes. So, nowadays, I read a book about the answer to koans. Oh, wow. They went pretty deep on thinking these things through. And I'm like, wow, you guys just lost it completely. Yeah, and also in Zen, they like to just wake you up. So, you know, it's a famous thing where the Zen master is sitting there with a stick, and when the students are meditating, once in a while the Zen master will go over to the student and hit him with the stick.

0:29:05
And, you know, I think the Zen master just might be annoyed with how the students are meditating, and just decided to hit them. and just decided to hit them. But it also is a method for when the attention of the students starts to fade away, they're missing their focus and concentration, that hit immediately brings their energy up so that they can go into satori. But this is what they do in Zen. They ask you weird questions, they hit you with sticks, This is what they do in Zen.

0:29:37
They ask you weird questions, they hit you with sticks, and what they do is they drive their students up the wall. That's what the Zen master does. Drives you up the wall so you can go over the wall, and then you realize that you're beyond the wall. And that's Zen. So, we, in our study, We, in our study, we incorporate these essential aspects of these ways. We take the seeking structured methodology of Buddhism.

0:30:30
And we take the break all concepts, pull the rug out from under you approach of Zen. And we incorporate these practices in our study. We also recognize that the Tao and liberation and liberation, and satori are all enlightenment. So we see that all of these things, all of these different ways and different things, different aesthetics, have the same essence. And that is Zen Taoism and Buddhism in our practice. practice. Okay, thank you.

