0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about spiritual opportunities. Spiritual opportunities are doorways. Doorways to considerations of awareness. Doorways to higher levels of consciousness. Doorways to realizations of truth. Spiritual opportunities bring you from a condition of limitation, suffering, dissatisfaction, to a condition of freedom and happiness and spiritual balance. Spiritual opportunities are your chances to get out of the cycle of self that constantly brings you into unhappy conditions in your life. unhappy experiences, unhappy ways of relating to other people, an unhappy outlook. And it's not just unhappiness lacking hyper-giddiness.

0:01:57
It's lacking peace and spiritual balance. and spiritual balance. So spiritual opportunities, they are these doorways that open from time to time, if you can find them, that lead you out of these conditions of self-suffering and dissatisfaction. Imagine if you could Imagine if you could just be brilliantly happy. Imagine if you could just be very clear, your mind clear, peaceful, calm, bright. These are opportunities that you can find on the spiritual path. that you can find on the spiritual path. So there's so many. There's the opportunity to experience the highest spiritual ecstasy, to experience the mind of God.

0:03:08
There's an opportunity to experience cosmic consciousness. There's an opportunity to be able to see spiritually and be aware of everything and anything. Lottery numbers. That's a good one. So there's endless opportunities, but you've got to know where to go or how to get to the to go, or how to get to the door to those experiences. The opportunity is something that presents itself to you, but you got to know how to get to it. Like if you're sick, you had a headache, you go to your doctor. So if you find that doctor, you can get to that doctor, the doctor will give you something and say, take two of something and say, take two of these, call me in the morning.

0:04:04
Now, you're then presented, that's your opportunity. You found the place where the opportunity is, and then you got the opportunity, which is these two pills that are supposed to take away your suffering. And then it's your choice to take the pills. Hopefully you do. Hopefully you do. We seek the highest opportunities. A lot of people don't. A lot of people will say, yeah, my headache isn't so bad. You know, it's pounding and throbbing and I complain about it all the time, but the doctor's so far away it's hard to get to hard to get to, whatever, right? There's all of these things that would hold someone back from taking spiritual opportunities. So then they don't. They live in suffering, they complain, they live in that limitation. But we seek higher spiritual opportunities.

0:05:12
And we don't settle for lamentation and suffering. Because whatever you settle for, that's what you get. But if you say, no, I want that opportunity, I'm going to find it. I'm going to find that doctor. That doctor is going to give me that medicine, and I'm going to take that medicine. So it's kind of not a good thing if you find an opportunity, and you don't take it. you find an opportunity and you don't take it, then you're letting yourself be limited. You're staying in a condition of dissatisfaction. So you're there with the doctor, you've got the pills, this is the cure for your suffering, and then you're just sitting there looking at it.

0:05:58
And you don't take it. You don't take it. So we take it. It's a very important thing to set your intent to take the higher opportunities. Always take the higher opportunities. They bring you to a brighter place in your awareness of life. They bring you into a greater condition of light, seeing, and wisdom. of light, seeing, and wisdom. So we always are looking for spiritual opportunities. And when we find them, we take them.

0:06:36
And some of them aren't so easy to find. There's a little Zen story. A monk goes over to the Zen master and says, show me the door, the gate to Zen. Show me the door, the gate to Zen." And then the Master says, Okay, there is no gate. So how do you get to Zen if there is no gate? Where's the door to the opportunity? Well, the gate is there, if you can see it.

0:07:11
There is no gate. There's no way blocking you from Zen, if you can see that. There's no way blocking you from Zen, if you can see that. But it depends on your awareness. So in the story, the monk has to meditate and think about the kind of koan, and then finally realizes that there's no doorway, that Zen is completely present at all times. And then boom! And then boom, then that is the spiritual opportunity. The koan itself. So we have to find these spiritual opportunities.

0:07:48
Sometimes they're not so obviously present. We first look for spiritual opportunities in our karma. Because when you're stuck in your karma, there's no way you can just immediately see that zen Because when you're stuck in your karma, there's no way you can just immediately see that Zen is present sitting over there in the back and And you you just don't see it right away So then that's why you have to start working through the karma And in karma you start to take stock of your mind take stock of your life the condition of your experiences and then of your experiences, and then that starts to create awareness. And then once you start to create awareness, things become obvious to you. So a practice of taking stock of your life might be, let me look at all of my friends, all the people I hang out with. Now, once I consider them, do I have good experiences with them, or bad experiences with them? Is consider them, do I have good experiences with them or bad experiences with them?

0:08:53
Is my association with them something that brings me up or something that brings me down? When you consider all your friends and all the people you hang out with that way, you might say, wow, you know, there's a few people here who are really negative to my experience of life. could fix your relationships with them, so that they're then positive. You gained awareness. You saw something in your mind. And then you say, okay, well, let me look at the rest of my life. Let me look at my job. Is it a good situation?

0:09:30
Is it toxic? Am I getting paid enough? And then you say, wow, this is a toxic job. I'm not getting paid enough. You go out and get another job. Changes your life. This is a toxic job, I'm not getting paid enough, you go out and get another job. Changes your life, you've gained awareness. So you go through observing your mind, observing your life, and then you start to know your mind.

0:09:52
And that leads you to these opportunities, to spiritual opportunities, because you start to crawl out of the heavy darkness because you start to crawl out of the heavy darkness and limitation of your life into places where you're elevated in your life. And you can then see, in an elevated place, you've elevated yourself with your relationships, you've elevated yourself in your job, in all aspects of your life. And then you've come to a peak, a peak in your being, where you can see a spiritual opportunity.

0:10:24
a peak in your being where you can see a spiritual opportunity. So it's always important for us to know our mind and to elevate ourselves from that. So we start with our karma, we start with our mind, our thoughts, and our relationships, and our life, and everything. And by elevating ourselves we come to a higher vision. are able to have a spiritual opportunity that before we couldn't see. We also look at subtle aspects of the being. For example, let's say you can look at yourself through the lens of astrology. So astrology is a spiritual a spiritual discipline of seeing, where you become aware of different fields of energy that are associated with times and places, places being stars and asteroids and planets and things, going through certain cycles. So you could say it's the energy of planets, Planets, but it's also associated fields of attention and You can see that during certain times Since we can scope out the elliptical of You know Pluto or something like that which is a planet You could you could you could look at it or Jupiter and you can say, okay, so according to look at it, or Jupiter, and you can say, okay, so according to this field of energy, at this certain time, there will be a possibility, an opportunity. You can see, oh, this might be a good time for deep meditation, or this might be a good time for me to develop my career. So there's different ways of So there's different ways of understanding more subtle aspects, different conditions.

0:12:32
The twelve houses of astrology, and then the planets and their relationships with time. These are ways where you're able to look at your life in more subtle views. Also a very important practice or observation in our Buddhism is that of the Saturn return. The Saturn return is a... When you're born, Saturn is at a point in the sky, and then it takes 29 years to go all the way around to return to the same point when you were born. point when you were born. And that's a significant time. There's a very powerful transition during that time. During that time, a lot of energy, past life attention, comes back Comes back to you this is very useful for a spiritual practitioner now When that attention comes back if your mind is clear if you're if you've been meditating if you're spiritually Training properly when that attention comes back you can accept it and it empowers you accept it, and it empowers you.

0:14:03
For a lot of people, once they hit the Saturn return, they become very, very heavy. They go, oh. It marks a point where a lot of people go, wow, I'm not a young person anymore, now I'm an adult. And they get very heavy. And that's because the information from past lives has come back, but they weren't able to use it. It weighed them down. But they weren't able to use it. It weighed them down. For someone who's practicing meditation, you're able to use it constructively and then it brings you up, become much higher.

0:14:41
Many people who become enlightened, you can see that they became enlightened at the age of 29 or shortly after that. enlightened at the age of 29 or shortly after that. So Buddha, for example, he started his teachings around 33, and Jesus Christ as well, around the age of 33. This is when they were just bringing out these tremendous teachings of enlightenment. tremendous teachings of enlightenment. So this is a cycle, a very, very important, powerful cycle in one's spiritual evolution. So the Saturn Return is something that we observe.

0:15:29
We also observe other things like other cycles of time. So I recently was reviewing one of my teacher's recently was reviewing one of my teacher's teachings back in December 10th of 1989. He started to talk about different energetic opportunities, different fields of awareness that would be available in the 1990s. So he was talking about the 90s being a very pivotal time for a spiritual seeker. He pivotal time for a spiritual seeker. He said that especially from 1997 to 2003 there would be a transition and that the world would become a much darker, heavier place, but that a spiritual seeker during that transition during that transition could take that opportunity to become enlightened.

0:16:30
That there were fields of attention available. The gate of Zen would open. It was a spiritual opportunity. And when he said this, he said that his most powerful teachings will happen during that transit. And I was there for that. And I was there for that, and it was his most powerful teachings, and they were very, very enlightening. It was as he said. So he said in 1989 in December, he saw an opportunity, and he seemed to know how to how to pull it off perfectly so that it was to the benefit of his students.

0:17:18
For me, it was very, very beneficial. So there's different cycles. I teach about cycles of time and space, too. Sometimes I might say, hey, this is a time where we need to focus on a kind of mindfulness, a kind of mindfulness, maybe compassion, because it's something that I see in time. Sometimes there's places we need to go to the desert in the southwest, or we need to go to, you know, Mauna Loa on the big island of Hawaii. There's certain places, when you go to those Or there are certain times when you do the right thing at the right time. There's tremendous shifts. There are spiritual opportunities at these points. So these are different ways that we observe the karmas in our lives that bring us to spiritual opportunities.

0:18:24
The greatest spiritual opportunities come from direct spiritual practice. So meditation is a spiritual opportunity. Anytime that you want to sit down and meditate, you are coming to that gateway to Zen. It is an opportunity for enlightenment. When we sit down to meditate, we stop thought. We focus our mind, we become still, and we go beyond limitation. We go beyond self. It is the direct awareness of the truth of life, where the self that exists in thought dissolves and you experience the light and unity of eternity and truth. And that's available any time. That's your two pills. Take two of these and call me in the morning. It's there for you any time. But it's just that you have to approach it properly. If you're trying to take the pills and you didn't take it down with water and you thought you could swallow it, you might choke on and you didn't take it down with water, and you thought you could swallow it, you might choke on them, right?

0:19:41
So you want to do meditation earnestly and with a happy disposition, with great focus. And then with that attitude, it works. And it ends up being a very bright, beautiful thing. But if you don't approach the opportunity properly, then you might not meditate with concentration, you might be kind of sleepy and say, oh, I'll just be sleepy and sit here. Or you might say, I'm just going to space out and think about whatever. Those are not the right way to do it. And it doesn't produce, then the opportunity is wasted. and it doesn't produce, then the opportunity is wasted.

0:20:29
You didn't take the pill, you missed, you passed yourself, thinking that you took it, but you dropped it. So meditation is one of the most beautiful spiritual opportunities and it's the essential practice for anyone who seeks enlightenment. Then there's mindfulness. Observing your mind after your meditation session, you will observe your mind, what you think, what you're aware of, all the time. And you always direct your mind to that which is bright and powerful and constructive. We also practice compassion in mindfulness. When we see someone suffering, we think of compassion, When we see someone suffering, we think of compassion, and this brings a greater lightness and brightness to our experience.

0:21:23
So mindfulness is another spiritual opportunity. Then there's yoga, many yogas. Yoga is a practice that brings you into an awareness of unity. practice that brings you into an awareness of unity. So there are many different types of yoga. My favorite thing about yoga is that the way that we practice it, it brings spiritual practice into action. It becomes very, very real. You start walking the walk instead of just talking the talk. But there's so many types of yoga and they're all spiritual experiences. spiritual experiences. They're all spiritual opportunities. And if you are able to approach them right, learn from them correctly, administer the two pill dose properly, then they work. They're miraculous. But you have to work on He was saying about compassion, that he has so much compassion for sentient beings that don't know about the Dharma, that don't have any techniques, no methods of Dharmic practice.

0:22:44
They have no spiritual opportunities, and he has so much compassion for them, because that's a great place of limitation. compassion for them because that's a great place of limitation. But if you know about meditation and mindfulness and yoga or any other spiritual opportunities, then you have a way. You have a way where you can get past suffering, a way where you can deal with the difficulties of life, a way where you can transcend the limitations itself. So it's a tremendous opportunity. So it's a tremendous opportunity. I think that finally, the most powerful spiritual opportunity that I've ever had was in meeting my enlightened teacher.

0:23:30
So when you're able to find an enlightened teacher, they are a tremendous opportunity teacher, they are a tremendous opportunity for you. Because your awareness is within karma and you only know, or you're only aware of so many things. You're only aware of truth in a limited way. But when you meet an enlightened teacher, the enlightened teacher knows many, many many many more things about the universe, about wisdom, seeing, love, spirit, and they know truth directly. So an enlightened teacher can give you experiences, direct experiences of different dimensions of being, different dimensions of truth, and ultimately can show and ultimately can show you directly the mind of God. So it's as if someone is training martial arts. I've seen this before.

0:24:42
Someone was training martial arts just by watching karate movies and kung fu movies, especially Van Damme. movies and Kung Fu movies, especially Van Damme. And it was actually two guys, they were friends and they trained together. And they really learned from watching movies, but they were really talented. They were able to do all of the techniques that Bruce Lee, Van Damme, Chuck Norris, Chuck Norris could do.

0:25:14
So it was pretty amazing, you know? as Norris could do. So it was pretty amazing, you know? So I remember watching them demonstrate their techniques, and they were really incredible. And then I saw them sparring against a solid karate black belt. And the karate black belt beat them very, very, very easily. Very, very easily. Black Belt beat them very, very, very easily. Very, very easily. And to them, they started to learn just from that experience that there's different, there's not just the physical aspect of the art, but there's different energies and different powers. And then a sensei was able to go to them and just show them, well, if you do it like this, and if you do it like if you do it like this, and if you do it like that, then all of a sudden their techniques became powerful.

0:26:07
Before that, even though they went through all the steps themselves, thinking, hey, you know, this looks right, there were dimensions that they couldn't see. There were more subtleties that they were not aware of. And then when made aware, they became effective. aware, they became effective. So this is what an enlightened teacher can do. A person could read all the spiritual books and memorize everything and know it in terms of concept, but an enlightened teacher is very, very far beyond just concept and knows the actual direct truth. So an enlightened the actual direct truth. So an enlightened teacher can have you understand the concept, but also bring you to a direct experience of the spiritual attribute. So for me, the greatest spiritual opportunity that I've ever experienced was the opportunity to have an enlightened teacher. And then, you've got to take your medicine. All right, thank you very much.

0:27:12
And then you've got to take your medicine. All right. Thank you very much.

