0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about spiritual tenacity and cleaning up your life. To clean up your life and your mind, to be happy and balanced, to be successful and clear, to be strong and powerful, you need to have tenacity. to take on every spiritual challenge, to overcome every obstacle, and to see through every illusion. This drive is what I call spiritual tenacity. And with this drive, you're able to clean up your life, clean up your mind. Every step forward on the pathway to enlightenment comes from this drive, spiritual tenacity. When you lack this tenacity, you stop. You no longer ascend. Your evolution gets stuck. your evolution gets stuck.

0:01:40
So it's very important to develop spiritual tenacity. Now in the beginning one starts in Maya, in illusion. You're in the world, the world being a reflection of human consciousness, human evolution, which isn't human consciousness, human evolution, which isn't very evolved. We're on a planet where there's a lot of people who want to get power over people. There's wars, there's a lack of social justice and inequality.

0:02:21
And in this world there's all sorts of structures, There's all sorts of structures of social conditioning, family, work, religion. Everyone's going around doing what they do. And in the beginning, one finds themselves satisfied with that condition. with that condition. Watching TV, going to work, hanging out with friends. Everything is fine for a while. But then you come to a deeper awareness. You start to see life differently. You see there's something more. Or you might see that you have a deeper dissatisfaction. Or you might see that you have a deeper dissatisfaction. The things that make everybody content and happy to run around and chase and talk about and go through, you find that those things just don't work for you anymore.

0:03:28
You need more than that. And that's when one starts to look inwardly. inwardly. That's when one starts to look into the spirit. And they start to say, oh wow, I have an interest outside of this transient game that everyone's playing. I have an interest in seeing something brighter, higher. And in seeing that interest, that's when you start And in seeing that interest, that's when you start to move. You start to do something new. You might have to stop hanging around the same friends. You might have to move. You might have to do different things.

0:04:17
You find yourself reading a spiritual book, going to see a spiritual teacher, trying Hatha yoga, all sorts of things. trying Hatha yoga, you know, all sorts of things, right? You just start doing something new, something that reveals a greater awareness of spirit. But it all comes from this first seeing that the world of illusion, maya, just doesn't suit you anymore. So this happened to a famous, famous enlightened teacher named Rama. He was a prince in a kingdom and he was at one point very happy with all the things in the court. In the royal life everything was fantastic.

0:05:10
And then one day he was just sad. he was just sad and that he wouldn't go and hang out with his friends and go to dances and parties. He would just sit in his room very unhappy with things and so his friends and his family kept on trying to get him to do the things that he enjoyed before. The things that happened in royalty and he just said no royalty and He just said no this this brings me no satisfaction and then finally His his father sent him to an enlightened teacher the Satha and That's where he finally found a way out of this dissatisfaction So that's where the first step comes dissatisfaction So that's where the first step comes Recognizing that you have dissatisfaction and doing something About it. This is the first step of spiritual tenacity because some people don't do anything about it. They say oh Wait, I'm bored of life I'm gonna Drink do drugs, you know Instead of elevating themselves you know, instead of elevating themselves, they'll get more stuck, just trying to numb themselves.

0:06:31
The spiritual tenacity is that push, that drive to look higher, to be brighter, to take that step forward. And for Rama, it was going away from the family for a while to study with the teacher. going away from the family for a while to study with the teacher. So, step by step, spiritual tenacity leads you higher up and higher up further along the pathway to enlightenment. So one, you know, just like Rama, has to find a spiritual school, a study, or a teacher. a study, or a teacher. But you have to be careful, because sometimes you'll get trapped in a bad school. So a bad ashram is like a bad restroom at a gas station. Not something you want to go into. And there's bad teachers out out there too. There's teachers who just seek to have power over people, take their money, and just, they just want, it's just like an ego trip for them. And then in studying with a teacher like that, you might get some partial truths, but it will be in a structure where you're going down.

0:08:00
where you're going down. It's like you're a boat with a hole in it, and that bad teacher's job is to point you in the right direction. That was a joke. But a good teacher will say, hey, well, before we get the direction here, we got to stop this sinking part. So you got to be careful. So oftentimes, when you're So you got to be careful. So oftentimes, when you're just starting out, you might go to a bad teacher. Then you have to have the tenacity to see that that's broken, that it doesn't work. So my teacher, his guru was a bad teacher.

0:08:45
He wanted to get power over people. And eventually, my teacher had to have that tenacity to see that there was a limitation to be Eventually, my teacher had to have that tenacity to see that there was a limitation to be able to push beyond that. There was a student of Buddha's. Well, first he was a Brahmin and he really wanted enlightenment. He never had heard of the Buddha and And he went to the highest Brahmin teacher that he could find. And he said, I will do anything for enlightenment. So the Brahmin teacher was a bad teacher.

0:09:23
And he said, oh, okay, here's what I need you to do. He just had him work for him. He's like, oh, good, I could use a worker. He's like, I'm going to give you a special magical mantra. And if you say this mantra, it'll take about 20 years. Mantra and if you say this mantra, it'll take about 20 years. I need a free workman for about 20 years That was his intent It'll take about 20 years, but then you'll become enlightened for sure So he's like, okay go do this go do this He's making him work all over the place and he's working, you know 10 12 hours a day and he's just saying this mantra while he's working the whole time Because that's what he is taught to do now he's working the whole time.

0:10:02
Because that's what he is taught to do. Now his teacher was just taking advantage of him, because the mantra wasn't really bringing him any higher states of mind or greater peace or insight. But he didn't know any better. But one day Buddha was walking by, and Buddha saw him out working in the field saying this mantra. working in the field saying this mantra. So Buddha walks over to him, and he's sitting there saying the mantra, then he sees Buddha, and then he's like, what?

0:10:35
So he stopped saying the mantra. And then Buddha says the mantra. And when Buddha says the mantra, he stops thought, transcends the self, and becomes the first attainment, the streamliner, the first attainment of enlightenment. first attainment, the streamliner, the first attainment of enlightenment. And that's a good teaching, that's a good teacher. Even with the same teaching, a bad teacher will have you stuck. But with the same teaching, a good teacher will bring you into a true awareness of eternity, true awareness of eternity of your higher self a Step higher towards enlightenment So you got to find a good teacher a lot of people find pretty good schools You know all Buddhist schools tend to have an enlightened teacher At the root Buddha if not another Teacher and in those schools teacher. And in those schools, there are good things. You learn good things about Buddha. You learn good spiritual practices. But sometimes you find that even in a good school, there's just a limitation. There's no one enlightened in the school. They're all talking about stuff that happened a thousand years ago ago or 25,000, 100 years ago, and one comes to a place where they're stuck again.

0:12:10
Now there's two kinds of stuck. One stuck is that you're doing your spiritual practice and you're just not getting anywhere anymore. You made a little progress, but now you're not going higher. And then you really, really need to use that spiritual tenacity to move on. The second kind of stuck is worse. You conform your identity to that spiritual path. And that's what we call the spiritual ego. You went from watching TV and playing video games and being sad, to being a Buddhist monk and being sad, to being a Buddhist monk or Lama or priest or teacher or practitioner, and thinking, all right, that's who I am, this must be good, but you're still sad.

0:13:04
So in the practice of spiritual enlightenment, one can become stuck. And that's why it's so one can become stuck. And that's why it's so important to go to an authentic teacher, an enlightened teacher, an esoteric teacher, a teacher who is in a lineage of enlightenment. Because that teacher can see past all your tricks when you're playing tricks on yourself. They can see the way that really, really works for you. they can see the way that really, really works for you. And enlightened teachers are very, very powerful. Teachers in the West are kind of like impotent, laid-back scholars. They're just kind of like, they have information, but they're really not pushing it.

0:14:00
But they're really not pushing it. Even if they've got a PhD and they're still practicing medicine or whatever, they're not pushing. In the West, they tend not to push their power. They've got to a certain level, they are what they are, they have information, that's kind of it. That's kind of the Western view of a teacher. An Eastern teacher is different. An Eastern teacher pushes their power to a greater and greater degree, a greater level. They have mastery, and they have a mastery beyond anything that one could... They operate on different levels that you have no idea about. So they're kind of magical.

0:14:45
And they're not just giving you information. They're telling you powerful things. you information, they're telling you powerful things, they're teaching you a way to truth. But they're not even what kind of our hallmark card idea of spiritual teachers are. Because we go, okay, so Western teachers are just like this kind of thing, but Eastern teachers, it'll be like some Indian guy with a turban, right? Indian guy with a turban, right? And you'll go over to him and he'll teach you a mantra. And he'll say some funny, interesting things to you that confound your mind. Like, enlightenment is found in the sun, but it's also found in the moon. And then you'll be like, deep, right? Because what does it mean? And then they go, aha, meditate on that, do the mantra, get out of here, and then you walk out of there with your wallet lighter, and then you'll also be like, you know, confused, spaced out, and less energy, right? That tends when we're seeking the idea of the Eastern teacher.

0:16:08
But an Eastern teacher is more like a sensei. When you walk into a karate class, you have a very different take on it. It's not all like, I'm gonna sit there and say om and experience cosmic consciousness and my teacher's gonna pat me on the back and give me a mantra. and my teacher is going to pat me on the back and give me a mantra. It's a different way. And this is really how an Eastern teacher is.

0:16:33
A spiritual teacher is the same as a karate sensei. They know something solid. They know something that works. They know something that is so powerful, it's deep, many different dimensions of awareness. It's deep, many different dimensions of awareness. And it's something that you can't just do on your own. It's not like you just walk in and they say, Oh yeah, go like this with your hand. And then you go, Okay, I'm a master.

0:17:03
There's something that they transfer to you in terms of consciousness of an art. And then when you practice with them, it's very grounded, very solid, practice with them, it's very grounded, very solid, very structured. This is really the way an Eastern teacher is. Now, an enlightened teacher is someone who's very, very, very powerful, because they've learned to be like a karate of the spirit. They've learned many, many, many secrets to life. They've learned how to overcome the self. Desire, fear, anger, depression, anything, any kind of limitation that exists in the mind, they have learned to overcome. So this is a very, very, very So this is a very, very, very strong, powerful individual.

0:18:08
In Tibet, there was a great teacher, Padmasambhava. And he really exemplifies an enlightened teacher. He came to Tibet and did powerful things. that and did powerful things. He first of all would sometimes go meditate in a cave for years, or he would go to a brothel and meditate there. He would break every kind of rule, but anywhere he went, he would teach powerful teachings. Everybody could see that they were true.

0:18:48
powerful teachings. Everybody could see that they were true. So even though he was sometimes in the monastery, or sometimes in a graveyard, sitting on a corpse meditating, no matter where he was, there was a great power. But he did lots of different things. Things that one would say that you can't be in a brothel and be enlightened. Or once he threw a rock at someone and killed them. Or, once he threw a rock at someone and killed them. Right? Yeah, a child, that's right. And then everyone's outraged. Oh my gosh, you killed that beautiful little kid!

0:19:25
And then he's like, he gets off on it. He gets off because he's like, he had it coming from a past life. Don't worry. Right? And everyone's all, oh, okay. So, you know, he did all these crazy, amazing things. You know, he did all these crazy amazing things. Sometimes he's battling demons. But he was very very very powerful. And you know, he taught the Dharma in powerful ways and created really a tradition of Tibetan Buddhism.

0:19:57
So enlightened teachers are very very strong, very powerful like that. They can overcome any obstacle. teachers are very very strong, very powerful like that. They can overcome any obstacle in life. So tenacity. An enlightened teacher is someone with great tenacity. They have overcome everything. Everything that the mind could conjure up. Buddha sitting under the tree, the Bodhi tree, Bodhi tree, he overcame everything. He said when he was sitting under the tree, Mara came to him with every 10,000 different things, things that would harm him, things that would draw his attention away, and everything that would create fear, he was able to overcome them. overcome them. Everything that would draw him into desire or lust, he would overcome it.

0:20:55
So that's what an enlightened teacher does. And in order to be enlightened, it's necessary to find an enlightened teacher, because that teacher can teach you what they've already done. And if you And if you go to somebody who hasn't done that, they can't teach you those truths. They can only show you what they know, but if they're stuck in samsara themselves, then they can't show you all the way. So you have to have the tenacity to find that, to find the enlightened teacher. the enlightened teacher. And as Jesus said, seek and ye shall find, but you have to really really seek. You can't just like seek for a minute. You go, I'm bored, there's nothing on TV. I want some enlightenment, where is it? Then you go, whatever. Back to TV, a new program came on, a new video game came out, right? You have to Right, you have to really really be Dedicated to seeking the truth then and seeking the truth you will work your way through these steps of This using tenacity to take a step down the path to get to the right place and the right place Is to be accepted as a student of an enlightened teacher to to have an authentic teacher who knows the way, who knows the path, who knows the teachings, knows the empowerments, has the transmissions.

0:22:37
And then that teacher is able to then work with you. But you have to have the tenacity to work with that teacher. Once you get to that teacher, it doesn't get easy, right? Once you get to that teacher, it doesn't get easy. It doesn't all of a sudden become you and the teacher sitting on top of a mountain and just going, oh, everything's great, everything's grand. All of a sudden, it becomes some real work because this is when you learn to clean up your life and mind.

0:23:12
in mind. You learn to become pure. And this is hard work that they give you. They give you the work of meditation. Meditation is not easy, right? To sit there and to stop thought. It takes great tenacity. But when you can stop thought, that's when you clean That's when you clean up your mind. The teacher might teach you mindfulness, compassion, yoga, karma yoga. And through these practices, you clean up your life. In the case of Milarepa, his teacher, Marpa, had him building towers. And Marpa had him doing this because he said, Marpa had him doing this because he said, this is karma yoga and you have bad karma So by building these towers you burn off bad karma, and this is a way of cleaning up your life cleaning up your mind Yeah so I like it because Milarepa was very bothered his mind was full of darkness because of some bad deeds he had done and Then after a while he stopped deeds he had done. And then after a while, he stopped feeling all that darkness. He stopped having all these disturbed thoughts. He just came to this point where all he was doing was working and struggling with building towers. So this is... there are practices, ways that an enlightened teacher can give you to clean up your life and clean up your mind. And there Can give you to clean up your life and clean up your mind and their ways that they are ways that work ways that are successful Now a clean life a clean mind is a very pure Simple intelligent powerful profound consciousness. It is an enlightened consciousness so an enlightened teacher while they might be So an enlightened teacher while they might be You know very very kind of intense or strict or they might be very very you know loving they all have a beautiful purity a silence a profound stillness and this is a clean mind and This is a clean mind.

0:25:40
All of the practices that they teach you, whether they're physical practices of exercise, wu-wei-do, karma yoga, or mental practices, compassion, mindfulness, meditation, all of these practices bring you to a condition of a clean mind. condition of a clean mind. In Zen, there's a concept called Awabe, and that is a concept that is clean mind being satisfied with very little. Like the simple room, the empty room, Is that as a clean mind? Francis of Assisi would talk about a Clean mind when when he said do few things But do them well this reflects the same consciousness clean mind Henry David Thoreau In his book Walden, this whole book is describing a clean mind.

0:26:57
He's up at this pond, Walden Pond in Massachusetts, and he's just living a very simple life and describing his experience of living life, what he's observing, and it's a beautiful description of a clean mind. mind. Now I went to Walden Pond to check it out to see if I can go there and just sit and have a clean mind. Well it's just a place. Now there's a lot of people who hang out there in the summer. So it doesn't seem to be a clean mind. It seems to be a cluttered place. But that's the thing. He wasn't talking about the place. Of course he was in the book, but what he's describing was a state of mind. So Of course it wasn't book, but what he's describing was a state of mind so we seek through many different reflections Many different practices to come to this clean life clean mind clean consciousness Now the thing that Clutters up the mind is thoughts and disturbing emotions up the mind is thoughts and disturbing emotions. So if you didn't have any thought, didn't have any disturbing emotions, then your mind would be automatically clean. You would see a beautiful, endless, radiant light, eternal consciousness, your higher self. I mean, you eternal consciousness, your higher self. I mean, you would see infinity, or you would see God and God's essential sense. And it is only clutter that covers that. But people create clutter. And clutter stops you from seeing. It stops you from being able to be stops you from seeing. It stops you from being able to be free.

0:28:54
So we seek in all of our practices to still the mind and to be able to see beyond clutter. Our clutter creates a mental model. Right our thoughts our feelings they create ways of viewing things where you think okay? This is how it is And when it really isn't that way it's a it's it's an illusion created by color cut clutter, so It could be like you have got a room. That's just got Stuff all over it right clothes toys. I don't know whatever, but you can't even see the floor anymore over it, right? Clothes, toys, I don't know, whatever. You can't even see the floor anymore, right? So if someone said, well, what's the floor of your room? You'd say, oh, it's a bunch of clothes and garbage and papers, and yeah, that's what the floor is. But you might have hardwood floors. You just forgot, because you can't see it, because there's so much stuff there. So we really think of, you know, our So we really think of our mind as a room, and we want to clear the room of the clutter, because that clutter gets you to see things wrong.

0:30:16
And the clutter, it creates a heaviness, a heaviness that you can't see beyond. Some people are like My room isn't dirty. I just like obstacle courses and some people Cleaning their cleaning their room means kind of like clearing a pathway through all of that From the door to their bed They're all no I cleaned up So I don't know I don't know In Buddhism we seek to truly clear the clutter Completely to have a clean room a simple room A Zen like room an empty room now clutter it leaves a heaviness So if you if you sat next to somebody So if you sat next to somebody, they will start creating clutter for you, because they're creating a heaviness.

0:31:22
I remember one time I took some of my students to a Zen monastery. This was the first Zen monastery in America. It was in Maui. And we went into the meditation room to meditate. we went into the meditation room to meditate and there was nothing there but some pillows and an altar not even a Buddha on the altar just nothing very bare but it was so full of clutter it was heavy everybody's like oh it's heavy in here right and it was it was filled with the frustrations of monks illustrations of monks who meditated there angers desires There were family members. There were demons and angels and and their past and their future When people sit down to meditate, right? They're very often just struggling with themselves and They brought all of the struggle struggle into that room by meditating there for so many years, that it was cluttered and they never cleared it out.

0:32:32
So I sat there with my students and it was very cluttered and I said, okay, you've got to clear the clutter. So I cleared the clutter by means of secret teachings. And then when the clutter was clear, we were able to meditate. When the clutter was clear, we were able to meditate. So you have to clear the clutter of your life. You have to clean up your room, clean up your meditation. And then that way, you're able to see the truth very easily. When you can clear the clutter, it's very simple to meditate. clear the clutter, it's very simple to meditate. When you can clear the clutter, then you see that life shines. You're not looking at life through a mental model, an obscured view. So we got to clean our room. So my teacher always taught that physical life is a reflection of your mind so he taught us if you want to Meditate better clean your room Cleaning and when he says clean your room he also means everything like clean out your closet make sure that everything is in order and And then when you clean your room and you clean your closet and everything's in order, you find that all of a sudden your meditation is better.

0:34:11
Your mind is clearer. It's sharper. You're more capable of processing information. You're more capable of getting things done. You're more mindful automatically, just because you organized your life. just because you organized your life. So we practice cleaning our room to strengthen our mind. We practice being impeccable, clean, and clear, and organized in our business, in our job. And by having a clean, tight, bright attention to our life clean tight bright attention to our life and to our work Our meditation is stronger. We see eternity more clearly so when we're looking at being tenacious in Meditation on the pathway to enlightenment we have to be tenacious in ordering our physical lives We have to be tenacious in ordering our physical lives.

0:35:18
We can't be sloppy. We can't be spaced out. We start with physical considerations. Dressing well. Cleaning our house. Making sure that our financial affairs are all in order. Making sure that when we work, we work in a very bright, tight way. So we bring a great, clean attention to our physical world. And with every effort, when we clean up our physical world, we're also cleaning up our mind.

0:35:58
Our mind becomes ordered. So the mind is like, it starts off with bad software. It's written poorly because of these mental models, social conditioning, personal history, desires and fears, and all of the self. You don't process information in a clear way. You don't see life in a clean way. So bad software is just like running an infinite loop. you're running an infinite loop, right? And you don't even know that you're running an infinite loop.

0:36:30
Just like, still going, yep, doing something, right? You end up, you know, pulling down the biggest Cartesian product in the world. I mean, you just end up doing the worst things possible. And you got utilities running, why'd you write that program, how did it get there, it's just there. Oh my goodness. Why'd you write that program? How did it get there? It's just there? Oh my goodness. So When we clean up our room when we clean our lives When we clean our mind We are rewriting that software so that we can process life in an efficient way We can say oh I have to do this. You're not going to get confused You're not going to get confused.

0:37:14
You're not going to say, oh, I don't know what to do. By cleaning up your life, tightening up your life, you're able to see clearer. You stop running utilities or sub-procedures that don't make any sense. You just clean your life. Clean the way that you think. Clean the way that you perceive. This brings you into a clearer, sharper, more balanced way of perceiving life. This is a clean life, a clean mind. And when you have a clean mind, even though there's tremendous pressures on you to do many, many, many things, you're able to do everything very efficiently. things, you're able to do everything very efficiently. When you have parts of you that are obscured, wrestling with angers, or wrestling with depressions, or wrestling with desires, then all the things that you have to do in life become impossible. You get stressed out, You get freaked out.

0:38:26
You go through a very... You go through a hard time dealing with life because you're spending so much energy wrestling with places that are not clean in the mind. If you can clean those things out, then all the things that you have to do will happen without any consternation. very easily by doing them directly instead of running through wrestling with all sorts of problems. So when you have a clean mind, you have a Wu Wei mind. It's just automatic. It's not you doing.

0:39:09
It's a Zen mind. It's an empty mind. mind and yet every demand on you, every challenge that you faced, you're able to do it with the greatest efficiency. This is a clean mind. So we've got to throw things away. You know, when you're cleaning your room and you see something you haven't worn in six months, need it, maybe throw it away. I had a friend, another monk in the school. He, besides general things like flossing, and floss and toothpaste, and things like that, and he had a certain amount of clothing for business, but just enough.

0:40:00
but just enough. He had 14 personal items. That's it. So he was just like, yeah, I got my basic stuff that I need to just live, but I've got 14 additional things. And that's it. And so whenever I would visit him, his house was clean. It was very zen.

0:40:25
Very clean mind. Very clean mind. As opposed to someone that I know. I'm not going to say who. Clutter. Clutter. Their house is filled with clutter. They've got like tables everywhere and boxes on tables and boxes filled with boxes. And I'm like, lifting up something, I'm like, do you really need this, this home and garden I'm like, do you really need this Home and Garden magazine from 1973?

0:40:55
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I need to look through that. I want to see it before I get rid of it. It might have something important. I'm like, well, sometimes the answer to a cluttered situation like that Like that, you know, it's just not to review everything, just to take a match to it. Or burn it down. You know, it's like, sometimes you're sitting there going, oh, I don't know, I might need this for later. Right? Who cares? If you need it later, get it later. Clear your mind, clear your life, get rid of that stuff.

0:41:34
You'll see life in a completely different way. different way. So sometimes we've got to throw things out. Even spiritual things. So sometimes we create these spiritual concepts, and we've got to throw them out as well. This is what Buddhists run into a lot. They're sitting there going, okay, Buddhism is like this, like this. It's not like that. But they think it is. So they actually clutter up their mind with Buddhism and structures in Buddhism. And that's where you got to kill the Buddha. You know, this is a famous Zen koan. If you see the Buddha on the road, kill the Buddha. You know, you start cluttering up your mind with things. You start to see things that mind with things. You start to see things that are separate. And you just got to throw these things out. So even being a Buddhist, you have to throw out Buddhism. Because throwing out Buddhism means that you're throwing out the concepts that would clutter one's mind enlightenment directly. You know, Buddha at the time of his death said, he's like, hey, by the way, when I die, don't start making statues of me. And then he dies and everyone makes statues. You go to any Buddhist monastery, there's a statue.

0:43:06
And so the thing is that when you start to do that, you start to make this make this the mythos of the Buddha, stories and concepts and structures, and then you end up completely not seeing enlightenment. You can be at a monastery that has all the rules, all the vineyards, all the Buddha statues, all the big beautiful buildings, and completely see a concept, a clutter of spiritual concepts, a clutter of spiritual concepts and completely miss the Buddha. So we all seek to clear the mind. I mean, you can't be sitting there meditating going, Buddha and this rule and this is a pretty temple and you know, that is getting caught up in all the clutter of Buddhism.

0:44:00
In meditation, we throw it all away. We throw Buddhism away. In meditation, we throw it all away. We throw Buddhism away. And that's Buddhism. Okay, thank you.

