0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about Jnana Yoga, the yoga of discrimination. Discrimination being the ability to know what is real and what is not real. The ability to discern truth. To be able to tell what's what. What's reality. What's right. What's right? What is the Dharma the path to truth? This is the spiritual path yoga the path that brings you to union Enlightenment Through seeing the truth Yana, Yoga Now, in Yana Yoga, we see a true self-reflection, that we are not an individual, that we are all of eternity.

0:01:36
This is the ultimate question in Jnana Yoga, who am I? Jnana Yogis would ponder this question and in reflecting on this question, they would that they are not their personal history, that they are not their social caste, that they're not their job position, their religion, their ethnicity. They would see beyond all descriptions see beyond all descriptions of the self, to see that they are nothing. So in that self-reflection, they find an emptiness, they find nothing. They look in the mirror and they see no one, Enlightenment is being a vampire. No. When they look in the mirror of self, there's no description. There's no thing.

0:03:03
There's an emptiness. And in that emptiness, that's enlightenment. Or, they also look at everything and see God in it. They say, okay, is God not in this tree? No, of course, God is in the tree. Is God in an apple? Of course, God is in an apple. Is God in a car sometimes, driving fast? sometimes driving fast. So they go through practices, these yana yogis, of seeing the emptiness of everything, that there is no particular self in anything. Self being enlightenment.

0:04:00
and they see that in everything there's the self, self being enlightened. Enlightenment is both in everything and in nothing, or empty in everything. So, this is the pathway to enlightenment, jnana yoga, seeing the emptiness of the self and seeing that God is in everything. Simple. Now, jnana yoga is the advanced yoga. So it's not something that everyone can practice, Because most people are very deluded. And when you have delusion, then your discrimination, your ability to discern the truth is false. You could say, you could look at something and you can believe completely that it is a certain way. certain way. You say, yes, this is what this is, and then you'd be wrong. Because everything is an illusion. Any definition that you can come up with is illusion. Life is empty. So Jnana Yoga is an advanced yoga. It is a yoga for someone who's practiced meditation for or someone who's practiced meditation for a long time, and who can see the deeper truths of life.

0:05:48
Yama Yoga in the beginning can be more of a practical practice. completely but beyond illusion. But it can be a practical practice. It gets you out of limited views so that you can see the truth, understand life better. It's like life is an illusion, like a dream. And you might have a nightmare, and in the nightmare everything And you might have a nightmare, and in the nightmare everything is terrible. And then you wake up from the nightmare, and then you're relieved. You say, wow, it was just a dream. Now I'm happy. Or you can have a dream where you have a desire, like thirst. You're in the dream.

0:06:47
You're thirsty, going around in a desert. thirsty, going around in a desert. And then in the dream you get a glass of water. And in the dream your thirst is satisfied. But then upon awaking, you're not thirsty. There's no desire. And there's no satisfaction. In the dream there's a constant desire, seeking the constant desire, seeking, fulfillment of temporary joy, but upon awaking, to see the truth of life in a dream, and in life, and in spiritual awakening, the desire is an illusion. The satisfaction that you get from attaining the desire is an illusion. So there are practical ways for one to approach jnana yoga, to learn to see beyond the illusion. Know yourself.

0:08:02
This is to be mindful, to observe your thoughts, to see the patterns of thoughts. So very often it's a good idea to write down your thoughts. Write down your, especially your painful thoughts, the thoughts that bring you suffering. When you write them down, you draw them out of intangibility, you make them very concrete, and then you also start to see the patterns in your thinking. You see that you think the same painful thoughts again and again and again. And then you see there's a way out. You see it. There's a way out It helps you to understand So When you can write your thoughts down know your thoughts Then there's a way for you to see the limitations What you're thinking how you suffer what you believe?

0:09:13
your finite definition of self what you believe, your finite definition of self. Another important way for you to observe knowing what is right is by asking. You have a higher self. Enlightenment is within you. So you can ask yourself and You can ask yourself, and you can gain the answers. This is a very powerful method of understanding truth. You can ask yourself, when given a choice between two things, is there truth in this, or is there truth in this?

0:10:00
And when you honestly ask, humbly ask, and you listen, it's very easy to see the truth and the path to take. So you can always ask your higher self, and you'll get good answers. It is a way to navigate towards the path of truth. the path of truth. So, Jnana Yoga is practical in a sense. In order to do Jnana Yoga, you have to have a very strong mind. And we develop this strength of mind through meditation. So when So when you're able to hold your focus on a chakra Hold your focus away from thought then your spin your mind becomes strong It's a essential spiritual strength that we develop through learning to slow down and eventually stop thought we develop through learning to slow down and eventually stop thought.

0:11:18
When you can stop thought, your mind is very, very strong. And in stopping thought, you then open your awareness to seeing truth. Thoughts obscure truth. truth. This is why, when an individual is looking at something and saying, well, I think I should do this, I like this, this is what it means, this is what that means. When an individual is doing that, they're going through a filter of their thoughts. They have an awareness field built up of thoughts and ideas and they're looking at life in a certain model and that is an obscuration. There is no truth in it. It's not seeing truth directly. So there can be a flaw and when the self is flawed in its perception, the is flawed in its perception, the result is suffering.

0:12:32
And that's why we seek to go beyond flawed awareness, beyond thought. There's perfect awareness, discrimination, knowing the truth. And then in knowing the truth, there's no suffering. There's no suffering. There's bliss and ecstasy. So one must have a very strong mind. We also develop our minds in practices, technology, developing a strong attention in the work that we do. This makes your mind strong. mindfulness, practices of compassionate awareness. These are practices that make your mind strong.

0:13:22
Sports, athletics, martial arts are ways of developing aspects of your mind. All of this makes your mind strong so that you can see truth in a greater capacity. capacity. Now, you have to go beyond the illusion. When you're caught up in illusions, you have ideas that are false. You see things wrong. It looks a certain way, but it isn't. So you is the doorway to yana yoga. Samadhi is advanced meditation where you stop thought and you are absorbed into nirvana.

0:14:16
You merge with all of eternity and that is the ultimate vision of truth. Before samadhi there's of truth. Before Samadhi, there's always confusions, illusions. What looks like it's one way might be another. I remember in my old Kung Fu school, I was really into the mystical, magical parts Kung Fu, hearing about masters, being able to push someone over without even touching them, jumping great distances, magical things. So I was always interested in that. And one day a guy brought a picture to class. This was when I was younger, before I was into meditation. And he brought a picture of a guy doing transcendental meditation. and he brought a picture of a guy doing transcendental meditation, and he was sitting in full lotus position, levitated in the air, about a foot off the ground, perfect. And the guy said, yeah, you know, you can learn this. And I said, I want to learn that. I was very interested in that magical stuff.

0:15:36
in that magical stuff. So I was like, wow, so in meditation, you can learn to levitate, this is fantastic. So then I went to a transcendental meditation class, and first they just talked about like, kind of like, spilling your thoughts, and I was just like, whatever. It's like, get to the levitating part. And then I asked, at the end I asked, well, what about the levitating?

0:16:00
And then I asked, at the end, I asked, well, what about the levitating? And then they say, oh, yogic flying, yes. That's something, yeah, we all do that. And I said, really? I said, can you do it? And the teacher said, yeah, sure. I said, show me. So he sat on the ground. And then he does this kind of thing where he kind of hops.

0:16:20
And I was like, what's that? Like, you started to, you didn't take off. I was like, what's that? Like, you started to, you didn't take off, didn't quite get there. And he's like, oh no, yeah, no, that's it. And I'm like, oh, so somebody hopped and they took a picture. And, got it. So, that's, that's what happened. So I had this idea that, you know, that they were just sitting around levitating. that they were just sitting around levitating.

0:16:52
But really, they're just kind of hopping around. And if you get the picture just right, it looks awesome. And so therefore, that was my illusion. I didn't know. I didn't see things correctly. And then I was disappointed in seeing the truth. But there is a greater truth. The greater truth is beyond the transient world. The greater truth is found in Samadhi, breaking through all illusion. absorption, into nirvana, complete awareness, total truth. Now the self gets in the way when we're seeking to stop thought, because when you start to stop thought, the self starts starts to dissolve. And when the self starts going away, people get afraid. They say, oh no, I'm losing myself. This is an illusion, that you have a self, but you think you're losing everything. But it's not true. So you have to make a good relationship with life, make a good relationship with life. To see that letting go in meditation, having brighter moments of stillness, of stopping thought, is a good thing. And that the thoughts are only limitations, they're illusions. Ultimately all of the all of the awareness of self is illusion and That going beyond that illusion brings ecstasy and wisdom Knowing life in its eternal form So the self always Limits you the ego shuts down The ego shuts down awareness. The ego constricts. It takes all of the universe, and it constricts everything into very small ways of looking at things. And it's all associated with me, is seeing the illusion of the self.

0:19:40
That the self-desires, the self-fears, are illusions that just create suffering. And upon spiritually awakening, you see that those illusions are not real. You see that they just dissolve, they're not there. dissolved, they're not there. But when you are clinging to the self, you're experiencing the ups, the downs, you're attached to the things you want, the things that you like, and you are adverse to things that you don't like. of being hurried and suffering. But upon awakening, stopping thought, the self stops. In Samadhi, when you merge, unite with eternity, you wake up from the dream. And the dream was just Just a transient experience of ups and downs.

0:20:56
Not even real in any way. This is seeing the truth. This is Samadhi. When we seek to know the self, we seek to know what is life, what is nirvana, we find that answer in Samadhi. We find it and we find that answer in Samadhi. It's the only place that you can find it You can't find it in thinking in talking This is an illusion The self is an illusion thoughts are an illusion an illusion Meaning that they are Transient there they last for a small time while enlightenment eternity small time while enlightenment, eternity, the self, lasts for a long time. Eternity lasts for a long time. So we seek to really connect with our true selves, eternity, and That way we are free from the ups and downs of the self We find that the self causes untold suffering the self is Unreal it is an illusion and in Meditation in Samadhi in Yana Yoga. We see past that self We see a great beauty a great ecstasy we see past that self. We see a great beauty, a great ecstasy, a great wonder, happiness, when we see the truth. Now, you could ask, why bother going for this enlightenment thing?

0:22:48
thing. If everything's an illusion and enlightenment exists anyway, why do anything? So nihilism is something that occurs sometimes. Why bother? Well, the reason why to bother, the reason The reason why to follow the pathway to enlightenment, the reason why to meditate, the reason why to do yoga, the reason why to practice mindfulness and compassion, all of these difficult practices are important because you suffer. You have limitations. And even if you think you don't suffer, you suffer. Even on your best day, you suffer. Within the self, there's always death. You suffer death.

0:23:52
Within the self, there's always decline, decay. You might be young and have money and things go your way. And you go, yeah, I'm good. have money and things go your way and you go, yeah, I'm good. And then someday you get injured, you get old, someone bothers you, you die. That's suffering. Within the self there's always suffering. So there's a great reason to seek the truth. And in finding the truth And in finding the truth, we find that which precedes the perceiver, the watcher, the awareness of eternity.

0:24:42
And in that, we find satisfaction, ecstasy, and bliss. Now, Jnana Yoga is taught by a teacher, a teacher who has mastered Jnana Yoga, a teacher with discrimination. And that teacher will be able to teach you in a way that is beyond words, because the words do not show the truth. do not show the truth. Words are always caught in bias. People can take the Bible, open it up, and say, oh, here's a reason I should go to war with someone. Here's a reason I should kill someone. You know, Jesus said this, therefore I will kill you. That's finding, that's bias. So even though So, even though Jesus was enlightened and said perfect words, Buddha was enlightened and said perfect words, people take their words out of context.

0:25:52
In words, there's always bias. You could always say, well, I don't like that. I disagree with that. Oh, I think that means this. I think that means that. And then, therefore, you never really know the truth. Therefore you never really know the truth, but there is a truth and the truth is not in words and and a teacher of Yana, Yoga can teach you that truth. It's a esoteric teaching Sorry putra was a student of Buddha's and was a student of Buddha's. And Buddha was sitting with many monks, and they were kind of waiting around because they thought he was going to give a Dharma talk. And then he just picked a flower as his teaching. No one understood it except for Sariputra. And except for Sariputra.

0:26:50
And when Sariputra understood the teaching, he became enlightened. This is the esoteric teachings. This is seeing the truth. Not just words, not ideas, beyond that. There's a great truth. truth was able to show Sariputra this path of discrimination. Okay, thank you.

