0:00:00
So tonight I'd like to talk about the subtle physical body and the occult body. The subtle physical body is your energy body. The occult body is a field of awareness that you develop through the yoga of mysticism. So we set off, we embark on the spiritual path, we learn something new. We learn that we are more something new, we learn that we are more than we thought we were. We thought that we were just a physical body walking around having thoughts. And what we learn right away is that there's another dimension to us. We start with the awareness of the subtle physical body. The subtle physical body is an energy body. It surrounds and encompasses your physical It surrounds and encompasses your physical body. It is the primary focus of your health and your spiritual attention.

0:01:00
So when we realize that we have a subtle physical body, then we're able to open our spiritual awareness in positive, constructive ways. But also we're able to experience life in new dimensions, to experience life in new dimensions, with new opportunities and possibilities. So when we talk about the subtle physical body, it's very well known as the aura. It's this energy body that surrounds you. And a lot of people know the aura as having colors. Maybe someone has a red aura, someone has a blue aura, that kind of thing. And this is true. that kind of thing.

0:01:38
And this is true. But there are many dimensions to the aura. There's the outer layers of the aura, and then you come into deeper layers and deeper layers and deeper layers. So just as your physical body has skin on the outside, muscle on the inside, intestines and organs, the subtle body has different layers. On the very outer layer, it has colors. layers. On the very outer layer, it has colors that people can perceive. And these colors kind of are like a, they might represent emotion or disposition of attention. So someone who is very, you know, like angry, someone who is very quick to have a temper, they might someone who's very quick to have a temper, they might have kind of a red aura. Or someone who's very meditative might have kind of a blue aura. So that's the first noticeable thing on most people's auras. But then when you look more deeply in to the aura, you start to see that in this energy body, there's actually structures. That all of this energy comes together in these lines that all of this energy comes together in these lines and dots and they connect and interrelate.

0:02:57
Now in acupuncture, they work with the aura. So you might have seen an acupuncture picture or a they have a little person maybe standing like this and they'll show that there's all these lines and dots all over the place. The dots are acupuncture points, but those are the places in the aura where energy comes together. And the lines are meridians and energy runs along those lines. So if you, with the needle, So if you, with the needle, can affect the places where the energy comes together, those intersections of dots and lines, you can make more energy flow to a dot, an acupuncture point, or you could make more energy go away from an acupuncture point to create a balance.

0:03:57
Now this is how acupuncturists heal. heal. They work with manipulating the energy field, the aura, and with a needle they can change the flow of energy. Now this is why the aura is important. Every single one of those dots means something. Every single one of those meridians means something. So when one acupuncture point, it could create physical health. So, like, let's say that you hurt your shoulder, and then the acupuncturist goes over and puts a needle in your knee, and then your shoulder feels better. So they create these different changes.

0:04:43
And the acupuncturists look even deeper. They can also treat emotional problems. Someone who's too angry, right? treat emotional problems. Someone who's too angry, right? They say, okay, there's a treatment for that. Someone who's depressed, there's a treatment for that. So they can also go down not just to treat the physical body, but also to treat emotional imbalances. So the aura, the things in the aura affect your physical health. The things in your aura affect well-being. Now, in spiritual practice we learn about the deepest aspect of your aura, not just the outer emotional disposition, not just your physical health, not just your emotional well-being, but your spirit. So at the core, at the center of the aura is very simple structure, but it is the most spiritual dimension of your being. It is the structure of the chakras. Chakras are like acupuncture points. They are energy centers.

0:05:52
And they, instead of having an effect of physical health or emotional well-being, the chakras The chakras have an effect of spiritual awareness so when you With the needle of the focused mind can activate the chakra Then what happens is you experience? spiritual consciousness You have an explosion of spiritual consciousness you can enter into completely different states of attention high beautiful states of different states of attention, high, beautiful states of enlightened awareness. So we focus, not like the acupuncturist, we focus on the chakras because we're working on the spiritual development. Now the chakras lie along a single meridian called the Shashumna. The Shashumna The Shashumna runs from the bottom of the spine to the top of the head.

0:06:54
And there are seven primary chakras that lie along the Shashumna. So the first chakra is at the very base. It's the root chakra, the base of the spine. And this is the chakra of power, power really because it has in it Kundalini. And Kundalini is the most refined spiritual energy. So when we activate the Kundalini and it starts to rise up, our spiritual awareness grows. And when the Kundalini gets to the second chakra, which is the chakra of creation, of creation, then we can have extremely powerful creative outcomes. If we bring the focus up to the navel chakra, which is about two inches below the belly button, this is the chakra of willpower, spiritual willpower.

0:07:54
So this gives you the power to succeed in life and to be able to have a balanced spiritual you know, have a balanced spiritual life, you know, provide for what you need to provide for in your spiritual world. Then we bring the focus, the Kundalini, up to the heart chakra, right in the center of the chest. And this is the chakra of love and balance. So when we bring the Kundalini to the heart chakra, then we experience universal love. And it's a very profound, beautiful experience. And it's a very profound beautiful experience. And then we bring our focus up to the throat chakra.

0:08:30
And this is the chakra of expression of enlightenment. So this is all sorts of ways of expressing. It could be through music, it could be through speaking. But it is a way of expressing truth, bringing truth into the world. Finally, we focus on the third eye, right between the eyebrows and slightly above. Finally, we focus on the third eye, right between the eyebrows and slightly above. And the third eye is the chakra of wisdom, seeing, and discrimination. So with the third eye, we see spirit and we come to know the truth of life. These are the primary chakras, but there's a seventh.

0:09:12
It's the crown chakra, which is just above the Sushumna. It's the crown chakra, which is just above the Shishumna. And this is the chakra of enlightenment. So when you can bring the Kundalini up the Shishumna, jump from the Shishumna to the crown chakra, then you experience Samadhi, which is God-realization or enlightenment. So this is what they call in Zen the Satori moment. It is awakening. moment. It is awakening. So in meditation, in spiritual practice, we learn to meditate using the chakras so that we can learn to focus, learn to still our minds, but also have a powerful experience because we're focusing on the navel first. That's where we begin.

0:10:00
we begin, and we gain powers. We gain spiritual powers by meditating on the navel. Then we bring our focus to the heart. We meditate on the heart, and we have experiences of balance and love. And then we bring our focus to the third eye, and that's where we have experience of great wisdom in seeing. So, when we are embarking on the spiritual path, when we learn embarking on the spiritual path, when we learn about our subtle physical body and how to work with the structures of the body to have a meditation practice that's very developmental, then we both learn to stop thought. And we also gain powers and awarenesses through the practice that are tremendously helpful for us in dealing with the world. us in dealing with the world. Now, my teacher originally said it's not recommended to meditate on chakras because they're so powerful and they reach to so many different dimensions that it could be confusing for people. However, he said if you have an enlightened teacher, then it is good to work with the enlightened teacher on that meditation practice.

0:11:18
And the reason being is that an enlightened teacher will direct the student's awareness in this art of meditation to the proper places, the proper attention. So you won't just sit there and just, you know, go to any dimension. dimension, the teacher will guide you to say, this is a dimension of love that is a good one to focus on. This is another one that is a good one to focus on. This is another one that is good. So there are thousands of dimensions of love that one could focus on, but some of the dimensions might be just so in love, so in rapture, that they are not so in love, so in rapture, that they're not practical for the physical world that we live in. And if you experience that dimension, then you'll just be kind of checked out and unbalanced. So an enlightened teacher guides their students to experience only the dimensions that are constructive.

0:12:26
So this is a very constructive path of meditation using the subtle physical body with a focus on the chakras. Now, it's very important for someone who learns about their energy body to keep their energy body pure, to make sure that they're not losing energy. When you learn about your energy body, When you learn about your energy body, your awareness starts to reach out beyond the way you used to operate. So when you just knew about your physical body, then you would operate in the world a certain way.

0:13:04
But then when you start to know about your energy body, you start to access different dimensions, more information, subtle information, from different dimensions, about power, about love, about wisdom, and your awareness of life grows and the information that you're dealing with in life increases, so you're getting more information from more places. So at first, this could bother you. You could find yourself a little bit out of balance and say, oh, I'm so sensitive.

0:13:36
You could find yourself a little bit out of balance and say, oh, I'm so sensitive, I feel all these things. And that happens in the beginning, so it takes a little while to balance out, but you have to be focused and strong. First, sensitivity occurs because you become aware, but then what happens is you get powerful because of it. So when you're going through the times where you're sensitive, that's good because you're becoming more aware of things, but you also have to be focused and powerful that's good because you're becoming more aware of things.

0:14:02
But you also have to be focused and powerful and then you'll be strong. So you get in that balance of more awareness and greater strength. More awareness and greater strength. So when you're doing things that are, let's say, toxic for your aura, you feel it more than you used to. So maybe you used to be able to go on a Saturday night more than you used to. So maybe you used to be able to go on a Saturday night and hang out at a club and dance, right? And maybe that was fun for you for a while. But after you meditate for a while, you might go to that club and you might say, wow, everybody, what their focus is, is a bunch of desire and maybe some aggression. And when you're And when you're around that, you feel not good.

0:14:52
You feel like it's a toxic, bad energy. Very often we find that just being around large groups of people is low energy for us. So we have to make sure that we do things, the things that we do and the people that we're around, don't pollute the don't pollute the energy that we have because we are more aware. Meditation is the strongest way to strengthen your subtle physical body. So that's why we make a practice of meditating twice a day. We also go to places that are very enriching for our aura.

0:15:36
So we go to sacred places or places of power, places in nature So we go to sacred places or places of power, places in nature, where when we go to these places we feel balanced. We feel that they add to our purity and they expand our awareness. These are places that are also conducive to meditation. So we'll go to the beach or we'll go to a place of power in the southwest, in a desert or go to a place of power in the Southwest, in a desert or something, and in these places, the places have a very fast, high vibration. And when we sit in that place, we're filled with that light, the energy, the brightness, and then we feel better, our auras cleaner. When we focus meditation, we go into even higher states of mind. The third way to develop your subtle physical body is to work with a teacher. An enlightened teacher or an esoteric teacher clearing the toxicity out of your aura.

0:16:51
Because in this world, unless you're very, very, very strong in your practice, you're constantly picking up toxicity. Toxicity from being in traffic, toxicity from your own bad thoughts, toxicity from hanging around people who are toxic. And you pick up this dirt in your energy field. And whenever you have dirt in your energy field, dirt in your energy field. And whenever you have dirt in your energy field, it's confusing. It's harder to get your spiritual energy, the Kundalini, to come up. So an esoteric teacher is constantly cleaning out your aura. When you sit with them, they clean your aura.

0:17:30
They get all the toxicity out so that you can have clarity again. That's the first thing And then they'll do more things. But that purification is very, very, very important. So that's why it's good to have an esoteric teacher who can do that for you. Now an enlightened teacher radiates a very bright energy. It's an energy in the subtle physical body, but it comes through from nirvana. through from Nirvana. So it's powerful, it's bright, it's beautiful, and it's extremely special because it comes from enlightenment itself. So when you sit with an enlightened teacher, when that light, the gold light of Nirvana comes through, you feel it and it enters into your subtle physical body. So you actually get to feel a little bit enlightened.

0:18:24
So, you actually get to feel a little bit enlightened. You get to feel what enlightenment is, just by having your subtle physical body in proximity to your teacher. The teacher also has a way to bring enlightenment to you from far away. into the conversation about the occult body. The occult body, again, is a field of awareness that we develop in the Yoga of Mysticism. So just like you have a different body in a dream, you have a different body when you're a different body when you're dealing with the occult dimensions. So when you're in a dream, you're walking around, you're doing stuff, you're usually yourself, but maybe sometimes you'll be a butterfly. I don't know. It'd be something. And when you're in the dream, usually people are just walking around and they just think like it's normal. They Usually people are just walking around and they just think like it's normal.

0:19:40
They think they're awake. And they're walking around in a body. You notice you have a body. You notice that the body gets thirsty and you can drink something and you're happy. You notice that, you know, if someone throws a rock at you, you get hit and you go, oh, that hurt. So in the dream, there's a body. It's a dream body. And you interact with the dimensions of a dream in the dream body. And you interact with the dimensions of a dream in the dream body.

0:20:06
Now in mysticism we learn about the dimensions of power and we interface with those dimensions with the occult body. The occult body is the part of our being that goes into those dimensions and has experiences. So this is what we do. experiences. So this is what we do. Now, in Tibetan Buddhism, they also practice mysticism. And one of their practices for the practice of developing the occult body is the practices of visualization. So they will visualize a Bodhisattva or a Buddha and they will visualize, they will work on visualizing them extremely clearly and they'll see, you know, that maybe the Bodhisattva has a thousand arms and they'll work on developing their awareness of every arm and maybe every arm is carrying a different thing, a different aspect of the Dharma, a carrying a different thing, a different aspect of the Dharma, a different symbol of the Dharma.

0:21:20
And then they'll work on developing their mind so strong that they're capable of holding this vision perfectly in their mind, as if they were looking at a picture and aware of everything in that picture. one way of developing. But to make your occult body strong, to be able to connect to the dimensions of power and use the dimensions of power, you have to have a strong mind. You have to have a very strong will, but you've got to develop your mind, you've got to develop your will together. And that's why the Tibetan practice is a good practice. That's why it And that's why the Tibetan practice is a good practice. That's why it works. It's because you've got that vision and you really, really want to see it clearly.

0:22:10
And by doing that, what happens is you transfer from the physical world, you're so concentrated on the vision of the Buddha, that you transfer your attention from the physical body to the occult body. the occult body and then you end up in this dimension of power and you're interacting with enlightenment and enlightened being through the symbol of the Buddha that you envision. And in doing that you gain powerful awareness. Let's do it. The best thing about Because explanations are just explanations, but you can actually experience it. So what we're going to do, we're going to do a Tibetan Buddhist mysticism practice. We're going to envision a Buddha, one of the five Jnana Buddhas called the Amitabha Buddha. You're going to envision a Buddha sitting on a lotus, smiling and filled with light.

0:23:22
It is a red light that surrounds the Amitabha Buddha. And it is a very powerful, beautiful, giving red light. So you just have to envision this person, see them. see them. And you have to say, from your heart, with great purity, you have to say, Amitabhudha, Amitabhudha, Amitabhudha. Okay? We can do that together. Just Amitabhudha, Amitabhudha, Amitabhudha. This is calling and connecting your mind to the dimension of the Amitabhudha. your mind to the dimension of the Amitabha Buddha. And while you have this vision, after you've called the Amitabha Buddha, then you bow to the Amitabha Buddha.

0:24:14
You see yourself, you envision yourself bowing, showing homage. And finally, the Amitabha Buddha gives you a boon, Amitabha Buddha gives you a boon. The Amitabha Buddha hands you a light from his left hand in his palm. He opens his hand and there's a light. And it is a light that is in the shape of a sphere. And it is a gold light. And it is the light of abundance. This is is the light of abundance. This is a light that gives you the things you need so that you can be successful on the path.

0:25:02
It gives you the structures you need in the physical world. It makes your life fully abundant so that you can have a pleasant time in your spiritual practice. spiritual practice. Now, as you receive this orb of gold light, you envision only light. The Amitabha Buddha goes away, and all you see is gold light. You just sit there, aware of that gold light. And in that light, there is wisdom. In that light, there is knowledge. light there is knowledge. In that light there is a Dharma, a path of truth to abundance that supports the spiritual path. Okay, good job. So this is an experience of, you know, it's really an introduction to the Tibetan Buddhist mystic practice. There's many ways mystic practice. There's many ways to develop the occult body. This visualization practice is one of the most common ways. It's not the most common way that we practice. We practice So, for example, there's an old story of a Kung Fu practitioner who, he loved Kung Fu, he wanted to work, he wanted to exercise all the time, but he couldn't. He just didn't have the time. He had to work. So what he did was he worked as, he had to put crates crates on a ship every day, all day long, for eight to ten hours a day. He had to put big heavy crates on ships. And that was his job and that's what he had to do. So what he did was he understood martial arts and he said, okay, now when I'm going to put these crates on, I'm not just going to do it in a normal way. I'm going to do it in a way do it in a way where I put my hip into it and I do, he actually started doing the Kung Fu moves to push a crate. And he did this eight to ten hours a day and he actually did it in a Kung Fu way, with a Kung Fu technique. And he eventually became a complete master of this technique. So if he was attacked, he would be able to actually use this technique So if he was attacked, he would be able to actually use this technique and not even touch someone and they would fall down because he truly developed himself by doing this exercise.

0:27:47
So this is what we do. We develop our, let's say, business or our career, but we develop our business and career in a way where we also develop our occult body. occult body. We're also developing our inner awareness by putting attention into the physical. So the occult body is very powerful. Someone could be sitting in an office and then they can affect their business with power and they can make things happen and make their company and make their company successful. Politicians can do this. They can be sitting there in their office and they want policies on the other side of the world to change. They can affect change with their occult power. Gandhi did this. Gandhi had a very strong occult Gandhi had a very strong occult body.

0:28:50
And there was one time where he wanted to get the whole country to do what he wanted, so he just fasted. Now fasting is one powerful, very powerful way to develop your occult body as well. It gets you focused and it shifts you into the occult dimensions. So Gandhi stopped eating. There was a civil war going on, and he said, I want you guys to stop fighting.

0:29:12
eating. There was a civil war going on and he said, I want you guys to stop fighting. So he says, hey everybody, peace. And people keep fighting. So he says, alright, I'm just going to fast. And then after a while, everyone goes, okay, okay, we're going to stop. For some reason, we have to stop. We don't know why, but we're stopping. And we know it's because of you. But they don't know why. So the guy's not going to eat a hamburger. Why So the guy's not going to eat a hamburger, you know? Why should I stop fighting if I want to fight? So they found a, you know, or Gandhi found a way to use his occult body, his power in very strong dimensions to shift and make physical things happen. happen. So the occult body is very, very real and can be very, very powerful. I use the occult body to teach. So I do it very often. I'll have students in Hungary or America, I will use my occult body to affect their lives in a powerful, bright way. I transmit communications. I transmit light and attention so that people can have a spiritual experience or they get the assistance with what they're working on. And this is something that, you I do often. I don't even think about it, because the occult body works in the second attention, in the unseen world, in the world of true spirit. It's beyond what even the physical whole mind can even comprehend. But the spiritual mind, the second attention, you can comprehend you know it. It's just kind of like, you know, if you go over to a fifth degree black belt and try to attack them from behind, they'll just, they won't think about anything, they'll just block it. And then they'll just be like, hey, what's going on? And the reason that they do that is because they've got a trained attention. So, and it's not, if they thought about it, they would have gone through a certain thought process and then they would have gotten they would have gotten hit. But because they've trained their attention, they just do it.

0:31:41
So this is how we develop our occult body. And the occult body is in that world where only you train the attention. There's no thinking in that world. There's only intention and power. So when I'm teaching students, I might be teaching many of them at the same time. I might be sending out my occult body to many of them. The occult body is not bound by physical form. It can go to many places at the same time. I could be asleep and my occult body will go there. It is because my attention is trained and I have the intent to bring these enlightened Attention is trained and I have the intent to bring these enlightened teachings to my students So the occult body can perform Miracles and this is what we this is what we develop All right So one last exercise in the occult body The occult body, again, you can talk about it, but it is an experience.

0:32:57
So for this, I will play a little music just so that we have something to focus on here. Let's see. Alright, so, with the occult body, I can affect the subtle body. So I can affect your subtle body with my occult body. with my occult body. And this is a way of bringing your attention to a greater awareness of life. It shifts your awareness from the self to a greater awareness of life and enlightenment. It's very simple to do this. Just go ahead and close your eyes. I'm just going to sit in silence or with the music for just 10 seconds. the the the the Very good.

0:34:49
Now, we're going to have a light focus on the third eye, but keep your eyes open. So just listen here, and for about 10 seconds, you're going to focus on the third eye. Light focus, don't even try. Now, we're going to have a light focus on the third eye, but keep your eyes open. Listen here, and for about 10 seconds, you're going to focus on the third eye. Light focus, don't even try. Now, we're going to have a light focus on the third eye, but keep your eyes open. Listen here, and for about 10 seconds, you're going to focus on the third eye. Light focus, don't even try. Now, we're going to have a light focus on the third eye, but keep your eyes open.

0:34:59
Now, we're going to have a light focus on the third eye, but keep your eyes open. Light focus, don't even try. So in that little practice, it took about 40 seconds or so, this was a practice of the of the occult body affecting the subtle physical body, to get the energy, to get your energy to be more open to light. Now what happened was your consciousness just shifted in that experience. So I'll say thank you and good night. This was a nice introduction to the the subtle physical body and the occult body. But I want you to take a moment afterwards to just observe your mind and your consciousness because it's shifting. Oh yeah, and the cool thing about the occult body is it's not bound by time or by video recording.

0:36:48
On the other side of this light... On the other side of this life is an island that stretches on forever. It has thousands of miles to see.

