0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about the natural state. Tilopa, an enlightened master of ancient India, taught of this natural state. He said it was a way of being that is reflecting the essence of the universe. It's a way of being that is beyond thought. Being that is beyond thought it's a way of being that is beyond anger it's a way of being that is beyond self and Beyond all these afflictions beyond suffering beyond limitation there is a way of being that is balanced spiritually balanced that is balanced, spiritually balanced. There's a way of being that is luminous and free.

0:01:25
And this is the natural state. So to experience the natural state, you simply refine your You get rid of negative thoughts, negative feelings. You expand your awareness constantly in meditation, in compassion, and you see life in a bigger, greater way, until finally you enter into the perfection of attention, which is the natural state. the natural state. So, the natural state is simply being at peace. It's simply being balanced, simply being happy. And it is the natural way that everybody is, at the core center of your being, is what they call in Buddhism the diamond mind.

0:02:24
is what they call in Buddhism the diamond mind, the diamond mind of enlightenment. Beyond the physical world, beyond your thoughts, beyond your ideas and constructs of understanding of your being, which is eternity. It is the essence of life. It is the place where you are actually connected with everything in the universe. They call this the diamond mind. However, we very often cover over the diamond mind and we don't even see it. the diamond mind and we don't even see it. It's covered over with thoughts, ideas, feelings. It's covered over with other people's impressions. In this world, there's a great darkness. And in And in the darkness, it's hard to see the light.

0:03:40
It's hard to see that diamond mind. It's completely obscured. So when you look at the mind in this world, all you see is darkness. When you look to your spirit, you don't see the spirit. You see the heavy human aura of the world. the world. So in our world, we have a very large population, and the more people that there are, the more kind of toxic the energy field of the world becomes. So an individual has energy, they put out an energy. Now when there's too Now, when there's too many people, the energy starts bouncing off.

0:04:30
One person's energy bounces off another, and it creates a toxicity, a darkness. It creates an aura, an energy that is... It blocks out the light of spirit. So this is the world that we live in. So this is the world that we live in. So many people, so many people interacting with each other's energy fields and having, you know, desires and fears and feeling those energies, it creates an imbalance and a spiritual darkness. So when you look to your diamond mind, you don't see it. All you see is the impressions of the world.

0:05:12
in mind, you don't see it. All you see is the impressions of the world. For your average person, about 95% of what they think are not their thoughts. They are agitated reactions by this So, we have to move beyond that, if we want to see the diamond mind, if we want to see the truth, if we want to see the natural state, we have to go beyond the physical world. Now, my teacher used to say, I remember a long time ago, he said, if you got above 5,000 if you got above 5,000 feet in elevation, you can go up a mountain. He said, at that point, you can get above a lot of the aura of the planet and feel what it is to be natural, the natural state of your mind.

0:06:21
Then a few years later, he said, above 10,000 feet. And then a couple years later, he said, above 10,000 feet. And then a couple years later, he said, no, even if you climbed Everest, you couldn't get above it. The population kept growing, and in the growth of the population, there's so much, and there's a magnitude greater toxicity. Fortunately, there's the underwater world. there's the underwater world. And if you go scuba diving or free diving, if you go down deep enough, because of the aura of water that pushes off toxicity, if you go down deep enough, you can get to the place below the aura of all the humans networked on this planet.

0:07:12
on this planet. And you can have a chance to look at what your mind is like without such a strong influence. So if you were able to go down 140 feet, 150 feet, you'd be able to just take a look at your mind and say, hmm, what do I think? Not very much, which is good. But it's a very rare opportunity to be able to do something like that. And to be able to do something like that. And then when you look at your mind out, you know, when you're at sea level, there's so many impressions. You're always thinking thoughts. You're always pushed by the human awareness. It covers over your being able to see the diamond mind. If Buddha were to walk into Grand Central Station, no one would see him.

0:08:00
If Buddha were to walk into Grand Central Station, no one would see him They would just see another person the the mind the human mind the Unnatural state it blocks out enlightenment completely It blocks out it It's really backwards. It makes the world backwards that which is It blocks out, it's really backwards, it makes the world backwards. That which is good, it sees as bad or stupid or useless.

0:08:35
It sees enlightenment as impossible, as not real. It sees humility as weakness. So in this world, this world of the human mind, the unnatural state, it blocks out enlightenment human mind, the unnatural state, it blocks out enlightenment completely. There was a story in the last temptation of Christ where Jesus had become enlightened and Mary, his mother, is trying to kind of get him to get out of get him to get out of all that spiritual stuff. And she says, hey, come on home, I'll make you a nice dinner, like it used to be, and we can hang out, just go back into that family mode that we used to have.

0:09:27
And then he is pretty strong with her, and he says to her, I have no mother. I have no mother. I have no father except for one beyond this world. And so then he walks away from her. And then she starts complaining to her friend who was right there. She's like, oh my gosh, my son, such a bad son. And then her friend says, well, wow, didn't you see what happened when he was And then her friend says, well, wow, didn't you see what happened when he was talking to you?

0:10:07
When he was talking to you, even though he was saying some very strong or unhappy words, there were thousands and thousands of angels coming out of heaven behind him. And you didn't see that. And then, of course, Mary didn't. And you didn't see that. And then, of course, Mary didn't. She was just looking at things in the way of what, you know, human consciousness.

0:10:35
But her friend was able to see some, a greater light. Thank you. So yeah, the human mind totally blocks out enlightenment. You can't even see it. blocks out enlightenment. You can't even see it. Now, the natural state is natural. It's not a special state. It's a natural state. Just like enlightenment is not something added. It's something taken away. You take away obscuration. You take away limitation. You taken away. You take away obscuration. You take away limitation. You take away self.

0:11:18
You don't gain something. So to say that you get to a natural state is not something you would really brag about. It's kind of normal. You're like, oh look, how awesome. I got natural. I got to the natural state, right? It's like, It's like, in this world, it's kind of backwards, right? To get to the natural state is like, oh, whew, what a relief. But in general, in reality, being in the natural state is just that, it's just natural, it's just normal.

0:11:56
It's something where you're perceiving life in a proper way instead of a backwards way. life in a proper way instead of a backwards way. It's the clear seeing of reality, a clear being in reality, outside of being stuck in limitation and self. So it's nothing special, but it's sure worth doing. Worth doing it sure brings you a great peace and happiness So The human aura of the world it always Pulls your attention down to into a small view of the world But Buddhism is the process of opening your awareness So every time we meditate we are going beyond the self meditate we are going beyond the self of limitation and into a greater and greater degree of seeing more until we are able to stop thought altogether. And that is an experience of the natural state.

0:13:12
for this process, because the Enlightened Teacher exists in the natural state and is able to show you the way past the obscurations of your mind, the limitations, the places where there are things that are unnatural in your mind. and then you see the natural state. There's a great story of Tilopa. A man with many problems, he went to find Tilopa to resolve the problems. So he finds Tilopa and he says, So he finds Tilopa and he says, oh, let me tell you, I got problems.

0:14:06
Oh, master, tell me how to fix it. So he's got problems in his family. He's got a problem with his brother, a problem with his wife, a problem with his son. So he tells Tilopa about all of these problems. And then Tilopa says, oh no, those aren't problems at all. says, oh no, those aren't those aren't problems at all. It's just that you're not in the natural state, so you see it as a problem. And the guy goes, no, these are real problems. My son's doing this, my wife's doing that, my brother's doing this, and then he goes, oh and that's not it. I've got problems with money, and here's my problems with money, and he explains them in detail. And then explains them in detail, and then Tilopa is like, no, these aren't problems, you're just lacking the natural state.

0:14:58
And then he says, well, I got this other problem. I broke my knee once, and now I always walk around with a limp. And Tilopa still says, no, not a problem. And then the man's so frustrated because he's seeking, you know, so frustrated because he's seeking advice and answer. And Tilopa just keeps telling him, you just lack the natural state. And the man says, well, what do I do about that? And Tilopa says, I will lend you through my enlightened powers, a vision, a way of being in the natural state for a short period of time, and then you'll see.

0:15:36
a way of being in the natural state for a short period of time. And then you'll see. So Tilopa does his little magic enlightenment thing, transfers enlightened attention, and then the man comes into the natural state. And then he's happy, balanced, and then Tilopa says, so what are the problems with your family? And then the man says, oh, there's no problem. So what are the problems with your family? And then the man says, oh, there's no problem. What are the problems with your finances? Oh no, there's no problem, it's great. And what about your knee? And the man gets up and walks around, he's like, yeah, there's no problem.

0:16:17
And so in the story, his knee actually, he didn't have a limp anymore, he didn't have any pain. So then after some time, he had a knee problem, So, then after some time, he comes out of this natural state and he sees his problems again. But he also remembers that he was in a state where they didn't exist, so it helped give him a little bit of room in reacting. So this is the truth. This is the truth. When you're in the natural state, the things that you see as problems are not problems. You're able to see them with a proper perspective. You see them with great spiritual balance.

0:17:06
When you see things with the right perspective, there's a way out of limitation. There's a way out of suffering. And that's being in the natural state. So the natural state is something that we, it changes our lives tremendously. It's not just a way of talking. It's not a philosophy. It's not an idea. It's actually an experience that transforms the way that we perceive life completely. transforms the way that we perceive life completely. So if you're in a place where you're stuck, but then you go into the natural state, you'll see the way out, you won't be stuck.

0:17:51
And like in the story, even real things that you think are the realest, most concrete troubles, they vanish as problems when you're in the natural state. as problems when you're in the natural state. Going into salva coppa samadhi, for example, if you go into samadhi once, it tremendously changes your life forever, the trajectory of your life forever. It makes your life radically, radically different It makes your life radically, radically different than if you never had experienced that.

0:18:31
If you go into that natural state, it makes your life brighter and stronger in tremendous ways. So it's very powerful. And this is what we do on the pathway to enlightenment. refining our attention, discipline of meditation, of mindfulness, of compassion, of karma yoga. And these are ways where we are able to go into the natural state or get closer to the natural state. And we work on this again and again and again. But you have to observe your life. But you have to observe your life. Your life should be getting brighter every day. After every meditation, you should be brighter.

0:19:21
If you're not experiencing brightness after meditation, that means that you weren't meditating. Every time you practice meditation properly, you'll go into a brighter condition of awareness. Every day of your life, practicing compassion, yoga, compassion, yoga, your life should be brighter. And if you're not seeing that, then you're stuck, and you're not practicing properly. So we seek to observe in every meditation and every day that we're going closer and closer to the natural state. Okay, thank you.

