0:00:00
Tonight, I'd like to talk about self-effort on the spiritual path. Self-effort on the spiritual path is simply the effort an individual uses to advance themselves spiritually towards enlightenment. an earnest intention to work hard, not just to understand concepts, but to really take responsibility for your spiritual development and to push yourself in your practice so that in your practice, so that you come to understand the truth behind these conceptual ideas. So self-effort is an individual themselves finding truth, liberation, and enlightenment. liberation and enlightenment The spiritual path itself is a very simple thing it is a path that leads from limitation and suffering from the finite world to eternity beyond suffering enlightenment Now Enlightenment Now In a very simple way of saying it you could say enlightenment is up here and the self is down here Now a very important understanding in Succeeding on the pathway to enlightenment is that self effort is needed self effort necessary Self-effort is needed. Self-effort is necessary.

0:02:29
Enlightenment doesn't come down to you. Enlightenment just stays where it is. It's the highest and brightest and best and most magical spiritual of all things. So one must then attain to enlightenment. They must come up to enlightenment. enlightenment. This is why self-effort is important. It is not a part of enlightenment to come down on your terms to bring you into enlightenment. It is your responsibility to come up high enough spiritually to where you become enlightened. So this is a simple way to where you become enlightened. So this is a simple way of understanding it up and down. But it's very, very important.

0:03:25
Because, for example, in the Judeo-Christian way of seeing the world, we're all just horrible sinners and can't really do anything. And that the only way that we have any salvation is from God having mercy on us. We have this idea that God being the highest, most enlightened thing in the universe. We have this idea that God can help us. We have this idea that God can help us. We're taught that we pray to God, we ask God to fulfill our prayers. So inherent in this view of the world is an understanding that the divine will come down you if you just ask or do the right things. So this is a way of looking at the world that is really incorrect. It sets you up with an understanding that doesn't work. Because the Because the truth is that enlightenment, or the Godhead, Brahma, whatever you want to call it, enlightenment doesn't care about you.

0:05:02
Enlightenment doesn't care about your desires that you pray for, that you wish for. It doesn't care about the things that you're afraid of. It doesn't even care about your suffering. It doesn't even care about your suffering, because enlightenment is a place, the center of being, where you don't even exist. You are part of enlightenment. Where your desires and fears, where your suffering doesn't even exist, because all of those things even exist because all of those things are a part of enlightenment. It is only in perceiving the transitory world of illusion where we see this great suffering. It's only in this illusion where we see that we're missing something or we're afraid of something.

0:05:58
We don't understand life and so we suffer. don't understand life and so we suffer. But enlightenment is the place in the universe where all of that comes together in its essential liberated form. And in that, even your self and even your suffering is a condition of ecstasy and bliss. So to an enlightened person, you could sit there and look at all these people having a hard time, having desires and fears, suffering, and yet see only perfection. This is what Ramakrishna did. Ramakrishna, a great enlightened saint of India, he would sit in meditation with his students and then once in a while somebody would come over and say, meditation with the students and then once in a while somebody would come over and say, hey, I got this problem. Let me tell you about it so you can give me some enlightened advice. And then that way I'll be able to, you know, you'll tell me the special thing that will fix my problem. And then Ramakrishna would say, why? Why would I come from the mind of come from the mind of enlightenment, where he's focusing and experiencing life, why would I come down to experience this, which you talk about, that doesn't even exist, is illusory.

0:07:30
So from the point of view of an enlightened, realized master, or from the point of view or from the point of view of enlightenment itself. What we ask for is completely transient. Who we are is completely transient. And then, ultimately, all things are enlightenment. So there's not even a question. There's not even an imbalance. There's nothing to ask for. There's nothing to ask for. There's no reason to care for an individual specifically, or to do something for an individual specifically, because all that there is is enlightenment.

0:08:14
So if enlightenment is the highest thing, or if you want to call it God, is the highest thing in the universe, then the things that we see as good and bad, the things that we things that we see as good and bad, things that we want and don't want, don't even exist. And there's only the essence of all things that exist. Now we tend to say, well, God is a big person, right? A big person sitting on a throne. We come to a vision or an understanding to a vision or an understanding of God through Judeo-Christian conditioning that tells us God is like us. But then there's a lot of other things in the universe besides us. But we say, no, God, we are in God's image, of course. Even though if God is everything, God would be more than just a big human on a throne. But we tend to look at it that way.

0:09:19
And then we say, well, since we look like God, God must care about the same things we care about. God must be mad when I get mad. God must be sad when I get sad. When I see something that I don't like, God must not like it. This is how we follow this same idea. And then we say, well, I'm angry, we follow this same idea. And then we say, well, I'm angry, so God must be angry, so I'm going to go to war, and I'm going to pray to God because I know I'm right, and God must agree with me. And yet the person you're fighting against is praying to the same God, saying the same thing. I know I'm right, you must agree with me. And then there's war. war. So this is this logic just doesn't make any sense. Both people honestly believe and honestly ask and then honestly end up in great suffering. So this understanding about God giving you what you want, or your liberation, isn't true.

0:10:28
It would be like sitting in a room, praying to God, praying to enlightenment, and saying, I would really like a beautiful eight-course meal delivered to my door now. Please God, bring it to me. And if you do that, it would be very unlikely that it would happen from just the prayer. But if you believe that that's what's supposed to happen, you'll be living your life in a way of imbalance. You'll be living your life in a way where you're not operating under the right under the right understanding. You're not seeing the truth and you're acting on an idea, on a concept. And ultimately you don't get that eight course meal. You don't get anything. So these ideas and concepts that one may have about enlightenment coming down to you and giving to you, enlightenment coming down to you and giving to you, this is very false. This is a very bad way of looking at things. First of all, it's not the greater truth of being. Second of all, you are just waiting around for some handout, for the thing that you want, from for some handout, for the thing that you want.

0:12:04
From enlightenment, from God, from Buddha, from an angel, from a saint. You're just sitting there going, Oh well, you're supposed to give it to me. I'm waiting for it. And then you don't do anything. You become complacent. And you don't see a reason for self-effort. Because you're just sitting there waiting. Waiting for someone to solve your problem.

0:12:24
waiting for someone to solve your problem. So that's what's so remarkable about Buddhism. In Buddhism, we kind of leave that idea behind and we start to notice from Buddhist teachings that there is enlightenment, there's the relief of suffering, There's enlightenment, there's the relief of suffering, there's wisdom, there's the awareness of truth. But it all comes from self-effort.

0:13:01
The Buddha taught, and he didn't just give people enlightenment, he taught them the way to enlightenment. And they followed it through self-effort. And they followed it through self-effort. So this is the basis of the Buddhist study. So we see that through mindfulness, through meditation, through yoga, through these practices, move from the world of self up to the world of enlightenment and It and it occurs not because enlightenment comes down to us, but because we follow the proper steps To come up to enlightenment But it is definitely a discipline It's not something that's easy. It's not something that you can just gain from Concept or idea it takes a lot of work and there's many stages or idea, it takes a lot of work and there's many stages. However, it is something that truly transforms your life, transforms your being radically.

0:14:13
So let's say that you are a poor child in great suffering, in hunger, If you are lucky enough to find education, and if you focused on your education, you got top grades, for many, many, many, many, many years, if you focus on getting top grades, keep on working on your education, you avoid the pitfalls that all the other poor people fall into, pitfalls that all the other poor people fall into, where they're distracted by the other things in life and they don't focus on their education. If you don't fall into those pitfalls and you keep on focusing on your education, then you find that you're able to go to the university and you did so well, you're able to go and get a scholarship. And then you You're able to go and get a scholarship. And then you transform your life because of that study, because of that focus.

0:15:22
You go from being in the poor neighborhood where everything's, where there's crime and you don't have enough to eat and everything's difficult, all of a sudden to a beautiful university. University and Then that is a transformation of your life. That's completely incredible from your discipline from your focus So they The pathway to enlightenment is like this. It's very structured And it takes a long time and a tremendous amount of focus To develop the disciplines that then get you to the next level to develop the disciplines that then get you to the next level.

0:16:04
Well then, from that next level, there's more opportunity. In the university, you continue with your studies impeccably, and then in a few short years, you've developed some skills. You've graduated, and then you enter the world where you're able to make a lot of money. you're able to make a lot of money. It sets you on a career for the rest of your life where you're very wealthy. This is another opportunity for transformation. So through your self-effort, through discipline, working in a structure, you're able to develop and make substantive changes in your life. It's the same way with Buddhist practice. Through your self-effort, you're able to discipline yourself over time, and then you come to these different places, different stages of the path, different stages of power and your life dramatically changes. So it is through self-effort. But you have to have the right effort. This is what we have in Buddhism. If you have the wrong effort, then no matter what, if you put a ton of energy into something, if you try really, really, really hard, it It just won't help you because you didn't have right effort. You did it wrong.

0:17:43
So it's very important for you to focus on doing things in the right way. There was once a man who was a middle-aged man, very, very, very ill. He was in his bed very close to death. He had tried everything, but very close to death, Very close to his death, his sister comes in with a magical yogi and says, Oh, I found this very powerful healer. He can heal you. And so the healer says to the man, I will heal you. I will ask you three simple questions. Upon answering these questions you will be healed completely. This is the magic that I have. I have a Siddha power.

0:18:34
Where it's just answer three simple questions about yourself and you're healed automatically. So he says, the first question is, what is your name? Leroy, but he's so sick that it takes him a tremendous amount of time to muster up the energy just to get that breath to say his name. And then he's feeling weaker and weaker, very close to death. And then the yogi says, how old are you? The yogi says, how old are you? He works on it, works on it, takes a lot of effort. He's trying, gets a big breath in and he's all 58. And then the yogi sees how he's trying so hard.

0:19:31
So he's like, I'm gonna make this easy for him. And then he says, cancer. And then the man has got just a little bit of energy left. He tries as hard as he can. His last bout of energy, he says, Aquarius! And then he dies. So this would be what we call wrong effort. And that last piece of effort, he should have said, just yes. And then the magic would have worked.

0:20:13
So your effort has to be guided by wisdom as well. in your efforts on the pathway to enlightenment, to take responsibility. You have learned the teachings. You've learned meditation, mindfulness, compassion, karma yoga. These are very, very, very powerful tools for liberation. However, if you don't use them, However, if you don't use them, then you don't gain anything. If you don't use them, then they become dull.

0:21:01
They make your life dull. You'll have a concept of what compassion is, or a concept of what meditation is, meditation is, but you won't practice it. You won't come to see that meditation is a powerful tool to transcend the self, to be very luminously empowered. You won't see that compassion is a way that dissolves your suffering and the suffering of others, because you won't use it. When we learn these you won't use it. When we learn these spiritual disciplines, we have to, with great focus, earnestly, use our self-effort to see the truth, to see how they are, see how they work. Whenever you doubt life or suffer, whenever you're having a hard time, I always say put these practices to the test.

0:22:15
If you are struggling, if your mind is dark and confused, push your meditation harder than you've ever pushed it. If you do, you'll go past the self that suffers, and you'll see the light, and you'll see that in that light there's no suffering. If you're suffering and you want to practice compassion, practice it for real, and you into a condition of suffering, into the luminous light of compassion. It's an energy, a dimension, it's a truth of life that brings everything together. Past the self, past conflict, past enmity, into a place of tremendous light and spirit. So it is through self-effort that you can transform your life from suffering to wisdom. But if you don't practice, if you dwell in darkness, dwell in suffering, dwell in your confusions and your angers, then you gain nothing, because enlightenment's not going then you gain nothing, because enlightenment is not going to come down and pull you up.

0:23:42
This is where you have to do the work and pull yourself up. You're responsible for yourself. You're not responsible for other people. So if you bring good intent to someone, and then they come back to you with negative intent, someone and then they come back to you with negative intent. You bring joy, they bring harm. You can't expect or be responsible for what someone else does. You are only responsible Your mindfulness, your life. My teacher always said, you're born alone and you die alone. This is the structure of a perceiver. So you have to work out your own mind.

0:24:43
You don't have to worry about other people. Other people are going to do all sorts of crazy things all the time. People are going to do all sorts of crazy things all the time. The thing that you have to do is you have to meet them with mindfulness, meet them with compassion. And that means that your part is going to be bright. Their part is up to them. And even if they cause you harm, you have to return their harm with intentions that are harmless. That's your effort. spiritual seekers are very sanguine about helping others.

0:25:46
And this is often a trap. When you're seeing that another person is suffering, if you give the wrong kind of attention and energy to them, you will be depleted. So we always seek to advance ourselves by advancing others. So if we're able to help someone and we see that it's bright for us, makes us happier and more powerful, then that's the way to go. We always engage in activities with others where they're empowering for us. If we find we're in situations with others where we have a lot of good intent, we're trying really hard, but we end up having a loss of energy, where we're trying to help someone too much in the wrong way.

0:26:53
It's as if someone is swimming and they're drowning. And if you go over and try to save them, if you're not a very, very, very strong swimmer, when you try to save them, they'll grab on to you and they might pull you down. you down. So it's very important when you're looking at self-effort, that self-effort has to be first and foremost for you to be enlightened, powerful, and strong. And you have to avoid people in situations where you will lose energy. And you have to engage in working with people in working with people in situations where you gain energy. Working with a spiritual fellowship, you gain energy. Working in a martial arts dojo, you gain power. The workout might be hard, people might push you, throw you, but you gain power in that dojo. In a throw you, but you gain power in that dojo. In a spiritual fellowship, there's an opportunity for tremendous growth. Sometimes it seems difficult, but it is by having proper self-effort within a group that is positive, where you gain tremendous insight, where you transform tremendous insight where you transform the self to be more harmless.

0:28:31
And it is by going into situations with people where you're trying, you have expectations, or you're trying to save them or something like that, or you have desire. These are places where you lose power. So these are the places where you would be drowning. places where you would be drowning. It is possible to help in these situations later when you're stronger. So Buddha would say, if you want to help people spiritually, first become enlightened, and then help people spiritually. So that is the proper effort. Because if you're Because if you're not a strong swimmer, no matter how much you want to help someone drowning, they'll drag you down. So this is taking responsibility for the teachings and for Now, there are beings that do help you on the pathway to enlightenment.

0:29:47
Enlightened teachers, gods, angels, all sorts of higher astral beings. From time to time, you'll get fortunate and be able to study with an enlightened teacher, you'll get fortunate and be able to study with an enlightened teacher, or from time to time, you'll have the good fortune of being able to experience a connection with a divine being, and you will notice that they do help you tremendously. And that's great fortune. And that's a great fortune. So there is an aspect of the universe of help, an aspect of the universe that we could say is compassion, that's spiritually illuminating. It does exist. But it's very important to understand it correctly.

0:30:48
It's important to understand it correctly. Enlightened teachers, Buddhas, Bodhisattvas, and the highest spiritual beings, they are dispassionate. We have this idea, a concept of compassion from these beings, a concept of compassion from these beings. Because when we see them, when we learn from them, we experience tremendous light, love, compassion, aid. So we say, wow, that being was so helpful to my spirit because it got me out of being stuck. These beings are not compassionate, but dispassionate.

0:31:47
If they were compassionate in the way that we think, we would think, me particularly. This being saw that I needed this teaching, so this being gave it to me. Now, if they were, let's say, partial, then they wouldn't be enlightened. Dispassion means that they just exist in a dimension of light that brings them to the level of the universe exist in a dimension of light that brings this awareness. This passion means that they would bring this light to you, and they would bring this light to someone who wants to kill you. They would bring this light to a criminal. They would bring this light to any being that exists. But they would only bring this light to you or to any other when you're ready.

0:32:59
The enlightened teachings from an enlightened teacher or a high spiritual being or avatar, these experiences of light, enlightenment, compassion, they come to you when your being is ready, when you're open to seeing. Otherwise, you don't see it. It could exist right now, compassion, enlightenment, but if you're not ready to see it, if you haven't done the work to get up to the highest grade, If you haven't done the work to get up to the highest grade, to where you have that time where you can have the transition to go to the University of Enlightenment or whatever, if you haven't done that work, you just won't see it, even though it's right there.

0:33:53
But when you've done the discipline, when you've done the work, then you see a tremendous teaching from the universe, from the enlightened teacher, from the Buddha, tremendous teaching from the universe, from the enlightened teacher, from the Buddha, and that teaching brings you into a sense of compassion, love, higher spiritual awareness. And when you see that, you say, oh, that was so compassionate of that being. No, that being just is that. It's not that they were particular towards you, even if they said particular particular towards you. Even if they said particular things to you. They're not particular. That's just how they exist. That's their being. And you did the work to be able to see it. Or you had the karma to see it. You were able to let go of self enough to see that tremendous see that tremendous light. So when we practice compassion, we don't practice it in a way that's selfish. If you practice it in a way that's selfish, it's not really compassion, or it's self-compassion. It's not the dispassion of the Bodhisattva. I like to say dispassion, Because that means it's not particular. It's the it's this eternal dimension of enlightened being Which is the truth of What what we call compassion it is to exist in a Dimension of liberation where for all beings you're bringing light light, just because you've practiced, disciplined, and you've been able to connect with this light, it brings for your mind peace and brightness.

0:35:51
And for anyone else who comes across you, it could bring them peace and brightness if they're in a place to see it. of dispassion, dispassionate compassion. We're continuously connecting with this light for ourselves and for others. But it's not selfish. When you're trapped in selfish compassion, you're just trapped in self. your practice or discipline to transcend the world of suffering. So you exist in ideas and concepts. Now, enlightened teachers will bring you along a path, a pathway, a structured method method towards enlightenment. And they're not going to give you enlightenment.

0:36:55
You'll do the work. You have to do the work. This is your self-effort. They'll say, you've got to do this, you've got to do that. And if you do it, you become stronger, you'll go higher up in spirit, and then you'll see higher teachings from your teacher. The teachings exist in your teacher. That is just the way an The teachings exist in your teacher. That is just the way an enlightened teacher is. But you won't understand them until you put the self-effort in. It's like the Zen koan. The Zen koan, you ask a Zen monk something like... Or there was a story where the Zen monk says, Hey, so Zen master, you said that everything has Buddha nature.

0:37:45
Everything's got this enlightened nature. What about a dog? How about a dog? Does that have Buddha nature? And then, see? And then the Zen master goes, No. Zen master goes, no. And then it just confounds the monk, the student so much. He thinks about it and thinks about it, thinks about it, and then he pushes his his discipline past his conceptual thought and finally sees the answer that It is your work to follow the way, because that way leads to enlightenment.

0:38:33
But you've got to follow it. You've got to do the work. Because the enlightened teacher, sure, can help you. But you might only have an enlightened teacher for one lifetime, or maybe a year. Or maybe a year. So maybe while you're there, they put the kid gloves on and the train wheels. You know, and they help you out. But you're an eternal being. You're going to go through many incarnations. You have to figure it out for yourself. You can't just sit around an enlightened person and say, hey, everything's great. Buddha said, a fool can sit with a wise man, an enlightened one, for his whole life and completely miss the way.

0:39:23
It is through self-effort, practicing the disciplines of the Dharma, where you figure life out, you figure out the pathway to enlightenment. It's like, let's say, you're walking down the street and someone attacks you. And then there just happens to be a 6th degree black belt sensei there, and he saves your life. Great. That's very helpful. So that helped. Thanks so long and you go along your merry way. At some point in time, you might get attacked again.

0:40:10
And probably that sensei won't be there. But if you say, wow, I saw that that was useful. Can I learn it? And then you start to learn it. A sensei doesn't just give you the mastery of a black belt. They can't just bestow it on you. black belt. They can't just bestow it on you, right? They can't buy you... they could buy you a five dollar black belt and tie it on you, but it won't be... it won't be real. So if you go and work with a sensei and they say, do this exercise, do that exercise, then eventually through the discipline you'll grow strong and and powerful and you'll learn the way and you'll master the art and then the next time you're walking down the street Maybe the sensei is not there, but someone attacks you and you've learned the way You're able to defend yourself so this is the this is what the pathway to enlightenment is is like and The enlightened teacher And the enlightened teacher is always challenging you.

0:41:20
There must be challenge. Because if you become complacent, then you stop using your efforts. So the enlightened teacher will often give you a hard time, a hard time, a koan, tell you something that you don't understand, that's confusing to you, give you a task that's impossible, or just set up a situation in your life where you find yourself there's a problem that needs to be solved. So an enlightened teacher is constantly challenging you, so that you have to use self-effort, so that you have to do something, you have to be mindful, you have to practice compassion, you have to meditate, you've got to break beyond it.

0:42:24
So like the monk who got Koan, everything has Buddha nature except for dogs. So you've got to get beyond the confusion of your life in your mind. That is the Koan. And so, you know, sometimes, you know, like Milarepa, Sometimes, you know, like Milarepa, Marpa made Milarepa build towers and then take them down and rebuild them. This is a koan. It is something that you have to solve, something that you have to do.

0:43:03
And then through the doing of it, you get past it, you get beyond it. So the enlightened teacher is always giving you these challenges. is always giving you these challenges. And that is an excellent way of getting you to engage your self-effort. And it is through the practices of self-effort in meditation, compassion and in yoga, that you, through your own work, through your own intention, through your own impeccability, bring yourself to enlightenment. Okay. Thank you.

