0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about overcoming fear. Fear is a contraction of awareness. It is a reaction to things we don't understand. Someone who's afraid is someone who's ignorant. They just don't know. They say, oh there's something out there that I don't understand, so therefore I am back. Fear manifests as a feeling. It's a feeling that ultimately is limiting. The feeling of fear pulls you back, it limits you. Fear is something that cuts off your power. When you have fear, your personal power, your wisdom and intuition is all limited. It stops. It holds you back. Fear stops you from being powerful. Fear is an illusion. There's no fear out there.

0:01:39
You can't go into the forest and go hunt a fear. You can't bring back a fear. I caught me a fear. Right? It's actually not real. It's not a real thing. It's an illusion. It's a reaction. It's not a thing. And in the light of truth, fear vanishes.

0:01:56
So we seek the truth. When you have fear, instead of indulging in it, letting it stop you, we seek to know more. We seek the truth. And the truth is that there's nothing to fear. There's nothing to fear, but fear itself. That's scary. That's actually a scary idea. Because if you fear fear, then that's scarier than anything real. That's like a more abstract, strange thing. You know, there's every kind of fear.

0:02:46
I think if you look up every phobia, I think you'll find everything. You'll find every noun, most verbs, a lot of adjectives, adverbs. You'll find everything. You'll find everything creates fear for someone or another. There's the fear of falling, heights, it's a very, very common fears for people. I heard somewhere that the greatest fear, I think this is people thinking too much, but the greatest fear is the fear of public speaking. Second to that is the fear of death. So if you're at a funeral and you're lined up to do the eulogy, you'd rather be dead than doing the eulogy.

0:03:39
Doesn't make any sense, right? Fear doesn't make any sense. People are afraid of anything. Afraid of computers, afraid of talking to people, afraid of birds. They saw that Hitchcock movie, Birds. I don't know, you know, people are afraid of anything, everything. People, somebody is afraid of everything, anything. I knew slowly got over it. So, fear is an illusion. Anything that you're afraid of is as silly as that. It's as silly as that. Now there is danger.

0:04:38
There is pain. But you don't need to be afraid of it. If you're afraid of it, it actually makes you do a bad job in dealing with it. So, we seek to be mature, to learn the truth. Not to be afraid of difficulty, but to know it. And when you know something that's hard, difficult, you actually gain power. Dealing with difficult truths makes you strong. There was a story long ago in China down the coast to another place. And he had a secretary, an administrator with him, and a Taoist master. Sometimes the Taoist masters used to hang out with politicians and teach them the Tao of leadership. So it just so happened to be that these people are together on this journey.

0:06:08
A lot of other people are on the same boat. So they're sailing, and the administrator, the assistant to the politician, had never been to the ocean. He was from inland. He saw the ocean, and he was afraid. He got on the boat, and he was afraid. The boat started moving, they took off and he couldn't stop screaming. And everyone's shocked because he's like a distinguished gentleman and he's screaming his head off for hours and hours. And the Taoist says, I think I can help. And then the minister says, Oh, thank you.

0:07:00
The Taoist master knows so many things. It'd be great. So he says, Okay, you help out. And the Taoist master goes over to a few people on the crew. And he says, Throw him over and he you know he's never been in the ocean before he's never been in a lake so he's like splashing around goes under a little bit and then everyone's all oh my gosh and Dallas much result it's okay then he comes back up he goes back down Comes back up and he's screaming twice as loud. He's freaking out like crazy and then after a few minutes just a few minutes He starts to see that he's treading water And then after a while He starts to know that he can swim. He doesn't have to sink And then after a while he starts to really like it.

0:08:04
He's swimming around going, wow, this is kind of fun. His fear wasn't real. And when he learned how to swim, when he faced the thing head on, he ended up being a joy. Beautiful, happy experience. This is the way life is. This is the way life is. Now, we're in a world that's really crazy. A world tells us to be afraid. We have a world where there's military, armies, war, the alarms of war are the biggest factors. And just because we live in a country where we've never been attacked There's still a fear.

0:09:17
We live in a world where politicians and leaders who can scare you, rule you. So if the politician will say, guess what? You should be afraid. And then you go, okay, I'm going to vote for you. That's what happens. If someone says, hey, you know, things are pretty okay, and they could be better. Well, I'm not very motivated. Guess what motivates people? Fear. Look at the world. It's a world of war. It's a world of power. So, this is the world we live in. We're conditioned this way. When the first colonies came to America, the first two buildings they built was the jail and the church. And then it's like, hmm, be afraid of God, some invisible thing that's going to send you to hell. And if you mess around, you're going to jail.

0:10:22
These are things to fear. These are measures of control. So we're conditioned, actually, in our world and our culture, to be afraid. And for people, at a very, very basic level, fear works. They say, I don't want to go to jail, so I'm not going to do something. I have a stupid desire to take that guy's money, but I don't want to go to jail. Or I'm kind of afraid that I'll piss off God. So I won't do those things. And this is a very, very basic way of being. But it's a way that works for basic people. But we're not basic people.

0:11:13
We seek to be beyond basic. So some people only respond in fear. We got to get past that. My teacher had a student who was overweight, ate a lot of greasy foods. My teacher was like, hey, you shouldn't, you know, you shouldn't, you should be more healthy. And he's like, oh yeah, sure, whatever. Then he had a heart attack. Then he had to have an operation. And during that whole procedure, he lost a lot of weight because it was a serious operation. He had to recover. But as soon as he was healthy again, he started eating a lot again.

0:11:54
Got back up to be plump. And then his doctor said, Hey, you know what? You're going to die. I'm not kidding. If you can't lose this weight, it's going to produce the same result as it did before, and you're going to die. You're going to have another heart attack, only this time it will kill you.

0:12:20
And this guy, having known the truth that a heart attack can happen because of his poor exercise and diet, he really was afraid. And so, because of his fear, he started exercising and eating properly, and he lost the weight very quickly, like in a couple weeks. He'd be amazed. He was motivated by fear, but that's ignorant. You could do better than that. He knew ahead of time not to do that, but it was only fear that made him make that change. So, sometimes that kind of fear helps you to do something right, but that's not the higher way.

0:13:05
The higher way is to just know the truth and not have to be shocked or heart attacked into it. And sometimes fear seems constructive to people. Like they say, oh, I have a fear of heights. Therefore, I won't climb up a tree or be on the top of a cliff and look over because it makes me afraid. And it seems reasonable. You won't do something that puts you in harm's way. And this is reasonable, but you don't have to have the fear.

0:13:54
You can have zero fear and still be at the cliff and not look over and fall off or something like that. You don't have to be afraid. You can be intelligent, but not afraid. So once you realize, you say, oh, I don't actually have to have that fear. I don't have to sit there and say, I'm gonna put myself in danger because I don't have fear. When you lack a fear of something, it doesn't mean that you lack awareness, intelligence.

0:14:34
The fear itself is something that causes trouble. Intelligence doesn't cause trouble. Now, when we come to look at our minds, the way that we see life, it's very, very conditioned by fear. There's so many things about fear that shape the way that you look at life. Really it's the fear and desire. It's fear and desire. Those two things are yins and yangs. And through that way of looking at life, you create a limited awareness. It's an awareness of duality. Fear is essentially a very, very strong aversion. But there's smaller aversions. There's like, I don't like this. And if you magnify, I don't like, it ends up being, I'm repelled, I'm afraid. So, when you say, I like this, I don't like this, I want this, I don't want this, this attracts me, this makes me afraid. This is a way of creating a view of the world.

0:16:05
This is what people do. The human operating system is based on like and dislike, desire and aversion, want and fear. So when you create a life saying, I want this and I don't want that, then you're very limited. Buddhism shows you a way beyond this limited description of the world, this limited way of making reality. Buddhism is beyond fear and it's beyond desire. So when you're a Buddhist and you can rid yourself of fear and desire, then all of a sudden the world is a much brighter, more beautiful place. The limits of fear and aversion are not there.

0:17:03
You're unlimited. The pull of desire-like interest is not there and you're free. There's a much higher way of looking at life and perceiving life and experiencing life when you can let go of desire and fear. And it's a beautiful way. But desire and fear hold you in very limited self-reactive states. So Buddhism is knowing the truth, the truth that there's nothing to fear, that there's nothing to desire. And being beyond those very limited perceptions of life, and beauty and wonder. It's a great knowledge of truth, the truth of who we are. It's a better way. Now, when you have fear, what it does is it messes you up. Like, you just mess up.

0:18:31
There's a great story of a monk, I think, in Shaolin, and the master takes out this piece of wood, you know, square, rectangular, or something, and says, Okay, monk, you walk, you know, just puts it on the ground, says, Okay, and it's, you know, it's not too thin. He says, you walk from one end to the other, see if you can balance yourself. And the monk easily walks across. He says, Okay, I want you to practice this, because this is important. And then the monk goes, Okay, keeps practicing. He's like, this is easy. No problem. And then after a few days, the master puts this piece of wood over a pool. And then the monk comes over and he says, okay, now, today, same thing. I just need you to walk This is the final test. Now this is a pool of acid.

0:19:36
And at the bottom of the pool, there was like the skeleton. And then he goes, okay, so just same thing, just walk across. And then the monk's like, oh, okay. So the monk starts walking across, but he starts to trip out and get afraid. And then eventually he falls over, splashes into water. It was not acid, it was actually water. And the Master says, what's different? Why? What changed you? Why couldn't you do something simple that you were able to do the first time and every time without error? It's because of fear. Fear messes you up. Fear makes you do a bad job.

0:20:26
So we seek to overcome fear. Now the Buddhist path is interesting. I remember hearing early on, my teacher said, you have to have courage to follow the Buddhist path. And I was like, what? Why? Just sit around and meditate? Hear spiritual stuff? Why do you have to have courage? Doesn't make any sense.

0:20:56
But it's true. You have to have tremendous courage. And that is to face fear. To face something that's scary. And yet, persevere. To go on, to become victorious, despite having this feeling of limitation. And then, like the guy who was thrown into the ocean, if you persevere, you find that there's things that you can't do, you don't want to do, you have fears, you find that you can do them, that things are not impossible. But in order to step forward, you have to have courage. You have to do things that you might just be aware of it as an aversion.

0:21:54
No, that's not me. I don't like that. I don't want that. But really, you're afraid. You're very afraid. You have to be able to accept challenges and throw yourself into situations that are constructive and productive, but they might not be what you like. When you say, I don't like something, you are afraid. So go beyond that. You know, like if your dentist says floss your teeth and you're like, I don't like flossing my teeth. You're a wimp. It's a very simple example, but you are. It takes effort and for some reason you're like, oh, it hurts. I don't like this.

0:22:51
You're a wimp. That's a very, very subtle way of seeing that you have a fear. Because flossing your teeth is hygienic. It's better for your life. Your teeth don't fall out when you're 27. Stuff like that, you know. So you have to look at every time where you have aversion, where you say, I don't like, that's not me. You're afraid. Because if someone presents something to you that is healthy, wholesome, constructive, and helpful, and you go, well, I just don't like it.

0:23:29
You're afraid. You are afraid. And it's because of your conditioned patterns, your karma, and all sorts of self-attachment, self-ideas, personal history. But Buddhism is a path where you say, I'm not going to be afraid anymore to be healthy, to be strong, to be positive, to succeed. That's why Buddhism is a path for victors and victorias. For people who are victoria. People who succeed face the truth. They don't face the truth and go, yeah, but I don't like you. That's someone who's afraid.

0:24:17
That's a fear. You think it's just self. You think it's just you. But no, you're afraid. Look at that. Overcome that. Someone who's victorious in life does things that are positive, constructive, healthy, and wholesome. It works out. They're successful. They overcome limitation. They overcome the garbage of self. And then there you find happiness, you find positivity, you find truth. So the path of Buddhism is a path of overcoming fear, overcoming self, which is afraid, and finding a greater awareness of life And it's a it's a positive thing. It's a happy thing. It's a strong thing So you got to look at your life You got to say you know what fear doesn't help me If I want to be happy, I got to overcome my fears. I have to overcome my aversions So What are your fears?

0:25:43
What are your fears? You have to know, you have to be honest. And when you look at your aversions, you have to say, why do I have this aversion? I don't want this thing, it bothers me. See in your aversion, why you're afraid. Because your aversions are self-fear. So look into it, write it down, understand yourself. Make a list of your aversions and draw in to understand where your fear is.

0:26:13
Look at your fears, what you know you're afraid of, what holds you back. It's important to understand yourself and to look at your aversions and say, instead of saying, yeah, this is just me and I like this and I don't like that. You're like, why do I not like that? You will find that it's because it draws back to a fear. So be honest. See your life in a true way, and then you can do something about it. You can start to overcome your fear. When you have a list of fears and the aversions, and you know where the aversions lead to or come from, which are fears, then you can say, oh, okay, I want to do something about this.

0:27:10
I'm going to take these on. These fears came from some ignorance, or they came from some conditioning, or from some past experience. I'm going to know, and I'm going to face it, so that I can overcome these fears. If it was from conditioning or past experience, I'm going to uncondition. I'm going to learn the truth. and somebody scared you with a maple leaf. You're like, ooh, the maple leaf's alive, it's going to eat you. And then now you're afraid of maple trees and maple syrup. You know, it's like you have to say, wait a minute, maple tree, you're afraid of Canada?

0:27:54
You've got to eventually say, wait a minute, this is not right, you know. Canada's okay. So we can do that, we can face it. And if it's just ignorance, you say, oh, I'm afraid of this thing. Well then, learn about it. Jump in the ocean, swim. You'll learn something. So we can do that. And my teacher always said, start with the smallest thing take the smallest fear the smallest aversion Know it and make a plan to overcome it face your fear Do something if you face it head on Your personal history your karma everything your ignorance. You'll you'll you'll learn you go Oh, it's not the way I used to think it is or it's not this impossible thing that I was afraid of you'll say oh now I know the truth and Every time any fear with any aversion when you know the truth It did it disappears. There's no fear anymore. There's no more aversion So you can overcome them now you have to use common sense, the lack of fear is not the lack of common sense. I'm not afraid of snakes. I just don't have a fear of snakes. But I won't go and grab a black mamba or a cottonmouth. Like I won't just go grab a poisonous snake. I have no fear of them. But I won't grab one because that would be silly.

0:29:40
I would most likely be bitten. So I have common sense, but no fear. Now some people see a snake and go, ah, and they freeze. The snake could be slithering at them, and they're like, I'm afraid. It comes over. They're all, I don't want to grab it. I'm afraid. And then it just jumps up and bites them on the face because they're sitting there.

0:29:59
And that's what fear does. It paralyzes you. If you're not afraid of a snake, yeah, you're not going to pick it up, but as it comes towards you, you're going to kind of walk away. Intelligent apprehension of this situation. So you can overcome fears by facing fears. You can face them directly in reality. You're afraid of public speaking get up on the subway and start talking I've got something to say yeah yeah I mean I mean anything anywhere do Toastmasters this group of people who get together who are afraid the death of talking in front of people, and then they get together, and then they do, they get up and say something. It's cool. You know, whatever. Face it.

0:30:59
There's ways to face it. There's ways to face your fears. Now, if you have like a serious fear, you don't want to put yourself in harm's way. As you get to life-threatening or difficult fears, then you start to face them in a different way. So let's say you were afraid of being shot by a gun. You're not gonna go into a bad neighborhood and be all like, hey, what's up, you got a gun? Because I'm not afraid anymore. That would be like grabbing the snake. So there's a couple ways.

0:31:41
One way is dreaming. If you're savvy in dreaming, you could just really intend, before you go to sleep, to face that fear in a dream. So in a dream, people will pull guns on you. And you'll be afraid for a while, and then after a while, you'll be like, OK, I can get over the fear. Someone pulling a gun on you is not a good situation. But if you freeze up, then you're not helping yourself. So you can get rid of the fear and be able to intelligently deal with the situation. Let me duck, let me run, but not just sit there and go, I'm afraid.

0:32:33
So in dreams it's very interesting, because in a dream it's as real as reality. When someone pulls a gun on you in a dream, you're just like, oh my god, someone pulled a gun on me! And you can deal with it and learn about it in a place where you won't die, even if you get shot. Now, another way of dealing with fear is what we call reflecting on it. It's just thinking about it. What if this really happened? And being very in touch with your feelings and being able to overcome it. In the Hagakure, this is the samurai book, it's a, they say meditate on death.

0:33:22
If you have a fear of death, meditate on death. See yourself being killed on the battlefield, being thrown off a cliff, dying of some horrible disease. Like reflect on it in every single way. horrible disease. Like reflect on it in every single way. And if you go through it, you think about it, okay, you know, I'm trying and I'm afraid of this and I got killed like this and I got killed like that. This is one of the methods that the samurai used to overcome these things by facing them, by dreaming about them, by reflecting on them. So it's very powerful.

0:34:13
Now meditation is the most powerful way to overcome fear. It's the most powerful way. When you can stop thought, you enter a spiritual luminosity that, for most people, they're afraid of. If you can stop thought, you enter the light. And that light is the light of eternity. In that light, there's no self. The moment you stop thought, you're not there anymore. You're not there with your desires, with your fears, with your personal history, with your concerns about what you got to do tomorrow or what your friends are doing tonight without you. You know, so you're not you're not worrying about anything. You're not worrying about relationships.

0:35:05
You're not worrying about your boss. The moment that you stop thought, the self is gone. And that's very scary for people. People like to hold on to their whole illusion of life. They fear stopping thought. So if you could make friends with stopping thought, where you slow thought down, you see light, you stop thought eventually, and in the stopping of thought you experience the brightest, most beautiful spiritual experience of light. And then you say, wow, you know what? Stopping thought isn't so bad.

0:35:46
Stopping my angers, my delusions, my depressions, and my enmity, and everything, my drama. Stopping my drama is not so bad. Because when I slow down thought, when I experience the light of stopping thought, I feel amazing, beautiful, happy. Then you come back to your thoughts and you go, whoa, these thoughts are not so good. And therefore, you learn how to stop thought more and more. That is overcoming fear. If you can stop thought, then when you face anything that's a fear, you're able to look past the limited aspect of that fear, the transient thing that's scary, and then you're able to see the truth.

0:36:42
And that truth casts a light on the thing that you think is scary, and the thing that you think is scary isn't scary. It just is what it is, but there's no fear anymore. So meditation is the most powerful way to overcome fear.

