0:00:00
Tonight, I'd like to talk about unity. There are two primary forces in the universe. The force of unity and the force of diversity. Unity is what brings things together so that together so that they're stronger. It creates a greater balance and peace. In the Chinese classic of change, the I Ching, there's a hexagram, a designation, that suggests unity. It is lake over lake. And this hexagram describes two or more coming together, supporting each other, adding to each other, making each other stronger. This is unity. And then there's diversity. And then there's diversity. Diversity is that which breaks apart, draws away, and is weakened.

0:01:25
It goes into different, separate ways. There's confusion in diversity. There's in diversity. There's partial awareness, partial seeing in diversity. And dysfunction in diversity. Diversity in terms of consciousness is delusion. It is only seeing the transient aspect of It is only seeing the transient aspect of life. Unity is seeing eternity. We find greater unity in being selfless. When we are humble, when we are giving to another without an expectation of return, without an expectation of return, then we find that we come to a greater awareness of unity. When we're acting in the self, in the ego, then we find that we are experiencing greater diversity.

0:02:48
a united awareness when we're acting from our own desires, from our attachments, from our fears. We always find that life is smaller and we suffer more. There's great power in In martial arts, we gain a kind of unity. It's power that you can see. So, for example, in Wu Wei Do, we are learning to gain a connection to a power that we have, that's within us. And then when we find that in that unity, we see that we have tremendous power. That power exists, just like enlightenment exists. And if you're guided correctly, if you're taught properly, if you access that power, if you become one with that power, then you see yourself in martial arts touch someone with one finger that power, then you see yourself in martial arts touch someone with one finger and then they go flying. And if you come to that unity with that power, you become a powerful martial artist. If you become united with enlightenment, there's a great spiritual power. And it's something that exists within you. But unity is that principle that brings you together exists within you, but unity is that principle that brings you together with power, that brings you together with enlightenment. You know, the greatest power in the universe is love, and love joins things together. Love is the force that brings all together. Love together. Love is the fabric of the universe. If you look at everything in its essence, it all comes down to love, this uniting force. So love is unity. Now in order to apprehend love. In order to really experience life from a point of unity versus the dissatisfaction of diversity, you've got to change your awareness from temporal transient awareness, space and in the physical and only perceiving diversity, all the things and stuff of the physical world and political system, world of commerce, you know. And you've got to change to see love, to see enlightenment in all things.

0:06:07
And we do this simply by walking the spiritual path. Little by little we go through these transformations where we see more and more the unity of being. Years ago, I went with my teacher to Mount Tamapoyos for a meditation. And he took us, he took his students up there. And on the way up, I was sitting in the back of someone's car, just looking out and seeing traffic, because we got stuck in some traffic. Seeing people, cars, places. Then we got to the mountain. places. Then we got to the mountain. We hiked out a little bit before meditating, and you know, there was just some mountain to me. It's the mountain. There's grass. There's a little path we're walking on. There's a tree. There's the ocean. No big deal. I've an amazing meditation. It was luminous and tremendously enlightening for me. It was beautiful and magic, beyond description. In that meditation I came to be aware of unity. And then after the meditation, I looked at the mountain and it was glowing. Everything was magic. I saw and it was glowing. Everything was magic. I saw a rock on the ground that was shimmering with brightness. The ocean was like this god, this endless god that I felt was there. And the whole mountain had this open, beautiful spirit of light. And then driving down the mountain, all the cars I saw were shiny and bright, and I didn't feel stuck. I didn't were shiny and bright and I didn't feel stuck. I didn't feel...

0:08:04
Oh yeah, we got back into some traffic. And I didn't feel a heaviness. I felt a great wonder and happiness and beauty. And being in the traffic, I didn't see it as bad. I was just happy. So this is how we transform into an awareness of eternity. form into an awareness of eternity versus the transient view of the world. Now the world gives us, in the beginning, just a bunch of diversity. is the physical. It's just, you know, the physical world, the country you live in, the job, traffic. That's the world. That's your opportunity. Or social-conditioned dreams of happiness that don't really make anyone happy. And that's the world And we look at our state of awareness right now, and we tend to be stuck in the world.

0:09:20
And how did we get this way? It's just, we've been stuck, we've been imprisoned in this viewpoint, from our karma, or the world, or everything. So we've got to get out, we have to make a change. we have to make a change. The good thing is that you can change your awareness to an internal awareness. It is possible. And when you can change your awareness, you change the world. You change your possibilities. You change everything. Like, let's say right now, you had the awareness that Steve Jobs had, right? Then you would be able to change the world the awareness that Steve Jobs had, right? Then you would be able to say, Aha! I know how to make a billion dollars.

0:10:09
I know I'm going to do it. Because he had the awareness of how to do something like that. Or if you take a martial artist, a master martial artist has the awareness that they could knock someone over with one finger They could knock someone over with one finger, just because of awareness, just knowing how. So when you gain greater awareness, you gain abilities to change the world, to change your life. And this is what we do in Buddhist mysticism. In Buddhist mysticism, we go about these disciplines to change our awareness.

0:10:48
disciplines to change our awareness. We change our awareness through martial arts. We change our awareness through career development, especially developing ourselves in computer science. We change our awareness through developing successful businesses. We change our awareness businesses. We change our awareness through these practices. As you focus on developing yourself in these disciplines, you start to look at the world differently. You start to see a greater unity through these practices. So, this is a way where we make these transformations. This is a way where we make these transformations. And through these transformations, we come to a greater power, a greater personal power, a greater seeing of the unity of being, and a greater happiness and illumination. So these are ways that we work together.

0:12:00
are ways that we work together. You know, the pathway to unity is the pathway to enlightenment. Enlightenment is ultimately the ultimate unity. So anything that we can do towards consensus, towards getting together, towards unity versus discord. It moves us towards enlightenment. So instead of arguing with someone, find common ground. Instead of seeing something as bad, see something, seek the unity in even what you think is bad. There's always a way. You have to look deep sometimes, but this is the practice. You see your life in a completely different way and you see that there's no diversity. You start putting things together. You think your way through it and you go, oh, okay, let me put this together. And then together. And then you start living in the heart. You start living in a way of balance and peace, and a way of unity where things come together. And then in that way, you're shifting into that eternal awareness. You start to see life in a whole new way. You You start to see unity in everything.

0:13:43
You see God in a rock. God in a tree, climbing the tree. You'll see God in appliances. my home after going away and practicing Buddhism for a number of years. And I had this old Sony television from like 1982. And I sat there and I looked at that television, not when it was on, when it was off, I wasn't watching it. But seeing that television, I saw something amazing. But seeing that television I saw something amazing so first of all I could see maybe psychically that Whoever made that television was in a very good state of mind Now back in the 80s Japan was going through this great growth in their economy People were making more money than ever.

0:14:52
It was a time of social harmony. It was a big boom for the whole country. And I could see in that television what they made was something that they were happy about, proud about, and it reflected a good state of mind. It was a good state of mind of the designers, good energy of the company, It was a good state of mind of the designers, good energy of the company, and even the hands that put it together. I could see all of that. And so I was like, wow, that's amazing. And then I felt from seeing that just a great love for Sony.

0:15:32
It's true. that I loved Sony, that I loved Japan, that I loved sushi. And it really, I saw in that TV so much, it brought me to such a high state of unity. So unity, you can see it in everything and everywhere. And it's powerful. It's important to be in a group. A group gives you great strength. Being in a group gives you a physical kind of unity. So what we do is we join an organic fellowship with those of like mind. like mind. People who are interested in enlightenment, people who are interested in self-discovery, meditation. We join a group that, you know, where we see that we can get higher. And then we work within that group. That group is called a Sangha. And a Sangha is something that is the Sangha. And a Sangha is something that is very, very, very important. Because outside of the Sangha, you are diminished just by the self, because you're acting against unity.

0:17:06
You're just like, no, I'm going to do it my own way. I did it my way. That's a, what do self. And a lot of people want to do it their way. They go, no, no, no, I got some books. I saw this one Swami. I just want to do my own thing. And that's fine, but the I Ching also says, when one goes their own way in spiritual practice, that their development development is slow and heavy. So, when you're in a group, you're able to move much more quickly. The group gives you a greater balance. That's harmony. And a group also inspires to work together. So, women have a conditioning against working together with other women. And it's very, very important not to have negative attitudes towards working with other women, not to get, you know, petty about things, but to see the big picture when you're working with other women, but to see the big picture when you're working with other women, because there's a power in that.

0:18:29
And this is a power that's been cut off to women because of their conditioning. Their social conditioning tells them, you know, you can't really trust another woman. And it's backwards conditioning. It's very important because if you don't get rid of that social conditioning, you miss out on a great power. There's a tremendous power in spiritual sisterhood. When a woman supports a woman spiritually, it's extremely powerful, and it's something that you don't see often in the world. don't see often in the world. It's a power that is not common, but in our school it is common. We work in teams. When we work together through any of our disciplines, we see that we are developing, that things are happening. We're developing our business, for example, business, for example, or we're in martial arts getting higher belt rankings, and we see that what we're doing together is working. We're heading into a greater unity, and we see success versus diversity and dysfunction. So women support women spiritually, and also and also in our practices.

0:20:05
And we see and feel that support. There's a magic in that. And that's what we develop. We practice an awareness and a mindfulness where when we're working on a project and then you start to have a petty thought about another woman, you say, wait a minute, this is going to block that power. And so now I'm going to get rid of that thought and see the big picture of what we're working And so now I'm going to get rid of that thought and see the big picture of what we're working on here, which is we're working on enlightenment. So this is very, very important. It's a big focus in our school.

0:20:40
Now, outside of the Sangha, you can experience a greater unity in places of power. experience a greater unity in places of power. So if you go to a place of power, maybe a mountain like Shasta, a desert like Joshua Tree, or the big island of Hawaii, going to the energy of the place, because it has power, it moves your awareness from the self, from the transient awareness of life. It moves it to an eternal awareness, or deeper dimensions of life. So just by going to the place, you shift into a different, higher, brighter state you shift into a different, higher, brighter state of mind. And then in those state of minds you can see greater unity of life. It's a better, brighter vision. So just by going to those places, because those places have very positive energy, and a lot of those places of power have connections to higher dimensions.

0:22:00
of power have connections to higher dimensions. And just being there you start to attune to a greater unity. Now, the greatest way to apprehend unity is to meditate. When you stop When the self ideas go away, when your attachments, fears and desires vanish, you stop the self. The self that exists in time and space in the transient world goes away once you stop is completely aware of eternity. The thoughts hold unity away. When thoughts are gone, that is unity. The spirit is connected with eternity. There's no separation. Meditation is the direct experience of unity.

0:23:21
Then after we meditate, we start to see unity in all things at all times. The Sony TV, the rock, the tree, the ocean, the mountain, traffic. Start to see that unity is even in diversity. You start to see that unity is even in diversity. You just have to look deeper. There's an old Zen story. There's three monks in the Zen Master, and it's springtime and they're in front of a field of flowers. And the Zen Master says to the monks, go and pick the perfect flower, and I will teach and pick the perfect flower.

0:24:03
And I will teach you something." And so, one of them gets up and goes, Oh, I think I see it. And he goes and picks a flower and comes back. And then, he's like, This one. And then the master says, Oh no, that's not the perfect flower. And then the other one goes, Oh, that's the one. He goes over, picks one, brings it back, and says, No, that's not the perfect flower. And the third one is just sitting there, that's not the perfect flower. And the third one is just sitting there looking at all the flowers.

0:24:30
And then Zen Master says, well, and then he says, they're all perfect flowers. So he saw the perfection, not just in the one that's that seems to be the most pretty or something like that. He saw the perfection in all of them. This is how we come to see unity and everything. You This is how we come to see unity in everything. You can look at a dirty toilet and see unity, see God, see eternity in the toilet. Yeah, so someday you'll be enlightened and then you'll be able to do that. But I also really, really love the process of unity through compassion. So when you have compassion, you see another person and you have care for them. suffering and you care for their suffering and then you give of yourself to help them out of their suffering. So in the practice of compassion when we see someone who is suffering, we see their suffering and we imagine taking their suffering from them so that we have their suffering and they suffering and they're free of their suffering. And then we give them our happiness and light.

0:26:06
And in this process, you transcend the self and you see just in giving your light to someone and taking their suffering, you transform your consciousness and you see unity. So this is a beautiful path as well. Okay, thank you all very much.

