0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about the truth. The truth is what is real as opposed to what is false. The truth is being aware of eternity and not just aware of the transient. There Just like there's truth in a dream. When you're experiencing a dream, that is a kind of truth. However, when you wake up, you realize that it's just a very transient experience. It's not, you know, it's not something that has a tremendous impact on your life. It's the same when you wake up to eternity. on your life. It's the same when you wake up to eternity. When you wake up to eternity, you see a much greater truth than the transient world that you live in. The truth is a path. So in Buddhist mysticism, we follow the truth.

0:01:12
we follow the truth. We call it the Dharma. We follow the truth and we see that whenever we take a step towards truth that we get higher and brighter, that we get stronger and healthier. So we always follow truth. The truth, the Dharma, is the pathway to enlightenment. to enlightenment. Now, Maya is a Sanskrit word that means illusion, and that is not seeing life in its eternality. So, truth is seeing beyond the illusion, seeing what is but also what is actual, what is real. Illusion is being in the dark. So if you're sitting in a room and the lights are out, you see nothing. And you don't know what's in the room. You have no idea because you can't see.

0:02:21
So maybe you walk around in the room, touch things, and try to figure out what they are. and try to figure out what they are. But the truth, seeing beyond illusion, is turning on the lights so that you can see everything in the room and understand what's there, what's actually there. Buddha had a simile about in the dark coming across a rope. So you're walking down the coming across a rope. So you're walking down the path, and it's dark, and then there's a rope, and you can't see it well enough. So you think it's a snake, and then if you think it's a snake, it's scary to you. You can't pass it on the path, and it's just sitting there.

0:03:09
So then when the Sun comes out, The Sun comes out You see that it was just a rope and that you could have walked over it. You didn't have to be afraid It didn't have to stop So this is how we understand seeing past illusion Now, how do we do this? We have to change We have to change our world our view of the world We have to change our world, our view of the world, so that we can see a greater truth.

0:03:45
We start with our thoughts. This is what Buddha taught. We are what we think. All that we are arises with our thoughts, and with our thoughts we make the world. This is true. true. We give ground to reality by identifying life in particular ways. When you have thoughts, you like this, you don't like that, everything that you think, it forms your awareness field, the way that you interpret life. So in Buddhist mysticism, we interpret life differently. In mysticism, we interpret life differently. We have ways to make powerful changes.

0:04:33
And the way is that we shift and we become new things. Now if someone had never been to the ocean, and you told them about the ocean, they would have some information. they would have some information. And then, if they actually went to the ocean, jumped in, splashed around, avoided getting eaten by a shark, then they would know something more about the ocean. But the final experience of knowing the truth of the ocean is to become the ocean. This is what we do in Buddhist mysticism. We become the ocean. Now, there's the old Arthurian legends of King Arthur and Merlin. Merlin took Arthur when he was a young boy and he taught him about life.

0:05:33
Taught him about the world. taught him was not just explaining things and showing things. He taught him by changing him into different things. So he changed him into a squirrel. He said, here, experience life as a squirrel. See what life is like. So he changes him into a squirrel, and then And then he lives like a squirrel for a while. Then he changes them into a fish. He says, here, here's what it's like to be a fish. See what that's like for a while. Changes them into a tree. This is what it's like to be a tree.

0:06:15
So, by becoming different things, Arthur came to know life in a very powerful way. This is what we do in Buddhist mysticism. powerful way. This is what we do in Buddhist mysticism. We become different things. I mean, Arthur, you know, probably didn't want to become a squirrel or a fish. It wasn't his proclivity, but nevertheless, by going through that training, he learned something powerful. powerful. So we do the same. We might not want to be a black belt, but then we become a black belt. Becoming a black belt totally transforms your life. Before you're a black belt, you are a victim. You have fear. You're unaware. So if you're walking down the street, you're unaware. So if you're walking down the street, you lack awareness, you have fear, something happens, you can't handle it, you have no power, no capability.

0:07:21
However, if you have a black belt, then when you're walking down the street, you're aware, you're aware of danger. And if something happens, you have the ability to save your life or save the life of another. So that is a tremendous power. It changes the way that you think about yourself. That is a tremendous power. It changes the way that you think about yourself. It changes the way you think about the world. Through practicing martial arts, you transform. You look at the world differently. You change the world. And the way that we do it, you end up seeing a greater truth. We have practices that are not just physical, not just mental, but are spiritual. So, becoming a computer programmer, that seems like something mental, but the way that we do it, of spirit in that process. In succeeding as a business owner, there are spiritual dimensions in the way that we do it. And that's why not only do we have the experience of, you know, great abundance and wealth, but we also gain spiritual wisdom. We also gain spiritual truth because of the way that we do it. A long time ago in Japan, there was a monk who went to Satori, I want enlightenment.

0:09:15
Satori is a experience of enlightened consciousness. It is Samadhi. And he said, I want Satori so bad, what do I do? Show me. And the Zen master said, okay. He said, I'll show you. He said, follow me. So he goes to the kitchen, gets a bowl of dry rice. Then he goes up to the Zen garden of dry rice. Then he goes up to the Zen garden and he throws the bowl of rice, throws all the rice out amongst the rocks. And they're little rocks and the rice is amongst them.

0:09:49
Then he said, I will show you, Satori, as soon as you get every grain of rice out of the rock garden. And then the monk is like, but Master, why did you do that? That doesn't Master, why did you do that? That doesn't make any sense. He says, go get it. So the monk takes the bowl and he starts picking them up. And it takes him days. He's going over it and you know, sitting there picking up all the rice. And then he says, okay, I think I got all the rice. And the master says, oh no, you okay, I think I got all the rice. And the master says, Oh, no, you don't have all the rice. So you have to look closer, you got to get on your hands and knees in there. You have to you have to look as close as possible at every rock. And then the monk does. And he spends days doing this. And he finds that there were more rice grains. And then he says, And he finds that there were more rice grains.

0:10:52
And then he says, All right, Master, I think I got it now. And the Master says, Oh, no. Some of those rice grains have gone under some of the rocks. So in order to get the grain of rice, you have to be able to see. He's like, So you're going to have to develop your intuition. And he goes, Okay.

0:11:14
He's like, And he goes, okay, so you're just going to have to feel where the rice is. So he starts doing that, and this takes him months, because he's like, I don't know how to feel where the rice is. But then the Master's all, yeah, feel the rice. And then finally, you know, finally he feels there's rice, and he picks up a stone, and there's a grain of rice, and he's like, yes! So then he goes and does that for a while. and does that for a while. And then he says, Master, I think I got them all.

0:11:42
And the Master says, there's one grain left. One grain. He's like, now I'm going to show you a meditation. And when you do this meditation, after the meditation, you will know exactly where it is. And you'll go, and you'll get it. If you're wrong, you've got to do the meditation again.

0:12:02
And so he shows him you got to do the meditation again. And so he shows him this meditation to find the grain of rice. And then he tries and he fails. But then he keeps doing it. And this takes him months. But finally, one day, he does the meditation perfectly. And he knows that where the rice grain is. And he goes, picks up the rock, and gets it. goes, picks up the rock and gets it. And as soon as he picks up the grain of rice, then he experiences Satori. He goes into spiritual state of mind, beyond the self. And it's because he did something simple, picking up grains of rice. But by doing it in the way that the the master taught him, he learned a spiritual lesson. So this is what we do in Buddhist mysticism. You can do it with picking up rice, you can do it with a career, you can do it with a business, you can do it through martial arts, you can do it through compassion. They ways that you address your mind to transform. We let go of the self that we have and we transform into the unknown. Again and again we change from one self to a brighter self, a brighter self, from one self to a more powerful self. And in all of these transitions, in these practices that we do, we come higher in a spiritual sense where we can see a greater truth. So this is our practice. Now the difficulty that people have is that they have attachment people have is that they have attachment, desire, and fear. And this is all in the, this all exists in the transient world. The transient world is like a dream. It lasts for a little while, it all changes, you wake up, go into another dream. Dream after dream Dream after dream after dream. This is the transient world the world of illusion What we call physical reality It's not real or it's illusory It changes and the problem is that people get attached to things in the dream and Then it changes and then they suffer So you might get attached to you know and then they suffer.

0:14:50
So you might get attached to a husband, a wife, a job, a house, a kid, whatever. People get it. People affix their spiritual happiness to something in the dream. And they miss eternity. And so when it changes, maybe at the end of your life, And so when it changes, maybe at the end of your life, you're dying so you're going to lose the thing that you were attached to, or the thing you were attached to dies before you, when that happens, you have suffering. But if you would get rid of your attachments and maybe attach your spirit to the eternity in the things, then you know that when they die, that they go on into another experience, that their spirit never dies. And when you can cut out your attachment, your desire, your fear, then you're able to see the truth. But these things, when you're operating with them in the dream, But these things, when you're operating with them in the dream, you're totally caught up in the physical world, and you can't see eternity.

0:16:14
There's a Bodhisattva named Manjushri, and he, if you see a picture of him or a statue statue of him, he holds a sword above his head, a big flaming sword. And this sword represents cutting away illusion. He is the Bodhisattva of wisdom. And when he cuts away illusion, he can see the truth. So in Tibetan Buddhism, they will often do meditations Buddhism, they will often do meditations focusing on Manjushri, because to meditate on Manjushri is to wipe away, cut away your attachments, your delusions, your desires and your fears. with one of his students in a city. And he was telling his student, all of these people walking around don't see an ounce of truth.

0:17:23
They're completely caught up in illusion, in maya. And then he said, look, I'll prove it. And he pulls out a gold coin. And he says, this is, you know, this is a real gold coin. He's like, I'm just gonna put truth into it because he has a magical bodhisattva. coin. He's like, I'm just going to put truth into it. Because he has a magical bodhisattva, he infuses it with truth. Then he throws it out into the crowd of people. And no one sees it. Everyone's walking by. No one sees this shining gold coin. Not at all. So he leaves it there all day or something. A long time. No one sees it. And this is how people are.

0:18:00
long time. No one sees it. And this is how people are. No one sees the truth. Because they're caught in attachment, desire, and fear. So this is what we have to do. We have to examine our attachments, desires, and fears, and we have to start to let go so that we can see eternity. The way that we get past this, these difficulties, these roadblocks to seeing truth, is through meditation. In meditation, we clear our mind, we stop thought. You you have a focus but that focus brings you to a point where your mind becomes still and Then you stop thought and when you stop thought Then all of the illusion of life people places things attachments desires Fears all of those things just disappear once you stop thought and then you experience the truth and then you experience the truth.

0:19:15
Then you have a direct connection with truth. You see the truth. And little by little, after meditating a lot, your attachments go away. You transform your attachments. Instead of being attached to the dream, you're open to eternity. you're open to eternity. So if you have a husband or wife, then instead of being attached to that person, you see eternity in them, and you don't affix to the illusion. So we transform. We let go of our desires. We get over our fears. From meditation, it's very We get over our fears from meditation. It's very powerful.

0:20:07
Additionally, a way to come to apprehend truth is through compassion. When you actively practice compassion, you see another person who's suffering, and you have care for their suffering, and you seek in your spirit to aid them, to get out of their suffering, for them to be free. With that intention and that focus, you experience And compassion is the active aspect of truth. Very, very, very quickly your consciousness transforms and you have a greater awareness of truth, just by caring for another suffering. Ultimate truth is enlightened. Enlightenment is limitless consciousness. Enlightenment is knowing the truth of the transient world, being impeccable and functional, but it's also knowing the truth of eternity.

0:21:36
Enlightenment is endless and limitless, and enlightenment is ultimately the greatest truth of life and being. All right, thank you very much.

