0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about the caretaker personality. The caretaker personality is a way of interfacing with life. It is a way of approaching life where you can be more successful, be in situations where be in situations where you can gain more energy or prevent yourself from losing energy. Now, to understand what the caretaker personality is, you first have to understand yourself. Who are you? Just who do you think you are? I'm a man or a woman. I have this ethnicity. I have this occupation, this education. But that's just the outer self. What's the contours of your personality? Your inner self? Are person, quick to anger? Are you a humorous person? Are you someone who gets easily depressed? Are you extroverted? These inner qualities, inner attributes. What are your inner attributes?

0:01:31
You have to take stock. You have to know yourself to understand what a caretaker personality understand what a caretaker personality is. So what are your good attributes? And what are your bad attributes? You have to really say, okay, yeah, I'm basically like this, like this, like this. I know myself, I've experienced myself for too many years now. So you know what you're good at, what you're bad at. you know what you're good at, what you're bad at. You know your more enlightened nature versus your egotistical nature. And then when you know what's going on in the self, then you know your personality.

0:02:22
You know yourself. Which is a good starting point, but that's not all that you are. You are more than just this personality, this definition. This is a transient definition of self. It can change. What we find is that innate to our being are aggregates of selves. of selves. We're not just one being. We're not just one, we're many. They are within us. And we can access these different selves, and we can develop them. Now, this was seen a Gita, when Krishna showed Arjuna his enlightened self, and when Arjuna saw this vision of God realization, he saw many selves.

0:03:30
He saw Krishna, the person he knew, and then he saw these wrathful beings come forward, beings come forward, these beautiful enlightened images come forward, and he saw thousands and thousands and endless forms, and these are the self. The selves that are within us are endless. We can be anything, any self. self. When we learn about the caretaker personalities, we start to hone in on some constructive selves. These aggregates of selves are something that we can draw upon if we turn our attention this unlimited experience of powers of selves and we can develop them and bring them into our lives. Now, ultimately, when we meditate, when we stop thought, then the self disappears. The moment you stop thought, all of your whole world disappears. All of your good traits your whole world disappears. All of your good traits and bad traits, the way that you think of yourself, it's all gone the moment you stop thought. So the truth about the self is that while we are every self, we are also no self. And the essence of our being is no self. So when we are aware that we're no self, then it's easy for us to start letting go that we're no self, then it's easy for us to start letting go of the original personality that we've defined.

0:05:20
We can say, oh, look, I've seen a way through that. It's not so real, it's not concrete, and therefore I can change. So then we develop the caretaker personalities. And these are ways of dealing with life that we can change. You could put them on and off like clothing. So let's say you're going to the office where you work and you wear a suit because that's appropriate for your office. That's what everyone does. That's what everyone does. When you wear a suit you fit in and you're more successful.

0:06:06
If you didn't wear a suit, if you wore a t-shirt and jeans, then you would not be so successful in the office. If you go to a karate class, when you get onto the mat, you're wearing a gi, a karate uniform, and that is appropriate. That's what they do in the class. And then by doing that, that is appropriate. That's what they do in the class. And then by doing that, you're able to access the teachings in the class. If you came in in a suit, the sensei would push you off of the mat, or throw you off the mat, or kick you off the mat.

0:06:42
So it wouldn't work out. So caretaker personalities, we use them in the proper situations. Sometimes, you know, there might be one situation Sometimes, you know, there might be one situation where there's one caretaker personality that you use, and there's another one where that one's not appropriate, so you switch to another caretaker personality. It was like Marpa teaching Milarepa. So Milarepa would see Marpa with some of his students just smiling and being so happy, smiling and being so happy, filled with beatitude.

0:07:17
And he was just loving towards some of his students. And then when it came to dealing with him, Marpa towards Milorapa was wrathful and angry, always saying, you're bad, go build a stone tower. go build a stone tower. He gave him hard labor and yelled at him. And then of course Milarepa became enlightened because Marpa saw the right way to act toward each student. He said, okay, this student I got to talk to him this way, this one I got to give him a hard time that way. And he was right because he had proper seeing of how to approach different people, right because he had proper seeing of how to approach different people, which caretaker personality to use. And the enlightened are always using caretaker personalities. They've gotten rid of the original self personality because, let's face it, that one's pretty that one's pretty flawed.

0:08:26
So they've gotten rid of it, and all they use is caretaker personalities. Now, a caretaker personality is kind of like a radio station, right? You can go to one radio station and get certain information, and go to another radio station and get certain information. So sometimes you want to get the news to know what's going on in the world.

0:08:48
So sometimes you want to get the news to know what's going on in the world. And sometimes you don't want any news, you want to listen to some music. So when you're using these caretaker personalities, you're interfacing with life and you're getting certain information out of it. So we just use it where it's appropriate. And we do this all the time. There's a, you know, I guess a range within each caretaker personality. And even in your current personality, your original personality, you see this range. You enter into different aspects on the range because you get different information. It's appropriate. It works better. So you'll see that when you go to work, you act a certain way.

0:09:51
When you're with your family, you act different and you interface with them different than the way that you talk to people at work. And then when you're with your friends, you're different. And then when you're with your friends, you're different. So you're different at work, you're different in sports, you're different with certain people and other people. In certain situations, you act different. So this is normal, and this is the range within a caretaker personality. The caretaker personalities can, The caretaker personalities can, you can do lots of different things within them, but then at some point you might say, oh no, this whole personality is inappropriate here, so I'll switch it.

0:10:40
Now, the caretaker personalities are listed kind of as themes. listed kind of as themes so there's the the warrior it's a very important caretaker personality then there's the child Then the student The yogi the devotee these are different types of These are different types of caretakers and within each one there's a whole bunch of things to learn.

0:11:21
The devotee is someone who practices Bhakti Yoga. So when you're acting like a devotee, when you're using that caretaker personality, you're totally devotional, filled with love for enlightenment. but that would be totally inappropriate in a workplace. Gushing out, singing the praise of God. Then there's some advanced caretaker personalities. And these ones you wouldn't practice or you wouldn't try to develop until you're very advanced. But they are also caretaker personalities. There are also caretaker personalities.

0:12:03
There's the master. There's the sage. There's the holy mother. There's the savior. So there's many very advanced caretaker personalities that you would start to develop. caretaker personalities that you would start to develop once you start going into Samadhi, into the enlightened states of consciousness. Now in our school we develop two primary caretaker personalities, very, very core to our daily experience. The warrior and the child. The warrior is very important. The warrior is how we deal with the outside world. So when we're dealing with life, the universe, traffic, everything. We're always dealing with life as a warrior. The warrior is battling for spiritual awareness. The warrior fights for enlightened victory. This is where we This is where we come from as a warrior.

0:13:39
A warrior is impeccable in every way. A warrior has impeccable skill sets. They create very powerful jobs where they work with great excellence. work with great excellence. They deal with everybody in a very powerful and positive way. The warrior is inaccessible. When they're a warrior, a warrior can be a warrior at work. they fit in perfectly in work. They don't talk about things that the other people at work wouldn't understand. They talk in terms of what everyone at work's awareness is. The warrior also could be a black belt in karate. with a warrior. So you go to the martial arts class and then when you're there, you're still that warrior being impeccable and strong in martial arts. A warrior has no personal history.

0:15:10
They let go of their past and they accept only this present. past and they accept only this present, the present moment, awareness now, life now. No ideas of who they were before, because that's limiting. A warrior accepts this moment and is strong. When a warrior goes into battle, they settle all of their matters. They don't all of their matters. They don't have something that they have to tell a person. They don't have their accounts out of order. All of their affairs are completely, impeccably ordered and taken care of, completely settled. And then this way, there's nothing holding them So, warriors have a very bright, tight attention. A warrior is ultimately selfless, because the warrior doesn't fight for the self. The warrior fights for a greater cause.

0:16:22
And a spiritual warrior fights for enlightenment. fights for enlightenment. So we are not fighting for just us, we're fighting for enlightened awareness. Also in our selflessness, the warrior is compassionate. The warrior uses compassion. As a warrior, we have an etiquette, a way, a code of ethics where we fight, but not in a mean way. That would diminish us. We fight in a way that elevates us, kind of like the knights of the round table. They were very noble because they had a code, an ethic. They have very noble power because of committing themselves selflessly to a code of ethics, to the point where if your master says, oh yeah, you're supposed to just, I had a bad day today and I don't like your face, kill yourself.

0:17:28
And you just go, okay, kill yourself. So this is the warrior selfless, compassionate, and noble. passionate and noble. And then there's the child, also a very important caretaker personality for us. This is how we are, we use the child when we're in the Sangha or when we're with good friends. happy, optimistic, innocent, humble, and you play. When you're a child, you play. You have fun, you experience humor, hopefully you're funny, at least you laugh. And you know how And, you know how children could, one moment something bad happens to them and they're crying and then the next moment they see something else, they see something shiny and then they're like not crying anymore.

0:18:41
So we want to be like that. You know, of course in a group or with a friend something's going to happen or they say something wrong or look at you wrong or whatever. or they say something wrong, or look at you wrong, or whatever. And then it hurts, and then we let go of it. Just drop it. It's gone. And there's a great wisdom to doing that. We never hold on to a hate, a jealousy, or anything like that. We always just, oh, that or anything like that. We always just, oh, that person hurt me. Oh well, I dropped it. I'll let it go. So the child is the way that we want to be with people that we're close to, that we associate with, people that are in our sangha.

0:19:31
And then this creates a great harmony. So these are the two primary caretaker personalities So these are the two primary caretaker personalities that we focus on. Now, it's a good exercise to look at your life. Look at the situations that you're in, maybe the work situations you're in, situations with people, things that you commonly routinely do. people, things that you commonly routinely do. And it's a good idea to say, hey, you know, I would benefit by not being my original personality in this situation. If I were a warrior here, if I could start to be a warrior, how would that be? How could I be impeccable? How can I be inaccessible?

0:20:26
How can I be selfless, compassionate? So we start, this is how we develop the caretakers. We learn about what the warrior is and what the child is, and then we start to say, how can I implement this in my life? The original personality is fraught with error. is fraught with error. The warrior will do much better here. So in this situation, how can I start applying these? And then that's how you start developing the caretaker. Another situation you can say, well, the child would be much better here. Let me start to apply the child. How can I be more humble here?

0:21:11
How can I be more forgiving here? to be more forgiving here. And then little by little you start to strengthen these caretaker personalities and then you find yourself just walking into the office as a warrior, going through traffic as a warrior, meeting with your friends as a child. You just change, like you change clothes. You just go from one way to another way. You just go from one way to another way. And by following this path, you rid yourself of the karmas associated with the original personality.

0:21:51
You become detached from the original self by acting a more powerful way and seeing that you're not anyway. You're not the original personality. that you're not anyway, you're not the original personality, you're also the warrior, you're also the child. And at the same time in meditation, you see that all of the caretaker personalities dissolve in light. And that's the truth. Okay, thank you.

