0:00:00
Transcendentalism is an American expression of enlightenment. American expression of enlightenment. It is a philosophical movement that was brought Thoreau and Emerson. And together, a couple Harvard boys created this different way of looking at life. A way of looking at life that brought people beyond, I guess, a finite, troubled experience to seeing a greater degree of eternity. Transcendentalism means to transcend, transcend a limited condition, of a greater power, a greater light, a greater condition of spirit. Now my teacher really liked Henry David Thoreau, and especially his book Walden. So I remember we were reading all of these Tibetan texts, then all of a sudden our assignment Then all of a sudden, our assignment was Walden.

0:02:05
And I read it, and I saw in this book beautiful states of mind, a pathway from a life where from a life where they are bombarded with human trappings, difficulties, dramas, a pathway to a great internal peace. So this was a book that my teacher liked very much. I think he read it himself about once a year. So it's a very, it holds very profound teachings. It's actually a very spiritual book. And that's why it's powerful. That's why it's great American literature. Because it has an energy.

0:03:07
It has a power. In Transcendentalism, they take on the big questions. They take on the big questions. You know, Who am I? What is my path in this life to be as high and successful and happy as possible? Is there a God? Is there meaning to life? And in transcendentalism, there's a way to find it. Nowadays, you can just look on my website. In transcendentalism, there's a way to find it.

0:03:39
Nowadays, you can just look on my website. Back then, they didn't have the internet. So you had to go through some practice. And the practice is that you see that there are different perceptions of life, and that you can change perceptions. and that you can change perceptions. So for example, Thoreau was in the world, in the city, in the dealings of humans. And then he left, and he went to Walden, a different place where he was by himself.

0:04:23
He built his own house, had his own garden, built his own house, had his own garden, caught his own food, and he had an experience of leaving a frustrated condition to look at life in a very natural way, a new way. And in that, he changed his perception of life. life. A very simple thing. Go from the city to the country and you have a different perception of life. But in that transcendence from the city to the country, to Walden Pond, just because there's a shift, a break in the routine itself, he was able to actually make a very break in the routine itself, he was able to actually make a very profound spiritual shift. So this is what transcendentalism is. It's changing perceptions, and it's discovering new ways of looking at life that are perhaps more fun, more satisfying. I mean, it would be like if you're in a world where there's no sound, and no one's got ears, and everyone can see, they can touch, life goes on, there's just not this sense, the sense of sound. But then all of a sudden, you can hear, and all of So you can hear, and all of a sudden you hear music, and that could profoundly change your life.

0:06:08
Now people generally experience life in very, very boring ways, very, very limited ways, very, very routine ways. in Transcendentalism, like in Buddhism, if you would be able to shift into a different perception, a higher perception of spirit, it would be as if you have a new sense, a new awareness, a new perception, and all you hear is these inner symphonies of illumination and spirit. So this is what Thoreau did. So this is what Thoreau did when he went to Walden. It was a transcendence from one location to another, but an inner transcendence to a new perception to hearing the sound or the symphony of the spirit out there by this little pond.

0:07:12
there by this little pond. So this is what we seek to do. Transcendentalism is just like Buddhism. It's not different. It is a true spiritual experience, a true enlightened experience. enlightened experience. Buddhism is a path that leads to enlightened experience. So they're different, they have different words, different ideas, but I'm talking about the heart of them, the heart of these paths or philosophies or experiences that are the are experiences that are the same. They are not so different. So, in Transcendentalism, Thoreau found what you might call the heart of Buddhist teachings. There was a story, There was a story, two Buddhist monks, and their master comes up to them and says, Okay, I have something for you guys to do.

0:08:35
You've got to clean up this new area of the yard. We have this new part of the temple where we're going to make it look really pretty. But first of all, you've got to cut down the old brush. You've got to rake everything. You've got to take the wheel barrels out and move things around. brush, you got to rake everything, got to take the wheel barrels out and move things around. So they had to do a lot of landscaping, a lot of gardening, and they had to do the hard part. Later on there would be some other monks who come over and get to play around with like the rock garden or something, put the little koi pond in, the fun beautiful stuff. They had to do the hard part. So the two So, the two monks go and they start pulling up shrubs and weeds and things like that.

0:09:19
And it's really, really hard work. And I'm sure it was August and very hot. And it was really, really, really tough. Now, one of the monks just kept complaining and complaining. He was just like, I can't believe we have to do this. I can't wait until this is over. I can't wait till this is over. And the other monk rather smiled while he worked. Now at the end of the experience, when they completed the job, one monk was burnt out, bothered, angry, frustrated, in a bad state of mind.

0:10:00
state of mind and the other monk was in an extremely high state of mind he was very very happy very very happy and then the master of course goes over to him and says okay now let me give you some special amulet of super galactic So then he's like, oh wow, that's great. But it's really, your life, according to transcendentalism and Buddhism, what happens to you in your life? The experiences that you have are dependent on states of mind, is what we say in Buddhism. States of mind, is what we say in Buddhism. In Transcendentalism, they'll say layers of mind or awareness. And when you are in a good state of mind, whatever you have to do in life becomes a joy.

0:11:12
you're in a bad state of mind, then anything that you have to do, any good thing, ends up being a bad thing. So it's kind of like rooms in a house. If you are in a pretty jolly state of mind and then you walk into a room that is decorated darkly and has posters of like bad, horrible, negative things, and it's a messy like bad horrible negative things and it's a messy room and it has like, you know, I don't know, skulls and crossbones everywhere. If you're in that room, then your happy positive balanced mood will start to fade. You'll start to look at the things in the room and start to identify with them. And then you'll, you will them. And then you will eventually, your mind and your experience ends up matching the room. So what we seek in Transcendentalism is to transcend the room, go out of the room, find a better room to be in. And then in that room, anything that happens is going to be And then in that room, anything that happens is going to be something positive.

0:12:32
So we seek to look beyond the physical world, the trappings of the self, to see a light. And in this light, we recognize, we can call it God, I think they call it the over-God in Transcendentalism, and we find this light within our mind, and we see that it is the essence of who we are. But we also see that that light is within everything, and that it's not different than something else in nature it's not different in something else in nature or another person. It's not that light is that light within us is not different than them. So ultimately transcendentalism is bringing your awareness from self to unity with all Seek to still the mind So Thoreau talks about The wind over the pond and Then the wind stops and then there's just a perfect reflection of the moon and the stars And he says oh that I can have such a still mind To reflect life perfectly this is a to reflect life perfectly. This is a concept in Zen as well. We seek to reflect life.

0:14:10
It's like nirvana is shining like a sun right at us, and we're a mirror, or a lake, or a pond. And if we have a whole bunch of stuff on the top, let's say the mirror is covered with a bunch of then it doesn't reflect nirvana. So, in Zen they say, okay, cleaning the mirror. When you meditate, you clean the mirror. When you're reflecting life properly, then you're experiencing a lot of light. You clean the mirror, and then you reflect life perfectly.

0:14:48
Enlightenment is having a mirror that's so clean, Enlightenment is having a mirror that's so clean, so perfectly cleaned, that the mirror actually isn't there anymore. You've perfected it to the point where there's no mirror. There's just nirvana. So we seek to have that perfection. The quiet mind reflects life perfectly. We see that we're not our thoughts. We see that we're not our thoughts as you meditate. You start to still the mind and examine the thoughts that are in your head, and then you can let go of them. You say, wow, you know, for a period of time I was able to stop thought or slow thought down, and I see that I'm not those thoughts.

0:15:36
You might be bombarded with thoughts again and again and again, those thoughts. You might be bombarded with thoughts again and again and again, but when you stop them, when you stop thought, even for a moment, when you stop thought, the world stops. You, who you think you are, your definition of self is not there. There's no you, there's no, you know, there's no problems with the in-laws you know, or any problems. All the dramas of life, all the concepts of who you are and what the world is, just stop. When you stop thought, you're flooded with light, the spiritual light, illumination, spiritual illumination. And the experience of light in itself is transcendence from self and thought and a very, very fixed view of life to eternity. When you stop thought, you have spiritual experience.

0:16:37
That's transcendentalism. When you stop thought, you experience light. You experience eternity. And then you recognize it as a good thing. as a good thing. So we seek to still the mind, not to battle our thoughts, to let them go naturally. And through this process, you come to have a good relationship with life. A lot of people have a bad relationship with life. They feel like they're fighting life, like life is their opponent, or they must conquer it.

0:17:12
Life is their opponent, or they must conquer it. They must control it, get it in a headlock, rustle it down, tickle it. But we come through meditation to see that life is our friend. We create a good relationship with life, where we co-create our experience. create our experience. And through this we see that the mind goes on, life is eternal Now, in Walden, Thoreau is talking about how in nature, through nature, you can see the light, you can see spirit, you can transcend limitation and dissatisfaction. So he goes around this place called Walden Walden Pond and at the time there were not there was no one there it was all for him and It was at the time it was a place of power It was a place that had beautiful energy Where you can be still and see deeper dimensions of life and mind still and see deeper dimensions of life and mind.

0:18:54
It was a place that had a very beautiful vibration, a very beautiful, fast, moving light, an aura of its own, whereby if you go there and you just become a little bit still, that vibration affects your aura, your energy body, your energy vibration. It picks it up. And then that's a way that the place blesses you, gives you good energy. And so he experienced living out there for two years very, very, very good energy. So one of the aspects of Transcendentalism One of the aspects of transcendentalism is what the mystic does, what the Buddhist mystic, the pathway to enlightenment through mysticism, the study of shifting perceptions of power. It is to go to nature, going into places of power, where there's a very good energy, where and to meditate there, to learn from seeing nature, seeing through the physical to the aspects of nature that are eternal.

0:20:13
Nature in its original aspect leads to a very, very pure energy field. field. So when you're in nature, hanging out with the trees or in the desert or in the ocean, just by looking at the bushes or the fish or whatever is around, you can be drawn into a very pure awareness of life. This is what Thoreau describes in his experience in Walden. in Walden. So my teacher said that on the very bottom of Walden Pond, there was a interdimensional vortex. There's like all of these dimensions of energy and it crosses to different worlds Thoreau himself said that he would look out into the pond and see blue angels in the water. It's kind of interesting. And so it was a magical place. and just being still, you can transcend your regular consciousness and see other dimensions of life.

0:21:48
Now he would also do this thing he called sauntering. So Thoreau would go sauntering around and that means that he would just walk around the pond. Sometimes doing lap after lap. pond, sometimes doing lap after lap, but he was doing a walking meditation. He would just walk and still his mind. So this is something that is very Buddhist as well. In Buddhism, there's a tradition of walking meditation. So he, in his transcendentalism, was very, in his transcendentalism was very, very Buddhist. There's really no difference, but it's interesting to see that he didn't study any Eastern religion.

0:22:39
He just naturally experienced life in a spiritual way. He naturally looked at his life and said, well, I want to get past things that are hang-ups. life and said, well I want to get past things that are hang-ups. I'm not really happy with this, I want to go beyond it. He said at the time of his death he wanted to know that he really lived. So you've got to ask yourself, are you really living? Are you doing what Are you accomplishing what you want to accomplish in life? What's holding you back? For him, he was stuck in the world, limited by experience with the things of man. And what worked for him was to leave, and to go somewhere, to Walden, to transcend that to Walden, to transcend that place where he was stuck.

0:23:44
Now one other aspect, one final aspect of Thoreau is something Buddha called sharing the way. So Buddha very often gave a teaching to his monks, and then he'd say, hey, do this, this is good for you. Do this, this is good for you. He'd say, hey, do this, this is good for you. Do this, this is good for you. Do this, this is good for you. And then at the end he'd say, and share the way. Now sharing the way is something that Thoreau did in Walden.

0:24:19
He had a beautiful, very, very spiritual experience. And then he ended up writing a book called Walden. And he, in this book, was able to create what Buddha called sharing the way. It was to tell, very simply, a story of his experience. He had some observations, but they were not selfish observations. He had some observations, but they were not selfish observations. They were very clean. And he explained his state of mind in his experience. That's why when you read the book, you can see his state of mind in the book. It's encoded in the book. And he's able to create a way And he's able to create a way to say, look, if you read this book, you will actually transcend your state of mind to come to my state of mind.

0:25:26
You can see that light, a pathway to my experience of light in the book. So whenever we're sharing, we seek to share as cleanly as thorough. we seek to share as cleanly as thorough. So if you have a spiritual experience, if you're a beginner, and you have a spiritual experience or a very high dream, it's probably better to keep it to yourself. People won't understand. You go over to your cousin and your brother and your mom, and say, well, I just had this meditation, and they will think you're crazy.

0:26:00
So you'll lose energy. And then their impression back will tell you So you'll lose energy. And then their impression back will tell you that your spiritual experience was false. So if you're a beginner, it's better just to keep these things inside because they become powerful inside. If you take them outside right away, they fester. So in the beginning, this is very important. Let the light grow within you. But at some point, Let the light grow within you.

0:26:26
But at some point, it's powerful for you to share the light, share the way. And when you do that, you want to get out of the way. No additional self-commentary, no me, me, me, me. Just if you had an authentic experience, you just state it very cleanly. You state what happened. You state what happened. And when you do that, it will be what Thoreau did. It will be encoding that experience, or opening a doorway to that experience. That light will come through. And that is sharing the way.

0:27:12
experience, experiential form of enlightened awareness. And it is something very similar, in essence the same as Buddhism. Okay. Thank you.

