0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about solstices and equinoxes. So solstices and equinoxes are times of power. Justices and equinoxes are times of power. They are times during the year where the energy of the planet changes. No matter where you are, the seasons change. the transformation from one season to another, there is an opening. An inner doorway opens to dimensions of subtle awareness, dimensions of power. And this is something that, in Buddhist mysticism, we pay attention to. We look into these times, we follow these times, We look into these times, we follow these times, we pay attention to these times, because they give us different ways to meditate better, to have a greater awareness of truth. The summer solstice, basically what happens is it's the first day of summer and it's the longest day of the year.

0:01:45
The sun is in a position where you get the longest amount of sunlight. Now, in the physical, you might not notice too much. It's a little bit longer sunlight than the day before, the week before, a couple weeks before. or the week before, a couple weeks before, it crept up on you. The days got longer and longer and longer. And finally you hit that one day where it's the longest. Now, in the subtle dimensions, in a more, I guess, feeling of nature, there are very There are very powerful energies at that time on that day especially in the moment of the solstice So during that time in the summer, there's a beautiful energy of activity construction Luminosity There's a there's a beautiful energy a flow of energy that lifts you up There's a there's a beautiful energy a flow of energy that lifts you up an Energy that brings you to a greater unity Krishna talked about the summer solstice as being the best time for a meditator to become enlightened If you're meditating at the time of the summer solstice solstice, he said there's a gateway that opens and the spirit can go up through that gateway and become self-realized.

0:03:22
So the summer solstice is a powerful time. But the winter solstice is a powerful time as well. In a lot of cultures, they really like the summer solstice, but my teacher really thought the summer solstice, but my teacher really thought that the winter solstice was more powerful. The winter solstice is a time, the beginning of winter, but it is a time of stillness and clarity. It's a time of emptiness itself. It's a pristine and beautiful, powerful stillness. in beautiful, powerful stillness.

0:04:05
And in that experience of stillness, of emptiness of self, one can see that there's many, many possibilities for liberation. Krishna also talked about the winter solstice. And he said that the winter solstice is for him. He said the second best Way for someone to become enlightened because in the emptiness of self Then there's a doorway to enlightenment Now in Taoism They talked more about the equinoxes They said that the equinoxes were beautiful times because both the spring and fall equinox are times where there is equal amounts of daylight and night.

0:05:04
So the day and the night are equal. And this is a time, the equinoxes are times of balance. So, the solstices, one is an extreme of what you can call yang, summer. One is an extreme of yin, winter. And you could say that through these extremes, you could open a gate to enlightenment. But in Taoism, they say, well, when you hit that perfect balance, that perfect balance, then there's an inner balance. balance, that perfect balance, then there's an inner balance. There's no extreme of self in one direction or the other. And in that perfect balance, a doorway opens, and enlightenment is possible. the energy of the season, its growth and creation, and it's starting things that are new.

0:06:17
So that energy of renewal, when we meditate, it creates a new spark within us. a new spark within us. There's many dimensions, many energies, many, many energies in the equinoxes and the solstices. It's a time where the veil between the world of spirit and the physical world becomes very thin. you know, trees get leaves again, you know, kind of thing. It is at that time, at the times of the solstices and equinoxes, you can see spirit. You can see higher dimensions of spirit. And by seeing them, meditating on them, by connecting with them, we have higher spiritual awareness.

0:07:12
spiritual awareness. The fall is also a very beautiful equinox. It's a time of balance, but it's a time where we can reflect on impermanence. The leaves on the trees turn colors in the fall, and this is a time where we can let go, like we can Let go like the leaves let go of things Let go of the self Let go of personal history Let go of attachments that create limitation and suffering for us Let go of ideas of who we are what we can do what we can't do It's a time where we're just able to follow the flow of nature and let go flow of nature and let go.

0:08:04
So each of these seasons are powerful, and they have different qualities, but they all have a quality of power and spirit. In all solstices and equinoxes, it's a beautiful time to reflect on your life. to reflect on your life. You can look at your life and say, how am I doing? Am I happier than last equinox, the last quarter, the last season? Has my life become stronger? Is it brighter? Am I happier? Is my meditation better? Do I know truth more? Am I more connected to spirit? During these times During these times, it's a good thing to take stock, to see your life, and to see if you're going in the right direction, or you use the insight of these times to make corrections.

0:09:06
Say, yeah, you know what, I really need to meditate more. I'm not meditating well, I'm not doing it earnestly. well. I'm not doing it earnestly. So at these times there's a great clarity. When the door opens there's a light. And it's a light of truth that we can use to see ourselves. Equinoxes and solstices are times of transition, transformation, and change. So just as we are in the midst transformation and change. So just as a season, you know, we might go from the winter to the spring, and in the winter everything's snowy and cold, and then in the spring everything becomes sunny, there's new life everywhere. It's a huge Transition and Every every equinox and solstice has a very strong power for transformation So when we psychically attune to the solstices Equinoxes then we're able to actually feel the inner power of that change change. It's a very powerful change. You see a tree with no leaves in the snow. After the spring equinox, the snow's gone, there's life abundant, green leaves on the tree. It's a completely different experience. And it is the power of nature that does that. And when And when we are aware of the power, the essential spiritual power, dimensions of light and wisdom that exist in that transformation, then we can transform.

0:11:05
We can use that energy to propel us into higher, stronger states of awareness, into greater into greater happiness, into greater personal success. So I remember once we were going into a summer solstice and one of my students was struggling to get a job. She was just trying and trying and trying and nothing was happening. And then before the solstice, she said, I can't do it. And then before the solstice, she said, I can't do it. I just can't. I'm just, you know, failing. I can't. And then I said, okay, use the solstice.

0:11:47
Use the solstice, Luke. And then we had meditation over the solstice. And she let go of her confusions of self let go of her confusions of self and just felt the energy, the power, and the dimensions of the solstice. Then after the meditation, she said, I know I can do it. And then within a week, she had three offers. can make your life significantly better and stronger. You just have to know. You know by exploring the awareness of these times.

0:12:40
But during these times, there's many gifts. And people are very, very, very unaware of the power of these times. of the power of these times. During these times there's tremendous opportunity. And usually people go, oh yeah, it went from winter to spring, so now it's a little warmer out. Oh, the snow went away. And so they're aware of, that's awareness of a gift.

0:13:11
And you say, oh, okay. And people go, okay, now I'm going to and you say, okay, and people go, okay, now I'm going to, you know, go have a picnic or something. And that's as far as their awareness goes. But it's like, those aren't even the greatest gifts of awareness. It's kind of like, you know, if you're at Christmas, and you're at the Christmas tree, and there's all these presents, and then the first one and there's all these presents. And then the first one that you grab is a pair of socks, and you're like, oh, I got socks. And then you go, oh well, I guess that's what it is.

0:13:46
And then you forget about all the other presents. It's just all socks. People are aware of very basic things. But when you start to learn and investigate the dimensions of the equinoxes and solstices, and investigate the dimensions of the equinoxes and solstices, you find that there's tremendously beautiful presence. They're there. All you have to do is see them, understand them, know how to use them, know how to open them.

0:14:20
And then, instead of getting a pair of socks, you get maybe a new experience of inner peace. a new experience of inner peace. Maybe you're able to see your life in a clearer way. Maybe you get a greater degree of personal power so that you can achieve your goals. There's powers that once you tap into them, you're able to use them for inner success, you're able to use them for inner success, meditation, and mindfulness, compassion, but also for outer success, like my student getting a job. When you have a greater clarity, a greater empowerment, then you're able to use those dimensions and those energies to make your stronger to create balance and strength and power. So we seek to find these dimensions, these energies, these awarenesses that are there at the time of the solstice and equinox.

0:15:30
We do an interesting maneuver, a mysticism we call hooking. And this is to say that during mysticism we call hooking. And this is to say that during the time of a solstice or an equinox, there is a flow of energy. And what we do is we hook it. We hook that energy with our intent and it pulls us. So this is what my teacher called lazy mysticism. This is what my teacher called lazy mysticism. So instead of, you know, like doing a lot of work ourselves, we're able to actually just have an intention to make the connection with this force of the equinox or solstice. And when we have that intention to make that connection, then the force of the equinox or solstice pulls us.

0:16:24
force of the equinox or solstice pulls us. It pulls us in its direction, its direction of nature, its direction of very powerful internal spiritual energy. And so it empowers us. It gets us moving. It gets us active. And we're drawn forward. Now, Now, after you go through the solstice or the equinox, it pushes you. So first it grabs onto it and it pulls you. And then when you're through it, then it pushes you. And then about halfway, or exactly actually, halfway between a solstice and an equinox, then there's a point where you start to become aware of and start feeling the next solstice or equinox.

0:17:12
to become aware of and start feeling the next solstice or equinox. And then that's where you, again, you start to hook. You have that intention to connect. And then we're always following the seasons. We're catching, we're being pulled, and we're being pushed. And then we catch the next one. We're being pulled, and we're being pushed. We're being pulled, or we're being pushed. It kind of reminds me of Tarzan. Tarzan's in the jungle with a vine, and he's swinging, and then eventually he's going to just swing backwards, unless he grabs that other vine.

0:17:51
And then he grabs it and he goes forward again. We're using things in nature to get us somewhere. And the things in nature are the seasons. And the things in nature are the seasons. The seasons have power. The transition into the seasons have power. So we seek to do this. We do it by having a feeling. It's subtle. Because you can't just say, okay, I'm going to do that and think it through with your head.

0:18:26
It doesn't work. that and think it through with your head, it doesn't work. You have to do it... When you're dealing with the subtle things, the subtle energies, it's always a way of awareness without a direct self-focus. Because the direct self-focus will block it. The direct self-focus, there's too will block it. Direct self-focus, there's too much self to focus. So we actually come from a very soft place of awareness, just an intent. It's kind of like, if you're looking up at the stars, you might be looking at one of the more subtle stars, and when you look at it directly, it's funny, kind of like disappears, you look at it directly, it's funny, kind of like disappears, you can't see it. But if you look a little bit to the side, then you see it. And if you're looking with a soft gaze into the sky, you see many many many stars. But if you look at any particular star, unless they're the really bright ones, like they just disappear. So that's kind of how it is with subtle energies. They're there, and subtle energies.

0:19:38
They're there. And they're real. It's just that you can't really try to grab them directly. So we always take this indirect approach. And the indirect approach is not to force it with the self, but it's to be humble. And it's to just have an intention And it's to just have an intention to feel the shifts of nature and just to connect with those times. See Buddhist mystics always work with the natural energy cycles of being. We don't create structures of time that are out of balance. structures of time that are out of balance.

0:20:27
You know, so it is that we follow the seasons, the equinoxes and the solstices. We don't, you know, decide to make a fiscal year that is just its own kind of like thing that we just made up. We just follow nature. And in following nature, And in following nature, there's a greater truth than if you make up some calendar or some time structure. Now, this is important because when you follow nature, when you follow these dimensions of then you can use the powers in your life. So, I remember there was a student of my teacher's who had a business.

0:21:26
He had a computer programming business, software business of some sort. And his business had been failing for a few years. It had just been losing money and losing money It had just been losing money and losing money, and he thought he might go out of business. And then he became a student of my teachers, and he learned this simple thing about solstices and equinoxes. And he started to make his plans and his goals for his company all based on, you know, get get something done by an equinox or solstice and then afterwards create new goals. So you're trying to meet a time and you're trying to let that power push you forward. And just with this awareness, he saved his business. He made goals based on equinoxes and solstices. He made plans around equinoxes and solstices. And then he drew the energy He made plans around equinoxes and solstices.

0:22:28
And then he drew the energy from the equinox and solstice, and then he was like, wow, it totally transformed my business. So we do this with our lives. We try to make things strong, going in, I mean, we make our lives strong going into a solstice or an equinox. going into a solstice or an equinox. And if we could achieve a goal, make our lives strong and positive, then the power of the equinox or solstice pushes us forward. We're elevated because of it.

0:23:05
So we always try to come up to the solstice, up to the equinox. And then the power of the solstice and equinox lifts us further, of the solstice and equinox lifts us further, pushes us higher. And then as we go, maybe about halfway through or maybe right after, then we start making our next goals for the next equinox or solstice. And then what we're doing is we're following these inner dimensions, and we're following that are nature, powerful transitions of nature. And when we do this, it makes us more successful. We're able to, this is what mystics do, they use the power of nature, awareness of subtle dimensions that exist, and we're able to use them to have better meditation, a more successful To have better meditation a more successful business a happier life So this is what we Seek to do now going into An equinox or solstice There's something that a buddhist mystic always does and this is we clean our life We settle our affairs We settle our affairs.

0:24:28
We make ourselves strong and we finish our business. We always settle our business in our mind. So going into an equinox or solstice, you make sure that you clean your room, that you That you shine your shoes, wash your car. You want everything in your life to be clean. Clean your closet. But you want to settle your affairs. So if you were in some big argument with your friend or mother or something like that, you want to make sure that you settle that. You go, okay, wait, I'm sorry.

0:25:12
You settle that, you go, okay, wait, I'm sorry. No more argument. You have to let go of things that will draw your attention. So having a mess will draw your attention. Having unpaid bills will draw your attention. Having an argument with a person will draw your attention. So when you go into that transit of the equinox or the solstice, and then you're experiencing transit of the equinox or the solstice and Then you're experiencing that natural energy if your life is a mess You're going to be drawn back out into thinking about all those other concerns and you won't be able to get the power and light and beauty of that time But when you when your life is clean when your affairs are settled Then you're open for power then you're open for power.

0:26:05
This is what the samurai used to do before going into battle. They settled their affairs. They were like, if I go out into battle and then I die, well, I've taken care of, you know, said goodbye to the family, told, you know, made a will for my money, you know, watered my plant, whatever. You know, they did whatever they had to do. my plant, whatever, you know, they did whatever they had to do. And then they, and then by doing that, you become, your attention is very tight and powerful. And then if you have to go into battle, that's something that you want to have your strongest awareness for, so that you can live and be victorious.

0:26:43
We're the same when we go into solstices and equinoxes. to have everything settled with all of our attention focused, clear, and clean to take that moment and be fully immersed in the transformational light of the time. It's very important. of these powers, of these dimensions. Through meditation, we train ourselves. We train ourselves to be aware. When you meditate, you still your thoughts, you naturally feel the energies of these times. So we seek to just meditate, stop thought, to naturally feel.

0:27:36
stop thought, to naturally feel. You'll start to feel all the dimensions of the time if you can stop thought. And you'll take advantage of the time. It's an innate thing. You just start to connect with the time of life when you stop thought. And in our school, we have inner teachings inner teachings of awareness of these times of power How to work with us? Dimensions of power how to how to use them how to you know choose the ones that are most productive with inner teachings their feelings but it's something that is a primary focus in our school of Buddhist mysticism focus in our school of Buddhist mysticism.

0:28:28
It's a very very important consideration because equinoxes and solstices, these times of tower, are so helpful for spiritual practice. We also refine our mind through mindfulness, compassion. compassion. We also direct our mind to constructive projects, yoga, making your life strong, your career strong, your body strong, martial arts. These are all ways of refining your attention, so that you can feel the dimensions. You have to not get drained of energy. You have to You have to not get drained of energy. If you're hanging around draining people, focusing on them, if you're doing draining activities, then what happens is your awareness closes.

0:29:33
So if you're in some dramas with people, or you're around people with low energy, then with people or you're around people with low energy, then your energy becomes lower. If you do activities that lower your vibration, then when the solstice and equinox doorways open, you can't see. You can't see what to take advantage of. So it is through stilling mind and through clearing the mind, focusing the mind on positive strong things, where we get higher, where we get brighter. It's also very important when you do have the access to the dimensions of power, that you respect power. respect power. It's easy to just say, I don't know, it's just a day and Yeah, I kind of meditated and it was kind of nice.

0:30:35
But these are very very powerful dimensions. Most people don't experience them. But in our school we do. And I direct your mind to these dimensions. And I direct your mind to these dimensions. I show them to you, I bring them to you, because it's very important for your spiritual success. So here we really focus on it, but you've got to use it right. So if you use this power, this essential power, a power that can take winter and change it to spring, right? And you take that power, then you have to use that power, like for spring, you know? Like making new things, creations, making your life stronger, making your meditation stronger, making your body stronger. So one has to direct their mind, the power of the equinox, of the solstice, then you have to direct your mind to use that power in a positive way.

0:31:46
If you don't use it in a positive way, then the power will seep out of you into whatever you focus on. So if you're able to get brought up into a high level of power, of that time of power, brought up into a high level of power, of that time of power, and then you go and hang out with a bunch of loser friends, then you're going to be empowering that experience of whatever that vibration is and whatever they talk about, whatever they focus on, that will become your reality. If you do activities that you do activities that you lose energy and you take that power and you bring it into those activities, then you lose energy much faster and you actually become the act. Whatever that, whatever it is, it's not just something you dabble in anymore.

0:32:42
It becomes who you are. transformative energy to transform into something lame, something low vibe, something draining, and you become it. So when we gain these powers, you gotta direct your mind to using them in enlightening, beautiful, constructive, compassionate ways and then you're elevated. And that's what the power is for. You're elevated. And that's what the power is for.

0:33:18
It is to elevate you. And that's why you have a teacher. A teacher knows what time it is. A teacher knows the power of time, the power of the solstices and equinoxes. So that's why with most people, there's a lot of people who celebrate the summer solstice and they just go out and have a little party. With most people, there's a lot of people who celebrate the summer solstice and they just go out and have a little party. The summer solstice is a time of tremendous power.

0:33:45
It's a time as Krishna said, you can become enlightened in the solstices. A doorway opens to enlightenment in the solstices and in the equinoxes. So when we are meditating together, meditating together. There's the esoteric teachings, the inner teachings, where I show you the pathway to enlightenment in the solstices and the equinoxes, because I know the way. It's a very, very powerful experience. So teachers who know are very important. I remember I was in China, and I was visiting a Taoist master.

0:34:24
and was visiting a Taoist master. And he had a gift of divination. He could tell you things about the past and the future. And the way he would do it is, you would ask him a question, and the moment you finished asking a question, he would look at the time. And based on the time, the hour, the minute, and the second, that gave him his seeing. He's like, oh, it's all karma, you know, and it's all based on time and space, and here's the time. So knowing the time, then he would be able to give you an answer with insight. And he was very good at helping people with business problems. So a lot of wealthy people would come to this Taoist master in his monastery and ask business questions and he would give them business advice and then they it worked pretty well.

0:35:34
He had a very nice monastery because they kept on like once they made like millions because they kept on like once they made like millions of dollars and they would give back and help you know the monastery. Central heating. The monastery had central heating. It was lovely. So yeah or you know I remember a story of Buddha. A monk comes over and says Buddha you know I'm hanging around with all A monk comes over and says, Buddha, I'm hanging around with all the people in the ashram here, and he's like, I really think I need to go to the cave and meditate. I think I can go for enlightenment.

0:36:15
Buddha says, now is not the time. Then he says, oh, okay. And then he goes back and he's bothered by hanging around other people. And then eventually he starts liking it. around other people and then eventually he starts liking it. He's hanging around people, having a good time, meditating well. He's like, okay, I think I've solved that problem and now I'm doing well. And Buddha comes out of nowhere and it's like, now it's time to go to the cave. And I mean, this is what a teacher is for.

0:36:46
A teacher knows what time it is. They know when it's the right time for you. They know when it's the right time for you, and they know the powers of time. Now in our study, there's a profound focus on the solstices and equinoxes. And when we learn the ways of time, the ways of the powers of these times, we're able to transform our lives in beautiful ways. lives in beautiful ways. So this is why in Buddhist mysticism there's this emphasis, a focus on learning and meditating, being together and experiencing higher dimensions of awareness, truth and enlightenment on the equinoxes and solstices.

