0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about the enlightened one. In Buddhism, we refer to the Buddha as the enlightened one. We refer to the Buddha as the enlightened one. He has transcended life and death to eternal awareness. An enlightened one is someone who has the complete awareness of life without any self ideas, any self-concepts. It's just a pure awareness of reality, unmodified by a particular point of view. Now there have been many enlightened ones throughout history. Some famous ones Lao Tzu, Bodhidharma, Padmasambhava, Krishna. So there's many spiritual traditions. There are enlightened ones.

0:01:30
Now an enlightened one is someone who is both in this world and the other. in this world and the other. So there's two worlds, the world of samsara and the world of nirvana. Samsara means illusion. It means that you're in a state of seeing life that isn't complete. It's a way of seeing the world that is false is false or overlaid, a way that's limited. And in Buddhism, we call this illusion.

0:02:12
It's like a dream. It's not real. It's real in a sense, but it's not real in a complete view of reality. In a complete view of reality, you In a complete view of reality, you see beyond the illusion of life. You go into a limitless view. And that's when you come into seeing the second world, nirvana. Nirvana is beyond form, beyond illusion. It is the essence of all things.

0:02:48
essence of all things. So an enlightened one exists in both this world, the world of samsara, illusion, transience, and also nirvana, the world of eternity. So people generally experience experience the samsara, the world of transience, where they perceive good and bad, night and day, life and death. But the enlightened one transcends life and death. This was one of Buddha's first motivations for the pathway to enlightenment. He said, wow, He said, wow, why is there life and death? I have to, I've got to figure this thing out.

0:03:41
And in reaching liberation, he saw his eternal being and transcended life and death. So an enlightened being, such as Buddha, will live his life for a transient time in India or something, right? or something, right? But then go beyond it. Now, samsara and nirvana, they're not different. They're two sides of the same banana. So, on one side, there's the finite, on the other And when you are able to experience as your being the Infinite, then you see that the Infinite is also in the Finite. They're no different. They are exactly the same. You know that joke, make me one with everything? I think that was a spiritual interest once.

0:04:55
But there was an Australian reporter interviewing the Dalai Lama, and he decided to tell the Dalai Lama this joke. He said, so this guy goes over, you know, or like some Zen monk or something, goes over a Zen monk or something, goes over to a hot dog stand and says, make me one with everything. Right? Kind of an old, old spiritual joke. But so he tells this joke to the Dalai Lama. The Dalai Lama just doesn't get it. Dalai Lama's like, what?

0:05:29
He says, make me one with everything. And the Dalai Lama, that was a funny part to me. The Dalai Lama just never got the joke. to me, the Dalai Lama just never got the joke. But when we talk about the two worlds, nirvana and samsara, enlightenment is becoming one. It is where the two worlds unite. And there's only one extant reality. And in that there is both nirvana and there is both samsara. So in enlightenment, you solve this problem of eternity and finite world. Transience and non-transience become the same.

0:06:22
So this is what the enlightened do. enlightened. They move beyond the traps of dual awareness, dualistic viewpoints of yin and yang, life and death. In the cosmology of Tibet, they say that there are six worlds and that they're just different states of mind. Some are brighter and higher and wonderful They're just different states of mind. Some are brighter and higher and wonderful and paradise. And some are hell. Some go low. And humans are kind of in the middle. But in this wheel of life, there's only going up and down.

0:07:08
Up and down. And when they depict the wheel of life, When they depict the Wheel of Life, this teaching of the cosmology of being, they always have, they show the different worlds in the wheel, but on the outside of the wheel, there's a Buddha, an enlightened one. And the enlightened one is pointing away from the wheel. The enlightened one is outside of the wheel. The Enlightened One is outside of the wheel. And the Enlightened One is showing you the way outside of life, rebirth, death. And that is enlightenment.

0:07:54
Every being will experience life and death again and again, reincarnation again and again, again and again, reincarnation again and again, through all sorts of different dimensions, states of mind, ups and downs. And it'll always be a condition where there's limitation and suffering. This is the world of transience. And the only way out of the transience, out of the dissatisfaction the transience, out of the dissatisfaction of being completely stuck, is enlightenment. In enlightenment, you move outside of that wheel, completely, into nirvana, but at the same time you can be within the wheel of life. You can be in any place in life, and still could be in any place in life and still in your mind be in Nirvana. The transient and the eternal are one. So in the Upanishads they say that the enlightened follow the path of the Sun. There's the path of the Sun and the path the moon always leads to limitation and reincarnation.

0:09:19
And the path of the sun leads out, out to what they call the Atman, enlightenment. So when we're observing our lives, we want to see these examples of the enlightened ones see these examples of the enlightened ones and say, wow, yes, I definitely am in a wheel of life. I'm in the transient, but I want to get out. I want to follow the path of the sun. So it's good to really get real about where you're at. What's your awareness like?

0:10:00
You know, do you see eternity? You know, do you see eternity? When you sit down to meditate, do you dissolve in light? Are you able to be free of desire, anger? Are you caught up in pettiness? Are you stuck in ideas, dissatisfaction, suffering? dissatisfaction, suffering. This is the path of the moon, the path of self, and the path of reincarnation and dissatisfaction. But the path of the sun is the Dharma. It's following truth to a higher and higher degree, as the enlightened ones have shown, to a point where you transcend the self.

0:10:48
have shown, to a point where you transcend the self. You go outside, beyond desire, beyond the self state of mind, beyond fear, into nirvana. And in that experience of reaching Disappears forever The self the ego is like a bunch of ideas and concepts Like that like I am this I don't like that I like this all these things come together and they create this self it's a clinging to a an idea of who you are and in going into Nirvana of who you are. And in going into Nirvana, you completely drop that. It disappears, this clutching of consciousness. When we clutch life down to be a self, life is very small. But in Nirvana, that disappears completely. And then, when you find yourself back in the world, yeah, you see that there's some self to operate a back in the world, yeah, you see that there's some self to operate a motor vehicle.

0:12:08
You know, to walk across the street, right? But at the same time, if you've touched nirvana, that self never comes back. That that clenched state. It's never there again. You're operating within the world where you have an awareness of It's never there again. You're operating within the world where you have an awareness of eternity and an awareness of the transient. Both are perfect awarenesses. You see that the eternal is in the finite, and so you enjoy the finite as you enjoy the Now, an enlightened person may not look any different than a regular person in the physical. You have to be able to see spirit in order to know if an enlightened one is enlightened.

0:13:12
I was looking at these Chinese paintings of Buddha and his students, these panels. And Buddha was big and he had this big aura around him and he was wearing fancy clothes and like really fancy robes. And all of his students were really small around him. So you get this idea that, oh, if someone's enlightened, they're gonna look, So you get this idea that, oh, if someone's enlightened, they're going to look... they're going to be giants!

0:13:42
There's going to be something about them. They're going to wear fancy clothes or something. And the fact is that that's not true. They're not any bigger than average. So there's a story about Buddha. There's a story about Buddha. Buddha was invited by a king to come and teach in the king's hall. And the king was bringing over just some influential friends.

0:14:17
And so Buddha went. And Buddha wore a simple robe and was bald. So he didn't wear fancy robes. to wear fancy robes. The king also invited a Brahmin priest, a really wealthy one. And this guy wore fancy robes. He had a beautiful turban with jewels in it, very fancy robes. So the king sat in the middle, and Buddha sat on his right, and the Brahmin priest sat on his left.

0:14:48
sat on his left. So the Brahmin first started teaching. He gave his teachings, and everybody looked at him and said, Wow, that guy looks like what we think is cool. And so they listened, right? And they're home, interesting. And then Buddha talked a little bit later. And And then the people were so amazed with Buddha that they became students of Buddha. So they came to see more than just the outer view. Because in the outer view, the guy with the turban was something that was impressive and was the definition of spiritually cool. the definition of spiritually cool. But when they had an interview, they were able to see that the Buddhist teachings had great truth and power.

0:15:49
Ananda, a Buddhist kind of administrator, he was sitting in the room and he talked about how the king and the Brahmin priest how the king and the Brahmin priest looked so important and looked so amazing, until the Buddha taught. And he said, when you taught, all of a sudden you were filled with light, and everybody else looked lower than you. And that's an inner seeing. The inner seeing is that the light of an enlightened one, that the light of an enlightened one, the truth, the spirit, the wisdom, the power of an enlightened one is so beautiful, so luminous, that nothing else in the transient can equal it.

0:16:45
So we seek that light, that inner state of illumination. that inner state of illumination. Now Buddha had in his lifetime about 500 arhants. Arhants are enlightened students. So there's different levels of enlightenment. Although Buddha said that the arhant and himself, the Buddha, the Arhant and himself, the Buddha, was the same. And that means that the initial aspect of going into nirvana and dropping the self is the same for a Buddha, the same for an Arhant, someone who's got primary liberation. However, Buddha was more enlightened, because Buddha was more enlightened, because he went into nirvana more often. If you go into nirvana once, that's primary liberation, and that's what Buddha's arhants were.

0:17:51
And then if you go into nirvana every moment of every moment, then you're Buddha. That's kind of how we talk about it. But being an arhant is pretty cool. how we talk about it. But being in Arhat is pretty cool. My teacher used to talk about enlightenment as being, you know, on top, in terms of consciousness, on top of the tallest mountain in the Himalayas. Now when I went to trek the Himalayas, I didn't climb Everest. another mountain called Kalapatra. And that mountain is not as tall as Everest, but it's tall.

0:18:36
It's in the Himalayas. It's a nice peak. So I climbed to the top of that mountain and I had a very beautiful view. It was a very high, beautiful experience. So you could say that, you know, in terms of the different types of enlightened beings, there's the Kalapatras of the world, 21,000 feet or something like that, and very nice. But then there's the Everest, which is much, much bigger, the top of the world. But from the point of being down in the valley, both of them look pretty much the same. Both of them look pretty much the same, but it is nice being amongst the peaks. So there are differences.

0:19:23
My teacher said that it's kind of like black belts. Primary liberation might be a first-degree black belt, but then there could be a tenth-degree black belt. And there's a difference. A black belt is competent in the art, but a 10th degree black belt, of course, is a master of the art, a grand master of the art. So there are differences. However, a black belt is good. Now, most people are in such a limited state of mind that they can't even see light. In this world, there are very, very few enlightened beings.

0:20:17
My teacher said that in a normal, balanced world, there are twelve Buddhas, twelve fully there are 12 Buddhas, 12 fully enlightened beings. And then he said it when he first said it, when I was first a student of his, he said that there were this world was going into the dark ages and that this was not an enlightened world anymore. And he said there were eight in this place when there used to be 12. there used to be twelve. And then about ten years later he said there were two. So he said that this world didn't need an enlightened one. Because an enlightened one is a fully very advanced, very advanced. And if the beings on the planet here can't really, you know, use the teachings, then there's just, what do we call it, Jesus said, pearls before swine, right? It's amazing, beautiful teachings in life that people won't use. It's not their amazing beautiful teachings in life that people Won't use it's not their time They're at a different evolution So this is a time which we call the dark ages now It's important when we come across the teachings of enlightenment to be able to follow them because we've had to be able to follow them.

0:22:03
Because we've had, you've probably had past lives where you were higher than you are now, where you meditated better, where you had more wisdom in long ago ages. And you might have incarnations in the future future where you have far less spiritual awareness. This is the transient world. So when you come across the teachings of the Enlightened One, it's very important to follow it so that you can actually become liberated and not in a situation where you go into dark states for a situation where you go into dark states for a long time, like this world is heading into.

0:22:56
Now an enlightened one, they all have faced opposition when you read the biographies of these great spiritual masters. They faced opposition. There have been people and forces against them. There have been people and forces against them. This world that we're in doesn't love enlightenment very much. It's a world of power and struggle, primarily. War, money, these are very powerful forces in our world, and they don't beg for liberation. So, enlightened ones in this world have often been misunderstood and persecuted. So we can look at Christ.

0:23:56
He taught the teachings of enlightenment and then they kill him. then they kill him. Buddha, there were three assassination attempts. They tried to kill him three times. There's opposition. Padmasambhava was put on a stake and almost burned, except being able to have the powers to control the winds. So he blew out the flames. But in this world, people don't like enlightenment so much. They have a lot of reaction to it. Because to a person who is stuck in self, who cherishes self, if someone's in a dark who cherishes self, if someone's in a dark state of mind, when they feel the light of enlightenment, they're afraid, they react, they try to put that light out, because they don't want to change, they don't want to see the truth. So this becomes opposition But, the Enlightened Ones were all warriors.

0:25:18
They were all very, very, very strong in facing opposition. Every Enlightened One has faced the hardships that you face. Anger, jealousy, depression, desire. Desire. They've all faced all of the hardest things that you've faced, and they were successful in overcoming them. So they show us that it's possible to overcome our greatest difficulties. They never give up. They never gave up. They never give up. They never gave up.

0:26:04
Whatever difficulty they had, whatever pain they had, they kept following the teachings of the truth until they attained enlightenment. So, they're very, very powerful in terms of transcending self. They face every... In order to become enlightened, you have to face everything. They face every... In order to become enlightened, you have to face everything. It's not that you just meditate 20 minutes a day and say some mantras, right? You actually are dealing with your life, your mind, completely. You have to purify your being completely and deal with everything in the universe. You have to solve the problem of life and death. This is what Buddha did. the problem of life and death. This is what Buddha did. And in doing this, you extinguish the limited self. Solving the problem is to... it's really like dying, because you let go of the self. You let go of everything you think, all of your attachments, all of your desires, all of your concepts. And it's... that's very, very And that's very, very frightening for the self.

0:27:17
It's hard to do. You have to love light completely. And then you face all of life, the universe, and everything. And then by doing that, you're the victor of any circumstance, any opposition. opposition. When Buddha was sitting under the Bodhi tree, and he was about to become liberated, then Mara, the god of illusion, came to him. This is a way of talking about it. But he gave him all of these images of warriors attacking him, beautiful women trying Everything in the universe comes up to take you, to grab you. If you can't handle it, if you can't overcome it, then you start to react. You're pulled out of your balance, you're pulled out of your concentration, you're pulled out of your focus on nirvana.

0:28:24
And all of the things that created desire just Disappeared all the things that seemed like they were going to hurt him that would cause fear disappeared and Then he went into nirvana So then that way any Difficulty He has conquered within his own being any difficulty that manifests in the transient world Any difficulty that manifests in the transient world, He has already conquered inside. So the enlightened ones are the victors of spirit and the victors of the world.

0:29:05
Now some people, when they're looking at the enlightened ones, they get very... they talk about it. they talk about it and they get very philosophical and they say, well, enlightenment is this, enlightenment is that. It's kind of like people talking about rocket ships and submarines, like they know how to drive one or fly one. Right? So like a lot of like spiritual teachers or spiritual aspirants are all like, submarines are really good. Oh yeah, let me tell you about a rocket. are really good. Oh yeah, let me tell you about a rocket." Right? But an enlightened one is someone who, you know, went on the rocket, you know, and went down to the greatest depths in the submarine. They know it, but other people just talk about it. It's like getting a black belt, right? If you're a belt. If you're a white belt, and you say, oh yeah, a black belt's cool. You learn to punch and kick. Mm-hmm. Yeah, yeah, I read about that. I read a book about it.

0:30:11
So when you're looking at enlightenment, you're starting from a place where you don't know. You're filled with concepts. But if you start working your way towards enlightenment, then what happens is you change, you transform. towards enlightenment, then what happens is you change, you transform. The path to enlightenment that the enlightened ones are the epitome of, it's a path that changes you. You transform in that path.

0:30:43
And then when you get a little bit higher, you see how you looked at things when you were a white belt. And you go, ooh, that was off. how you looked at things when you were a white belt. And you go, ooh, that was off. But then when you're a green belt, you say, I'm sure I know what it is now. But you don't know till you know. And that's when you actually reach that point. Now, when you don't know, this is very important.

0:31:10
We look at the enlightened ones and we need to be with the enlightened one. Because if you're just sitting there outside of the dojo to be with the Enlightened One. Because if you're just sitting there outside of the dojo talking about black belts, you don't know anything. But if you go to a dojo, and you start working with a sensei, third degree black belt, fifth degree black belt, they, by their presence and their power, show you how to gain power through the art.

0:31:36
how to gain power through the art. You can't learn it from a book. You can't learn it from video clips, teaching techniques. You can only learn it from someone who has that power, has that awareness. These are inner arts. So when you're not an enlightened one, one, you have to go and find an enlightened one to be with, and that's how you start learning. Now, when you're with an enlightened one, the first time is where your life changes. It's called Darshan, the meeting with enlightenment. And before you actually meet an enlightened person, Before you actually meet an enlightened person, you might have all sorts of ideas and concepts, but the moment you meet an enlightened person, you actually have an experience of truth.

0:32:36
You might not understand it because you're so caught up in the samsara, but something in you, the enlightenment within you, recognizes the enlightenment in the teacher. the enlightenment in the teacher. And then you see it and say, wow, okay, there's something to do. I've learned something. And then every time that you meditate with the enlightened one, they are bringing you into a greater and greater awareness of the enlightenment within you. the enlightenment within you. An enlightened one is not a person that you make a god out of. You don't make a big deal about them.

0:33:22
You respect them, but they're just showing you the truth within yourself, the enlightenment within you. Just like a martial arts sensei, you don't sit there going, Oh, the sensei is so amazing! going, oh, the sensei is so amazing. They might be amazing, but what they're showing you is how you can be powerful, how you can defend your life or the life of another. So even when you're in the yoga of devotion, it is so that you find the light within you, within you, not to make a god out of the enlightened one.

0:34:07
Right? Buddha said, towards the end of his life, when I'm gone, do not make images or statues of me. That was a very explicit teaching that he gave, and everyone said, well, forget that. Yeah, because if you do that, you start seeing enlightenment outside of me. But the enlightened one is always there to show you that enlightenment is within you. And the enlightened ones are excellent. They have a very precise attention. attention. Whatever they do, they put some magic into. They have very strong, precise minds. So, like, whenever you read about the biographies of the enlightened ones, every activity that they go into, they bring some light and some magic, some excellence. And excellence. Like Bodhidharma was a martial artist and he taught the Shaolin monks and he taught them to be excellent. Every enlightened teacher, they're always working on a very strong attention, some kind of excellence in everything that they do, so we try to emulate and everything that they do, so we try to emulate that.

0:35:40
We don't just sit there and say, Oh, your meditation is so amazing, I can never do it. Oh, your martial arts is so good, I can never do it. We're being shown these things from the enlightened ones so that we can follow the path. Now, the enlightened ones, in being examples, show us the way, but a lot of times they teach. show us the way, but a lot of times they teach. So, some enlightened beings never teach, but you can glean something by seeing them.

0:36:11
You can learn something by seeing them. But some enlightened beings are teachers. They actually will work with unenlightened students and bring them to enlightenment. The enlightened teachers will deal with lots of different people. Sometimes they'll just be an enlightened teacher who lets people come over. So they'll be people who come with desires. They're seeking different things. They go, oh yeah, I just want to sit with this person because they'll give me blessings and my business will be better. Some women are like, well, I'm having trouble getting pregnant. be better. Some women are like, well, I'm having trouble getting pregnant. Some people are like, I'm, you know, I want to get to a university, but my grades aren't so good. It just could be very basic things. So in India, a lot of people will go to a Swami because they want these kinds of blessings. Some come to an enlightened teacher because they have, just they want to learn, They want power.

0:37:15
So some enlightened teachers have Siddha powers, right? They can walk on water, heal the sick, do all these amazing things. But, they're also that wish-fulfilling jewel. They can teach you how to have the Siddha powers to do anything that you want to do. to do anything that you want to do. So sometimes people want to learn the Siddhas, so they come to an enlightened teacher for that. Some people, because their lives are, they recognize the suffering of life, they have great misery. Maybe some tragedy happened and they can't sort it out, they can't figure it out, so they need to just sit there with an enlightened teacher until they figure it out, until there's until they figure it out, until there's a resolution in their spirit.

0:38:05
And then some people come to an enlightened teacher because they want enlightenment. So they're ready to do the work. They're ready to follow the path. And that is meditation, mindfulness, yoga, all of these practices that are the pathway to enlightenment. The enlightened ones have made these pathways to enlightenment. made these pathways to enlightenment. If you're climbing up a mountain, it's good to have a path. Without a path, it might be treacherous, right? Or you make very, very slow progress, because you start walking into bushes and trees and, you know, the contour of the land, you just got to go back down and go in a different way. So the enlightened ones have created paths different way. So the enlightened ones have created paths that go all the way up to the top of the mountain. Some of them go straight up, some of them go winding around. So people find different pathways that they're comfortable with. There's all sorts of paths and views.

0:39:12
And what's essential is that you just take a path. Switching paths doesn't get you very far. Because that means you're like, okay, I'm going to walk straight up. And then you go, well, what about that path down there? I think that one might be better. And you walk back down, you start going a different way. And you go, well, here's another one that goes straight up. Okay, let me go back down. Forget it.

0:39:32
That's what Ramakrishna said. He said, hey, if you're digging a hole looking for some water, you start digging in one place, digging a hole looking for some water, you start digging in one place, and then you go, that place might be better. And then you can all of a sudden you got like 18 holes around you. None of, if you dug one of them deep enough, you would have gotten there. Yeah, so they, the enlightened ones have made these pounds. And the enlightened ones are, there's different what teachers, like Bodhidharma was a very stern was a very stern teacher, but some teachers are very gentle. So even though they're enlightened, there's different paths, and then teachers have different ways, different expressions of their enlightenment.

0:40:16
And some people say, oh, this path feels better to me, this teacher feels better to me. And then they say, that's something I can work with. I can work with. And then the teacher laughs. So the teachers, the enlightened teachers are great. They've been examples of enlightenment. They've made pathways to enlightenment. And they help you make rapid progress towards enlightenment. Now in a lifetime you don't progress towards enlightenment. Now in a lifetime, you don't have to attain enlightenment, but it's good to make some progress. My teacher said that he was working with a fifth-degree black belt in Judo. And he said that, you know, he was very, very, very, very focused on learning the art of Judo.

0:41:13
But there were some younger people in the class who were just messing around on the mat. the art of Judo. But there were some younger people in the class who were just messing around on the mat. Sometimes playing around, messing around. They just didn't have a very strong attention. And my teacher was like, why do they bother? And the fifth degree sensei said, it doesn't matter. They don't know yet. However, for where they're at, just what they're However, for where they're at, just what they're doing now makes them stronger. They're learning something. So on the pathway to enlightenment, with an enlightened one, you can reach liberation in this lifetime. But also, if you're not so serious, just being in the presence of the enlightened one, walking the presence of the Enlightened One, walking the path of the Enlightened One, you gain something.

0:42:09
You get higher, you get brighter. So it's a path with the Enlightened One that helps you in every way, whether you're advanced or a beginner. And this is the teachings and the great blessing of the Enlightened One.

