0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about Buddhist metaphysics. is the spiritual, essential understanding of the origins of being. It's understanding who you are, what reality is, what time and space is, and what's beyond it. it. We begin with observing ourselves, the self. You begin with an understanding of who you are in terms of ideas and concepts that you have, your body, your job, your personal your job, your personal history. This is a way of understanding the self. And you think that you're the person who is separate and who decides what happens to you. You choose what you do in life. And this is a limited view. There's another way of understanding the self and the path that you're on. And this is by understanding life in a greater view. So, for example, tonight you are here for meditation, or you're watching this video right now, and you think that you're here because you chose to be.

0:02:20
You think that you're watching this because you chose to. You said hmm. I just had an idea. I'll watch this video. I'll just show up and that's my decision and this is a Limited way of seeing things. This is a limited understanding of life There's a greater way of seeing things a greater understanding and that is to know that you did not choose You didn't decide to do this know that you did not choose. You didn't decide to do this. Power decides. So the self always comes up with this way of looking at things like, oh me, me, me, me, me. But in a greater understanding of how things really are, you understand that these designs of power. So power, it's an energy. It binds all things together. It creates all things. It sustains all things and destroys all things. And within all of that, there There's no beginning or end or middle.

0:03:42
It is the energy of life, of death, of being, of everything. This is what we call power. This is speaking in the way of mysticism. Or you could call it karma. This is the way of speaking in Buddhism. Or you can call it la force, which is speaking in the way of French Star Wars, French philosophy. French philosophy. So there is this, there is power, and power actually is something that really makes everything happen. So we think that we're choosing something to do something, but really we're falling within the designs of power. Now you within the designs of power.

0:04:52
Now you have to ask yourself, why? That's what my teacher would say is the first spiritual question. Like, why is it? Why is it that power decides? Why am I? Not who am I? Who am I? Who am I? That's the classic yana yoga question.

0:05:14
You sit there going, who am I? Who am I really? And then finally you go, I'm enlightened. But if you really ask who you are, you come up with all of these answers and all these descriptions and then you get really bored of yourself. And then you get really bored of yourself. So who am I is a more limited question than why am I? Why am I? Why am I? And then when you finally find the answer, you'll go to the great guru and the great guru will say, why are you?

0:06:01
Well, it just can't be any other way. Why are you? Well, it just can't be any other way. And this is the truth of life. Life is. It is, it is, it is. And that's just the fact. Why is it? That's just the way it is. Why are you?

0:06:22
You are because of power. Why is power? Because power is, that's the way it is. power because power is, that's the way it is. So this is in Buddhist teachings, he always was describing how life is and how it works. He never took on answering a question about why life is. He just says, well, it is. Yeah, Buddha might call it dependent origination, but it's power. This is the way that life is. Now, we perceive life from our, kind of as a reflection.

0:07:09
So everything that you see, everything that you're aware of, is a self-reflection. everything that you're aware of is a self-reflection. You see life through a field of awareness that is created by your desires, by your fears, your complete karmic outlook. And because you're seeing life through a limited a limited self, you are seeing your limited self in life. In Zen, they often say, you're looking at a mirror. You're always looking at a self-reflection. That's how you see life. Only this mirror, you can't actually see it, so you think that there's no mirror there. But there But there is a mirror there. In the Yaqui way of knowledge, they would say you're in a bubble. Everybody's walking around in a bubble of self-reflection.

0:08:14
And you think that everything in the bubble is all that there is. It's kind of like if you were in a closet. you were in a closet, right? And you're just sitting there in the closet and you said, this is everything that there is, this closet, because you've never been outside of the closet and what you do in the closet is you try to arrange things on hangers and then you try to get like, you know, the stuff that you want in the closet, make the perfect closet, right?

0:08:48
make the perfect closet. So this is what people try to do. They're looking into the mirror of self and perceiving life and trying to order life in the way that is perfect to their outlook. So you're making the perfect closet. closet. You're arranging everything perfectly, getting the stuff that you want, and then the closet ends up being perfect for you. But once you make your life perfect, then you'll find a great despair, because everyone's following desire, trying to make their life perfect, but once it is perfect, then you'll realize that you're still limited. There's limited, there's no satisfaction in making your life perfect because you're still looking at life through a limited self. So that's why if you opened up that closet door and went out, you're out of the closet. You discover something new and then you're able to explore all of these different rooms and find out explore all of these different rooms and find out that there's much more interesting places to be.

0:10:06
Like the kitchen. So when we're learning about Buddhist metaphysics, we're learning how to go of our bubble of awareness. How to look beyond the mirror of self-reflection so that we can see what else there what else exists. Because what you see in the self-reflection is a limited view of life. You think it's real, right? You're real. You're looking out and you go, oh, this person did this thing to me. They are bad. But what you're really seeing is, you're seeing yourself. So when you see someone who has done something to you that is bad, then what you're seeing is your self-description of bad. You are creating your bad. So when we're looking out into the world and seeing bad or good, you're creating it with your outlook. When you start to look outside of the closet, when you start to look beyond the mirror of self-reflection, you start to see the way that reality works, the way that life is.

0:11:36
start to see the way that reality works, the way that life is in truth. And then you start to say, oh okay, so this stuff that I'm seeing is a self-reflection. So when I see someone doing something bad, I say, oh wow, I created that bad in my mind. And then let me meditate, let me have compassion, and then that bad turns And then that bad turns from bad to good. You create your dissatisfactions, you create your suffering. And by seeing beyond the self, the light of reality, you come to see the truth.

0:12:19
And then back in the self-reflection, you can apply the knowledge of truth the knowledge of truth and wash away these bad outlooks, wash away these ways of seeing things where there's anger, enmity, problems with people, and then all of a sudden there's no problem. And you've gotten rid of that aspect of self, that way of perceiving, so that in the reflection it doesn't exist so that in the reflection it doesn't exist anymore. See, we change our lives by the knowledge of eternity. We change our lives by seeing outside of the self-reflection, because we come to see that there's a greater truth and that in our experience when we find dissatisfaction and frustrations, frustrations, we find that that is because of ourselves. A defect.

0:13:21
Can somebody get me some water? So, all there is, is power. Power is the truth. We have no choice, but by meditating, by seeing outside of the bubble of self-reflection, we can see the greater truth. And we can work with it. We can go with it. We can be co-creators of our lives. We're never going to use our willpower to say, life is going to be like this, and I'm going to go and make this happen. are willpower to say life is going to be like this and I'm going to go and make this happen. If you're doing that you're just getting everything in your bubble in order. Yet you can have, oh yeah thank you, wait a second, so look there's water I asked for it. Now the only way I can have this water is if What if she takes it away?

0:14:28
What if she takes it away? So if I want to make my life perfect, I might crawl over there, push her away, take that water. And that would be self. But because I meditate and I look beyond the self, I know the truth. So I can co-create life. The self I know the truth so I can co-create life and and and make Things happen that are helpful like the glass of water now, so this is it. There's water or no water It depends on power. I have no choice What do you think?

0:15:11
Thank you, thank you power Thank you, power! See what I mean? But this is what we do in Buddhist metaphysics. This is how we change our lives. We actually work on projects where we learn to co-create. I call it co-creation. It's knowing life in deeper dimensions, dimensions, knowing truth outside of the self. The self always has limitation and anything that the self accomplishes is just ordering your closet. We want to be out of the closet and we want to be able to work with life, understand life. Does a surfer make a wave to ride? No.

0:16:00
The surfer waits, observes, finds the wave and rides the wave. So this is what we learn to do in Buddhist metaphysics. It's really quite fascinating. And then we see beyond the self that there's infinite states of mind. We in our bubble only experience a certain amount of awareness of the universe. a certain amount of awareness of the universe. It's very limited. But outside of the self, there's infinity. Once you stop thought, you're outside of the self. And what do you experience?

0:16:40
Light and power and infinity and truth and justice for all. Just us. Yeah, for all. Just us. Yeah, for all. So, when you move outside of the self-reflection, stop thought, you see eternity. You see enlightenment. eternity, truth, enlightenment, endless dimensions of mind. These are traps or limitations.

0:17:23
Because I can say enlightenment and then you'll think, oh, okay, enlightenment. What is that? It's an idea and not a reality. So I have to use words to describe this, I have to use words to describe this, but what I'm describing is beyond words. If you get caught up in thinking about it, or the actual word, then you're happy with the word. You say, okay, so this is about enlightenment. And what is enlightenment? To you, it might be concepts from a book, concepts you heard from a teacher, but it's concepts. But it's concepts.

0:18:03
And if you're happy with concepts, then you just stay in concepts. You just stay in ideas. So it's important to see beyond the words. You have to explore. It's kind of like experience changes awareness. So, if you are given the word enlightenment, you'll be stuck in a certain awareness, but then if you have experience in enlightenment, then your understanding of enlightenment grows. It's kind of like Iceland. If I say Iceland, you might say, ooh, frozen landscapes, Aurora Frozen landscapes, aurora borealis, Vikings, right? That often comes to mind for people when you say Iceland.

0:19:01
However, if you've been to Iceland, like I went to Iceland with some students, you might have a very different view after being there. You'll think rolling green hills, You'll think rolling green hills, beautiful waterfalls everywhere. You'll think the natural hot springs, electric blue water. You'll think elves. So Iceland is very different if you've experienced it, if you've been there. different if you've experienced that, if you've been there. But if you haven't, you might just have the classic view of Vikings and ice. So you can't get caught up in just in the words. You Now, Buddhist metaphysics is an understanding of how life really works.

0:20:13
But it is through experience that we change. We change this perception of life. So when we understand how it is, then we can do something about it. how it is, then we can do something about it. And that's precisely what we do. We do something. We stop the thought. We also follow a path, a constructive path beyond the bubble of self to greater awareness, a greater view of the totality of being. view of the totality of being. Now, it's important to have a teacher for this, because the teacher has stepped beyond the bubble of self and can exist in the bubble without existing in the bubble. A teacher can see you and your karma and show you how to get out, little and show you how to get out, little by little, how to see yourself differently.

0:21:17
So when you're looking at your bubble of awareness, it's kind of like those funhouse mirrors, like those warped mirrors. So you've always looked at yourself and thought, oh, gee, I'm really short and fat. Or I'm ridiculously tall and skinny. And you've always looked at yourself in a certain way. And you've always looked at yourself in a certain way. And this way is through a mirror that is incorrect. And when you're a tall, thin person thinking you're short and fat, it's kind of strange.

0:21:52
So that's when a teacher can say, oh, well, you're looking at things wrong. Let me show you a different way of looking at things. And it is outside of self. And Zen will always say it's a mirror of self-reflection and it is outside of self. Zen will always say it's a mirror of self-reflection that's got garbage on it. It's all dirty and then you have to clean the mirror. All the imperfections out so that you can have a proper reflection of self. So the teacher is the one who can see the truth of you and to show you a constructive way out of it. And it has to be little by little constructive path, very specific way of has to be little by little constructive path, very specific way of developing yourself outside of the view of self. Because if a teacher took you and took away the view of self completely, you could go kind of crazy. You go into the second attention, into the light of being, and it's something that coming It's something that coming back, it might have frightened you.

0:22:55
It might have given you too much exposure, too much truth, that it's unbalancing for you to be back into the physical world. So we always work on going into the light in a very constructive way. It's kind of like the sun, right? It's kind of like the sun, right? So the sun gives us light, yet if you look at the sun too long, you'll go blind. It's too powerful. So enlightenment is extremely powerful.

0:23:29
And you have to look at it little by little in different ways to understand it. So we work on it little by little in the right ways, gradually coming out of the self, reconstructing the self. And in this process, it changes that self-reflection. And then the self-reflection that there was is not there anymore. It goes away completely. there anymore. It goes away completely. And then there's just, in the end, a perfect reflection of reality. And this is the point. Seeking that perfect reflection brings satisfaction Perfect reflection is a reflection where you see outside of the bubble.

0:24:30
You see eternity. You have the mind of enlightenment. And if you're just seeing yourself reflection, karma, if you're just looking at life in a limited way and trying to get the things that you want and order your life, you'll always and trying to get the things that you want and order your life, you'll always be stuck. If your life through self-reflection is bad, you'll suffer, you'll have pain. But also, if your life through self-reflection is good, you'll still be stuck.

0:25:07
You'll still have suffering, you'll still have pain. I mean, even a good person has suffering, right? person has suffering right a a healer who you know like look the magic miracle llama it's like oh that's wonderful but he's got to hang around sick people all the time how fun is that right or a good spiritual person you know they do all good spiritual person, you know, they do all the right things, they don't eat squirrels, they do, you know, I don't eat squirrels, I'm spiritual. But then they're still stuck in seeking on the spiritual path. Everything is a trap within self-seeking. When you're a human, you're always suffering human, you're always suffering the human stuff, right? It's a trap.

0:26:09
There's always traps in every endeavor of self, you know? You're gonna go and, you know, save Africa, well then you're trapped by Africa, right? You're gonna go out and, you know, and heal the world, well then you're trapped and heal the world, then you're trapped by sick people. If you're a squirrel, you're trapped by squirrel traps. Everything is a trap when you're seeking in the way of self. So, essentially, what we do is we go beyond the self completely. We stop thought in meditation. We see a greater view of eternity in our practice of compassion, greater view of eternity in our practice of compassion, in our work when we're co-creating with the universe. And we see life so broad that we see truth in eternity that comes through in our bubble of perception to the point where there's no difference between eternity and of perception to the point where there's no difference between eternity and our bubble of perception. And this is the process of enlightenment that we can gain through Buddhist metaphysics.

