0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about Bhakti yoga the path of love and devotion So when we come to understand life we come to understand the essence of life the essence of life is love if you understand Love if you know it in its eternal form love, if you know it in its eternal form, in its true essence, then you perceive love as a great luminous power, a great light that illuminates everything, that brings everything from diversity into unity.

0:00:48
into unity. Love brings things together. Love unites. And wherever you see something separate, if you look at it close enough, you'll see that you are connected with it, that you are one with it. And in an essential way, you'll see your spirit and its spirit is the same. So love in So, love in its highest form is enlightenment, is the universe, is everything, all of us. And in the yoga of love, we come to see that, we come to understand that unity. different practices that we do to see that, to become aware of that, to experience that luminous unity. Now, everybody wants love. Everybody's looking for love. Everybody seeks love or has some interest in love. Love's like a good thing, you know, even for people not on the spiritual path. However, spiritual path. However, people tend to find a lot of trouble in seeking love. They find that they're unhappy, that they're attached, that they have desire, that they actually suffer from love. So, this is because it's a way of seeking love from the place of self.

0:02:24
of seeking love from the place of self. There's higher forms of love where you go beyond self. You go beyond just trying to get what you want. That's the smallest form of love. You go beyond that to truly caring for another person. No matter what they do, you would love them. And that's a higher love. No matter what they do, you would love them. And that's a higher love. When you have that love, you might have a husband who leaves you and cheats on you and gets all the money or something.

0:03:12
any anger or resentment, then you have a selfless love. Most people in relationships are filled with unhappiness because they're selfish in their love, and they experience all sorts of suffering because of that. But there are people who are selfless in their love. Mothers are often selfless with their children. their children. It's something where no matter what the kid does, or parents with their children, no matter what the kid does, you just love them anyway. So that's a higher love. Whenever you go past any desire for some kind of expectation or some return on investment or some return on investment from the love, then you're happy, you're at peace, and it's something that brings you to a higher place in your spirit.

0:04:12
And there's places that are even higher. There's the love of God, the love of enlightenment. These are very, very enlightening, very, very transformative loves. very, very transformative love. Love transforms. Love gets you out of the places where you can get stuck. So if you're in a bad situation, I mean, Buddha said this, right? He said, in this world, hate has never yet dispelled hate. Only love dispels hate. So even if you're So even if you're in a situation with an enemy, someone who hates you and you hate them, if you transform your hate to love, you will transform the enemy, you will transform the situation and it will become bright and beautiful. There's a story of Vajrasattva going to hell.

0:05:12
hell. He was a famous bodhisattva, a enlightened being of compassion, and he decided to take incarnation in hell to help the people there. So he somehow appears in hell, and in hell he's quickly chained up, put to work, like shoveling lava or something like that. So So he's going through this very, there's a lot of physical suffering and he's got a lot of manual labor. And there's a demon there who is in charge and, you know, scaring everybody and hurting everybody. And so Vajrasattva, so he loves the people. So there's the other people in hell and he loves them and he gives them some life and happiness.

0:06:00
And he gives them some life and happiness. And then he loves the work. He's like, oh, I got a shovel, lava, whatever. He just comes to like love what he's doing. And then he towards this demon who's just trying to hurt him all the time. He just brings love to the demon. So what happens is these miserable people in hell, they lose their misery. people in hell, they lose their misery. The work that they do becomes something wonderful, and the demon changes from a demon to a being filled with love. And then they all realize at some point they're not even in hell anymore. Hell itself transforms. So love is the way transforms So love is the way in which we transform The hells of our lives the negativities of our lives the empathy and darkness in our lives We transform it into heaven Through love Now in the yoga of love we practice to do it and we practice meditation primarily And we practice meditation primarily.

0:07:15
So we sit there and focus on the heart chakra. We still our mind and we seek in concentration the awareness of love. And when we sit to meditate, we have concentration and focus, but we also want to open up to those dimensions of love. love. We want to have a feeling of love and beautiful, wonderfulness. So we just focus to stop thought. The dimensions of the heart chakra are dimensions very, very associated with love. It is the central chakra of your being. So when you're focused on the heart So when you're focused on the heart chakra, when you still your thoughts, you immediately come into that luminous awareness of love. Now there's a secret in the yoga of love for stopping thought.

0:08:16
So meditating is stopping thought and it usually takes a long time, a lot of practice to have the strength of concentration to stop thought. have the strength of concentration to stop that. But in the yoga of love, there's another way. And in the yoga of love, you practice loving meditation. So, if you can love and experience a selfless love for any being or anything, when you experience that love, focusing love, focusing on your chakra, and you go into that love, there's no thought in love, there's only luminosity. So if you can have a selfless love, then you can focus on that love while meditating, and it's very simple to stop thought. Otherwise, if you have a Selfish love then if you're thinking about You know some something that you love and you have selfishness then it doesn't work because then you're just thinking but true Love will propel you beyond thought So it's very powerful we use a Technique in the yoga of love to get past obstacles and to get higher obstacles and to get higher.

0:09:41
It is a way of very deeply going into the essence of all being and seeking a solution or connection to the light, to love. devotion, where we act as a little child, and the universe is our mother. And when we need something, we cry to our mother. So we say, Oh, mother, oh universe, oh enlightenment, I am stuck, I have this obstacle. And just like a little child crying to the mother, little child crying to the mother, you have a very, very deep spiritual crying, which is a powerful cry. It's deeply, deeply, deeply intending to ask the universe for a solution. So you cry to the universe in meditation. You cry to in meditation. You cry to the universe for the solution to get higher. If you're feeling suffering, you have to have a higher love. If you have a difficulty in your life, you have to have a higher love. And when you can ask the universe for it, the universe gives and give you the higher loving awareness so that you can overcome your obstacles.

0:11:20
So that's a powerful method of devotional yoga. Now, we also, in this practice, it's very important, It's very important. One of the key things is we we use an enlightened teacher. It's very important that they're enlightened and it's very important that they're open to teaching. It is one of the central practices in Bhakti yoga in love and devotion to have an enlightened teacher. The enlightened teacher is The enlightened teacher is your meditation focus at that point.

0:12:08
You see them as enlightenment itself. They are enlightened and their consciousness reflects enlightenment. They are for you, your user interface to enlightenment and love. You could just sit there and love the unmanifest universe. That would be okay. But human beings find it hard to do that. And they find it easier to love another person. So when there's the enlightened teacher, and the enlightened teacher can be that person that they love, then in that love, there is enlightenment.

0:12:48
enlightenment. In loving that person, they come to love enlightenment and then in that experience of enlightenment, they are illuminated. So in Bhakti Yoga, it's a very, very important principle that you have an enlightened teacher, that you love that enlightened teacher, and you meditate on that enlightened teacher. That teacher is your doorway to enlightenment. So this is why it's often called an easy yoga, because all you have to do is love an amazingly high spiritual being. So it's a simple thing, you hang around a good, amazing, beautiful being, and then you fall in love with them, and then you are enlightened.

0:13:36
being and then you fall in love with them and then you are in light. So that's a beautiful way. There is a something that gets in the way. It's when you don't bring a higher love. You get stuck and you're disingenuous in your love. So once I was visiting a bhakti teacher and I was sitting a Bhakti teacher and I was sitting with his students who were his students for years and I could see that they weren't going higher and I could see and and they were they were chanting and and calling out his name and things and I could see that a lot of them were disingenuous they they were attracted to their teacher, but they were in a self-awareness. So they had desires. They weren't moving beyond it. So you can have all sorts of devotional practices, chanting and bowing, but if you can't do them with a pure heart, a selfless heart, then you end up not making very much progress. It looks like you love the It looks like you love the person, the teacher, the guru, but you might not.

0:14:54
You might be filled with personal desire. Desire and attachment are immature forms of love. Desire is love. You desire a person to be with them. That's a form of attraction and unity. It's just a form that is immature. It's just a form that is immature. When you become mature in your practice, you move beyond desire, which just causes suffering, and you actually have a true and deep love.

0:15:29
There's no attachment in love, because love doesn't want anything. That's the self that would cling to something. cling to something. So we, by having a teacher and by having a true, pure, selfless regard for them, you move beyond desire and you move beyond attachment. It is a profound secret of of Bhakti Yoga, the enlightened teacher as the the yoga, the enlightened teacher as the focus. Finally, Buddha's pathway to enlightenment was to overcome pain and suffering. So Buddha said, hey, you know, there's suffering in life and here's how you overcome it. Now, my teacher taught that that is the first liberation, to get out of to get out of suffering.

0:16:26
And it's worthwhile to do. But there's a higher liberation. Getting out of the way of pain only gets you so high. And then once you're out of pain, then you don't tend to be motivated to do more. But if you truly have love, love for eternity, then there's a greater motivation. eternity, then there's a greater motivation. It goes much farther than the motivation for pain.

0:16:55
So there are stories of the higher beings, Krishna, Padmasambhava, where Buddha himself said about Padmasambhava that he was much more enlightened. of liberation and the pathway of love to liberation is the highest form. Okay, thank you all very much.

