0:00:00
Tonight, I'd like to talk about miracles. Acts of power that shift your awareness to perceive new opportunities Miracles defy the possible Whatever your description of the world the miracle Will open it up and show you that that description is Not completely correct is not completely correct.

0:00:53
The miracles are the transformative aspect of the path of mysticism. In mysticism, we see that any way of looking at life is not perfectly correct, and that Any way of looking at life is not perfectly correct and that when we see a miracle We're able to transform ourselves Because of the magic that we witness There's a lot of stories of enlightened teachers and yogis who do Mysticism miracles mysticism, miracles. One famous story is of Buddha.

0:01:47
Buddha once was talking to a king, and the king said, yeah, you know, I really want to like you, because you say some really good things. But the Brahmins, they're able to show me magical things. the Brahmins, they're able to show me magical things. Like one of the Brahmin priests would be able to make different colors appear. He would make colors like red and green and blue appear. And so the king said, you know, seeing is believing. And I see them do something that that people can't do, therefore I tend to believe them, although your words somehow resonate with me and they're truthful." And then Buddha said, Okay, I can show you these miracles, just so that you understand that it's not just the Brahmins who can do them.

0:02:48
So then Buddha started doing these miracles. So then Buddha started doing these miracles. So Buddha turned invisible. Buddha cast rainbow light, all the colors of the rainbow at the same time, out of his body. He flew up into the sky, back and forth. He walked on water. And he turned into a flame. Then he turned into water. He turned into the wind.

0:03:12
turned into a flame, then he turned into water, then he turned into the wind, then he came back. And then he said, okay. And the king was like, wow, that's even better than just a few colors that the Brahmins were doing. So Buddha was a master of miracles. It wasn't often that he that he did these miracles, that he did them when he thought it was appropriate with the Dharma. So miracles are these amazing things, things that we normally would believe are impossible, Miracles are simply perceptions, awarenesses, consciousnesses of life that we don't have at the moment. So if someone was to perform a miracle, and you look at it and go, wow, that's impossible, that's mind-blowing. Well, not if you know how to do it.

0:04:24
how to do it. And there's ways to learn how to do it. It's kind of like if you went to some lost tribe in the Amazon, and you go over to them and you show them a flashlight, they would think that's magic. You have a little stick, and then all of a sudden light comes out of it. And then they would say, wow, that's a And then they would say, wow, that's a miracle. And for you, you're like, no, it's not a miracle at all. It's quite normal. It's a very simple thing, but it's only because you know what it is. That it is easy and normal, everyday life for you. But for them, it's out of this world.

0:05:14
So that's what miracles are. of this world. So that's what miracles are. Miracles are awarenesses that are just not normal for people with a description of this world. With the awarenesses, see, this is development of these powers. We call them Siddha powers. When you perform shifts in awareness with Siddha powers, this is what we would call a miracle. Siddha powers, miracles, they're performed by shifting energy through the chakras, the energy centers that we meditate on. the energy centers that we meditate on. So if we're sitting in a meditation hall and you're seeing light come out from me, this is because I'm shifting energy through my chakras. If we're out in a place of power, in the desert or something, and if I'm showing you the mountains the mountains turning invisible.

0:06:29
This is because of a Siddha power. These are miracles and they occur from knowledge of the doorways to different dimensions. Dimensions of power, dimensions of mind. We learn that it is by shifting ourselves, shifting our attention through these doorways, these chakras, that we can change ourselves, change our awareness, change opportunities, and change the world, change the universe. Someone who did this in a very beautiful way was Gandhi. Gandhi at one point, there was a civil war and he had a Siddha power associated with the naval chakra, very strong power of willpower. And he enacted this by fasting.

0:07:36
He enacted this by fasting. So he said, I'm fasting. He's like, I want this war to end. So he says, I'm fasting. And then after a while, they said, OK, OK. We're going to stop fighting because you're fasting. It doesn't make a lot of sense, right? But he threw the Siddhas used to his will to its will, to break the will to fight of the two sides. So when you shift yourself, it is by shifting energy, perception in yourself, you are able to actually shift the world, make changes in the world.

0:08:23
And this is the study of mysticism. the study of mysticism. In mysticism, we learn how to alter perception, alter perception of life, to see different opportunities, to make things happen or make things not happen. But mysticism is a yoga, it is a pathway to enlightenment, through the cultivation of through the cultivation of Siddha powers, through the practice of altering perception and awareness, but always to bring you to a higher and higher awareness of truth and light, not just to fulfill desire. Magic to fulfill desire is self-magic, to fulfill desire is self-magic.

0:09:16
And in Buddhism, we always call that black magic, because then you will be using energy to get what you want, power to get what you want. And when you use power to get what you desire, there's a very, very strong karma. And it binds you in the self much more strongly binds you in the self much more strongly than if you didn't use power to get something that you want. So the basic rule of mysticism is don't use magic to get what you want. Use it to get rid of wanting. So with mysticism, we always seek beautiful experiences of power And we always seek beautiful experiences of power and light, the siddhas and miracles, not just for self-satisfaction, but just for the beauty of it.

0:10:17
Miracles are beautiful. Power is beautiful when you handle it with purity. So we seek in our seeking purity in handling these teachings of the miraculous. Now when you're learning mysticism, you're learning to alter your perception. Let's say that in front of you is a piece of wood, it's a board, right? And then behind the board on the other side there's something interesting, like a ghost. Or a piece of gold. And let's say you're just looking at it and all you see is a board. All you see is a board. Well, mysticism would be looking around, shifting your point of view so that you could see beyond the board.

0:11:24
So this is what we do. And when you can see beyond the board, then you see different dimensions. You see that there's things that are fruitful that were not that were not available from that fixed point of perception. In the fixed point of perception, there's just a board and your hand would hit against it. But if you look around, you say, oh, there's the gold, and you can grab it. And say, oh, there's something useful about shifting my perception. by learning to see meditation, stopping thought. Once you stop thought, you stop your description of the world.

0:12:12
You stop looking at life in the same way, the self in the same way. And then there's an opportunity to see truth. There's an opportunity to clear the mind and have every option of seeing life. Powers, Siddhas, Miracles are alternate options of using attention in life. It's just the know-how to do different things. And it's very much like shifting, shifting, shifting perception, shifting, shifting perception, but knowing how to shift it. Meditation is that part where you learn to shift, to do the ultimate shift from activity to nothing, from thoughts to no thought. Any kind of thought level that you're in, you're in some level of attention, And when you stop thought, you stop the self.

0:13:16
You stop a limited attention, a limited state of mind. You stop any kind of description of the world. You stop the world. And then there's every option, every opportunity. And by doing that, you gain the power to shift your mind from one way of looking power to shift your mind from one way of looking things to another way of looking things. If you're able to stop that completely, then you have the strength of mind and spirit to shift your attention to look at things in vastly different ways. It wakes you up from the fixed dream of karma, the fixed dream of the self. If you observe yourself, you just kind of go through your day doing the same things, thinking the same thoughts.

0:14:17
This is karma. You have a very fixed way of looking at life. And a lot of things that you could take, if you looked at it differently, you could take If you looked at it differently, you could take advantage of, you could make your life more beautiful, you can be more successful, if you could see outside of yourself. And so in meditation, you wake up out of that illusion, and you say, oh wow, I could see, I would normally just go blah blah blah blah blah do this, but I could see a hundred other opportunities to be more successful. a hundred other opportunities to be more successful. So let me explore those.

0:14:56
It's kind of like in a dream. When you are dreaming, when you're asleep, you'll notice that you have very few decisions that you make. You kind of just rush into, I've got to do this, this, this, this, react because of that, react because of that. You're stuck in your karma. You can see that in your dream. You're stuck in your karma. You can see that in your dream. You don't reflect on it very much in the dream.

0:15:18
You just kind of experience karma. However, if you wake up in your dream, if you have a lucid dream where you know you're dreaming, and you wake up in your dream, you say, wow, I'm in a dream. Then you can decide to do something very different, like fly. You can say, oh, I'm gonna fly somewhere something very different, like fly. You could say, I'm going to fly somewhere because that's fun, or I'm going to go hang out with Buddha because that's fun. And if you do that, you see that you change your karma, and you can do something in a dream that's miraculous, flying. You can do something in a dream where you go to Buddha and have a very, very ecstatic, very ecstatic, high spiritual experience.

0:16:05
These are, when you're awake, miracles come easy. When you're awake, then life is a miracle. Everything's miraculous. So we seek to wake up. Meditation wakes us up. meditation wakes us up. Now, there's many different types of siddhas, many miracles. Walking on water, it's a famous one. Flying through the sky, levitating, it's a famous 1984 Bordeaux Why not So there's all sorts of sitters that we hear about but there's one particular Sita that is extremely powerful for a seeker of enlightenment and It is the Sita of light So the Sita of light is when you see an enlightened teacher of light is when you see an enlightened teacher, they meditate or produce around them this what we call golden aura, an energy of light.

0:17:30
And that light is the refined perfection of attention, where the self is completely gone where the self is completely gone and what shines through is Nirvana. So, that light is a tremendous miracle, because in that light, your being dissolves, your self that is rigid, your self that is limited, Yourself that is limited, yourself that is in suffering, dissolves. It makes a connection with nirvana in that light. So while watching someone fly or walk on water or produce a good Zinfandel, it's interesting, right? It's really, really interesting.

0:18:24
The greatest miracle is the miracle of light. It is to sit with an enlightened one who produces this light. Sometimes they call this light Shakti. It is the light of enlightenment, but it comes towards you. It comes to help you, to make a connection with you. So the Siddha is to bring the light, it is to teach, it is to share. And then that way, sitting with an enlightened teacher, you're actually touched by nirvana. And you start to learn how to produce that light in your own being. This is for a spiritual seeker very very very powerful. That's what we that's what we seek now When I use the sitters I always use them Only for the enlightenment of my students Not just for fun. I mean it is fun. They are fun, but I don't just do it for my own satisfaction I mean, it is fun. They are fun.

0:19:38
But I don't just do it for my own satisfaction or for, you know, to look cool or something. I really look for places where it will help my students. So it's very common in meditations when we sit together that I create the light, the miracle of light. the light, the miracle of light. It's very common that I do this in all of our meetings, and it is because this miracle is elevating for you. It transforms you. It's an actual spiritual experience with enlightenment. It's something that elevates you, teaches you the It's something that elevates you and teaches you the pathway to enlightenment in itself.

0:20:31
It is what we would call the esoteric teaching of enlightenment. But sometimes, I'll do other demonstrations of invisibility or making other things turn casting light around, or teaching you miraculous things and dreams. And I do all of these things to teach. These things inspire. These things show you that there's something beyond the physical, something beyond your description of the world. beyond limitation to see your eternal side. And it gets you to say, well, maybe if I see this amazing miracle, you know, like my teacher disappears or something, then you say, maybe I should meditate.

0:21:32
Maybe there's something to this meditation thing. It's kind of like when a karate teacher It's kind of like when a karate teacher is trying to work with the students. The teacher might be sitting there telling people to do a difficult stance, or really to focus on their blocks and punches. And the students are just kind of like, all right, yeah, sounds good, we'll try a little bit. But then the teacher will demonstrate something. But then the teacher will demonstrate something. Like I remember a demonstration I saw once.

0:22:08
It was a Kuk Sul teacher. And he had 14 boards, people holding them in different ways, like up and down and all these ways. So 14 lined up. and down and all these ways. So 14 lined up and he ran over and in one jump kicked all 14 and broke them all. And it was like, wow, how can he do that? It was really amazing. It was incredible.

0:22:43
And so that kind of thing, when you see that, you say, wow, that's a miraculous kicking ability. you say, wow, that's a miraculous kicking ability. And if you want to be able to have a kicking power like that, then maybe you better do your techniques right. Focus harder. It actually inspires you to try harder. And it shows you a level of skill that's completely uncommon.

0:23:08
Or, you know, in karate, there could be a little Japanese guy, and he goes over to these big concrete slabs Japanese guy, and he goes over to these big concrete slabs and breaks them, right? And you go, wow, that little guy, there's some, you get a hint that there's something more powerful than just the physical, because that sensei was able to do something that not even the biggest, strongest guy you ever met could do. They have some internal power. And it inspires you to look more deeply. internal power, and it inspires you to look more deeply.

0:23:40
It inspires you to see a greater power within you. And then you end up just living in that world, training martial arts really hard, or the pathway to enlightenment. When you see beyond the self-description, the self-limitation, then you enter into a world of miracles. Life becomes a miracle. Seeing light with your teacher becomes the thing that always happens. It's always beautiful, it's always wonderful, it's always enlightening, but it becomes your way of understanding life. your way of understanding life. And then seeing that light in your life come out. Your life becomes a miracle. That's what the pathway to enlightenment is. It is a transformation from the self of limitation to enlightenment. It's a miraculous experience and your life miraculous experience and your life becomes that experience. So, you know, don't cut yourself off from that. Don't get caught up in the physicality and the karma and the limitation of everything. You have to come back to the miracle of light. Because in the miracle of of light. Because in the miracle of light, there's satisfaction. There's your eternality.

0:25:25
And that's the truth of life. That which is fixed and heavy and void of light and filled sorrow. That's illusion. But the light is what is true. And that truth itself is a miracle. So live the miracle.

