0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about the Zen of winning. The Zen of winning is becoming the totality of your being. is becoming the totality of your being. It is being successful in every way, inwardly and outwardly. It is overcoming limitation, going past any barriers, roadblocks, afflictions, to success. to success. Success being a greater awareness of truth. The Zen of winning is transcending delusion and illusion. capacity. In Buddhism, we're very practical. We look at life and we see the way that it is. We live in a world that's very competitive. Our society is very competitive. We see that There are winners and there are losers. Winners succeed outwardly and inwardly.

0:01:48
Winners are at ease. They have money. They have nice houses, cars, careers. Outwardly. Inwardly. careers, outwardly. Inwardly, they're happy. They're positive. Maybe they're humorous. Losers might have money, might have power, but what makes a loser is the inward qualities. A loser might be mean, harmful, angry, negative, vengeful. These are qualities of a loser. loser. So we observe that there's outward qualities of winning and losing, but the place where it really matters the most is that inward quality. We want to be inwardly a winner. But if you're inwardly a winner, you're probably If you're outwardly a winner, you might live in a nice, beautiful house, in a beautiful neighborhood, good energy, safe, good neighbors, and that's a nice experience.

0:03:36
a loser in your career. You might live in a bad neighborhood, where you have to fear for your life. Where you might be robbed, or you might be shot by a gang drug person, right? Something, right? So you could be in a bad situation, and this really matters to your life. I remember reading an article about a Thai man who needed a liver transplant. And in Thailand, they didn't have a list, your top of the list or third on the list. They just said, okay, everyone who needs a liver transplant will just do a lottery.

0:04:21
And he won the lottery. He was about six months from death. And he won that liver. six months from death, and he won that liver. He was a liver winner. And before, he was a successful businessman. And then after he got that liver, he was so grateful that he became a Buddhist monk. He became a Buddhist monk he said oh wow that gratitude for winning that energy of winning inspired him to seek beyond the physical outward success towards spiritual winning Speaking of a lottery There was a woman Whose husband was he was just a slob There was a woman whose husband was, he was just a slob, but you know, he was the breadwinner of the family.

0:05:21
Anyway, one day she comes home and she says, honey, pack your bags, I won the lottery. And he's all, oh, right, this is awesome. He's like, so where, he's like, so should I pack my bathing suit or my ski clothes? And then she says, I don't care, just get the hell out of here. in my ski clothes, and then she says, I don't care, just get the hell out of here. So winning can change your life in many ways.

0:05:50
So winning really matters. So we seek to win. Now, the way that you win is by developing personal power, is by developing personal power, willpower, and awareness of how to use that willpower to be successful. The place where we win is not on a battlefield or a hockey field or room or you know the officer there's all play all places outwardly to win but the place where we first seek to win is in our mind when you win in your mind then in any outer outward endeavor you win so this is why they always have Zen in the So, this is why they always have Zen in the art of archery, Zen in the art of swordsmanship, Zen in the art of auto-maintenance.

0:06:59
Zen in the art of anything means that once you come to a place of Zen mind, you win inwardly, then anything that you do outwardly has a perfection, has a success. Has a success so we always seek to succeed in the mind and We start by meditating meditation, it's the practice of Refining attention being able to control the mind Control the mind Directing it towards light and eternity and eternity, instead of just being blown around like a leaf in the wind with thoughts.

0:07:46
We get some focus, attention, stillness, balance, clarity from meditation. This increases our personal power so that when we need to go out and do something, then we can win. It's kind of funny. then we can win. It's kind of funny. I remember one day was a very important day for me. I had so much I had to do. I had many errands to run. I had business meetings to go to.

0:08:17
I had just a really, really full day. And the errands were important, and the business was important. Very, very important things. very, very important things. So I woke up and I said, all right, I got all these important things to do. And then I sit and meditate. So most people would say, well, if you have so many things to do, maybe you better go do them, instead of just sitting around.

0:08:42
But that's what we do in Buddhism. We start our success, we start winning by sitting. we start winning by sitting. So it seems kind of backwards, just outwardly. But it's the secret to winning. It's connecting with the nothingness of everything. So in Zen, in Buddhism, in the spiritual world, we recognize that there's this emptiness.

0:09:12
In the spiritual world we recognize that there's this emptiness, this nothingness. And that nothingness is the still point of the universe. It's the essence of all things. And when you can sit in meditation and still your mind, your mind merges with that emptiness. mind, your mind merges with that emptiness. And in that emptiness, in that essence of all things, we gain a wisdom and a power. And then from that experience, from that experience power and wisdom, we can then act. And then when we act, we act with great success. Otherwise, success and winning can be a fluke. You can get lucky and win something.

0:10:17
But a master wins all the time. You refine your attention. You refine your attention. You develop your power. So that every time you win. And then this is a much more powerful way. Now, winning is a feeling. You have to observe the feeling of winning. Observe the feeling of winning. When you do something well, you win.

0:10:54
When you get more personal power, you win. When you pay attention to the details, when you do something that's impeccable, you win. And it gives you a feeling. It's a brighter feeling, a happier feeling, an uplifting feeling. a happier feeling, an uplifting feeling. So we seek to create that feeling in everything that we do. If you have to do laundry, you do laundry, but not like a slob, and not mindlessly.

0:11:31
You mindfully, with a bright attention, do your laundry perfectly. And then you get this winning feeling do your laundry perfectly. And then you get this winning feeling, just from doing laundry. So we always seek to do everything perfectly, so that we get that winning feeling. Now, being winning doesn't mean that you win. That means that you could be in a race and lose the race, but still win. But how could you lose the race and still win? It's because of that winning feeling.

0:12:16
That winning feeling is what we seek. There was, in 1984, the Olympics, the Winter Olympics, before the Olympics, the Winter Olympics, there was a, you know, those long jump skiers, there was one from England. And England had never actually participated in that event and that sport before, in the Olympics. But this one guy from England decided he wanted he wanted to learn. So I think he went to like Sweden and started learning. And he made it into the Olympics. And then he, I think only had a couple successful runs, or a few successful runs before he was in the Olympics. And then in the Olympics, he did his best. And I think he came in last. But he was overjoyed and happy.

0:13:19
Even though he came in last, he had a win. It was a tremendous win for him. So, that's what we seek. We seek that feeling of winning. Now, you could also win and lose. That's when you win outwardly in the wrong way. That means that you win in a way where you push somebody else down, where you're harmful, win at any cost, where you're negative. There's all sorts of negative, bad ways to win. negative, bad ways to win. Never win at the cost of another's happiness. You never use your energy to push someone down so that you can win. You never, you know, hurt someone to win. You never take from another to win. But many people do that, and then they like They like the stuff they get, but they lose inwardly.

0:14:29
And what they lose is they lose that winning feeling. So we have to observe when we get something, when we win something, outwardly, did we also win inwardly? If you win inwardly, then it's great. If you lose inwardly, then it's horrible. There's no sense in winning. inwardly, then it's horrible. There's no sense in winning. It's better not to have the thing, the outward thing. Let that go. Because even though you got something outwardly, your spirit is diminished. So we observe the feeling of winning. We observe it in everything We observe it in everything that we do.

0:15:15
And when we see that we lose that feeling, then we correct ourselves. Because that doesn't lead us to enlightenment. Now, losing happens. There's times where, outwardly, you lose the sale. the sale, you know, you didn't get the job, you know, and for some reason you picked the wrong lottery numbers. Go figure, right? So outwardly you could lose in all sorts of ways, and that's no fun, right?

0:15:54
Trying to win, trying to be successful outwardly is good. Or sometimes you see that you lose inwardly. Somehow you react and get angry at someone, You lose inwardly. Somehow you react and get angry at someone. Somehow you get down on yourself, fall into depression. These are ways of losing inwardly. So when you lose, don't try to hide it. Acknowledge it. See the truth. Admit it. see the truth, say, yeah, admit it, this was a loss.

0:16:30
This was a loss outwardly because of this, inwardly because of this. And then what you do is you analyze it. Say, why did I lose? Because if you admit honestly, you have to have great self-honesty. When you admit your loss, and you see the conditions for your failure, then you're able to make changes. You're able to say, okay, next time when I interview, I'm going to prepare myself for this, this, and this. Next time, I just won't play the lottery. Just something, you know, the lottery, something you can count on.

0:17:19
So, you know, we accept loss and we learn from loss. It's very important. There's opposition to success. There's opposition out there. In business, there's opposition. Another business is your competitor. In business, there's opposition. Another business is your competitor. They want to beat you. When you're trying to sell your products or services, so are they.

0:17:49
And they're trying to win over you. And in Japan, they have a saying where they say, they're trying to steal the rice off your family's table. your family's table. And you want to win. So you fight back. And in spirituality, there's opposition. On the pathway to enlightened consciousness, there's opposition. People. People see you ascending, getting higher, and it bothers them. It might be someone close to you, a family member, and they say, Wow, you're changing. I'm afraid of your change. So then they just have opposition. They say, Stop changing. Just inwardly. They push your buttons.

0:18:48
They push your buttons. So there's all sorts of types of opposition that we face. But we seek to overcome that opposition not by going down to the level of the competitor who wants to ruin your business or the loved one who's just confused and afraid. loved one who's just confused and afraid. We don't go into those levels of attention, but we face that opposition. And we face it with a very bright spirit, with the winning feeling.

0:19:26
We say, yeah, okay, that's happening, but I'm going to be above that. See, we come to recognize that the true competitor is The true competitor is simply limitation, illusion, not understanding life in its truest sense. When you have the true awareness, your mind is vast. There's many possibilities. Your mind is vast. There's many possibilities.

0:20:04
So when the competitor bothers you, you know many ways to succeed. In an enlightened way. In a positive way. When you have spiritual opposition, you see many ways, infinite ways, to succeed. Without having to hurt anyone, or yell at anyone, or get all bent out of shape. Or yell at anyone or get all bent out of shape This is what comes from an enlightened state of consciousness We see that there's unlimited enlightenment unlimited opportunity unlimited Not oh my god, I'm in this situation. I'm totally stuck. It's impossible It's never impossible I'm in this situation, I'm totally stuck, it's impossible.

0:20:51
It's never impossible. See, that's what we compete with. Impossibility. Limitation. And we knock down those barriers by ascending, elevating our consciousness. So this is important. So this is important. It's not others that we compete with to win. We compete with ourselves, with our own mind. It's your attention. It's your awareness. When it shifts, when it elevates, So, when I started learning martial arts from my Buddhist master, he told me to do competitions.

0:21:49
And I had been doing martial arts my whole life, ever since I was six. I just had not done these competitions. You know, kumite, where you spar with people, points. Spar with people, points. And so I started going to these matches, and I would always get second place. I would fight lots of people, win all the fights, up until the last fight, and then I'd lose. Even though I thought I could beat all those guys. I was like, I could beat them, it's just that I lost. And then my teacher said, so how's that going for you?

0:22:24
Your competitions. your competitions. And I said, it's going pretty good, except for I always lose the last fight. Always lose the last fight. Then he handed me a lighter. And I said, well, what's this for? He said, well, if you're losing all your matches. What he said was, he said that, you know, look at your state of mind in all the fights into the last one, and what's the difference? And he said, you're thinking. He said, you're just going until you get to that last thought, and then you start thinking. And I realized he was right. and then you start thinking. And I realized he was right. I would just go in to the first matches and I would just just fight. I would just go and then I get to the last match and I started thinking, wow, now I'm at the last match.

0:23:26
I can get first place. I start thinking about things. And then that brings in the thoughts of self and awareness that becomes very heavy and then I very heavy, and then I would lose. So upon that teaching, I went to another tournament, and I banished these thoughts. And then I won. And ever since then, all my other competitions I always won. And I was just aware not to think. So that was a form of where I blocked myself. So that was a form of where I blocked myself. I competed not against the opponent, I competed with myself to perfect my own mind.

0:24:12
And when you win inwardly, you tend to win outwardly. It works out nicely that way. Now, you have to be a winner. Winning is a state of mind. It's an approach to your whole life. You've got to create a winning image. A winner profile. You have to start saying, hey, okay, I'm going to start being a winner. Now, most people are losers. Yeah, or they think they're losers, and therefore they project being a loser. Most people, very, very few people have a winning image. Some are, you know, some very, very powerful, rich families or political families, they have a little secret.

0:25:12
political families, they have a little secret. They tell their children, you're a winner. And then they really tell them, they empower them with a winning image. But most people don't have that. Most people have a pretty much loser image. Most people do not push to be a winner. Most people do not push to be a winner. They just go, oh yeah, life's okay, I'm just going to get by. They have a certain wealth esteem, self esteem, that they're given by their family and their society.

0:25:55
So what we need to do is we need to break that. break that limited image, I call it a loser image, and create a winner image. You've got to start seeing yourself in a new way. You know who did this? Queen Latifah. So she was just a black woman in Brooklyn, and, you know, a bunch of social conditioning pushing her down, and just a lot of negative vibes coming towards her. And then you know what she did? She said, I am going to reinvent myself.

0:26:41
I don't know what her name was before, but she said, I am going to act as if I am a queen. And she really did. And she really did. She started creating a winning image of herself. She said, I am a queen. How would a queen act? And not just in a silly way, she really developed this winning image. And then she became very, very powerful and successful because of it. So you have to start saying, OK, I want to be a winner. So, you have to start saying, okay, I want to be a winner.

0:27:17
When you're a winner, you develop this winning feeling in everything. And that winning feeling creates momentum. You gain greater personal power and you start to win more. And you believe it more and you win more. So, you have to really make that winning image. So, what is a winning image? So what is a winning image? You have to see yourself as... What is your idea of success?

0:27:47
Maybe it's spiritual. You say, oh yes, I see success as being someone who's very compassionate, someone who's very mindful, someone who's very good at yoga, someone who's very, very good at discipline and meditation. discipline and meditation and you start to say I'm gonna be that I have an image of what that person looks like I'm gonna be that or maybe it's in business you say oh I saw this really great salesperson or this really good computer programmer I've seen this I want to be a CTO I've seen a CTO I want a CEO. I've seen this one CEO. I've seen this. It's an image in my mind and I'm gonna become that. And then you have to start looking the part, acting the part, being the part, feeling that winning feeling that brings you in the direction of that image.

0:28:48
that image. You have to stalk success. And then you gain it. You can't be a mess, right? You have to start with what you can start with. So let's say that you go, I want to be a CEO like Steve Jobs. Dead. So you say, I want to be this great CEO, and I want to So you say, I want to be this great CEO, and you say, I want to be like that, you know, read books and all these other things, and you're like, this is what I'm going to be like. And then you look at your room and it's a mess. Your finances are bad, right? You have to clean, you have to start where you can start. Clean up what you can clean up.

0:29:36
It's like, make your appearance strong for that image. Don't have like crazy hair. You have to look at what you want to be and get a haircut. And be organized. Have a strong attention. attention and you know dress well. Yeah, so you really have to pay attention and then that starts developing a strong attention, more personal power and you can get that winning feeling in everything that you do. But you can't say, oh I'm going to be Steve Jobs and just be a mess. You'll never get there.

0:30:24
mess, you'll never get there. You have to develop that and take steps there every moment. You have to have the idea, the vision, the image, and you have to have the feeling and success and impeccability that brings you to that image. And then you have the winning image. Now, you can get pulled down by people, or you can become positively buoyant with the right company. So if you're hanging around people who are negative, who have negative thoughts, who are losers, then you will become a loser. who are losers, then you will become a loser. You will psychically pick it up from them.

0:31:21
You got friends who like sitting around playing video games, you'll be sitting around playing video games. Friends who do drugs, you'll be doing drugs. Friends who are just losers, who are going to go nowhere in life, you will pick that up from them. If you hang out with people who are successful, If you hang out with people who are successful, you will be successful. I remember when I first joined the study, I walked in and I saw all of these older students who were very successful. Successful in their outer lives, and that's what I was looking at at the moment.

0:32:00
just starting off in my career. I saw all these people who were very, very successful computer programmers, and I didn't even think I could learn to program. But my teacher said, if you hang around a group of people who are strong in their commitment to success, you will have that success. Then that gave me confidence, and it worked out. worked out. So if you're hanging around a group of people who are successful, you will become successful. You will add to that group's power also. In the I Ching, they have the hexagram, the I Ching, the Chinese classic of change, the profound oracle of wisdom. And this means that one gives and one receives, and one constantly gives and one constantly receives.

0:32:59
The group sustains itself and enriches itself. This is the way of a team. This is the way of a sangha. This is the way that we succeed together. This is the way we win together, through helping each other out by being helped out. Strong attention for winning in the group, strong attention for winning in the individual brings strong attention to winning. to win it. It brings greater opportunity and winning. Now, there's something beyond winning and losing. It is enlightenment. So, we talk about winning and losing because it matters so much, but eventually it doesn't matter anymore. matter anymore. And you can experience that place where it doesn't matter by stopping thought, which is winning. The enlightened one have won, right? And then they don't have to win or lose anymore. It's true. So it's kind of like a rocket ship, right? It has to really, really, really, really use a lot of thrust to It has to really, really, really, really use a lot of thrust to push up.

0:34:29
But once it breaks out of the orbit, once it orbits the Earth, it's out of the gravity, it doesn't use any thrust. So winning is all about using that thrust and going higher. But eventually, because of winning so much, you get beyond the point where you need to have thrust. you get beyond the point where you need to have thrust, and you won't lose. Gravity won't pull you down. So, that is enlightenment. Not just a winning state of seeing that mind, but a condition, an integrated condition, where your spirit doesn't get pulled down by gravity.

0:35:12
You've pushed up, and you're out of that condition You've pushed up and you're out of that condition of Yin and Yang You're in that undifferentiated awareness of the essence of life at all moments and That's really winning Okay

