0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about the yoga of mysticism. The yoga of mysticism is the study of power. Power being bands of awareness, fields of attention. It is the discipline of intentionality where we shift ourselves from one place of power where we shift ourselves from one place of power in our mind to another. It's where we can take on the power of, let's say, a karate sensei. Or we could shift to the power of mind of a senior software engineer. software engineer. These are places of power that we can go in our mind. When we learn how to shift our power to the place of a karate sensei, even if we're not a karate sensei, we have that power, that way of being, which is a being, which is a way of shifting yourself to be more powerful, stronger, to experience that experience of awareness.

0:01:24
Or the senior software engineer, which is very powerful in another way, another attention, another way of being capable in life. another way of being capable in life. These are different powers that we shift to and from with our intention. And there's also the different kind of mystical higher realms. We shift into these places to experience eternity in beautiful spiritual ways. in beautiful spiritual ways.

0:02:08
There was once a yogi who came across, or there was a yogi who was studying with a master. This is in India. And the master said to this yogi, you are my most humble disciple. So I'm going to give you a power, the power to walk on water, because I want you to walk on to the Ganges, and I want you to teach the Dharma. And people will listen to you if you're standing on water. They'll think what you have to say is special. So the the master said, say this mantra and intend for it to give you the power to walk on water and it will work. So the yogi accepts the teaching, goes to the edge of the Ganges and says the mantra and then walks right out onto the water. right out onto the water. And then a lot of people see him walking on water so they crowd around. And then he starts teaching the Dharma. And people listen and they're inspired. So he does this day after day after day. Until one day he says, hmm, you know, I don't know if I even have to say that mantra. I think that was just to get me started. So then he I don't know if I even have to say that mantra. I think that was just to get me started.

0:03:41
So then he goes, I can do this myself. Walks out onto the Ganges. He's all yeah, look I did it. Then teaches the Dharma. This time there's something a little bit different. Some people while he's teaching get up and walk away. But he continues the next day. Doesn't do the mantra. Just goes out there himself. Fewer people come and then while he's teaching, a few more walk away. out there himself, fewer people come and then while he's teaching, a few more walk away. And then the next day, there's a great gathering of yogis. They do it every 12 years. And he says, oh, I'm going to go to this and everyone's going to be very impressed because of my power. So he goes to this gathering of thousands of yogis and he walks out onto the Ganges of thousands of yogis and he walks out onto the Ganges and people notice and then he starts speaking the Dharma and then all of a sudden he falls into the water and is swept downstream.

0:04:40
He gets out alive though. the yogi lost the way to use power in a positive way, where he moved from being humble to being selfish, from using the power in a way that works to a way that doesn't work. So in the study of power, we learn a way of truth in power a way of truth in power and a way of Dharma, a way that brings us into a greater truth. So, as yogis of mysticism, we learn how to use powers and use them in constructive ways that bring us greater awareness and enlightenment. Now, when you start off learning mysticism, you become aware of two sides of the universe, two sides of your life.

0:05:50
The first attention and the second attention. The first attention is the seen world, everything you can see or think. It is everything. It is everything. The second attention is everything else. It is the world of spirit, the world of enlightenment. It is the intangible luminosity that cannot even be described, but it is the place where spiritual seekers seek. They seek that beautiful, enlightened, luminous experience. experience. So when you're setting out on your pathway to enlightenment, you're completely in the first attention, in the seen world. And then you say, oh wait, what I really want is that which is beyond this physical world, that which is enlightenment. And then you unseen world, the second attention.

0:06:51
So you could consider it knowing the seen world and the unseen world is the balance of life. We don't just run away from the first attention because we want to just jump into the second attention. We come to a balance. the second attention. We come to a balance. So we make our physical lives very strong and we also make our spiritual lives very strong. If we abandoned our first attention, then a lot of spiritual people do, then they end up very spaced out and it's hard for them to operate in the physical in the physical world, it's difficult for them to keep a job, it's difficult for them to comb their hair. So they have difficulty because they're too focused on astral dimensions and the spirit that their physical worlds don't work out. So we keep a balance and that means that we make our physical lives And that means that we make our physical lives very, very, very strong.

0:08:05
This is essential in mysticism. You make sure that your career is strong, that your health is strong, that your house is clean and bright the way that you want it, dress well, that your relationships are tight and bright and positive and supportive. So we make sure that everything in our physical world is strong and balanced. And then, in our spiritual practice, we go deeper into the second attention, and the second attention And then, as we make our second attention stronger, we also see that in the physical world, we have greater success, greater experiences of balance. So, these are both places. You improve your first attention, it improves your second attention. You improve your second attention, it improves your first attention.

0:09:12
your first attention. This is how the mystic yogi develops themselves. Now, in developing your first attention, you first have to really assess your life. The first attention is the primary place where we begin, because it's the seen world, what we can see. So we have we can see. So we have to make sure that first attention is strong. And so you assess your life. How is your life? Is it tight? Is it bright? Are there places where you're losing energy? You can consider your life like a house. Let's say you have a house and it's a little bit drafty. So you have a lot of heat going, but it's still cold in the house. So you have to go through the house going, but it's still cold in the house. So you have to go through the house and see what's going on. Oh, whoa, look, I left a window open. I've got to close that window. Oh, I got to do some weather stripping. Yeah, okay. So you figure out the places where you're losing energy, and then you stop losing energy, energy. And then you start to look at how to gain more energy. So energy is very, very important to the mystic yogi. So yoga is the study of power. Power is energy. So we look at how to stop losing power, and we look at ways to gain power.

0:10:48
look at ways to gain power. So you might say, hey, I'm going to put up some solar panels on the house. I'm going to put up a windmill. Yeah, so you find new ways to gain and foster the development of power. The greatest power is the power of the universe. Power is everywhere. It's just a question of can you access it. And the way that you can access the power of the universe is when you meditate. So in meditation, everything goes away and you come directly face to face with eternity. directly face to face with eternity and in in that awareness of eternity in that unlimited spiritual experience beyond thought Everything is possible anything is possible There's every possibility for every success When you stop thought and you come to experience the light directly stop thought and you come to experience the light directly.

0:12:06
It's only thoughts that limit power, thoughts that limit the light. So when you see limitation in your world, in your life, start to think about it differently. about it. And there's unlimited possibilities to overcome those limitations. Now in mysticism, it's important to grow your awareness in the second attention. And a very good exercise for that is gazing. So very for that is gazing. So very often in meditation with me in satsang, I will at some point say, look to me during a meditation. And I'm usually talking about a specific spiritual subject, And I say, okay, let's do a meditation gaze up towards me look towards me and then I demonstrate it and Just by looking at me while I demonstrate whatever Spiritual concept I'm speaking about Then your awareness grows Because you're seeing a direct expression in the second attention of that teaching It's a very powerful way It's a very powerful way to expand your second attention, strengthen your second attention awareness.

0:13:44
And there's also the yantras. So I have a yantra set of six yantras that I've given my students. And yantras are powerful ways of growing the second attention, powerful ways of growing the second attention. Especially with the six set, you go through them consecutively and it brings your second attention on a journey and it expands your are ways to open the second attention. Now, in mysticism, it's very important to make sure that in your closet. Because your room is a place where you draw power from. You sleep there, you dream there, you meditate there, you have your altar there. It's a place where you spend a lot of time. It's a place where you have all of your things set. So it's a place where So it's a place where you draw power from.

0:15:16
So it's very important to make sure that your room is clean. It's important where you live. You draw power from the location that you live as well, because your room is in the house that you live in. So it's important that you make sure that you live in a place that is in a place that is happy, strong, and balanced to you. A place that you like. You should feel good about where you live. It's a place that is powerful for you. Now, it's always good to live near water because water has a power that's detoxifying because water has a power that's detoxifying and strengthening. So it's good to live near a river, a lake, an ocean. It's a beautiful element where you connect with that detoxification power of water and it keeps you balanced. Now and it keeps you balanced. Now, if you live in a place that has bad energy, then you should move, because the place that you live is a place of power for you. And if you feel that it's not a a place that is good. Places of power vary. Places of power, if you live in a place that automatically has good energy by its own nature, you live in a place of power. Then that power, that good energy of the place enhances your life. Living near the ocean enhances your life. Places the ocean enhances your life. Places of power have proximities, are energy lines. So, you know, if you live a half an hour from a place where you can work, then that's a certain kind of balance. If you live too far from a place that you can work, even if it's near you can work, even if it's near the ocean, it's too far to be balanced for your life.

0:17:44
So you seek for being in places that have a good proximity for the things that you need in your Yogis of mysticism also like to be with other seekers, seekers of power. If you're with a group of people who are also seeking power, going through the disciplines of power, then you strengthen each other. You're a group with the same goal, and you make more progress together. Now, if you hang out with people who don't seek power, it's often that they're draining your energy. When you're hanging out with them, just talking about nothing powerful, not doing anything powerful together, together and that person doesn't care or seek or want power, they have no discipline, then just being with them, if you interact with them closely, you probably will lose power being with them. So in mysticism, we always look at our lives, the things we do, our interactions, with different people, we look at everything as does it give you power or take power away from you. So it's important for a mystic yogi to really assess the things that they do and the people that they're with to see if they lose power. And if you lose power, you have to make a change. You have to modify you have to make a change. You have to modify the situation. Close the window.

0:19:42
Turn up the heat, right? You got to stop losing energy from a place where you lose power. So this is important. You know, we have something called advising your death. And this is realizing that you never know when you're going to die and we have a very short life. So in the time that we have, and we have a very short life. So in the time that we have, we got to take action to get higher and brighter. We can't just say, oh well, I'm stuck in this situation or oh I'm hanging around this person, it's okay, I'll get out of it someday. With that attitude, you're always stuck. You're never going to get ahead. But when we advise our death and know that we're not going to live that long, you're never going to get ahead. But when we advise our death and know that we're not going to live that long, that any moment we could die, then we wake up. We take action to make our lives better and stronger. When we are seeking power and gaining power, we also must be modest. We have to blend in. We can't look like we're bigger, stronger, because we'll just look at the wrong kind of attention. So even in martial arts, if you get a black belt, you don't start walking around like you want to get into a fight, being more You don't start walking around like you want to get into a fight, you know, being more aggressive.

0:21:17
When you get a black belt, you actually become more humble, more invisible, because you have a greater awareness. You avoid any kind of conflict. So we want to avoid attention simply by blending in. Now, the primary way that you learn the yoga of mysticism is by being with a teacher of mysticism. The teacher teaches via transference. So we have a very important aspect of the study called empowerment. important aspect of the study called empowerment. So a teacher of mysticism will sit with you and will transfer because they have so much power, they will transfer power directly to you. And when you experience that power then you learn that power.

0:22:23
So the teacher is the catalyst for The teacher is the catalyst for the mystic, because without the teacher, you go very, very slow. Just like in karate, if you were learning karate from a book, you would probably learn, but just not really powerful or well. sensei who was very very powerful fifth degree black belt That sensei would be able to teach you many things that you had no idea about but the book couldn't explain so the teacher of mysticism is able to Transfer directly those different powers to you so that you can experience them Now the the danger in Now, the danger in mysticism is that you get hooked on power, because the teacher will give you power, powers after powers after powers.

0:23:28
And if you get hooked on power, then you miss the point. A lot of mystics might just be all into the world of power, power, power, all sorts of powers. of power, power, power, all sorts of powers, right? And forget the point. And the point of power is to change you, to change your view of life, your description of the world. So you look at life in a certain way, but then once you're the one walking on water, you look at life differently. Once you're the karate black belt, you look at life differently. Once you're the senior engineer, Once you're the senior engineer, you become a different person and you look at life differently. So you've got to change your description of the world. And through power, you can make that change after all these empowerments, all these transmissions. You change, you change, you change.

0:24:20
But you can't just get caught in saying, yeah, now I can walk on water, be a karate black belt and a senior engineer. That's who I am now. Now I can walk on water, be a karate black belt and a senior engineer. That's who I am now. No, no, no. We just wanted you to change. So that's when you have to have a sense of humor and laugh at yourself and say, oh, there I go again, thinking on this. And then you change.

0:24:42
Nope, there I go again. Now I think on that. In mysticism, we always have a very good sense of humor. always have a very good sense of humor. And we realize that the whole point of all of this is to change, and changing is dissolving the self, and we dissolve the self again and again and again and again and again through these different powers until we realize we are no self, and that is enlightenment. Thank you very much.

