0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about Dharma and Karma. Dharma means truth. Karma means action. And it's important for a spiritual seeker to understand the truth and the actions to Because this is the way beyond suffering and this is a way to enlightenment So let's start with truth Dharma is the truth of life It's the truth that there's a Sun that there's a moon It's the truth that there's an ocean and that there's land It's the truth that there's wind and that there's rain at the same time it's the truth that there's a city that there's wind and that there's rain. At the same time, it's the truth that there's a city, that there's, you know, movies, that you are, that I am, that we all are. Everything that's true is real. It's the truth of cavities and it's the truth of dentists. Just whatever is actually actually true, that is Dharma. So we seek, as spiritual practitioners, to align ourselves with that which is true in life. We want to see life more truly. So these are, you know, the fact that there's wind and rain and suns and moons, these are things that everybody everybody experiences as true. So this is what we would call universal Dharma, universal truths. But there's also individual Dharmas. So even though there's a Sun and a Moon, you might have some personal thing that really, really works for you to know life, to be more powerful in life, to see life more truly.

0:02:00
life, to see life more truly. And that might be something like, you know, you're choosing between living in LA or New York, what's better for your life? You might be choosing, should I be a doctor or a software engineer? What's better for your life? You might be saying, should I learn to meditate or should I, you know, take up yoga or should I... Whatever I whatever your whatever is right for you is your Dharma that which leads you personally to a greater truth. So we seek not only to understand the universal Dharma's the universal truth but we also want to see what's the right thing for us. Now the universal Dharma you It's the rhythm of life. And within that rhythm, you will have your own rhythm. The thing is that your rhythm, within that rhythm of the universal dharma, has to also match the universal dharma.

0:03:04
So you can't be out of rhythm in your personal dharma. If it's out of rhythm with the universal dharma, then you're obscuring truth. universal Dharma, then you're obscuring truth. You say, oh yeah, I know what I want to do. I want to go and be a movie director or a movie star. And you go and do that and you find that your life becomes harder, let's say. And then you say, okay, now I've just done something to take myself out of truth. is in every endeavor a Dharma. So there's universal, there's personal, and then for every endeavor, everything has a Dharma. So let's say that you, you know, let's say your body, right? There's a Dharma for your body, a certain diet, certain level of exercise, a certain amount of sleep. It's these things that are appropriate for your, for your physical these things that are appropriate for your physical body to thrive. And this is the Dharma for your body. There's also, let's say, a Dharma for a business, right? So there's a certain way to run a business. There's certain things that you do to successfully run a business. That is the So in every endeavor, there's a way to truth. There's a way to do it in a way that it shows you more truth, or so that it is correct. So Dharma is life, unfiltered, the facts, the truth. There's also deeper aspects of truth, ultimate aspects of truth. So you might say, So you might say, well, here's the truth of the physical world. There's the earth and there's the sky.

0:04:55
And then, knowing that, you know something that is true. But you also might say, hey, wait a minute, I've learned this thing called the Buddha Dharma. I've learned this enlightened truth. So you might learn how to meditate. And when you sit down and learn how to meditate, you see a greater truth that not only you say, oh, there's earth and sky, see a greater truth that not only you say, oh, there's earth in the sky, but it illuminates your spirit and you say, wow, this is exciting, ecstatic. This is so powerful and beautiful because I have seen a deep, deep truth of the universe. And in seeing the truth, we can know life more completely. We can be more successful in our endeavors. And we just see how life is.

0:05:36
in our endeavors and we just see how life is and when we see the truth, the ultimate truth in meditation, then all of a sudden we're like ecstatic because we see the truth of life. So we work on trying to see life in clearer ways in every way. We want our physical life to be good, we want our businesses way. We want our physical life to be good. We want our businesses to be good. If we knew, if we could see clearly exactly what to do in business, you can make very successful business without struggle. If you knew everything that you needed to know, if you could see it all very clearly, then you just can go forth and succeed. If you know the truth of If you know the truth of life, if you can see the truth of life in its essence, in its eternal essence, then what you see is you see illumination, spiritual illumination.

0:06:39
So we seek to refine our view of life so that we can see the Dharma, we can see the truth in everything. You can see the truth in everything. And we do that in every way, but the primary way that we do it is through meditation. So when you sit there and stop your thought, then you see a greater truth. Thoughts limit your view of truth. So when you can stop thought, slow down thought, then your consciousness expands and you see life more clearly. expands and you see life more clearly. So the clearest view of life is Samadhi. It is totally stopping thought and going into this enlightened state of mind. And then in that enlightened state of mind you are completely perceiving the truth of life, which is pretty ecstatic. Now when learning about Dharma and Karma, it's important to consider the enlightened teacher. The enlightened teacher exists in Samadhi and they're in this enlightened state of mind, so they are an expression of Dharma. They They know the Dharma.

0:08:01
So they have no confusions about what is true, what is not true. They know the truth. They know the essential truth. I mean, they might not be able to tell you what horse to bet on, or what stocks to buy, or something like that, but they know the essential truth of life. And therefore, in any aspect of life, they are perceiving truth.

0:08:24
they are perceiving truth. They also know karma, and that is how to tell you what to do to get to truth. So they say, I see the truth, let me show you what the truth is, and let me tell you, to get here, here's what you've got to do. Here's the actions you've And that's a very, very important aspect of the path. Because if you don't know the truth, if you find a spiritual book and you read it, you have some idea, but you still might not know the truth. If you're with a teacher who's not enlightened, that teacher might not know the truth. Or they might know a partial truth that they're teaching you. So you want to know the truth. teaching you. So you want to know the truth. So the enlightened one who has a direct connection with Dharma, the ultimate Dharma, is someone who is very important to study with. Now, completely interrelated. When we look at karma, the basic understanding of karma is, you know, if I do X, then X is going to happen to me. And this is a basic view. You think, if I go out and give someone a million dollars, then someone's going to come over and give me a million dollars. But it doesn't really work that way. That's just a very, very simple way of looking really work that way. That's just a very, very simple way of looking at it. What happens is when you do something, it affects your state of mind. And your state of mind will then have a result. What happens in the physical world will manifest from your state of mind.

0:10:21
So if you go out and give someone some money, it doesn't mean that someone's going to come doesn't mean that someone's going to come and give you money. It just means that if you go out and give someone money, it changes the way that you look at things and you actually see truth more. So your good karma might not be exactly the same thing that you did. But if you do something really, really powerful, it changes your mind in really, really, really powerful, it changes your mind in really, really, really positive ways. So like, let's say there was somebody like a holy man, an enlightened person, who was going to be pushed off of a cliff, right? Someone has an enemy of him. And you go and stop the person from him and you go and stop the person from pushing him. You save this enlightened person's life. By doing something like that, you gain a great karma. And what happens is your attention ascends into a greater vision of truth. And that's a very, very powerful act. So you come to a very, very, very high place in attention. So we always seek to do good things, to create good karma, not because we have any expectation of what we're going to get in return, just because by doing something good, we see greater truth, we feel better for it. So we seek at times on the pathway to enlightenment to do good, to be good, we always seek a greater truth.

0:12:08
And by following this, by meditating, by doing actions that result in greater truth, we experience a much faster pathway of evolution. So everybody is in a state of mind, Everybody is in a state of mind. And some states of mind don't have a nice experience, and some states of mind do. What we try to do is we try to move into states of mind that are a beautiful experience. Let's say like driving, like highways. You might be driving down I-5, right in the center of the valley, going from San Francisco to Los Angeles. Valley, going from San Francisco to Los Angeles. And when you're driving down through I-5, you know, there's cattle farms, there's, you know, just, it's not very pretty. There's nothing to see really. Now, if you get down the Pacific Coast Highway, you're going down, driving down Big Sur, beautiful mountains, beautiful ocean. Your experience driving that your experience driving that way is very different than when you're driving down in the hot valley, right?

0:13:19
So we always seek to make decisions that get us to a more beautiful state of mind, a more beautiful experience. So we always go down the ocean, the ocean way. But if you do something profound, like save the life of that enlightened person, of that enlightened person, then you actually enter into even a higher state of mind. So instead of going from I-5 to the Pacific Coast Highway, then you're all of a sudden on a jet, you know, flying, and you can see forever over the ocean. So there are different states of mind, and you shift into different states of mind by taking actions that follow truth.

0:14:00
taking actions that follow truth. Now, the jet is the enlightened state of mind. It's the fastest, it's the highest, it's the most vast view. To change states of mind, people usually take a long time doing lots of little things. That's why we work on it continuously. Mindfulness, That's why we work on it continuously. Mindfulness, meditation, we work on seeing greater truth in our physical lives, in our business and careers. We always are continuously trying to be impeccable and making our lives better, because when we do that, we slowly shift from one of those highways to another, and then eventually, you're on the jet. you're on the jet. So we also in our school, we marry our physical world with our spiritual world. So for example, in business, we're working on business, but with the intent to know truth, with the intent to see eternity. So when we're working on our business, we're eternity. So when we're working on our business, we're not just like everybody else, just having a physical experience. We're having a spiritual experience. When we see that we figure out things in business, we figure out things in spirit. We say, oh wow. So we grow in terms of our spirit, awareness of truth, and personal power by marrying our spiritual experience awareness of truth and personal power by marrying our physical activities to our inner spiritual awareness. Additionally, when you are experiencing difficulty, hardship, anger, depression, we don't say, I am bad. When we experience hardship, we I am bad.

0:16:03
When we experience hardship, we don't say, I guess I'm not spiritual, right? I'm angry, I am upset about this, this, I'm mad at that person, you know, like we don't we don't just say, oh I am bad, and I'm stuck outside of out of Dharma. What we do is from within our anger, from within our depression, we focus on Dharma. anger from within our depression, we focus on Dharma. Dharma actually exists there as well. So we are so spiritually oriented to truth that we can say, oh look, I'm depressed and oh wow, that has some meaning to me. I'm angry. I have some, that teaches me something. There's something that is, that directs my spirit. I learned something from it. Not that is that directs my spirit, I learn something from it.

0:16:52
Not that I have to drop it, not that I'm dwelling on it or being attached to it, I am just focusing, my spiritual orientation is completely focused on Dharma. So this would be like an alcoholic going into a bar, right? And being able to just be in the bar, Right? And being able to just be in a bar, talk with some friends, and not have to say, oh gosh, I have to have a drink. You'd be able to be in the situations that hurt you or cause you suffering, but you're not stuck. And that's why we always have stories of the So there was a famous enlightened Zen master who traveled to a temple. He comes to the temple and the monks are so happy to meet this famous Zen master.

0:17:51
The Zen master sits down, gives a Dharma talk, everyone's illuminated and bright. And then the Zen master, he goes to the kitchen, somehow he gets chicken, right? goes to the kitchen, somehow he gets chicken, right? So he's sitting there eating chicken, and this one monk comes to him and says, Oh my god, Master, you can't do that. That's against the rules. A monk has to be a vegetarian. And then the master just eats the chicken. Next day, again, he gives a beautiful talk about the Dharma, everyone's illuminated. And then the same monk finds the master a little bit later, drinking sake. And he's little bit later, drinking sake. And he's like, Master, you can't drink sake. That's against the vinyas of what the monks are supposed to do. And then the master finishes it. And then the next night, again, a beautiful dharma talk. And then somehow the monk, he's like, I gotta go check on this master, because he's always doing something wrong. So he, he, he something wrong. So he goes over to the master's room, opens the door, and the master's there having sex with a woman. And he's like, Master, you can't do that! That's the worst thing!

0:19:02
And then the master said, I can. And then the monk has Satori, his enlightened experience. monk has Satori, his enlightened experience. He went beyond the opposites. You can't, you can't, you can't. This is bad, this is bad, this is bad. And then he finally saw that this enlightened master could eat chicken, could drink sake, could have sex with a woman, still be this enlightened master. So, what we really seek to do is transcend the opposites. We don't only follow truth to have good karma, we follow truth to go even beyond good karma, to transcend the opposites and to experience enlightenment. This is Buddha's original Buddha's original quandary. He said, oh my gosh, there's death. I don't want to die. You know, I'm a prince. I shouldn't die. Then he went on the spiritual path. And then he eventually he went beyond the opposite. And he said, I have conquered death. They might look at his physical life and say, yeah, but then you die 48 years later. So, you know, How did that happen? Because he, you know, the physical world is just a world of transients and the opposites. But when you, in your spirit, see the Buddha Dharma, the truth, the essential truth of life, then you can defeat death, because you can defeat life. And that is Dharma and Karma.

0:20:47
Thank you very much.

