0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about freedom. Freedom is being extricated from limitation. being extricated from limitation. It is being free of suffering. Freedom is knowing truth, the truth of life. Freedom is spiritual enlightenment. Now the funny thing is that most people go around Now the funny thing is that most people go around seeking freedom backwards. Most people think that freedom is kind of getting what they want.

0:01:05
Freedom is getting what I want. It starts with like observing things in the physical world, in the outer world. out in the outer world. I don't want to work. It's like something I don't want to do. I'd be free if I didn't have to do this. Sometimes there's obligations or people have demands on you, your boss, your family, your friends, and freedom is, I don't want to do that. I And freedom is, I don't want to do that. I don't want to do what you want me to do. I want to do what I want to do. So people kind of seek freedom in the outer world. They might think freedom is, I want to go to a Knicks game.

0:01:57
I want to go on my private jet to France. to France. Whatever you want to do is what you would call your freedom. And if you can't do what you want to do, you would say, well, I'm limited. Now, in Buddhism, we seek freedom inwardly. And rather than seeking it and trying to strive for it in the external world, we Rather than seeking it and trying to strive for it in the external world, we try to find that freedom inside. Because there is no freedom in the external world. Even if you could not work, and you could not have to deal with people who give you a hard time, and then you got on your airplane to France, you'd keep wanting more things to be freer and freer and freer. And in the outer wanting more things to be freer and freer and freer. And in the outer world, there's no end to that.

0:02:58
In the inner world, you say, wow, there's this part of me that just keeps wanting stuff. Let me be free of that. And if you're free of that desire, a part of yourself that feels that it needs other a part of yourself that feels that it needs other things, doesn't understand its innate beauty and eternity, eternality, then if you don't, if you lack that awareness, you're going to always desire something, but if you recognize the truth of your being, you're able to let go of desire, being, you're able to let go of desire, then in the outer world, you have freedom as well. So in Buddhism, we start with the inner world, and we become free inside. And then we recognize that in any condition in the outer world, we are also free. We have that freedom. So, you know, people kind of are, they hold themselves in prison.

0:04:11
They hold themselves in prisons with no bars, no doors, but they hold themselves. It's because they have concepts and ideas, personal history. personal history. And with these ideas, we bind ourselves. We're not free. There is a Zen master, Sozen. A monk comes to him and says, please, master, sprinkle your compassion And then the Zen master says, who put you under restraint? And then the monk said, no one. Then why do you need to be liberated? So then the monk reflects on this.

0:05:04
And in that moment he becomes liberated. He has this satori moment of enlightenment. moment of enlightenment because he recognized that all of the dissatisfaction, limitation that he had came from himself. He was the one restraining himself. We recognize that in our mind we have angers, desires, frustrations, dissatisfactions, attachments, ideas, all these things. That is all in our head. These are all ideas, all concepts that are not real. They're illusions.

0:06:00
And with this experience of these thoughts and with the inability to let go of them, we are binding ourselves. When you think a thought of anger, you're binding yourself. When you think a thought of desire, you're binding yourself. No one has you under restraint but yourself. So, what we seek truly is freedom from the self. Freedom from our own selves. Because this whole self thing is way overrated. This whole self thing creates just tremendous suffering. The self creates ideas and believes life to be a certain way, in a fixed way.

0:06:50
And then you become a fixed self. in a fixed way, and then you become a fixed self. You have to be fluid. When you're fluid, you're powerful. You see reality, but when you're fixed, you don't see reality. When elephants are young in Thailand, they'll take a rock, tie a rope around it they'll take a rock, tie a rope around it, and tie it to the elephant's back leg so that when the elephant just feels like walking out into the jungle, it can't.

0:07:23
It goes, oh, I can't go so far. Now, the elephant, when it grows up, it's still got that same little rock holding it back. And it just knows, oh yeah, I remember. And it just knows, oh yeah, I remember, I tried before, and I tried to walk into the jungle, but I couldn't because that thing stopped me. And of course now, the elephant being fully grown, could just completely walk, you know, and hardly even notice that thing dragging behind it. But it just learned from a fixed experience what life was, which was incorrect. experience what life was, which was incorrect.

0:08:04
Now this is what we all do. We limit ourselves with something called personal history. When we were six, we got a bad grade in math, and we created this idea, I'm bad at math. Then you maybe didn't go into a career in rocket science, maybe didn't go into a career in rocket science or computer programming or something because you just thought, no yeah, I'm not that kind of person. But that is just personal history. We do this in so many ways. We create a very fixed image of who we are. And if we knew the reality, we'd probably be able to walk beyond a whole bunch of a whole bunch of dissatisfactions, limitations, and suffering, just because we're in the moment and understanding our power and consciousness now. So this is what we do. Now some people think that they have to have the perfect situation to be free. They go, I can't be free, I got the job in the morning. And so they say, in order for me to be free, I would have to be, let's see, And so they say, in order for me to be free, I would have to be, let's see, in Hawaii, in a beautiful home that's already paid for, and I have a million dollars, and I have an enlightened teacher sitting there teaching me all the time.

0:09:29
That's how I can be free. You know, it's like, there's an idea, right? But the problem with that is, wherever you go, there you are. And what would happen if you were in that situation? are. And what would happen if you were in that situation? All sorts of weird things. Because the self would be there. You'd be like, well, I don't really like Hawaii anymore. I want to go skiing. I don't, you know, okay, well, having a house and money is kind of cool, but, yeah, the enlightened teacher is just boring now. I want a different one. You I want a different one. You know, you're going to go through all sorts of stuff.

0:10:04
And that's because you're a self. So, wherever you go, there you are. So the idea is, get rid of you. And then there's no suffering. Now, in the great traditions, they did this pattern. So, let's say, ancient Chinese Buddhism, somebody wants to learn about enlightenment. So, let's say, ancient Chinese Buddhism, somebody wants to learn about enlightenment, they go to an ashram. And this was really good. But what happened in the degenerated times that we're in now, is that there's no enlightened people in ashrams anymore. In the ashrams, are not very advanced. So when you go to that, you're, oh, I'm not even learning really enlightenment, but I'm hanging out in a different place. But then what happens is these places just kind of have bureaucracy and pecking order and cliques and all sorts of stuff. It's like a little society. So when So when you leave the world and you go into the ashram, now the ashram is corrupt.

0:11:18
Wherever you go, there you are, and the ashram has turned into you. If people haven't truly been selfless in the ashram, then there's a bunch of self in the ashram. So that doesn't even work. Now I remember I met a guy I met a guy who was a Buddhist monk for 23 years, so since he was like 18, a Buddhist monk in India. And he was totally into it, and then he quit. And he quit because he said, oh, it was horrible.

0:11:57
It's like, who got this empowerment or that empowerment? And who got this teaching or that teaching? empowerment, and who got this teaching or that teaching. There was this whole bunch of monks and lamas just having little kind of power plays. He was like, the pettiness of it all, so terrible. So he just wanted to get out of there. And then all he wanted So I don't know if that was more elevating for him. It was a freedom of a sort, right? Getting out of something that didn't work. So wherever you go, there you are. If there's a beautiful Buddhist monastery and there's a bunch of self in there, there's gonna be pettiness and arguing and bickering and pecking order and all that stuff.

0:12:50
So we gotta get beyond that. all that stuff. So we got to get beyond that. You have to be able to see through both things. Got to see through the world. So you're in the world, you're not in the ashram. So in the world, you don't have to try to run to an ashram. You can find freedom here in the world. If you're in the ashram, like this guy in that, he saw that it was all fake. That enlightenment wasn't really there. Freedom wasn't there. So he had to get free of that place. So when you're on the pathway to freedom, you have to have a lot of courage. You have to have a lot of courage.

0:13:38
Courage to see things the way they really are. You've got to have a lot of courage to see yourself. To really quiet your mind. Look at your intent, your positive motivations, but also your negative motivations. going to a Zen monastery, and they had a little painting at the front of the door of a monk sitting in meditation looking into a mirror, and what was reflected back to him in the mirror was a horrible monster. So this is like, it takes courage to look at your dark sides, your negativity. But, you know, what happens is, when you face it, with the light of the mind, that you learned from Buddhism, following the Dharma, when you face those hardships, the light of the mind casts upon the shadows, and the shadows fade.

0:14:48
And that's the only way. Because otherwise that monster will always be hanging out in there, crawling around, scratching about, will just come out every once in a while and make things horrible for you. So you have to have that courage to face that. And when you do, then the darkness goes away and you see new spiritual possibilities. away and you see new spiritual possibilities. We call them dimensions of awareness, dimensions of light. And when you see those dimensions, you're able to shift into them. You're able to experience life in different states of consciousness that are higher, brighter, beautiful, filled with luminosity and love, shimmering beautiful places.

0:15:43
So you're able to actually get beyond these limits of self and see life in much, much bigger, brighter ways. This is freedom. If you were angry and then you've run into a meditative state and moved away from your anger, that's freedom. Moved away from your anger. That's freedom When you're a sense of self a description of self and you shift Not in a little way But what I'm when what we do in Buddhism Isn't just changing a mood It changes your being it's a very profound change of self change of self.

0:16:26
The idea of the self completely changes from a certain personal history, certain struggles, certain emotions. It changes to a very, very beautiful state, a different dimension, a different condition that's completely luminous, bright, beautiful, devoid of suffering. This is what freedom is. This is what freedom is. Now a lot of people on the pathway to enlightenment beat themselves up. They have an idea of what they should attain or what experience they should have and then they see that they're not living up to their expectations.

0:17:12
living up to their expectations. So they're sitting there going, oh gosh, darn, I'm supposed to have positive thoughts and I don't. I'm such an idiot. They do this all the time. Oh man, I was supposed to be compassionate, but instead, I got mad and gave somebody a special hand sign to show them how I felt. a special hand sign to show them how I felt. A special mood draw. The middle finger mood draw.

0:17:46
You know, and so they go, oh man, and they beat themselves up because they are not living up to their expectations. And this is, this is going on to the pathway to freedom and finding less freedom. and finding less freedom, these frustrations. A lot of times people have ideas of themselves, I'm gonna be enlightened. And then when they see that they're actually just kind of like a base slob, they go, oh, this is horrible. So what's necessary is that for freedom, the first step of freedom is accepting yourself.

0:18:24
What's necessary is that for freedom, the first step of freedom is accepting yourself. Accepting yourself. Not being a hypocrite, but enjoying your life. So if you think you have to be enlightened, yet you can't meditate well, then when you're meditating you're like, oh gosh, I'm not stopping thought, I'm not going into Samadhi, this is horrible. when you're meditating, you're like, oh gosh, I'm not stopping thought, I'm not going into Samadhi. This is horrible.

0:18:53
But if you can just sit there and enjoy your meditation, enjoy focusing on the chakra, enjoy bringing your mind back when you've noticed your thinking, bringing your mind back and just enjoy the moment, the spiritual moments that you can. You're not the master of meditation yet. the master of meditation yet. Maybe you will be, but just enjoy where you're at. Enjoy the Dharma, enjoy truth the way that you experience it, the way that you see it, the way that it comes to you. But if you're sitting there, you know, saying I gotta be Buddha and your meditation is horrible and you're nasty to people, then you're frustrating yourself. You will actually start seeing that you will then you're frustrating yourself.

0:19:39
You will actually start seeing that you will be less nasty to people when you start liking your experience. You start enjoying yourself and saying, Hey, I like this part of meditation. I'm struggling with mindfulness, but I noticed that it worked a little bit. Then you start to say, Oh, good, there's something happening. There's something happening. So that way you see something good happening versus 90% of everything bad not happening. Bad things happen and it will throw you off. So observe the good and enjoy your life.

0:20:15
That's the way to, that's the first step of freedom. very excellent practice, a structure of finding freedom. And this is called erasing the self. So if you know who you are, then you're stuck, right? That's the self-idea, self-concept. And you know yourself and everything's fixed and limited. So the idea is to stop knowing fixed and limited. So the idea is to stop knowing the self. We actually try to erase the self. We try to change this self-definition. But we do it in very constructive ways. And then we see that changing the self, not knowing, not having a fixed idea of the self, is a good thing. We say, We say, ah, that's great. And the way that we do it is by challenging ourselves. So let's say that you're an artist and you're like, it's my life's work to paint something, to paint.

0:21:29
And then you really believe that that's who you are. Well then, for erasing the self, for freedom, your teacher will say, okay, here's what I Erasing the self, a freedom that your teacher will say, okay, here's what I want you to do. For enlightenment, right? For freedom, you've got to learn computer programming. And then you say, I'm an artist, I don't do computer programming, right? And then, well, that's your spiritual practice. And then you learn to be a computer programmer. And then you've, what have you done?

0:22:02
You've erased the idea that you are just an artist. And then you've, what have you done? You've erased the idea that you are just an artist. And then you've seen that you became something else. And then we do it again and again and again, keep going. Because the self will fix, again, it'll fix itself, that it'll attach to a new idea. But we have to keep changing, keep changing, and we create the spiritual momentum. And then, and we create this spiritual momentum, and then, you know, the spirit gets... your higher self gets savvy, and then you can become enlightened. You can see that you're no-self. So let's say that you're like, I don't like contact sports. Then your enlightened teacher will say, get a black belt in karate. And you'll be like, oh my gosh, that's a contact sport. And then you do that, and you've completely And then you do that and you've completely changed your definition of self again so we do these things again and again and again and again and then You get this spiritual momentum and then your higher self says, okay now I'm ready to move beyond any self I know I'm not any self. I've changed the self so many times. I Know my definition is gone and then you move into enlightenment definition is gone. And then you move into enlightenment. Enlightenment. Now enlightenment is freedom. Enlightenment is freedom from any, you know, attachment It is simply being aware of eternity.

0:23:44
It is being in union with eternity. You can be in the finite world, but at the same time, you're in nirvana. That is ultimately freedom. Nothing sticks to you. That is ultimately freedom. Nothing sticks to you. You have disassembled the self. The self is like... Ramakrishna had a teaching. He said, if the self was a house and smoke blows in, and smoke being like desire, anger, anger, negativity, all this stuff will stick to the walls. The smoke will make a mess.

0:24:31
But if there's no house there, and all the smoke comes through, there's nothing. It doesn't stick to anything. So enlightenment is like being the not-a-house. No structure of self, no structure. And then any weird things that fly around, they just don't stick to you, Any weird things that fly around, they just don't stick to you, they are not you. But if you're a house, if you're a structure, that smoke comes in and it sticks to you and you are that. It's there. And you've got to clean it off. But that's why we, through challenges, we disassemble this house, we disassemble the self.

0:25:09
And then we are there. The open space. The open sky. the open space, the open sky, and that's freedom. Thank you.

