0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about Tibetan Yoga and the secret doctrines. Indian spirituality is made up of primarily Mahayana Buddhism, which is an influence from Indian Buddhism, and Vajrayana Buddhism, which is indigenous to Tibet. Vajrayana Buddhism is called the fast path to enlightenment. Mahayana is called the great path, or the big path to enlightenment. In Mahayana, there's a consideration of everyone becoming enlightened, not just personal enlightenment. In Vajrayana, there's a consideration of who cares In Vajrayana, there's a consideration of who cares about anything, let's just get enlightened as fast as possible. Like why wait around? Just do it.

0:01:25
As I said, Mahayana Buddhism was, as it were, teachings that were brought from India. But Vajrayana is indigenous to Tibet. Tibet. Before there was Buddhism in Tibet, there was a religion called the Bong religion. And this was just Tibetan spirituality. They had gods and goddesses, many of them. And they had demons and dakinis and all sorts of things. And they had a tradition of spirituality and and all sorts of things. And they had a tradition of spirituality and mysticism. Now, what happened was this very famous figure, Padmasambhava, who was a, he was called a self-born Buddha, in that he appeared one day as a young boy in a lotus on a lake. And then he just said, boy in a lotus on a lake. And then he just said, Hey, I decided to be here. I'm a Buddha and I'm going to teach. And what he did was he came to all of the Bon religion people and he said, Hey, let me do something amazing. I'm going to elevate your gods to not just I'm going to elevate your gods to not just be, you know, god of a rock or god of a valley, god of the sky, but I'm going to elevate all the gods and the demons and the dakinis, this whole religion. It's like I'm going to use my buddha magic and I'm going to elevate it to be the pathway to enlightenment. So he did this and then suddenly when they're He he did this and then suddenly when they're Praying to or focusing on a deity the deity was no longer just a way of experiencing the divine But the deity became a way to bring you to enlightenment They call this Tibetan deity yoga yoga meaning the pathway to union Yoga meaning the pathway to union.

0:03:40
So Padmasambhava did something pretty amazing in that he took a pagan religion, a beautiful religion of nature, and he elevated it to become the pathway to enlightenment. this path, there are many, many practices, practices of mysticism, practices of yoga, of coming to really enlightenment. So with the Vajrayana, or it's also called Tantra, Vajrayana or it's also called Tantra There are there's nothing left out everything became a way to enlightenment So these are the practices now the secret teachings There there are secret teachings both in the Mahayana influences influences, and in the Vajrayana influences, including the Bon religion. So the secret teachings are the teachings that create tremendous power, that create very profound shifts in attention, and they're the teachings that ultimately bring you to enlightenment.

0:05:12
ultimately bring you to enlightenment. Now, the secret teachings are called secret because they are not intellectual. They are teachings that are subtle, that are only understood through awareness. The secret teachings are teachings are teachings that are transmitted from a teacher to student. So the teacher-student relationship is very, very important in Tibetan yoga and the secret doctrines. This means that a teacher will sit with a student and at some point, little by little, when they're ready, they're ready, start transmitting information to them, attention to them, power to them.

0:06:08
They have a whole system in Tibetan Buddhism of empowerments, transmissions, these secret teachings. And the teachings are not obvious. They're not something you can intellectualize, They're not something you can intellectualize, but they are very experiential. So Tibetan Buddhism, secret teachings come from experience. Experience in meditation, experience in awareness. It's the direct experience of light that brings you to the revelations of the secret teachings. the revelations of the secret teachings. So secret teachings can be some words, but if you only understand the words, you will not receive the power of the teaching. Secret teachings might not have words.

0:07:08
They could be something just extremely subtle. just extremely subtle. So in Tibetan Buddhism, one of the secret teachings is given in a clap. This is a secret teaching. Here, I'll do it again. See? There you go. It's a secret. It's a secret as to what happened and as to what you learned from it. Keep the secret.

0:07:53
So the secret teachings, they can't really be said in words. You can talk around them, but you can't really say what they are. but you can't really say what they are. But they are something. The secret teachings are usually for advanced practitioners. So if you're just a beginner, if you don't have advanced training, then when you hear the secret teachings, you say, what? They're just words.

0:08:25
It doesn't mean anything. I don't get it. Or if you hear the clap, nothing happens. They're just words. It doesn't mean anything. I don't get it or if you hear the clap Nothing happens or it's all over your head. You don't get it However, if you do get it if you hear one simple word You know That that is the teaching if you hear the clap and you understand it Then it brings you into profound States of mind then it brings you into profound states of mind.

0:08:52
It brings you into God-consciousness, into the perception of eternity. The teachings are very strong. They affect you. They affect your mind, your consciousness, your spirit directly. directly. And that's if you're prepared, if you're ready, then you can get the teachings. So it's not that the secret teachings are secrets because the enlightened teachers want to hold things back. No, no, I don't want to tell you. I don't want to tell you the secret to enlightenment. I enjoy watching you be a jerk. That's not the case. The enlightened teachers want everyone to That's not the case. The enlightened teachers want everyone to be enlightened, of course. But they don't give the secret teachings to everyone because to most people, giving the secret teachings to them won't work. They won't understand it. And it could confuse them or In Christianity, we say, pearls before swine.

0:10:05
Pearls being the high Dharma, beautiful, magical teachings. And if you put them before swine, then the swine don't value them. They might try to eat them, but they don't value them. Tibetan Buddhism, they say the secret teachings, you cannot tell other people. It is only for certain initiated monks. It's for people who've gone through a certain amount of training, certain amount of preparation, and they have a whole structure of preparation.

0:10:46
You might have to say mantras, thousands and thousands of mantras. You might have to prostrate yourself thousands and thousands of mantras. You might have to prostrate yourself thousands and thousands of times. You might have to practice certain visualizations and meditations and pujas thousands and thousands of times. And just by going through these preliminary practices, you start to purify your attention. the self starts to go away, so that when you get the secret teaching, then you understand it.

0:11:19
So there are structures to get to that level where you can understand the secret teachings. But you've got to do that first, otherwise you don't understand. And in Tibetan Buddhism, they understand that to give someone the teachings too soon is actually bad because then they think they know it, they think they understand it, but they don't. So if the secret teaching was, just say the word vanilla ice cream, say the word vanilla ice cream and then you know and if Buddha talked back to someone and they become enlightened and then they know the secret word then they go to somebody else and they say I know the secret word I know the secret teaching it's vanilla ice cream and then someone goes mmm that sounds pretty good you know and then they think they don't understand it they take it the wrong way so this is considered to be bad karma and in a lot of the tantras they bad karma. And in a lot of the tantras, they actually say, and in secret doctrines, they say, do not teach this to people who haven't been through the work, the preparation. And if you do, you're going to go to bad dimensions, because you're harming that person. That person, then you're messing up their enlightenment, because they think they know the pathway to the pathway to enlightenment. They think they know the secret teaching, but you've just given them something too soon that they don't understand, and now they think they know.

0:12:59
So you've actually totally messed them up. The advanced teachings, or the secret teachings, they bring you to enlightenment. But if you get them wrong, if someone tells you they're wrong, or you get impressions about it that are wrong, you get the wrong idea, then it them wrong or you get impressions about it that are wrong, you get the wrong idea, then it doesn't work. But you need the secret teachings to become enlightened. So if you get them wrong, if you get them too soon, then it messes you up, messes up your pathway to enlightenment. That's why the Tantras say, if you're the teacher, do not make a mistake on this, otherwise Otherwise you get really bad karma. So there are also teachers that have tremendous power in their secret teachings. And this means that they can, whether you're an idiot or a totally advanced person, they can shift your attention and put you into enlightened states of mind.

0:14:00
states of mind. So if they put you into an enlightened state of mind, if you're not prepared, then you freak out. You become very, very, very afraid, and you become very reactive. So there was a Zen master who was enlightened, and he had this power. And this one student And he, this one student kept coming to him and saying, give me the secret teachings, I want enlightenment, give it to me, please, please, please. And finally he did the transmission for that student, and the student freaked out, got up, ran away. And then he opened up his own little monastery where he was teaching cats meditation.

0:14:48
is teaching cats meditation. Kind of went crazy, right? Yeah. And then the Zen master was like, I shouldn't have done that. He's like, I regret that. I just really wanted to help him. And he seemed like he really wanted the teachings, but he wasn't ready. He's like, so I shouldn't have done that.

0:15:12
So I shouldn't have done that. Now, my teacher, for example, he was all very, very profound at the secret teachings. Once he did a demonstration of a teaching where he had one of his students come up and then he put his hands on his head and put him into Samadhi. And then we asked him how it was afterwards. We asked him how it was afterwards and he said yeah, it was pretty good But um This also happened, you know with the famous story about Vivekananda student of Ramakrishna and Ramakrishna did this as well. He put him into Samadhi. He did this transmission this as well. He put him into samadhi. He did this transmission. But it was only after many, many, many, many years for both of these students. Many years, lots of preparation and practice before a teacher will do that for you. If they're a profound teacher, because not all teachers are.

0:16:24
So, in Tibetan yoga, there's a big focus on developing what we call powers, siddhas, siddha powers. And the reason that there's the development of the siddha powers is because it helps you the Siddha powers is because it helps you along the pathway to enlightenment. It gives you more momentum. And so this is a practice in yoga and mysticism. Learning these Siddhas, it could be useful. Well, let's say healing is a Siddha. So let's say you're sitting there and a student has a problem, or a friend has a problem, back pain or something, and you have the healing power, you can heal them. Boom. Right?

0:17:26
I went to a healer with some of my students. He's called the Miracle Lama, Lama Karma. And he has a healing Siddha power. He has a healing Siddha power. So he's able to actually heal people, and he's healed people of cancer and all sorts of things. And he doesn't just go whoosh whoosh whoosh with his hands or something. He actually, what he does is he takes this little piece of metal, and he lets you touch it right before he does it, and he puts it in his mouth, and he says a little mantra. Then he puts it in his mouth and he says a little mantra.

0:18:03
And then the thing is red hot. And then whatever illness you have, he'll know where to, almost like acupuncture, poke you with it. But then once he pokes you with it, it burns you. So it's like, whoa, it's red hot. So he has a magical power, just unusual, a sit of power for healing. unusual, a sit of power for healing. So this power is something that's very elevating for his spiritual path. If he didn't have the power, he wouldn't have as much momentum in his spiritual evolution. And other sit of powers could be quite useful, like there's one called the etheric double, and this is where you Like there's one called the etheric double and this is where you can manifest a second body or a third or fourth There's stories of a master being in one place And then also being in another teaching one group and teaching another at the same time And that's very useful for Helping people out for helping people out. But the etheric double could also be very useful for picking up your dry cleaning, waiting in line at the motor vehicle. And one that's very, very popular a power called the tummo.

0:19:38
The tummo is the inner heat. And the inner heat is something where when you can make that heat, it makes you warm. So I guess this was important for Tibet because it's snowy and cold. So if you're sitting around out there and you can make yourself warm, well, you can save on your heating costs. and you can make yourself warm, well, you can save on your heating costs. And you're able to not only be physically warm, but that heat that comes from inside, it's something that's associated with their practice of yoga for raising Kundalini energy, use that power of heat in spiritual practice. And in some doctrines, they say it is the key, the path, the way to become enlightened. So there's all sorts of these mystical, magical Siddha powers that they learn in the secret doctrines in Tibetan yoga.

0:20:48
they learn in the secret doctrines in Tibetan yoga. One that's kind of interesting is being able to find a master from a previous life. So in Tibetan Buddhism there's a practice of finding a previous master. a previous master. It could be useful.

0:21:17
So if you're looking for... You want to study something spiritual, if you can go and find someone who is a fully enlightened master, then you bring them up. You've got to bring them up. You've got to grow them. But after you grow them up, they're all of a sudden magical. And they have all the teachings that you've ever wanted.

0:21:36
of a sudden magical and they have all the teachings that you've ever wanted. And this carries on their tradition. So there's a power of seeing where the previous masters are. And then they go around plucking babies from their mothers, bringing them to a monastery. But in their culture, it's perfect. You know, someone comes, a monk comes knocking on your door and says, hey, guess what? Your baby is the Dalai Lama. And you say, oh, okay, cool. Here, take him. So, this is very important, actually, because when you're spiritually evolved, Because when you're spiritually evolved, the sequencing of your age, your aura, your subtle physical body, changes.

0:22:40
So it's very important, really, if you're a master from a past life and you're going to go into the ashram, to start around eight years old. around eight years old. The consciousness and the subtle physical body of the eight-year-old is at a certain point where the structures in the system of Tibetan Buddhism affect that child in a very positive way. another sequence of spiritual practice that's very important happens through the age of 18 to 25. It's a critical point where you have to develop a momentum of practice, of meditation. And you can get teachings there that tremendously change your pattern, make you powerful. So this is a make you powerful. So this is a very important time as well. And then we see that with most enlightened teachers, most of them become enlightened at the age of 29, 30, somewhere around their early 30s. So this is another very, very, very important time sequence in the pathway to enlightenment. So another part of the in the pathway to enlightenment.

0:24:02
So another part of the secret doctrines is about getting to the right stage and finding the child at the right time, and then being at the right teachings at the right age, because it leads you to enlightenment. Sequencing is important. Now, in Tibetan Buddhism, beyond powers, and maybe through powers, one of the keys to enlightenment is shifting the self, changing the self again and again, in new ways, in powerful, constructive in new ways, in powerful, constructive ways. Because the self is stuck. The self is not enlightened. The self is a fixed karma, an ego.

0:25:01
And what we recognize is that if we let go of the self, if we follow these teachings, these powerful pathways to enlightenment, pathways to enlightenment that we change. And then once we see that we change, we see that we have a greater awareness, greater personal power, we're happier, we're funnier. And then we're able to change again and grow again in many ways, in very structured patterns. structured patterns. So one might develop power. So you might not be a very powerful person. You might develop power. You might become a mystic. You might become a seer. You can go into different practices in the secret doctrines and the yogas that change that change you again and again and again.

0:26:05
So we follow the same principle in our school without doing the traditional Tibetan practices. So if we become a computer programmer, it changes your mind, it changes who you are. If you become a black belt, If you become a black belt, it changes your attention, it changes who you are. Become a mystic, out in the deserts and oceans, meditating, seeing different dimensions and making connections to different planes of reality. It changes who you are, forever. We do this again and again and again.

0:26:48
We do this again and again and again. We develop a business, we become powerful, successful in it. It changes who you are. You become compassionate. The yoga of compassion, bodhicitta. It changes who you are in a good way. So we follow these different practices. The essence of it is just the same as Tibetan Buddhism. Then it changes who you are. Until you get to the point And then it changes who you are. Until you get to the point where you're ready to let go of who you are.

0:27:22
Completely. This we call death. That's the death of the self. The death of the ego. It doesn't necessarily have to be the death. A profound yoga from Tibet is called the Bardo Tha Da Yoga. called the Bardo Tha Da Yoga. This is a yoga that comes from a book called the Tibetan Book of the Dead. This book is a secret teaching that you can read. So if you read the Tibetan then you will completely hear precisely every word of a secret teaching. The thing is that most people don't understand it at all.

0:28:10
You just read it and go, what? I don't get it. It's out there, like most of the secret teachings that you can read. They're incomprehensible, basically. But it's completely accurate and true. But it's completely accurate and true. It is a teaching of what your consciousness will travel through after you die. So once you die, you're not dead. Your spirit goes on through the intermediate states between life and death. These are called the bardos. the bardos. And during the bardos, you go through a set of experiences, and they're very definite. So this is something that in Tibetan Buddhism, there's a yoga, a study, a pathway to enlightenment through understanding the bardos, understanding death. But when But when you understand death, you understand life.

0:29:17
You can become enlightened through going through the bardos. If you understand the bardos properly and the practices, when you die, you can say, aha, I'm going to do this meditation, have this focus, take advantage of this experience. There's great wisdom in death. There's great wisdom in death. There's beautiful, beautiful dimensions of enlightenment and the divine and power in death. And when you know what those structures are, then you're able to take advantage of them and you can become enlightened. You can gain tremendous power.

0:30:00
You can choose your next birth in a higher realm or a higher karma So this is a very profound place of practice now There's a important consideration in The secret teachings it's called the termas now a an enlightened teacher the termas. Now an enlightened teacher will give students termas. And termas are basically kind of like teachings for later. You don't understand them at the moment, but then you will later. So like you know you might go to a teacher and the teacher has coins, little shiny nickels and quarters, and you're like, oh The teacher has coins, little shiny nickels and quarters, and you're like, oh wow, I want money.

0:30:55
And then while they're handing you coins and you're all happy because it's shiny and you're like, wow, then the teacher will be stuffing hundred dollar bills in your back pocket. And you're like, what's that stuff? I like the shiny stuff. Oh, this stuff will be useful later. And this is, you don't understand what it is. And this is a... you don't understand what it is he's putting in your pocket or she's putting it in your pocket without you really noticing so much. And you're all excited about the shiny coins.

0:31:26
So that's... those are the termas, the teachings for later. So there's a good terma. So the terma There's a good term. The term is called, don't listen. So at some point you'll be on, just at the doorway to nirvana, almost ready to be enlightened, just on the edge. And right before you jump into enlightenment, someone will come over to you and say, hey, you jump into enlightenment, someone will come over to you and say, hey, wait, wait, wait, you don't want to do that. If you jump in there, everything that you love will be gone. Everything will be gone. There's nothing in there. Like, you like ice cream, right? Well, there's no ice cream in there. Right? And remember your friend? Your friend's not Your friend's not in there if you go in there, there will be nothing and it will be bleak and sad and so the terma is It's a magical thing It is a Spiritual kind of index card and and This the spiritual index card And this spiritual index card magically appears.

0:32:55
You go, oh, wait. I got this index card. Where did I get it from? Oh, yeah, that's right. Sembara gave me a terma. And at the time, I thought it was useless, or I didn't even see it, it wasn't there. But now, all of a sudden, it seems like the It wasn't there. But now, all of a sudden, it seems like the thing to look at.

0:33:18
And then you look at the index card and it says, Don't listen. And you go, Oh, okay. The person's all, No, don't go. And then you just go in. This is a profound teaching. I mean, look at Buddha. Buddha talks about when he was sitting under the Bodhi tree, he was about to become enlightened. was sitting under the Bodhi tree.

0:33:38
He was about to become enlightened, and then Mara, the king of illusion, appears. And Mara tries to talk him out of it. Hey, Buddha, no, no, no. Don't you want this money? Don't you want these girls? How about all these things in life? Wouldn't you be afraid of this? Wouldn't you be afraid of that? And Buddha, at some point, didn't listen, and became enlightened, and became Buddha.

0:34:00
didn't listen and became enlightened and became Buddha. So the term is very, very important. So now you got that card at least. One of the most beautiful is compassion. Compassion is understanding the suffering of another person, rolling up your sleeves and doing something about it. We seek to be aware of the suffering of others, to care about the suffering of others, to about the suffering of others, to seek to be one with the suffering of others so that it removes their suffering. And then we seek to bring enlightenment to all beings, everywhere, every single being.

0:35:10
And even though there's infinite beings and it's impossible to make everyone enlightened, There's infinite beings and it's impossible to make everyone enlightened. That's our intention. This is a complete selflessness. It's the bodhisattva ideal and it is the highest point of the secret teachings. secret teachings. To be able to seek enlightenment for all beings. It just shifts you into a condition when you focus on that, when that's what you want. You shift from being just you of Enlightened aid to all beings. I think that's one of the most beautiful secret teachings Okay, thank you

