0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about developing willpower. Willpower is a decision. It's a decision we make to change our lives. Willpower is a direction we choose. We say, I want to go this way. I want to get to this place. I want to get to this experience. I want to get to this outcome. to get to this outcome. Willpower is a distinctive focus. It's setting your mind on an achievement, on an experience, on an outcome. Something that will elevate you, make you strong, bright, make you strong, bright, happy, balanced.

0:01:18
Willpower is deliberately choosing our experience in life. Buddha had a teaching called Choices. He said, we are what we think. All that we are arises with our thoughts. All that we are arises with our thoughts and with our thoughts we make the world We choose What we think we choose our lives This is willpower There's two choices that anyone has choices that anyone has.

0:02:04
It's the choice to follow the path of self or the choice to follow the path of light. Desires, fears, ups and downs, limitation, and suffering. The path of light is a path that leads you to freedom out of suffering, beyond limitation, beyond limitation, to awareness of life that is infinite, luminous, and ecstatic. To follow the path of light, one needs to use willpower. Willpower in the Buddhist sense is different than the regular definition of willpower. Usually when we talk about willpower, it is completely focused on an individual. However, in Buddhism when we talk about willpower, we talk about an individual transcending themselves to a higher power. So the path of self So the path of self is a path that is devoid of willpower.

0:03:43
Although someone might go out on the path of self and win a war, make a billion dollar business, become the president of some country, and they're using some power, they have power. But this is called self-power. This is called self-power. And the thing about self-power is self-power does not bring satisfaction. It doesn't bring happiness. It doesn't bring balance. All of those great accomplishments are useless to one's spirit. Now, on the path of light, one seeks to do great things.

0:04:24
One seeks to do great things, but do great things in a way where you transcend the self. We seek to use will to succeed in our careers, maybe make a very powerful business, succeed in our athletics, maybe win a race, get a black belt. black belt. So we actually seek tremendous success, but we seek it in a way where we transcend the self in seeking it. We seek to kind of pull a greater power from the universe to accomplish our goals. We definitely make a choice. We make a decision. We're using our intent to focus, and we're taking responsibility to make it happen. But it's not in a way of self.

0:05:29
It's not in a way of, I am going to go do this. It's I'm going to open myself. I'm going to make it happen. but opening myself so that the power of the universe can come through me to make it happen. This is how we do it in Buddhism. We cultivate will in a very selfless way. Now, a Taoist story comes to mind. There was a Taoist master standing by the bank of a river There was a Taos master standing by the bank of a river and Merchant comes over merchants carrying a bunch of things. He wants to go across the river as well And he wants to go sell something in the town on the other side. So he comes over to the Taos master He says you want to go? Are you waiting to go over? You're looking for a way over and The Taos master says yes, I want to go over over and then he says all right well let's see how do you think you're gonna go over you know did you find a way the Taoist master says I want to go over but I'm gonna get over by not going over and then the guy goes you're crazy and and the merchant looks around and he sees okay I think I think I could make it across the river here. The rapids seem slower here. The water is not as deep over here. So the merchant says, I'm gonna go do it. He starts walking across and then he picks up, you know, like trips on some rocks or the water hits him too hard and he falls down. He gets all wet. His stuff goes all over the place. He has to scramble picking it up and he barely makes it over to the other side with all with scramble picking it up and he barely makes it over to the other side with all of his things.

0:07:18
And then the Taoist master is standing there still intent on getting to the other side. He's got to get to the other side to go to some Taoist temple to teach people. So he's like, I got to get over there. But he knows that the way of the self will be problematic. will be problematic. So he has that intent, but he's just sitting there waiting, looking, intending, seeking the way. And then a boat comes by. The boat coming down the river and sees the Taoist master at the side looking for a way across. And the boat, the guy on the boat comes over and The guy on the boat comes over and says, hey, want me to take you across? The Taoist master says, yeah, sure, thanks.

0:08:07
Gets on the boat. Very easily, the boat crosses the other side. Then the Taoist master gets off, and he's on the other side. The Taoist master had the intent. He wanted it. He needed it. He decided. He used his will. But he didn't do it in a blunder. He used his will, but he didn't do it in a blunder.

0:08:29
He didn't do it in a way where it doesn't work well. He did it in a way that's elegant, that uses a greater power, an agreement with the universe. Willpower is not self-power. You must decide. You must have the intent. You must have the intent. You must choose and put your whole being into it. But it's not just you. Once you do that, you open yourself up to a greater power, the serendipity of life. And then magic happens.

0:09:09
So, in Buddhism, we seek to develop ourselves In Buddhism, we seek to develop ourselves to have an unbending will, a tremendous intent, but also the openness to let life come through, let powers come through, let magic come through. Let magic come through. Because one personal will is a trap. Maybe you can get stuff done, maybe you have a little willpower. But it's a trap of happiness, it's a trap of satisfaction.

0:09:53
So in Buddhism, willpower is the power of focus, power of intent, but also the power to open up a focus, power of intent, but also the power to open up so that the magic of life can come through. That's a much, much bigger power. You got to first look at your life to make this choice and say, is my life great? Am I satisfied with it? Is everything great? Satisfied with it?

0:10:25
Is everything great and if you look at your life and say no, I am dissatisfied with this limitation This suffering is is too much this problem is it seems insurmountable But I don't want it then you can use will you see right now at any given moment Right now at any given moment You're locked in on a track a track of Karma whatever happened up until now you've followed a certain path and You're locked into a state of mind you're locked into a sequence of events and a karma will result from your actions And it will lead you to a very precise place It will lead you to a very precise place however If you can recognize your condition If you can see the limitations and if you enact will you develop will Exercise will that intent and and open up for the universe to make change then your karmas then your karmas dissolve. You can alter destiny. There's no fate of what we make.

0:11:46
We can change things with will. Now at this point some of you might be saying You have will. Will, willpower. This is a spiritual focus on willpower. The self needs to be fully engaged. You have to have a tremendous intent. But you also have to have a self-effacing humility to just a self-effacing humility to just With that intent don't don't block it With that intent open and a greater power comes through Exactly So You can change You can change. You can have an uncommonly fine life.

0:12:55
Any dissatisfaction that you have at the moment can change by applying will. Any limitation can change. Any problems can go away. You can completely change your life with will. change your life with will. You can drop bad habits. Don Juan, the renowned yaki mystic from the Carlos Castaneda books, he talked to Carlos about a time where when he was younger he was an alcoholic. He just drank and he was totally a wreck. But then from learning about But then from learning about power and mysticism, he just used his will.

0:13:41
He decided one day that he would just stop drinking. He's like, yeah, I decided it wasn't good, so I stopped. That's using will. You can change your life in very constructive, positive, healthy ways. Will you have to? overcome bad habits You have to overcome and let go of negative limited ideas concepts and ways of being I Remember when I was a beginning student There was another student who really struggled he loved meditation There was another student who really struggled. He loved meditation.

0:14:28
He's like, oh, meditation is great. Oh, I'm really interested in the pathway to enlightenment. And then one of our basic practices is wake up early, meditate before you do anything else, go to work or school or whatever you have to do after that. for them. Now he said, I'm not a morning person. So I wake up in the morning and I'm like, it's hard. So, you know, he was so excited after seeing our teacher that for like four or five days he woke up an hour early to meditate. And then after about four or five days he's like, oh no no no no. My habit is, my way is, I am NOT a it is, my way is, I am not a morning person." So then he stopped meditating in the morning. And then a little while later, my teacher taught about it again, and he said, Hey, you know, I can see the people who are meditating every morning are sharper.

0:15:31
And he talked about why meditating in the morning is so important. And then he said, I want to meditate, I want to learn meditation so much, I want the benefits of this enlightened practice so much, that I'm going to make this change. So then he decided to change. And then he became a morning person. All of a sudden, he's up earlier than anyone else, meditating longer, having more energy, having more energy and no longer, I can't wake up, I have to hit the snooze button a thousand times. So he changed because he wanted to. You know, who you are, your personal history, your karma, everything about who you think you are, your suffering, you know, the things you can do, things you can't do, these are all ultimately illusions.

0:16:24
These are all ultimately illusions, right? Remember when you were in third grade? You thought you were a certain way. And then you grew, learned more things, changed. But if you constantly, if your picture, your view of yourself was, this is me in third grade, and this is me, this is it. That's it, it's over. That's fixed in stone, right? Then you would be ridiculous. That's fixed in stone, right?

0:16:51
Then you would be ridiculous. You'd be a big kid, which actually might be more fun to hang around. But you can change. The self is transient, and you don't have to stay the same way. When you become an adult, people become very, very fixed, only in an idea. Only in an idea But with will we can change completely You can change you don't have to be the same You can set your goals set your mind on being different brighter more successful more out of suffering more enlightened Now the true way that you develop will is through meditation The true way that you develop will is through meditation.

0:17:43
That's where you develop that intent. That's where you decide. That's where you get the strength of your personal being to focus your mind so that the universe can come through. In meditation you stop thought, or you work at stopping thought. And that's how you develop will. Or you work at stopping thought and that's how you develop will when you stop thought you are Powerful when you stop thought that's when will is awakened You are in a Connection with the universe when you stop thought there's no more self When you stop thought you are When you stop thought, you are awake, alive, you're energetic, you're beyond self, and you're in a world of ecstasy, light, beauty, and spirit.

0:18:39
And that's where you're hand in hand. You're a spirit with eternity. active experience of will. When you are trying to do something, when you apply the same focus, that ability to stop thought is a power. It's a power of mind, a power of spirit. And if you said, okay, well, I want to do this in my business, or my job, or in my athletics, or something. I want to do something, and you bring that Or in my athletics or something I want to do something and you bring that same force of mind that strength That could stop thoughts like that Then also the light that happens in meditation that fulfills you it makes you feel so balanced and bright That comes through you through that focus into that activity It's not you It's not you that meditates.

0:19:40
I mean, you meditate. You sit down and meditate and you focus. And then when there's all your other thoughts of, I'm focusing and trying, well then that's all the self in the way. See, when people try to do things, when they use their personal self-power, they're just blocking themselves. They're running into all their karma. So if you really want to do something amazing, They're running into all their karma So if you really want to do something amazing you need to get around blocking yourself. You got to get around your your karma So in Taoism we have to trick the self We say I'm just gonna yeah, I want to do that, but I'm not going to do it It's like the Taoist master. I want to do this. I'm I really want it, but I'm not going to do it But I'm not going to do it.

0:20:26
Because the moment that you take a step towards doing it is the moment where you hit your karma. Your karma says, no, no, no, no, no, no. The moment that you say, I want some yin, some yang comes up. But when you say, I have this intention, but I'm not going to make a movement. Then there's tai chi, the balance of yin and yang. So, in meditation, when you stop thought, when you're struggling with thought, fighting with thought, and then all of a sudden, thought's gone. You have stopped the self. The karma of the self that stops you, that limits you, that holds you in dissatisfaction, that gives you suffering, that makes you have desires and fears, it's all gone.

0:21:12
All there is is a beautiful, silent, illuminated eternity. God enlightenment is right there as soon as you step up. And so, in the practice of meditation, you learn the essence of will. Which is, it's funny because it's like, you do it, but you don't do it. You can't do it. It's funny because it's like you do it, but you don't do it You can't do it. If you are trying to stop thought you're going to always be trying to stop thought but at some point thought stops If you can practice the spiritual discipline Then when you focus on I want I have the intention to do something then you don't do it anymore but a power comes through you a light comes through you just like in meditation and A power comes through you, a light comes through you, just like in meditation, and then powerful things happen.

0:22:07
This is the secret of will, a spiritual power that works hand-in-hand with the universe to accomplish goals that bring you into a higher, brighter condition of power, illumination, happiness, balance, and enlightenment. of power, illumination, happiness, balance, and enlightenment. Now, will is synonymous with wisdom. Because if you use will in a way that is not wise, it doesn't work. So if you've got a whole bunch of money, and you said, okay, I'm going to go buy hats. You know, whatever, I'm really into hats, and you go and buy a bunch of hats, spend millions of dollars on your hats, and then you go, wow, I got all these hats and it brought me happiness for a while, and then I spent all the money, and then, guess what?

0:23:02
My life isn't stronger. You didn't use will. Now if you took a lot of money, invested it, bought yourself the right house, and the right bought yourself the right house, the right car, the right clothes, it actually makes your life strong. You get more powers. And then when you have investments, it makes more power, more money, right? So it actually it develops properly. That's using wisdom. So there is no will without wisdom. No will without wisdom.

0:23:42
Will always brings peace, balance, happiness. If you're utilizing the will improperly, then you'll notice you're not happy. That's not the will. That's where the self comes in. It even comes in on the spiritual path. And it even comes in on the spiritual path. There was a monk in China, and he was really, really focused on being impeccable in his spiritual practice. So he meditated really hard, he did everything perfectly on time, he memorized all the sutras, he chanted perfectly, he was really focused on doing things right.

0:24:24
He's just really focused on doing things right. One day he was in the meditation hall and he was just sitting there and an attendant came to the altar and put an incense stick down at a tilt so that it would fall out of the holder and as the incense would burn, it would fall onto the altar and make a little bit of a mess. So he sits down and he sees that the attendant did that.

0:24:48
So he sits down and he sees that the attendant did that and then they start meditating and he opens one eye he's like watching the incense he's like it's just gonna fall I know it then it falls and he's like oh he's making the altar dirty so even though he had tremendous focus he was irritated if anything went wrong. He must have been in Vrbo. So he was very irritated. He's like, I can't believe it! And then he would go and, you know, do everything super perfectly, and then he'd come back the next day, and the attendant did the same thing, and he's all, so his meditation, in the meditation hall, was ruined because of what this, because of the small imperfection. He just couldn't handle it. because of the small imperfection. He just couldn't handle it.

0:25:41
Now, he had some kind of power, but it was out of balance. He didn't have satisfaction. And one day, the enlightened master came in and somehow magically knew this problem. And so the enlightened master said, I'll do the incense. And he put the incense in. He's like the incense and he put the incense in he's like looking at the monk he's like tilt and then the and then the monks meditating and he says well the enlightened master does everything perfectly and he says and then he saw the error in his ways he said I was just there was too much self so then he was So then he was able to let go completely and experience what we call Satori. So, will is synonymous with wisdom and balance. If there is not wisdom and balance, this spiritual will.

0:26:52
So we change our lives. We got to find the most important thing, and we have to want it more than anything. You want Samadhi? Want it more than anything. You want success in yoga? Want it more than anything. Yoga wanted more than anything. And will it? You set your intent the same way you battle your thoughts in meditation, to be silent. And then in your meditation, even if you're not a master, there's time to time where you have brilliant, beautiful experiences of light and silence.

0:27:36
experiences of light and silence and that will come into your into your into whatever you will. Will positive things into your life. Will success in your work and your athletics. Will success and happiness into your life to your to your meditation and to your mindfulness and your compassion and will out negativity darkness unhappiness bad influences when you Come across something that's harmful Then will it out Will your mindfulness You can't have anger jealousy your mindfulness. You can't have anger, jealousy, sadness, confusion. You can't have those with will. As soon as you have those, then your will is impure. Your will is defiled, and you're operating on the planes of self-power. Will happiness into your life. Decide to be Will happiness into your life?

0:28:50
Decide to be happy Just say okay right now I decide to be happy decide to be positive instead of negative decide to deal with hardships with optimism this opens you up to a greater experience of life and this is the way to the way to use willpower in your life. Okay, thank you.

