0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about Tantra and Zen. is Zen. And Zen is Tantra. All right, you got it. Well, Tantra and Zen are interesting in Buddhism because they're known as the fast path to enlightenment. They're very, very enlightened in this lifetime. In Pure Land Buddhism, Theravada Buddhism, there's enlightenment, Mahayana Buddhism, there's enlightenment, yes, but at the same time, there's not such an emphasis on become enlightened now. So, this Tantra and Zen, they are the fast path. are the fast path. Now, Zen has an emphasis on seeking emptiness. This is to be seeing life as empty of ideas and forms. So you could look at something and say, well, that's a tree. But then, through the practice of Zen, you come to see the emptiness of the tree. That the tree is not your But then, through the practice of Zen, you come to see the emptiness of the tree.

0:01:41
That the tree is not your idea of a tree. The tree is empty of tree-ness. And then when you see the emptiness, then your mind becomes empty. No thoughts, no ideas, no self. This is the path to enlightenment. One unity, union of things that are opposite. So you could look at life and death and say, yes, they are one. Good and bad, yes, they are one. And when you look at these things that seem like tremendous opposites, ultimate opposites, opposites, then you see that actually they're not opposite. Through the practice of Tantra, you see that they're actually complements, the same, ultimately in union. So by coming through Tantra, you transcend duality, seeing life as one way or another, any preference and balance, and you come to see that there's nothing but enlightenment, that there's no self and other, that there's a union, and in that union, there's liberation.

0:03:12
liberation. So both of these are the pathway to enlightenment. But as I said, Zen is Tantra, and Tantra is Zen, because they're the same. They're actually equal. So in Zen, when you see no self, then that is coming to an awareness of emptiness. But the object and the no object is a thing and not a thing. And emptiness is the unity of seeing that there is no tree-ness And in Tantra, when you say, okay, there's life and there's death, but when you say life and death are the same, then you're realizing that life isn't life, death isn't death. And that when life isn't life, there's no lifeness to life, there's no deafness to death. And you end up understanding that they're empty. understanding that they're empty. Empty of life, empty of death, and then there's only that thing that's left, which is emptiness.

0:04:35
So, these are the pathway to enlightenment, but with a different emphasis meaning the same thing. Emptiness is enlightenment. Unity is enlightenment. Emptiness and unity are enlightenment. So when you look at Zen unity or enlightenment. So when you look at Zen and understand Zen and Tantra, understand Tantra, you understand enlightenment in a fuller way. Now, there's a place where all Nirvana, we call it. You can also call it emptiness and unity. But it's a place where anger and joy comes together, where life and death come together, where ups and downs, good and evil come together, everything, physical and non-physical, the transient and eternity.

0:05:36
It all comes together in this place, this tantra, zen, nirvana. All of them come together in this dance of eternal being. And it is in tantra and zen where you see that, you recognize that. So you can look at life and death and understand it. could look at life and death and understand it. You could look at the beauties and the horrors and see beyond the transient. There was a guy who said to his girlfriend, Will you love me when I'm old, fat, and ugly? She said, Of course I do. It was very tantric, It was very tantric, very Zen. So whether you're wearing the okra robe or a business suit, it's all the same in the mind of the Buddha.

0:06:41
Now in tantra and in Zen, they have what appears to be what appears to be odd pathways to liberation. So the way that people actually come to enlightenment is different. So in a lot of the images that we get in the great tradition of holy people, they kind of sit around, meditate a lot, pray a lot, and they do good things. and they do good things. But it's different in Tantra. It's different in Zen. Sometimes they do odd things that bring enlightenment. So there was an Indian yogi and he was studying with his master with his master for a long time. He was an aesthetic. He just sat around wearing robes, didn't eat very much, you know, lived in a cave. And he goes to his master and says, what do I have to do to become enlightened? You know, I'm just sitting around working on it and not getting there. And then his master says, you got to go and create a company, become a rich company, become a rich merchant. And he was like, what? I gave up my whole physical life to follow the spiritual and now you're telling me that the pathway to enlightenment is to go and make a business become wealthy? So of course he listened. He was a good yogi.

0:08:24
and it took years, but he became a rich merchant. That's where the story ends. Just kidding. And then after becoming a rich merchant, he comes back to his master, and then his master sits with him, and he said, Now I've become a rich merchant, and this was supposed to be my teaching for enlightenment. and this was supposed to be my teaching for enlightenment, his master says, yes, you have become enlightened. And he didn't even realize it. See, that's the good thing about the self.

0:09:03
When the self doesn't even find the self, then that's enlightenment. Or, okay, then in Zen, there's the koan, right? So this one Zen master says to one of the students, Zen, there's the koan, right? So this one Zen master says to one of the students, the spiritual riddle, he says, if you come across Buddha on the path, kill Buddha. So then the Zen monk starts to ponder this. So he's all, I gotta kill Buddha. And then by meditating on this, meditating on killing Buddha, he by meditating on this, meditating on killing Buddha, he becomes enlightened. So there are kind of different observances than you might think would bring enlightenment, because tantra and Zen, they don't put anything outside of enlightenment.

0:10:00
So sometimes it's these strange things, things you wouldn't expect, that actually shift you enough so that you can become enlightened. Now, as I said, Tantra and Zen, they are fast paths to enlightenment. And this means that you can become enlightened quickly by learning, by following these paths. quickly by learning by following these paths Now the fast path means that you go fast But people who are drawn to these teachings They go fast It's it's not like you have to go faster. It's just that's that's what you do like if If you're a runner And you decide to go running for a mile and you decide to go running for a mile, you might get a mile done in five minutes.

0:10:56
And you're just like, yeah, that's how I run. Another person might take 20 minutes, because that's how they run. And it's just, you know, to you it's normal. That's what a mile, you know, that's running a mile. For someone else who wanted to try to keep up with you, it would be way too fast. So people who are drawn to the fast path, fast. So people who are drawn to the fast path, they're very comfortable going fast. It's just what they do. Now, Bodhidharma was the founder of Zen. Bodhidharma taught very pure perfect Zen. He taught enlightenment and he had many enlightened students from enlightened students from his study. Now, he would say, you know, Zen is pointing at one's own mind, seeing the truth and becoming enlightened. This was the essence of his teaching.

0:11:52
It's the fast path. Padmasambhava also taught the fast path. He was in Tantra, Tibet. He path. He was in Tantra, Tibet. He was really considered the father of Tantra in Tibet, even though Tantra had an Indian origination. But he had many successful students, but it was very much a fast path. And what would he say? Padmasambhava's teachings. Oh, he's And what would he say? Padmasambhava's teachings. Oh, he's a good one, right? He would say, when you're seeking enlightenment, you work really hard until you seek the seeker. And when the seeker is not sought, then enlightenment is already attained.

0:12:47
It's so interesting. so interesting. Their methods are very empty and true, or very, you know, taking two things and putting them together. But they both are methods that bring rapid enlightenment. Now, a lot, after their deaths, a lot of people made rules. They created, you know, ashrams made rules. They created ashrams and monasteries making rules about what they taught. So like if you go into the Rinzai Zen Center or ashram, there's so many rules. It's rigorous with rules, just trying to keep up.

0:13:32
And there's so many rules because they said, okay, well, we got to do this, got to do this. We saw the master do this, so we got to do all these things. you got to do this, you got to do this, we saw the master do this, so we got to do all these things. And the master was being very fluid. Bodhidharma just did whatever came natural. He wasn't sitting there creating, you know, creating, okay, you got to do this at this time and that at this time. He just did things perfectly. He was fluid, but then are good. Rules work until they don't. And then in Tantra and Zen we always realize that you got to break the rules. But rules were taken from the enlightened ones. The only problem is that they become fixed and then when then it creates an incorrect view.

0:14:30
So once I was watching a Kenjutsu, a sword demonstration, and in the sword demonstration, at some point they did this demonstration where these three people are attacking this one guy, and he's got two pan lids, and he defends against them. lids and he defends against them. I asked somebody what is this? And apparently the founder of the school, the sword master, once, you know hundred years ago or something like that, was fooled to get up from the table, the the dining table where he had his sword. He went into the kitchen and then he was into the kitchen and then he was attacked by three people with swords and they thought that, oh, we got the sword master away from the sword, so now we're going to be able to kill him. But he picked up pans or pan lids and then he defended them, got back to his sword and then survived to So, what they have is this observance, where they're like, oh yeah, we're going to show the pan lid demonstration.

0:15:48
And it becomes this kind of a fixed thing in their school. For him, he was being completely fluid. This sword master, completely fluid. But for them, it became a fixed thing. Now it would be really funny if in their school, everyone had to learn pan defense. Now, it would be really funny if in their school everyone had to learn pan defense. But that's what people tend to do in religion, even in spiritual practices, where there was an enlightened person who did something, and then they say, oh, since he did that, we got to make a rule that everyone's got to do that.

0:16:22
But the enlightened one was just being fluid. fluid and then you start to say no no no it's got to be this way impossible for it to be any other way and for a lot of people these things make sense they're they're helpful so like they might say here's a rule don't eat meat here's a rule don't use curse words because if you if you eat meat you're killing some If you eat meat, you're killing some poor little animal, and you're going to get bad karma, and you're going to get a low vibration from eating it. And if you say curse words, then you're manifesting negative energy, and it brings you down in your consciousness.

0:17:05
And this is true for most people, for people whose minds are still in karma. whose minds are still in karma. This is true. However, in Tantra and Zen, we recognize that it's not what you do, but it is your state of mind that matters. So you can do something that one person would think is bad. But one person would think it's bad. They might just see it as a bad thing, and you might read all the religious books that say it's bad.

0:17:46
But then they are able to do it in a different state of mind, in a very pure state of mind. And that could be a very beautiful thing. you know, eat meat and experience a very high state of mind where that karma that touches most people doesn't touch them. And for them, you know, the rule would be don't eat meat, rather fast. Eating meat is bad, fasting is good. And for them, fasting is just the wrong They would see that. So stay of mind. Someone could curse, say a curse word, and when they say the curse word, it might not mean, it might not manifest the energy of the curse, but it will manifest an enlightened energy.

0:18:46
I remember when I first met my teacher, he gave a beautiful, beautiful Dharma talk, and when I first met my teacher, he gave a beautiful, beautiful Dharma talk, and the last thing he said at the end is, fuck you. And it was beautiful. So, it depends on your state of mind. State of mind. So, if someone was going to have sex, they would go and get into a to have sex, they would go and get into a very sensual plane of awareness. And then even when it's over, you're still in a sensual plane, a very physical plane. It could be something that really brings you down. You lose energy, you might get attachment. It brings you into a limited state of mind. So for one person, it might just be that. But person it might just be that. But for another person it can be a completely non-physical experience, an experience of complete illumination and awareness of infinity. So it's not what you do, it's what state of mind you're in that really matters.

0:20:00
that really matters. Now, most people can't do this ultimate task of Tantra and Zen. If they tried to do it, they would be kidding themselves. They would really actually suffer the karma. So Tantra and Zen is a very, very high way. is a very, very high way. It's a way of discrimination, of seeing the truth, and being able to engage in life in very, very powerful, high mind states.

0:20:39
So there was a Theravada Buddhist school, sorry, Mahayana in India. sorry, Mahayana in India, a thousand years ago. And they were good monks with the vinyas, the monk rules and everything. So the vinyas are the rules that the monks have to live by. And they have a bunch of rules. So one of the rules for a Buddhist monk is you can't have sex, period. is you can't have sex, period. Now, there was this one monk who got caught having sex with a woman in the monastery. So the lay people would come over and somehow he had a girlfriend and then he got caught by the older monks.

0:21:33
So the older monks bring him to the master to the master and then they say, we caught this guy having sex. That's like the worst rule to break, right? Besides killing someone. To the monks, right? So then they're like, what, okay, so master, here, we brought him, we all saw it, and we liked it. Oh no, we didn't.

0:21:59
We all saw it and we're offended. And so they're all, you got to get rid of this guy. And the master looks at him. were offended and so they're all you got to get rid of this guy and the master looks at him he's all huh and then he says okay it's all right and then they say but why is that all right he broke the rules and then the master says well he broke them in the right way so the master was able to see that this guy had this guy had a very, very high state of mind. Where most monks would get bad karma, it would bring them into low states of mind, it would take them out, he was able to stay, he was able to be very, very elevated.

0:22:40
So fortunately the master could see this, and didn't just say, yeah, you're a jerk, get out. In Tantra and Zen, we break the rules. But in Tantra and Zen, we break the rules. You can't just follow rules. Rules are too fixed. Rules are meant to be broken. But you can't break them wrong. Because if you break the rules in the wrong way, you go into really bad karma, really low states.

0:23:07
But if you break it in the right way, there's greater spiritual illumination. So, it's important to observe that Tantra is the path to truth. Zen is the path of knowing life. And that when we are on the path, we have to be flexible. we have to be flexible. We can't, and we have to be honest. We have to be truthful with ourselves. Are we trying to do something because we have a neat idea?

0:23:48
We're all, oh yeah, I'm gonna do some, I'm gonna break a rule because I think I have this cool idea that I can do it and that it's special and easy for me or something. But then when you actually do it, you actually see bad results. see bad results, then you have to say, okay, I'm not there yet. This is really important for people who do Zen and Tantra. Otherwise, you could be fooling yourself. But, you know, you also don't want to go to the other extreme where I want to follow every rule, I want That's not the path of Tantra in Zen.

0:24:29
To be on the path of Tantra in Zen, you have to be both kind of open-minded, but also conservative. You have to be excited about the world, the transient world, and seeing enlightenment in it. You have to be excited about meditation and finding enlightenment in the inner world. It's like a certain type of person goes for Contra and Zen. It's a person who wants success in the transient world. They want success in their lives, in every way, in work, in sports, in relationships. in sports, in relationships, they want success. And at the same time, they want to be enlightened, spiritually aware of truth. They want to get beyond their suffering. And they want them equally. And that's someone who is great for Zen and Tantra. Someone who loves the city and also for Zen and Tantra, someone who loves the city and also loves the desert or the ocean.

0:25:45
Now, when you have that motivation to succeed in life and to succeed inwardly as well, then you are walking the path of Tantra and Zen.

