0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about Tantric Buddhism. Buddhism is advanced Buddhism. It's a fast pathway to enlightenment. In Tantric Buddhism, nothing is left out. Everything is accepted. In Tantric Buddhism, we don't see that some things are enlightenment and that other things are not. In Tantric Buddhism, we come to see Buddhism, we come to see that everything is enlightenment. There's nothing to put aside, nothing to shun. There's no one way. There's every way. So, a spiritual analogy to enlightenment is often enlightenment, the mind of enlightenment Enlightenment, the mind of enlightenment is like a lake on a day where there's no wind, where it's completely placid, it's calm. There's no wind, there's no waves.

0:01:30
Nothing's being stirred up. You could look into the lake and see your reflection. your reflection. If there was wind you wouldn't see a reflection. Or sometimes they say there's gold at the bottom of the lake and if there's no wind you can clearly see down and see the gold. But if there's wind and waves you can't see anything. So the mind of enlightenment, enlightened mind is The mind of enlightenment, enlightened mind is a lake when there's no wind.

0:02:09
It's still, it's pristine. And that's one way that people talk about enlightened mind. However, if you know that the gold is in there, if you know yourself, you don't need to see a reflection, then the wind and the waves could be very fun. then the wind and the waves could be very fun. The wind and the waves is also enlightened mind. So very often in spiritual practice, a seeker will become very one-sided to wanting an experience of the calm mind, the calm lake. mind become bleak. But once the seeker is enlightened, or if they're very advanced, if they're a Tantra practitioner, they can see that even in the waves, even in the wind, that there's enlightenment.

0:03:15
So a practitioner of Tantra or someone who's enlightened, they don't just look for a pristine condition of mind. Enlightenment isn't a state of mind. There are pristine conditions, but there are also not pristine conditions. There's challenges, there's difficulties. also not pristine conditions. There's challenges, there's difficulties. And a practitioner of Tantra sees enlightenment even in that. They see enlightenment in that which seems to be to be antithetical to enlightenment. There's enlightenment. So a practitioner of Tantra is someone who's an advanced practitioner. You don't just sit there and say, oh, this is good and that is bad, this is good and that is bad. Many spiritual practitioners But a tantric practitioner looks at good and says it's good, and bad and says it's bad, and both are enlightenment.

0:04:36
Calm lake is enlightenment. Disturbed lake is enlightenment. Both are enlightenment, and enlightenment is something beyond both. So, when a practitioner is looking at life, we see the finite, the sense world, and we see that there is enlightenment within the sense world. There's no enlightenment in the sense world. So they should get away from the sense world. They see that no matter what you do in the sense world, it doesn't actually create a higher state of mind for you. So let's say that you sit down for a special dinner and the food is delicious.

0:05:36
down for a special dinner and the food is delicious. The most amazing food in the universe. If you eat that food, it will be pleasurable, you'll enjoy it, it'll be fun, it'll taste good, it'll make you really joyful for that period of time. And then that's it. But it doesn't raise your consciousness. It doesn't bring you to know truth in a higher degree. It doesn't bring you to know truth in a higher degree. It doesn't bring you to understand love in a higher way, or compassion, or purity, or humility. It doesn't teach you anything that elevates the spirit. Having a beautiful meal will just make you have a beautiful meal. That's the sense world.

0:06:25
And then the next day, you're hungry again. And then the next day you're hungry again. So therefore, the traditional spiritual seeker will say, there's no happiness in having that meal. And therefore, instead of eating that meal, I will fast. And in fasting, you get a certain kind of purity. you get a certain kind of purity. So this is abstaining, shunning the senses. There's a certain purity that you get.

0:06:59
But it comes to an end. It's also transient. So you might, you know, you might fast, but the fast comes to an end. You might fast for a whole lifetime. for a whole lifetime. That lifetime will come to an end. There will be an incarnation where you eat again. But if all you're doing is running away from eating, then you're not seeing the big picture. Because in eating there could be magic, there could be enlightenment. Eating could be an experience of enlightenment. It could be prasad, it could be an offering, enlightenment. It could be prasad, it could be an offering, it could be a teaching. So merely going away from the senses doesn't make any sense. Now, there's also many, many spiritual seekers in the great traditions practice celibacy. They see sex as the worst they see sex as the worst part of the sense world.

0:08:08
It's the thing that people have the greatest attachments to, desire for. They see that people create all sorts of suffering for themselves by looking to sex. So they say, that is definitely bad. Now, religion as a whole has conditioned our societies to say sex is bad. conditioned our societies to say sex is bad. And yet our societies are completely obsessed with sex, even though they think it's bad. They're obsessed with it, and yet, ah, it's horrible. It's a bad thing. It's evil.

0:08:37
That's what comes up in the minds of most Westerners. Something bad about it, but still like it. Still want it. So this is also just a very limited way or a very skewed way of looking at it. Sex is innocent. Sex is something that in itself, by itself, it's not evil. It's not one way or another. It's not one way or another. But one thing that sex does is that sex creates life. So many spiritual seekers who are running away from sex don't even recognize that sex is something that brought them the most important thing to them, which is their life.

0:09:33
So how could it be bad? And avoiding sex, it doesn't bring enlightenment. Not at all, not in any way. Otherwise, there would be thousands of monks and nuns who were enlightened. There would be hundreds of thousands of people who can't get a date who would be enlightened. So merely abstaining from sex is not So, merely abstaining from sex is not something that creates enlightenment. So, the spiritual seekers of the great traditions have also run away from the world.

0:10:17
They've gone to ashrams, caves, mountain tops, forests, to get away from the things of man, away from the things of man, the sense world, so that they're able to just focus inwardly. And this could be fine, but it could also be a trap. There was a story about a yogi who was in an ashram, learning, and really loved the ashram. learning and really loved the ashram. It was very, very, very beautiful. And his teacher said, you're too attached to the sensual world. You love this place. You look at it and you have so many and that is out of balance. So he sent him to a cave to meditate for a year. So the yogi goes to the cave, he's meditating in the cave, and after a little while, the yogi starts loving the cave.

0:11:35
It's a nice round cave, nice round cave you know the sound of the wind blowing through the cave was really pretty the cave was pretty beautiful and oh it's just my little cave right so after a while he was like oh my special little cave after his year of retreat he goes back to his his master and then he's like okay I'm ready And then he's like, okay, I'm ready for the next teaching. And his master says, you idiot! It's like, so you're here, right? And I tell you, you get attached to the place, right? And then you go to the cave, and you get attached to that.

0:12:20
And he said, don't you get it? You gotta let... you know, in the sense world, You gotta look, you know, in the sense world, even if you're in a cave, you could end up becoming attached to it. It's not running away to an ashram or a monastery or a cave or a hill, because then you might bring the same attention there. It's finding out something inside. out something inside. Anyway, so he sends, so then he does something, he points this out to the master, then he sends him to a palace. So one of the masters knew a king, a local king, and so he sends this yogi to live in the palace. So at first, when the At first, when the yogi arrives, of course he sees beautiful palace, beautiful pleasure gardens, everything so wonderful, silk pillows, and then he's excited. And then he says, oh wait, wait, this is exactly what I always do. I did that in the monster, I did that in the king.

0:13:31
And then he finally figures it out. And being in a palace, in the world, in the place where most people would get attached, he finally learned not to. the world, in the place where most people would get attached, he finally learned not to. And he experienced some sort of liberation from that teaching. So it's not that we have to run away from the world. It's that we need to see enlightenment in the world. world, the finite, the physical world, there's enlightenment within it. In all things, there's enlightenment, and we have to be concerned about seeing enlightenment. We have to look into the things in our lives, into the physical world, into our sensual experiences and find enlightenment, because it's there.

0:14:24
Because it's there. That's what we do in Tantric Buddhism. In Tantric Buddhism, if you find that you're in a physical experience that is limiting, you draw your mind beyond the physical limit. You draw your mind to worlds of light, dimensions of perfection, to the infinite, to truth, to enlightenment itself. to enlightenment itself. And then you could be stuck in traffic and you're at the same time free in illumination. You could be in physical pain and at the same time experiencing unlimited bliss and ecstasy. So, Tantra is not focusing on the physical world, not running away from the physical world, but being happy in the physical world and seeing beyond the physical world to the world of enlightenment.

0:15:36
Now, there were some Zen monks that were in a village when there was a festival, and they were listening to music and watching people dancing. And one of the monks started dancing, and then the other monks were like, no, no, no, no, no, this is bad. So they yelled at him, right? The older monks were like, no, don't dance. So they yelled at him, right? The older monks were like, no, don't dance. But the younger monk stops, and then a little while later, starts dancing again, right? He's just dancing.

0:16:13
And then they yelled at him again, no, no, no, no, no. Anyway, so they finally go back to the monastery, and then the Zen master comes over and gives them a koan, asks them a spiritual riddle. comes over and gives them a koan, asks them a spiritual riddle, and the older monks answer wrong. Everyone answers wrong. Then they get to the young monk, the one who was dancing, and he asks him the riddle. And then the young monk gets up and starts dancing. And then the Zen master is like, very good. In that, he looked at something a monk's not supposed to do, he looked at something a monk's not supposed to do and he saw enlightenment in it and he and by seeing that he got it and then he started dancing because it was it was part of him and the other guys didn't get that but the Zen master saw it so that's seeing enlightenment in everything it is in everything even in places where you think it shouldn't it shouldn't be enlightenment should It is in everything even in places where you think it shouldn't it shouldn't be Enlightenment should definitely not be there. That's a really bad place for enlightenment but enlightenment is everywhere and it is Advanced awareness to see it in all things even in someone who's giving you a hard time Even in a challenge even in stress Enlightenment is in all things Enlightenment is in all things.

0:17:41
In our spiritual path we use things in the finite to bring us to enlightenment. We use our lives, we use our work, we use our play, our exercise, to transcend the attention of the finite, of the physicality of the transient, to be aware of eternity. So we will take our work and we'll do it in a way with awareness, mindfulness, impeccability, and selflessness that brings us actually into a higher spiritual awareness. awareness. It brings us, it bridges us from this physical world to the worlds of enlightenment. And we do that with our exercise, martial arts. We do that with our mindfulness. In all ways in our lives we use these physical things. Everything in our lives, these physical in our lives, these physical things, there's ways for us to look and utilize them, to see beyond the physical, and to see enlightenment.

0:19:03
Now enlightenment is what I call the anything goes path, or tantra, tantra, is the anything path And our tantra tantra is the anything goes path to enlightenment anything goes and You could have you could so you you'll use things that work to bring you to enlightenment anything There there could be Taoism Buddhism Hinduism capitalism Buddhism, Hinduism, Capitalism, Cubism. You can see in a painting something that inspires and shows you the pathway to enlightenment.

0:19:54
Any ism, and any, not ism, everything. You can see anything in life. in anything in life. Sometimes you might see a leaf fall from the tree and it informs you about the pathway to enlightenment. But then there's also teachings and structures in books and movies, things that actually you can use. You can use it if it's usable, but there has to be an overall structure. Tantric Buddhism is an overall structure that accepts anything Tantric Buddhism is an overall structure that accepts anything and everything to draw you to enlightenment. I remember a dojo that I was visiting. The sensei taught karate, judo, and aikido. And the sensei was able to put those things together in a way where he was able to show in fighting. Here's how you do it. You can use all three of these arts.

0:21:02
But he put them into a structure so it would work in fighting. Because if you are doing Aikido and trying to get a wrist lock on someone while they're kicking you in the head, it's not useful. they're kicking you in the head, it's not useful. And if you try to do a judo throw at the wrong time, it doesn't work. But the way that the sensei put it together, his overall structure was able to take the different arts and put them together. Then you can throw in something, so if you're a tantra, you can throw in something else, like hacky sack.

0:21:37
How to play with a hacky sack how to play with a hacky sack and put that into your martial arts as well. Yeah, martial arts rollerblading. Yeah, you can see martial arts in anything. There's a Japanese animation called Ranma 1.5 and he's a martial arts practitioner and he always gets into these like bizarre martial arts practitioner. And he always gets into these like bizarre martial arts competitions. It's like martial arts, you know, like martial arts pancake making, martial arts ice skating. Yeah, so anyway, you can, but really you can do martial arts, you can learn about martial arts in any art, In any art, you can learn about enlightenment in anything. Additionally, Tantric Buddhism is not fixed.

0:22:37
So, you know, we might say in certain practices, you know, you've got to do this, this, this, and this. All of these are right. All of these are the thing that works. But in Tantra, instead of rules, we kind of see them as guidelines. But in Tantra, instead of rules, we kind of see them as guidelines. Even in traditional Theravada Buddhism, they're considered very fixed rules and laws of life. But in Tantra, we see every way works. So, one of the great truths that we've seen in Christianity, everyone knows to be true, Christianity, everyone knows to be true, is the teaching of turn the other cheek. Someone attacks you, instead of reacting back and fighting back, you turn the other cheek. That's a beautiful way of compassion.

0:23:29
But sometimes, turning the other cheek is not the right thing to do. Sometimes a roundhouse kick to the head is the Dharma. It's true. It's the Dharma. It's true. I mean, because think about it. If you just let someone come over and smack you, and then you turn the other cheek and they smack you again, you might be showing this person that's okay to do, and go ahead and do it to other people. That's what they might get out of that.

0:23:57
But if you know the right situation, the right person, you have the right wisdom, the person can come over, they want to slap you, you have the right wisdom, the person can come over, they want to slap you, and you kick them in the head, and you might teach that person to be harmless, because trying to cause harm they see harms them. So the truth is what's important. The teachings are Guidelines to show you truth, but in Tantra it is It is truth that comes first Turning the other cheek is the calm lake Kicking the head is the roundhouse in In both cases there is enlightenment In both cases there's enlightenment one has to see that and that's what you learn in tantric Buddhism cases there's enlightenment. One has to see that, and that's what you learn in tantric Buddhism, to see enlightenment in all ways.

