0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about the Wheel of Dharma and the Six Worlds is exoterically the Buddhist cosmology of all states of incarnation. in all of its manifestations. In Christian cosmology, they'll have three states, three worlds. This world, the world of man, and then heaven and hell in between. There's a short teeny little life and then you if you do a good job you go to heaven forever, you do a bad job you go to hell forever. But there's three possibilities, three states that you could exist in. In Buddhism we have heaven, hell, and the human plane as well in the cosmology. However, it's a little bit more nuanced. In the Buddhist view, there are endless, endless existences, endless planes, endless worlds. So if you're talking about heaven and hell, it's not just one heaven, not one hell.

0:02:06
They say there's 10,000 heavens with 10,000 pantheons of gods and 10,000 top gods. And then they say of hell that there's not just one hell, that there's 10,000 hells, and they all have different names, different names of different miseries, and all different types of assortments. And they say that of the human world as well, that there's not just this world, this dimension that we exist in, this plane, but there are countless dimensions that are similar to this. There's a certain range of human experience a certain range of hell experience a certain range of heaven experience and that these ranges different gradients They are different types distinct types of experience of life.

0:03:15
Now beyond heaven and hell and the human world, in this Buddhist view, there are other specific dimensions, dimensions of incarnational experience. above the world of the human plane, but before you get to heaven, there's the world of the demigods. And the demigods exist in these magical, beautiful places. Demigods would magical beings we call that sometimes the high astral planes and These dimensions go on and on and on they're very magical. They're very powerful But they say of the demigods that they ultimately Suffer from being jealous of the gods. So sometimes they call them jealous gods. Below the human plane of existence is the animal world. So this would be a whole experience of consciousness and dimensions worlds of experiencing life as an animal.

0:04:55
So they say that life as an animal is just very base, simple consciousness, very caught limited consciousness from an association of attention with the base experiences of life. So this is one that we can observe because we share our human plane with animals. Now, just below the animal plane of experience, of incarnation, but not quite down to the lowest world, the hell world, is the world of the Preta. Preta is also known as a hungry ghost. And this is what we call the lower occult or lower astral planes, where they exist in kind of a ghostly form, and these beings have suffering, not quite hellish suffering, but are never fulfilled. They're always seeking to have something, to gain something, to attain something, which they could never attain. In Buddhist cosmology, they say that in the world of the hungry ghosts, there's these ghosts with very, very, very big mouths and very, very, very, very thin throats.

0:06:56
So they always try to grab some food and they're biting it and they just can't swallow it. So they're never satisfied. They're never happy. They never find fulfillment in anything that they do, in all of their experiences, they find tremendous unhappiness. So these are the six worlds of the Wheel of Dharma. Now the Wheel of Dharma is kind of like a roadmap, a way of understanding the incarnational possibilities that one has. I remember when I was in Nepal, in the Himalayas, I went into a monastery and in the meditation hall, one of the walls had this giant painting of the wheel of Dharma. The Bhava Chakra is what they call it.

0:08:05
And it is a picture that shows the different possibilities. It shows the hell worlds. And in the picture it shows, you know, some demons that are whipping people, and that people are freezing and burning, and they're being poked and prodded and whipped and they're suffering greatly and Then it shows the next world the world with the hungry ghosts with the big mouths and small throats Unhappy chasing things Never finding happiness and then it shows the next world a world just animals, but animals hunting other animals animals running from other animals. Then it shows the next world, the human plane.

0:08:53
And it shows people doing what people do. You know, there's a little bit of war going on, a little bit of hanging out, having tea. Somewhere in between there is a human experience. And then it goes up to the next level the demigods and it shows them in magical beautiful worlds where there's You know, they have wonderful powers and they're really nice kind of paradise realms and Then it shows the final the sixth world the highest worlds of Heaven of the gods This is where this is where anyone anyone's God lives Every God lives in heaven in the heaven realm And these are vast beautiful amazing the highest most spiritual realms So it shows all of them in a circle and They're all within this wheel Now Now, one thing that it shows you is that there's a way.

0:09:58
Even in hell, there's a Buddha in hell pointing how to get out of hell to the next realm. And in the world of the pretas and the hungry ghosts, there's a Buddha pointing how to get out. And it shows you all the way to heaven, that no matter where you are, there's the teachings of the Dharma that can bring you into a higher existence, into a higher realm. So this is one of the important teachings of the Wheel of Dharma. It is that no matter what world you're in, no matter what realm of incarnation, that there is a way for you to get out of your dissatisfaction, to get to a higher, brighter place. So when we learn about the wheel of Dharma, we learn about where we are in this whole universe. We learn that there could be something worse and that there could be something better. And we're able to see from the Buddha's guidance that if you follow truth, you're able to elevate yourself. So this is the power of this teaching is that there is a way. There's something you can do. You have a choice. You have an ability to follow the path of truth, to have a higher condition, to go to a higher incarnation. So this is one of the most amazing things. The universe works a certain way it has a certain flow and there's a system of Elevating yourself in the universe. There's a system of going up from any plane to a higher plane From any world to a higher world any gradient in any world to a higher gradient in any world.

0:12:27
There's a way to do it. And this system is called the path of truth. It's called the Dharma. Buddhism is one of these paths that follows this flow of life. Taoism. And any true school of spirit teaches you the way to ascend on this wheel. So this is one of the profound things that we see in this vision of the world, this roadmap of existence, that the Buddha is always there in every realm, pointing how to get higher. So, it is our practice, our discipline to learn this path, learn the path of truth so that we can elevate ourselves, we can go higher.

0:13:27
Instead of being in a world where there's war, wouldn't it be better to be in heaven where there's beauty and peace and divinity. So we can follow this pathway of truth within the wheel. We can follow this little road map and get higher. So no matter where you are, there's always a way. Even in hell, there's always a way. There's a way to get higher, a way to follow truth. So there's stories of Buddhas who incarnate in hell to help hell beings, just because they have great compassion.

0:14:16
So there is a story of Mogaciti, who was an ancient Buddha. And he decided to just appear in a hell dimension where there was great suffering. So he appears there and tries to speak to the suffering people. And the suffering people, they don't understand the Dharma at all. So he just decides to sit and meditate. And no one pays attention to him, no one's interested in him, they don't understand what he's doing at all. But one day, there was a man who was there in hell, suffering like everyone else.

0:15:12
He just, for some reason, saw through transmission, through example, what Mogesita was experiencing. And what he was experiencing was a great peace and light of consciousness, but he was also experiencing great compassion for all the beings in hell. And he was just a light, an influence. And through that vision, he also shared that compassion. And all of that karma was erased. And he disappeared from this hell realm and incarnated in a human realm, where he was then able to follow the teachings of the Dharma. So this is a way where he was able to Go out follow the way follow the way of truth out of the out of even hell to go higher so in any world any level of existence There is always a way out Another good story is a story of a Preto one of the hungry ghosts. So one of Buddha's monks was being bothered by a ghost. The ghost was haunting him. This monk would wander from place to place, but he was always bothered in the middle of the night. A ghost would wake him up and scare him and give him a hard time. He didn't understand what was going on with this ghost.

0:17:14
So finally he came around to Buddha and he said, Oh Buddha, there's this ghost who's just haunting me. And the Buddha says, Oh yes, yes. This ghost, you and this ghost in your previous incarnation, you guys were both Buddhist monks or monks, spiritual seekers, and you guys were together and you did something to this guy that just got him upset with you. He blamed you for everything bad in his life. And then at the time of his death, because he couldn't forgive you, and since he blamed you for everything, when you were actually not to blame, you were a good monk, the karma for his blaming you and not forgiving was that he became a ghost. And now he's haunting you because he's still blaming you.

0:18:23
So the Buddha summons this ghost, and the Buddha explains the Dharma to him, this teaching, and he shows the ghost how this monk was actually blameless, and that he was just upset. So the ghost learns the lesson. The ghost actually learns that he shouldn't have blamed his friend. And then he disappears as a ghost, and then reincarnates as a human. Now, later after Buddha died, this monk became an arhant and a teacher, and this reincarnated human was his student, was the monk, the ghost.

0:19:13
And he became the student of the Arhat and an excellent one. He had given up all blame. So that was another story where a being in great suffering was able to follow the teachings of the Dharma and transcend their existence of suffering and come into the path that brings them even higher. So there's many stories. There's stories that the Buddha talks about in animal worlds. At some time, Buddha took incarnation in all of these animal worlds, and then he taught many spiritual things there and and there's stories of heavens How to go higher and higher in the heavens So there's all of these stories of no matter what world you're in being able to follow the Dharma To get higher and higher and higher Now in the picture that I saw in this monastery Around all the circle of worlds, this was a giant demon. And the giant demon had the whole six worlds within his mouth. So it was this big mouth demon. And then on outside of this circle of the worlds, there's a Buddha pointing out.

0:21:01
Now this is very important, because this is to teach that in any incarnation, whether animal, in hell, or a god. There is suffering. So this demon represents Maya, delusion. Even the highest god who incarnates experiences suffering. And it is said of the universe, that's where the God dies. And at that moment of death, the God suffers tremendously, thinking, how can I die? I'm God. I'm the God of this whole thing. Why am I coming to an end? So this is what they say of the death of the gods. And nirvana lasts, you know, a whole universal cycle where a god will live and then die is just a blink in the eye in nirvana. So a god's experience, though it seems very, very long, ends in suffering. So anywhere within the six worlds they're suffering and that's why the Buddha's on the outside pointing out The Buddha saying there's something Beyond this these six worlds because these six worlds always end in suffering and What is on the outside of these six worlds is?

0:22:43
enlightenment enlightenment goes beyond the is enlightenment. Enlightenment goes beyond the transient, finite, defined, incarnational awareness. And enlightenment brings you into the eternal awareness of reality. Not incarnate, but this quiescent being, the extant reality of truth. So, this is what we seek. Not just to follow the Dharma to go up and higher. Yeah, we do that on the way. But the true teaching of the wheel is, wherever you're at, get off the wheel.

0:23:40
Wherever you're at, seek enlightenment. Buddha went to the highest heaven realms, but then he incarnated in a human plane to become Buddha. Before he was a heavenly god and bodhisattva, and then he had an incarnation as a human and that's where he became a fully awakened, liberated being. So at any point there can be enlightenment. So the teaching of the six worlds where there's transience and suffering. Now in an esoteric sense, the wheel of Dharma in the six worlds teach us something more actual. Instead of trying to do good things and change your life and follow the Dharma so that someday you could reincarnate in a higher dimension. We see that the wheel of Dharma is within our mind. The six worlds are within our mind.

0:25:05
And that we can experience any world, any dimension, right now. Not that we have to do a bunch of things to change and somehow incarnate somewhere else, but that right now we can direct our minds and experience higher dimensions. So instead of looking at it like it's these like physical places, we see it as states of mind. We experience these different dimensions directly, and therefore we can very quickly make transformations from a state of limitation and struggle to a condition of happiness, brightness, and peace. So, we have a choice. We have a choice of how to react, of how to think, of what we're going to bring our attention to. And if we follow the path of truth, if we're following that which leads to a higher state, we'll experience that state right away. So instead of saying, oh, something bad happened to me, I'm going to feel bad and sad, you can say, oh, something bad happened to me, but now I'm going to really, like, see God in that. I'm going to practice compassion with that. I'm going to focus my mind on the way, on the path of the Dharma that leads you to a higher condition. And when you follow that, whatever is going to happen in the physical world will happen.

0:26:53
There's... you're stuck in the physical world and, you know, if something bad happens, it's going to happen. But your choice is how to react. If you react in the karma of the physical world, you remain in the physical world. If you react poorly, you go down in lower states of consciousness. But if you follow the Dharma, you can raise your consciousness to higher dimensions, to that of the dimensions of God. So you have a choice in how to react in the way of truth, then your consciousness automatically elevates along this wheel. So if your life is filled with reflections on compassion and seeing God in everything, and seeing magic in everything, then your existence, your state of consciousness, whether you're in hell or in Hungary, or South San Francisco, wherever you are, you're existing in high states of consciousness where everything's luminous, where the Dharma's everywhere, where all there is is truth and light.

0:28:21
It doesn't matter where you physically are. When you, no matter what, bring your mind to light, follow the truth, then you go up to the highest points of the six worlds. Now, ultimately, we meditate and we stop thought. When you stop thought and have no more thinking at all, then all of the six worlds dissolve and they're gone. They don't exist anymore. And you experience Samadhi. You experience the eternal consciousness of being and ultimately you experience enlightenment itself. But beyond the six worlds, through meditation, beyond the six worlds, we come to this perfect awareness of reality.

0:29:31
A place where there's no suffering, a place where there's no heaven and hell, or maybe you could say all heaven and hell comes into a kind of balance, a balance so great that it becomes luminous and perfect. The world of win and loss is the world of the six worlds, but enlightenment is a place where win and loss comes together. Heaven and hell become the same thing, only they don't exist in a physical experience, they exist in their essence. And in their essence, they are the same. And enlightenment is the way, just like stopping thought, of dissolving the six worlds and your incarnational experience in those different realms. The way to experience that which is beyond the six worlds is by dissolving the self completely and entering into samadhi. So my teacher has shown me this many times, the way out, right? So in the big picture of the wheel of Dharma there's the the Buddha pointing out and my teacher has shown me in many ways the way out and Tonight I will show you the way out Thank you, all right, so what we'll do is we'll we'll just sit for Thank you.

0:31:08
All right, so what we'll do is we'll just sit for one song in meditation. And you can sit with your eyes open. And in this meditation, I will show you the exit exit from the wheel Okay, so just for one song look up this way and just by Stilling your mind and just by seeing me you can see that The six worlds dissolve you can see that exit from the world of the finite to Samadhi, to that unified awareness and being.

0:32:12
So just for one song. so so the the the the So you you

