0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about reincarnation. is the self-changing. It's really the truth of impermanence that a being experiences. Someday you die. But then it's also the truth of permanence, a deeper, eternal permanence of your true, immortal being, permanence of your true immortal being, which is that you don't die. You're reborn. This is reincarnation. So we're immortal. That's the good news.

0:01:03
We're immortal, and that's the bad news. Because if we're immortal, and we experience suffering and limitation, If we're immortal and we experience suffering and limitation, that's a concern. In steps the pathway to enlightenment. So when there's a problem, immortality, good news. The fact that we're immortal is also bad news because of our pattern, our karma. because of our pattern, our karma, again and again having the same experiences of suffering. Enlightenment is the way out of suffering. It's the solution to the problem of immortality. Because when you are able to realize your eternal nature, when you're able to move beyond when you're able to move beyond frustration, limitation, self-negativity, then immortality is a blessing, then it's fantastic.

0:02:17
But otherwise it's like an immortal sentence to suffer the limitations and sufferings of your being again and again and again forever. and sufferings of your being again and again and again forever. So the pathway to enlightenment is good when you have the realization of what reincarnation is. The blessing of immortality. So reincarnation is the self-changing. When the self is one way, then it changes, it ends up being a different way. And that's When the self is one way, then it changes, it ends up being a different way. And that's what reincarnation is, ultimately. So you've had thousands of past lives. This is great. You've gotten all these amazing experiences. Maybe you've learned spiritual lessons in past lives.

0:03:14
This is fantastic. and past lives. This is fantastic. And with the recognition of this, it's kind of a just a sense of feeling, with this awareness, with this truth and this lesson, it really helps you to live this life in a greater balance. Instead of thinking that you only got one life to live, this is it, got one life to live, this is it, so you better go out there and fulfill desires and figure everything out. You'd be running around totally stressing yourself out. But if you recognize that you've had many, many past lives, and you will have lives in the future, we're immortal. goes on for infinity. And you just experience life in different ways forever. That's the truth of life.

0:04:15
So that way you can say, alright, well, let me just see what's going on in my life and accept it, learn from it. I don't have to try to do everything. I don't have to try to do everything. I can just follow life. And be assured that life is showing me the right thing. What's in my life, what's come into my life is the right thing for me. See, it's kind of like, life and reincarnation, it's kind of like going to school. reincarnation, it's kind of like going to school. In the third grade, you got certain things you got to learn. And then you go to the fourth grade. And then you got different things that you learn. So the spirit figures things out. And whatever you're working on is the perfect challenge for you. Otherwise, you wouldn't be working on it. But as you But as you reincarnate, you go on to learn new lessons.

0:05:17
So in this lifetime, you might be working on getting over selfishness or kind of nastiness. Selfishness, nastiness, trying to get your own way, fulfilling your desires. trying to get your own way, fulfilling your desires. So you'll work on this again and again and again until you figure it out. You'll see that it doesn't truly bring you satisfaction. There's something about whatever you're working on could be anger. You'll figure it out finally. You'll say, well, this makes me suffer. Well, I'm starting to become aware of something that is the Dharma, that is truth, that actually to become aware of something that is the Dharma, that is truth, that actually leads me out of this limitation, you'll figure it out.

0:06:12
Then when you figure that out, then you move to the next thing. But you know, it might take you a long time to figure it out if you're not savvy to truth, to the pathway to enlightenment. Because the self tends to get stuck in things a lot. enlightenment, because the self tends to get stuck in things a lot. You can go through the same suffering over and over and over, the same things as you try to figure out life. It kind of reminds me of this old sketch that Jim Carrey did. I saw it on TV. He was the Hare Krishna cop, and he's wearing his robes and Krishna cop and he's wearing his robes and everything and he sees a bad guy. So he goes chasing the bad guy. The bad guy pulls out a gun and shoots him, right?

0:06:59
Kills him. Then he reincarnates and keeps chasing the bad guy and he gets shot again, killed. But he just keeps reincarnated just like that and he's in the same chase. So this is what we do. We're gonna figure something out This is what we do. We're going to figure something out, eventually, hopefully. You could never figure it out, be so entrenched in self, that you're continuously in this chase, reincarnating, following the same pattern, running into the same problem. But eventually, hopefully, you figure it out. You figure it out That would be the that would be the best thing to do so in talking about reincarnation We understand that death is not an end Most people see death as the end of self. It's like hey, I'm here and then I die and then I'm gone But that's not true after death you not true. After death, you still perceive, there's still awareness. It's just you go into inner worlds, the intermediate states between life and death that we call the bardos.

0:08:24
where you're still aware of your being, of yourself. You still have awareness. It's just that it's different awareness. And then you change back into being aware again, which is life, we call it. So death is not an end. It's a shift. It's a change. It's a change, but it brings us to the experiences of self, very profound experiences of self and life or being, life and death.

0:09:04
Because in the bardos, after death, you will face directly everything. Everything. everything, everything. So when you're alive, you might be like, oh no, I don't want to kind of deal with this kind of thing. You could run away from it, certain things, energies. You might call it, I don't like hanging around certain types of people, or I'm not interested in swimming or But when you're going into the bardos, you face everything. Every energy of being comes to you. And so, if you have aversion, if you haven't dealt with life, then in death, it's very, very difficult for you. Because you can't avoid it. It happens.

0:09:58
And then there's difficulty. and then there's difficulty. So that's why we seek in life to follow the pathway to enlightenment, to figure it out, to figure ourselves out, so that we can have a happy death experience. Now we have a study, there's a yoga of the bardos. meditations and powers that we develop whereby in the bardos we can go into very, very high enlightened states of mind. We can become enlightened in the bardos. And also in the siddhāi bardo, the bardo of becoming, there are profound opportunities there are profound opportunities to change your karma, your fortune, in your reincarnation.

0:10:57
So you can say, hmm, I'm on a path to reincarnate here, like this, in this way, in this manner, but I don't have to. I see, because of my knowledge of the bardos, because of my abilities in the bardos, I can see that there's a higher option. So there's many, many ways to change incarnation and awareness after you die in the bardos, before your next birth. The esoteric truth, the way that we really understand reincarnation, is that reincarnation happens in every moment. It's not that we wait a whole lifetime to die, to be reborn. That's the physical way of understanding it. But in actuality, reincarnation is in every moment. But in actuality, reincarnation is in every moment.

0:12:05
I mean, time doesn't even exist when you can see eternity. So seeing just the physical, the outer world, the world of the finite, is only a limited way of seeing things. understanding reincarnation, one of the wonderful things that we understand is that reincarnation is now. It's every moment. So, who are you anyway? You know, you might be aware of some past lives, you might be aware of some personal history, and you think that's who you are. But when the self changes from moment to moment or life to life, your perception changes. Maybe in one life, you are an outlaw, stealing things and hurting people and looking at life in a really limited way. Your perception of life was doom and gloom and negativity. of life was doom and gloom and negativity. And then, let's say, in another life you were, you know, a Buddhist priest, something spiritual, and in that lifetime you had a much broader perception of life. And you saw, you know, like Buddha and God and light and love and compassion and happiness and compassion and happiness and everything. Two different states of mind, but it could be the same being. Now, who you are is not the karma. It's not that one experience of that outlaw. And it's not that one experience of that Buddhist priest. Who you are is the that Buddhist priest. Who you are is the continuity of perception, the continuous awareness of life. You're in one state perceiving life, it might be a small state of mind, and then perceiving life, another state of mind. But you are that continuous awareness, the perceiver.

0:14:35
So when we recognize that it's not, that you can change states of mind, you can see life in bad, dark ways and bright, beautiful ways, and that the bright, beautiful ways are more ways and bright beautiful ways, and that the bright beautiful ways are more fun and happier, there's less suffering. Then what you're able to do is recognize in every moment the opportunity to change to a higher state of mind. Reincarnation is not physical. Yes, it's physical. But reincarnation in its Yes, it's physical. But reincarnation in its essence is changing, it's reincarnating into different states of mind. And when you reincarnate into a state of mind, it creates your whole physical reality. Now, we have to see that in every moment we're able to make these little shifts. we're able to make these little shifts.

0:15:38
But in one incarnation, you don't notice the shifts so much. But in the next incarnation, when you follow the karma of that physical transition, then you might notice a bigger shift. So for example, let's say in this lifetime you start eating a lot. eating a lot. You go, oh, just going to eat a lot. Now, the first day that you eat a lot, you look at yourself and you don't look different.

0:16:12
And then the next day that you eat a lot, you don't look different. After a while, you're going to start to look different. Your clothes won't fit, you know, and you'll get chubby. Get chubby Let's say you've got good genetics and you just get a little bit chubby and you're just eating a lot now With that attention eating a lot This gluttonous state of mind you can read at the time of death Your your physical life goes away and then you'll go through to a new incarnation and you'll pick up a new physical karma now incarnation and you'll pick up a new physical karma. Now, because you are so gluttonous, you might be born into a world of fat people. You might achieve your true greatness. I mean, greatness. So you might be born into that world. So at the time of physical death, based on your state of time of physical death based on your state of mind and your previous actions, then when you're reborn, you'll choose a physical or you'll be set into a physical karma.

0:17:29
So let's say that in an incarnation you focused on compassion and enlightenment, and then and enlightenment and then you're in this world where it's kind of weird, right? There's like people having wars, there's crazy things going on with politics, everyone's... people are mean and nasty and there's traffic, so there's all sorts of stuff going on, right? But if you were so purely focused on enlightenment, on compassion, selfless giving, at the time of your death, you will finish this physical karma. You'll go into the next karma. And that is a carryover of your state of mind, which might bring you into a much higher physical incarnation. You might be born in a Buddha realm, where there's many, many, many enlightened beings.

0:18:24
And then your experience there will be filled with truth and Dharma and enlightenment. and then your experience there will be filled with truth and Dharma and enlightenment. So those are big physical transitions. But understanding that, we practice moment by moment to shift our states of mind, to reincarnate in this moment into a higher state of mind. in mind. Because if you're eating a lot after six or seven months, you're chubby at best, right? And you're unhealthy. So we say, oh, wait, I don't want that experience even now. So we say, okay, it's going to be healthy exercise. You start to, in this moment, start You start to, in this moment, start following a greater Dharma, a greater truth. Something positive, something that's elevating.

0:19:23
And then that way, in this moment when we do it, we reincarnate into this moment right now, which is this moment, and you constantly, every moment, are reincarnating. So if you focus on light, selflessness, when you have desires, you have all these weird things that you're into, just stop it. You know? You've got to recognize there's some unhealthy things, and there's a lot of selfishness and desire and stuff. You go, okay, let me focus on the highest, brightest, most beautiful spiritual teaching that I can think of, or read words of the Buddha. or read words of the Buddha, and then what happens is you push away that self that would reincarnate itself the same way in the moment, and then you come into an awareness that it's higher because you're connecting with truth, with light.

0:20:24
that little reincarnation changes you a little bit. But then if you continue, you continue that great change. And then in six or seven or eight months, you've pushed down a lot of bad habits. You've let go of strange desires. And you've been able to shift yourself into a very bright way. bright way. So we appreciate the ability in this life to focus on light and enlightenment and higher things and reincarnate in this life. In this life, you can reincarnate a or let's say the equivalent of having a thousand regular lifetimes. This is the the fast pathway to enlightenment. We face ourselves constantly and we look at our negativity, we look at our limitations, we look at what's holding us back, what's making us suffer, and we face it with the intent to find with the intent to find enlightenment, to see the truth, not just what we want.

0:21:45
And then by having that intention in the structures of the school, you're able to move past that, move past that self. And that's what I call a significant reincarnation. You might have spent a whole lifetime having a weird thing that you're following. You know Having a weird thing that you're following. It's like oh, I have a desire this weird state of mind I'm you go through that for a whole lifetime till the end of the life you go. Wow that really didn't work out And you learn something in that life But We can go through a thousand lifetimes worth of lessons life lessons in one lifetime in one lifetime by reincarnating, by this lesson of reincarnation.

0:22:32
An enlightened teacher is great. They're always giving you a hard time. They're always pointing out to you. An enlightened teacher reincarnates you. They kill, no, sorry, they destroy illusions in your mind. They destroy negative qualities of self. Just by speaking the truth, showing you yourself, and then showing you the way to truth. to truth. And then, that self dissolves. And then you reincarnate as a higher self. It's tremendous. Now, we always work on the things that bring us to a higher dharma, something that brings us to a greater awareness of life and eternity. Meditation. We meditate. When Meditation. We meditate. When you meditate, you stop thought. You connect with high dimensions, and the patterns of self that go on cycling in thought, thinking the same things over and over, those things are very limiting. They stop. They go away for a little while, and you just get an And then, you do mindfulness. You direct your mind to truth. You constantly groom your mind of negative thoughts.

0:24:10
You don't let any negative feelings run throughout your body. You've got to get rid of all that. All that does is serve to create suffering for you, limitation for you. desires. Desires get you caught in a self. You get caught in cycles of incarnation because you like something. So you'll look at something and say, wow, that thing, I really like it. And then your self will try to hang on to it, try to get it. And that creates limitation creates limitation and suffering in incarnation after incarnation. You have to say, hmm, I really like something, something, you know, my desire is aroused, but I have to really be, I've got to grow up and say, this unbalances me. I need to focus on something that will I need to focus on something that will balance me more. It's being healthy.

0:25:19
It's being positive. It's being strong. Versus just, you know, kind of weak and just looking at things in a very small way. you gotta be mature to reincarnate well. And then by shifting your awareness to something that's healthy. If you're just like, oh I really like fried chicken, and you eat it all the time, then you're gonna have a heart attack. So it's like, you know, okay, wait, wait, I know that I like this and it's just unhealthy. So I'm going to eat a salad. So, you know, it's being mature about life. And the funny thing about people is they're completely immature.

0:26:21
Like spiritually. People can't stop thought. People can't stop desire. People can't stop attachment. People can't stop thought, people can't stop desire, people can't stop attachment. They're completely stuck. And that's just spiritually immature. It's like a kid. So what we really do is we say, okay, I've gone through all these lifetimes, and yet I still have this suffering, and yet I still have this limitation.

0:26:48
suffering, and yet I still have this limitation. I still have this desire that I know is not healthy. Let me now, that I understand what's going on, face it. Face it with truth. Face it with the Dharma. The wonderful thing about the teachings of the Dharma is that they work. They actually lead you out of limitation. They actually lead you to enlightenment. It actually works. And then when you follow that, you're letting go of that self that suffers. And you experience a higher incarnation, until you finally go beyond incarnation. incarnation. Going beyond incarnation is enlightenment. An enlightened being is one who's in the world of eternity, nirvana, and in the world of the finite, samsara, at the same time.

0:28:00
places and that is though they you know Buddha said hey you know his the reason he went on to the pathway to enlightenment was to he didn't like death he said I got a problem with death I'm a you know it's like this like yeah I'm gonna die then he then he became enlightened and he came to have death came to have death and life be one. They were no longer separate. And that is ultimately how to go beyond incarnation and reincarnation. Because there's no alive and dead. There's no change.

0:28:45
There's change and no change. There's immortality and immortality. There's immortality and immortality. So this is the practice, the esoteric awareness that helps us to get out of our limitations and ultimately become liberated through the understanding of reincarnation.

