0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about seeing. Seeing is being aware of what is. Seeing is knowing. Seeing is becoming aware of truth. It's apprehending truth. It is having the discrimination to It is having the discrimination to see what is false and what is true. So, seeing is a way to shift into being in truth. We see through concepts very often, mental modifications. mental modifications. We have ideas and we see life through those ideas. There was once a, there were once four Buddhist monks waiting at a river crossing for a ferry. And they all kind of arrived at the same time from different places. They didn't know each other. they didn't know each other. So one of them asked the other three, where are you all headed to? And they all said, oh, we're all going to see this famous Zen master, Master Hsing.

0:01:30
And so he said, oh, well, how will you know when you find this master? And the first monk And the first monk said, well, I imagine he'll be very old and very wise. So I will look for an older monk with a look of wisdom about him. And then the second monk said, I think that he will be dressed in beautiful silk robes. dressed in beautiful silk robes. Zen Buddhism at that time, the Buddhist masters had a distinction in their robes. Their robes were yellow and they had a red shawl. And so he said, yes, he'll be wearing the master robes. And then the third one looked at him and then immediately him and then immediately bowed because he recognized that he was Master Ching.

0:02:35
So how does one see? Why didn't the other monks see? They had an idea. They had a concept and they couldn't see through their concept. But the third monk didn't have a concept and The third monk didn't have a concept and he just saw the truth. I guess the first way that we see life is through the senses. We see that the sky is blue. We're aware that hot can burn, cold can freeze. Just the basic truths of life. But that's not enough, because if the senses are only awareness of truth, or very, very unaware of truth, it could be an overcast day, and you don't see the sun. If you believe your senses, the sun doesn't exist. So you have to have more awareness. You say, oh no, even though I can't see the sun, it's because of the cloud cover. You can't see the sun. It's because of the cloud cover. The sun is there.

0:03:42
So you know more. And you have to learn to have a greater awareness of just awareness of the physical world, what you can sense. If that was all there is to life, then there wouldn't be something called love. it wouldn't exist because you can't see it, you can't touch it, you can't smell it. So we have to start to look beyond just the truth of senses. The truth of the senses are a truth, of course, but it's not a satisfying truth. We need a bigger truth. We view truth, or the world, we see through, very often, desires and fears. So when we have these within us, it affects the way that we see the world, and it alters truth, it limits truth. So, a woman might be with a guy and think he's the most wonderful thing in the universe.

0:04:56
Then they get married, then a couple years later she's like, I am so sick of him. What did I ever see in him? She had a desire, and it drew her into bending reality into conforming with her desire. Then later on she found out it wasn't the truth, there was a greater truth, that the Then later on, she found out it wasn't the truth, there was a greater truth that the guy was a jerk. And fear, we fear our enemies. And when we fear our enemies, we make our enemies. We have fear, suspicion, doubt, so then they become our enemies. So fear and desire, they limit the way that we can see truth.

0:05:45
We also see the world through our personal history. Our experiences shape our awareness of life. So let's say that, I don't know, you had a bad snowball fight when you were a kid, and a bad snowball fight when you were a kid. And then on the first day of the winter when it snows, you're afraid of the snow. You have a bad reaction to the snow. You feel bad just looking at the snow. It's because of past experiences. We're also conditioned by society.

0:06:25
Society tells us who we are. Society tells us who we are, and we enter into a very strong dual description of the world because of society's teachings. The first thing that society tells you is, you're a boy or you're a girl. And then society tells you, this is good, this is bad, in all sorts of ways. good, this is bad, in all sorts of ways. And from this societal conditioning, we're immersed in duality. So, duality is the way a self perceives. We are innately aware that we're separate from everything else. We say, oh look, I'm me here in this body and everything We say, oh look, I'm me here in this body and everything else is out there. So now having figured that out and having all the stories of society, your description of the world is a description of duality, of yin and yang, of good and bad, life and death, day and night. You see all of these things as opposites.

0:07:36
death, day and night. You see all of these things as opposites. And when opposites exist, there must be change. Things go from one to the other. You're alive, then you're dead. It's day, then it's night. There must be change in opposites. This is what we learned from of change. If it's yin, it will shift into yang. If it's yang, it will shift into yin. These by themselves don't create change, but together, opposites, force change. It forces I was standing on top of a mountain looking down, and I saw a bird flying across over the hillside. And the only reason... so the bird is, let's say, yin, and the hillside is yang. It looks like something's happening because of opposites. But if I say there's the object, the bird, and the hillside, then those opposites force change.

0:09:06
But if you take away the hillside, if you take away the backdrop, then there's just a bird flying nowhere. backdrop, then there's just a bird flying nowhere. It would be that there would just be a bird. It doesn't actually get anywhere. It's not flying anywhere. So when you take away the opposites, then there's no change. When the opposites come together, the bird backdrop disappears, and all there is, is light, truth, the eternal essence of all things, undifferentiated reality. This is the truth of life, the truth of awareness. So the problem for seekers, this duality description of the world, this socially conditioned personal history, conceptual description of the world. make people happy. There's a little joy in here, but most people, the vast majority, are not fulfilled by this description of the world. It's very dissatisfying. So, in Buddhist mysticism, we create new descriptions of the world through our disciplines. And it might descriptions of the world through our disciplines. And it might start with something small, like developing and succeeding in a career. And very often it's like a change in career. So you look at yourself different. You learn new skills. You're more successful. And this changes your description of yourself, what you can do, and therefore changes the way that you look at the world.

0:11:21
We practice succeeding in business. This creates a radical change. When you say, oh, I've never run a business before, then you all of a sudden are running a successful business, business, it creates a radical change in your description of the world. You can do something like that. Amazing. We practice compassion, and compassion radically changes your description of the world. You look at your suffering and the suffering of others, and then when you practice compassion, you transcend that compassion, you transcend that suffering. It goes from bad and good to just tremendous luminosity and wisdom. And then you don't look at life in duality anymore. It's tremendously Meditation is the key place to see truth. When you stop thought, the limited self-awareness goes away.

0:12:40
And everything that was yin and yang, everything that was fixed in particular, vanishes. and all that there is is perfection. All that there is is truth. That's the direct apprehension of truth, to stop thought. So little by little, I mean thoughts are a little bit overrated anyway. Everybody wants to be thinking. They think, if I'm not thinking, I'm doing something bad. But you know, if you're trying to solve a problem doing something bad. But, you know, if you're trying to solve a problem, it's much better to sit down and meditate than to try to solve it by thinking. You see a greater truth in just being still for a few minutes. And then after, you don't have to actually figure out anything when you're meditating. You just want to see truth directly. Then afterwards, Then afterwards, when you put your focus and attention on solving the problem, you have a greater awareness. Your mind is more illuminated, more connected to truth, and therefore it's easier to solve problems.

0:13:57
So it's through meditation where we'll sit there and you'll practice tens of thousands where we'll sit there and you'll practice tens of thousands of times a thought coming up, and you relinquishing the thought, and you will see that your consciousness becomes brighter, you see more truth. So you'll see that happen in meditation again and again and again. shows you that thoughts limit your awareness of truth. And this is a powerful way of seeing truth and of changing your description of the world. Practicing compassion also is a radical way of changing your description of the world. Because at first you say, oh, that's bad.

0:14:50
You see someone suffering, you say, oh, that's bad. you say, oh, that's bad. You see someone suffering, you say, oh, that's bad. But when you practice compassion, you see that what you at first called bad is enlightenment. You see that because there is that badness, you see that you can stretch beyond it through compassion place of spiritual illumination. Thirdly, the teacher. An enlightened teacher is able to use kundalini and mystic practices to change your description of the world. They are able able to take your view of life, the universe, and everything, and then open your mind to see a greater truth, to see light, to see eternity. And then you have these experiences with the teacher where you change, where you grow, change, where you grow, where your consciousness expands, and this changes your view. One meditation, one evening with a teacher, can change your life forever. So we have these ways of practicing, mindfulness, work, exercise, career, meditation, mindfulness, compassion. It is through these methods that we shift our awareness of life out of the dysfunctional, unhappy, dual description to many descriptions, many better descriptions.

0:16:59
And by going through this training of going from description to description to description of the world, we come to see many views of life, many truths, more functional truths. more functional truths. We come to see also that there is no one truth. Or that beyond the description of the world is the one truth. In that all the universe is beyond description. You can't say what truth is. You can't say what truth is. Everything that you can say about truth is a partiality of truth. So we just seek to open our minds, to learn new ways of looking at life, to be successful in these ways, and to grow.

0:18:00
grow. We learn to see ourselves, to see eternity within ourselves. We learn to see others. We have to deal with other people. So we want to deal with people in the way that is most profitable, in the way that is most positive. We can see how to have good, strong, powerful most positive, we can see how to have good, strong, powerful experiences with people. And we can also see how to help people. So we learn to see other people. We also learn to see how to do things. So we might have a description of ourselves that we can't do this, can't get a black belt in karate. Then we get a black belt in karate. We find a way, we see a way through our discipline. It's a magical way of transformation. Then that changes our lives. We think that we can't be a computer programmer. We see a way. It's So we're able to make these changes, or it's like a business, you're trying to develop a business.

0:19:20
In order to succeed, you have to see the way. It's spiritual. It has nothing to do with the physical world. It has to, but first you have to see the way. dimensions that we work with in mysticism. And these dimensions are what we're attuned to. By becoming aware of these dimensions and working through understanding these dimensions, we see ways of affecting our physical lives. And this is why in these practices we become spiritually strong. Because these aren't just physical practices, karate, career, and business. We begin with a spiritual orientation. There are dimensions that have a relationship to this physical world. And when you can see the way to truth in the dimension, you see in the dimension, you see a magical way to truth in the physical. Miracles can happen and do.

0:20:36
And what we call a miracle, or what you call a miracle, I call normal. Because I can see in other dimensions ways to do things that people think here are magic. People think here are magic, but to me it's just normal, because I see it in other dimensions and how they relate. So there are relationships that way. In acupuncture, you have a pain in your knee, so they put a needle in your ear and then the pain goes away. It's a relationship. It's not straightforward. It's a relationship. It's not straightforward. It uses not the physical body, but the subtle physical body, another dimension of yourself to make that change.

0:21:23
In astrology, this is one of the arts of the seers. There's many different seeing arts, tarot cards, tea leaf reading, crystal balls. leaf reading, crystal balls, right? But astrology, for example, it uses awareness of planets and their energy and times. And through the awareness of the different aspects, attributes, dimensions of the planets and then the location and the time, an astrologer can see the planets and then the location and the time, an astrologer can see things, and can tell you the future, and can give you insight into yourself or a situation. There's seeing through that awareness. We also practice some considerations for seeing.

0:22:24
some considerations for seeing. One practice of seeing is called scanning. And what we do is when we feel really good, maybe after a great meditation, we look at ourselves in the mirror for just 30 seconds or a minute and we see, all right, I had a great meditation seconds or a minute, and we see, all right, I had a great meditation, I'm feeling really good. What do I look like? And you don't just sit there and go, oh, I have a pimple, and oh, I'm getting wrinkles there. You don't sit there and focus on your nose or something. When you're looking in the mirror, it's called scanning, you're just looking at your awareness. it's called scanning, you're just looking at your awareness. What's my awareness like? And then you go about your day. But it's good to know when you have had a good meditation what your awareness is like. And then you can start looking at how do I look after interactions with people or situations.

0:23:36
So maybe I have to go shopping at a place that I think is unpleasant. And then you come back and you look at yourself again. You see if you look better or worse. And then you met a new person at work who talks to you a lot. Go and take a break and look at yourself in the mirror. See how people, places, and things affect you. You can start to gain this discrimination. and things affect you. You can start to gain this discrimination by scanning. So we only scan ourselves, we never scan other people. It's just for us to figure out our energy in relation to other things. There's a beautiful practice of seeing we call gazing. And we practice of seeing we call gazing. We do this sometimes in meditation alone where we have a yantra and we just look at the dot in the center of the yantra. Just a soft focus. Blink when you need to blink. But when you practice gazing, you start to get out of the physical out of the physical dimension. When you practice gazing, you start to leave your description of the world and you see light and luminosity. Here we'll practice gazing. So, this is a you start to enter an altered state of consciousness.

0:25:21
It is because I am directing enlightened attention through this mudra. And by stilling your mind, looking at this with a soft focus, with a soft focus, you're able to see the subtle physical, to transcend the fixed mind. So these are practices that we do. Sometimes it's a yantra, sometimes we'll be in places of power and we will see beyond the physical world. We'll be gazing into other dimensions, gazing into other dimensions, other realities, realms of power and light. This is a powerful way to leave your description of the world. And as you have been noticing, one of the powerful ways of seeing is to see what is to see what is going on right now. So while I'm talking, I'm exposing a greater truth, a truth outside of this physical dimension.

0:26:38
And this greater truth is something that if you direct your spirit toward, you see. You see truth, light, and eternity truth, light, and eternity in these words, and even in between these words. It's not the words. It is the directed attention toward enlightenment. These are powerful ways that But sometimes you need to know if you're seeing. You need to have some way to tell if it's truth. Because your state of mind changes from moment to moment, and you have to develop consistency in your practice so that your moments get brighter and brighter and brighter and not lower and lower. Now your state of mind, your state of mind, your awareness only exists now in this very moment.

0:28:07
So you can't look back at five years ago and say, well, I know what I was doing and I remember being happy or something like that, but you won't be able to remember what state of mind you were in. You'll just be able to remember partial descriptions. descriptions. So it might be that five years ago you were in a brighter state of mind than today. And then if you are only aware of the state of mind you're in today, you're not able to have a consistency in practice. You need the ability to do a state check. What's What's your state of consciousness? So, therefore, we take a point, a pole star, as the navigators would use. You take a place, a place of power, a place in nature, a place where you can come back to for years, place where you can come back to for years, hopefully a state park or national park, city park.

0:29:18
A place where there's not a lot of people. You want to be able to find a place where you're not bothered by people. And then you go to that place and you sit down and you feel what the place feels like. Maybe meditate there. And then reflect on your life. Say, how's my life going?

0:29:36
reflect on your life. Say, how's my life going? And because it is a place in nature, hopefully a place of power, you'll be able to see a reflection of your mind. You'll be able to make a connection with the place. Places of power have a much greater stability than our have a much greater stability than our fluid states of mind. So, if you go to the place of power, and you feel the place, and make that connection of reflection, then, when you are coming back six months later, reflect and discriminate to see where you were then and where you are now. We did this, I remember, in New York with my teacher. We would meditate in a certain place when we were beginning students, and then we left that place.

0:30:48
And later, when we were advanced students, we went back. And going back gave us great wisdom in seeing we were able to see the transition, we were able to see the change. And that further accelerated our spiritual practice. considerations in Buddhist mysticism of seeing.

