0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about Buddhist enlightenment. is going beyond all states of mind to Nirvana. Now this is an outrageous concept that takes you beyond concept. This is something that is very, very different than most religious and spiritual thought. During the time of the Buddha, During the time of the Buddha, the popular religions were the Jains and the Vedanta, Hinduism. And their concept of enlightenment or God realization was not going beyond states of mind, but to go to very, very high states of mind.

0:01:12
states of mind. So Buddha's revolutionary idea of going past, beyond states of mind was something new. It wasn't exactly new. There had been other enlightened teachers People forget that as well. People forget the main point, enlightenment. So Buddhist enlightenment brings you to the truth of enlightenment, which is that enlightenment brings you beyond In Buddhism, they say there are 10,000 states of mind, and that we primarily shift from state of mind, state of mind, state of mind, up and down, all the time. We're always perceiving life through a state of mind. There's good states of mind, there's bad states of mind. There's good states of mind, there's bad states of mind. But when you're perceiving life, it's always through a state of mind.

0:02:34
The state of mind that you're in, to you, is reality. However, you could shift to a different state of mind and understand life in a completely different way. way. Just like if you take a cup, a small round cup of water, and you say, okay, the water is small and round, like the cup. That's a state of mind, the cup, the holder of consciousness, the water. And then you pour the water into a tall, thin cup, and then all of a sudden all of a sudden the water takes a different shape. So the way that you think life is and perceive life is dependent on your state of mind, just as the shape of the water is dependent on the cup shape that it's in. So when you're in a bad state of mind, then everything looks Everything looks darker.

0:03:39
The world looks like a place with less options, a place that is much heavier. When you're in a good state of mind, you're happier, the world looks like a brighter place, you see many opportunities for success, happiness, love, spiritual attainment. love, spiritual attainment, this is a higher state of mind. Whenever you're in a state of mind, you think that that's the only way that it is. That's the way that life is. You can't see any other state of mind except for the state of mind that you're in. Your state of mind is your reality. your state of mind is your reality. And then if you shift to a different state of mind, then that becomes your reality. But when you're in a state of mind, you can't imagine any other way.

0:04:40
That's just the way that life is. So if you're in a dark state of mind, you're like, oh, life is horrible, and I could never get out of this horribleness. And then if you're in a good get out of this horribleness. And then if you're in a good state of mind, say, oh, life is so good and nothing could be bad. And this is the way that people experience life. However, in Buddhism, we have methods and ways to shift states of mind. This is what we do in Buddhist This is what we do in Buddhist practice. Now, Buddhist practice isn't one simple thing, because Buddhism has changed and shifted over time. First there was Buddha, and he taught Buddhism. But then it changed.

0:05:33
After a while, Buddhism kind of died out in India, and it moved to China. Buddhism kind of died out in India and it moved to China. So when it moved to China, it primarily became Zen Buddhism. Bodhidharma went to China. He was the enlightened master of India, leaving India, going to China, and he taught a whole new way. It wasn't the same practices. wasn't the same practices as Theravada Buddhism, what Buddha taught. And then after a while, there was the next thing, Mahayana Buddhism. And then Mahayana Buddhism is the great pathway, a pathway that focuses on compassion. And then they go and look at Theravada Buddhism, Theravada Buddhism, and then they called that, they named it the small way.

0:06:30
And they're like, oh, you, you are on the small way, we are on the big way. And then the Vajrayana Buddhists come over and say, small, big, I'm the one with a gun. That's tantra. Tantra. Yeah, anything goes. Whatever gets you to enlightenment fastest. So there's all of these different forms of Buddhism. And there was no Buddhist Pope, you know, for the Theravada Buddhists. They didn't have one guy controlling things and trying to destroy destroy and kill people who are changing and innovating. So when all the changes happened in the Buddhist groups, from Pure Land Buddhism to Shingon, they all started with some enlightened teacher, someone who became enlightened from the Buddhist practice, and then they unfolded a new aspect of the Dharma.

0:07:33
But this is the thing about Buddhism and Buddhist enlightenment. in Buddhist enlightenment, from the Theravada Buddhism, what Buddha taught, to Tantric Buddhism, Vajrayana Buddhism, all of the practices within the Buddhist teachings, no matter if it's the Four Noble Truths and the Eightfold Path, or if it's Bodhicitta and the Yoga of Compassion, and the yoga of compassion, they all bring you higher and higher in states of mind, but ultimately the goal is to go beyond states of mind, beyond states of mind, to nirvana, and that is Buddhist enlightenment. Buddhists, enlightenment to them is an idea. It's a notion, a feeling of their highest awareness or aspiration. And these are also states of mind. So when you would get to this place of a very, very high state of mind, you would say, aha, that must be enlightenment. Then you'd be wrong.

0:08:48
state of mind, you would say, aha, that must be enlightenment. Then you'd be wrong. Enlightenment is beyond even that. So, in Buddhism, we work on going into higher states of mind, so that eventually, at a very high state of mind, we can let go of all states of mind. But it's to go to higher states of mind. Now, you shift into a higher state of mind by following Buddhist teachings, any type of Buddhist teachings. When you practice mindfulness, you start to go into higher states of mind. See, people have patterns We call it karma, bad karma. So you might get angry. You might say, oh, this made me angry. That made me angry. This makes me angry. When you indulge in thoughts of anger, you enter into an awareness field, a state of mind, a way of seeing life. If you're angry, the way that you see life is smaller.

0:10:00
you're angry, the way that you see life is smaller. It's more unhappy. So then when you're experiencing life in anger, you see life in a very incorrect way. So what you want to do through mindfulness is you want to get rid of that anger. You have to say, oh, I'm You have to say, oh, I'm being angry. I need to redirect my thoughts to higher, brighter, more beautiful things. You have to really purify your state of attention now, here and now. And once you do that, when you can get rid of anger in your mind, then you come to a higher state of mind, one that's free of the suffering of anger. one that's free of the suffering of anger. And when you focus on higher things, if you focus on the Buddhist teachings, if you do your work as karma yoga, your life becomes brighter, and then you go into an even higher state of mind.

0:11:12
So, we work on observing the defilements of mind and attention that create suffering for us, that create darkness for us. So, when we think bad thoughts about ourselves, about others, when we have negative emotions, it is our work to purify our thoughts and feelings. to purify our thoughts and feelings. We don't let bad feelings just run around. If we do that, you'll always be brought down into lower states of mind. So we say, wow, I see this feeling comes back again and again. I have to understand this feeling. I have to be mindful about this feeling. I have to redirect my mind. I have to practice compassion.

0:12:00
I've got to put my mind into some positive work. I've got to put my mind into some positive work. And then you're able to shift from that state of mind to a higher state of mind. When you're in a higher state of mind, the trappings of the lower state of mind are no longer there. It doesn't pull you down, it doesn't squash your spirit. We want to, in any moment, observe where there's negative thoughts and negative feelings and eradicate them, direct the attention to something higher, a greater truth. And then by doing that, you free the spirit from a lower state of mind, you enter into a higher state of mind.

0:12:48
again and again, completely refining and grooming the mind and attention, practicing mindfulness, compassion, the observations of karma yoga, impeccability and selflessness. And by doing this, we raise ourselves into higher and higher and higher states of mind. When you go into of mind. When you go into higher states of mind, it's easier to meditate, it's easier to see the brightness and beauty of life, and then we continue refining the mind, and then you go into higher meditations and higher awarenesses of compassion and power in your work and your life. In high states of mind, you have a great view of life, a very deep of mind you have a great view of life, versus low states of mind that are a very small view of life. In low states of mind there's great suffering. In higher states of mind there's great happiness. But the goal is not just to come to the highest states of mind. The a mind. The goal is to go beyond mind altogether. I mentioned Bodhidharma. Bodhidharma went to China as the lineage holder, the 27th lineage holder of Buddhism. And before he went there, there were many other Buddhists coming over, and really in some sections of China, Buddhism was thriving already.

0:14:24
Really, in some sections of China, Buddhism was thriving already. And so he was invited to go and speak with the emperor of one of the states. And he traveled there, I think it took him four or five years to get there. And he meets with the emperor, and the emperor says, Okay, so you're Bodhidharma, welcome. Bodhidharma, welcome. Now tell me what kind of, you know, good karma have I gotten for making all these monasteries and temples? and Bodhidharma says none Then he gets confused the Emperor and the Emperor says well, who are you? Bodhidharma says no one Well, then what do you know?

0:15:14
nothing and He said, well, then what do you know? Nothing. And what Bodhidharma is saying here is that he's beyond a self, beyond the self, beyond a personhood, beyond karma. He is beyond any state of mind. And of course, the emperor doesn't understand it because the emperor in a different state of mind. And the Emperor doesn't see the teaching. But what Bodhidharma was giving him was a very high teaching. So we seek to be able to at least see the teachings. You have to be in a high state of mind to see enlightenment, to see the teachings. If to see the teachings. If you're in a low state of mind, you look at the enlightenment and the teachings and you say, oh, this is nothing. If you're in a low state of mind, when you see the greatest Buddha, you'll see nothing. Nothing, nothing, nothing. Just, you'll see Buddha was traveling with a couple of his students, just a couple, and they went to an ashram or a refuge area where there were two advanced, some of the elder monks were close to becoming arhats, and they were meditating in caves.

0:16:46
And some of the younger monks around, they kind of were protecting those two because younger monks around, they kind of were protecting those two because they knew that they were meditating really hard and doing really well. So they wouldn't let, you know, some people come in from the village and they would teach them, but keep them away from the caves. And then Buddha walked in and he was kind of walking over towards the caves.

0:17:11
He's going to go give them teachings. And then this monk comes running over and yells at Buddha, teachings and then this monk comes running over and yells at Buddha, get out of here! He's like, you riff-raff? He's like, those are two really advanced monks. So he couldn't see that Buddha was enlightened, he was just some other guy. He's like, you're in the way guy, get out. Then Ananda says, this is Buddha! Ananda says, this is Buddha. You idiot. Okay, and then he sees the light. So it's very important that we are open to the teachings of enlightenment, because when doubtful, going through negativity, then these pearls of teachings are invisible to you. You don't see it, you can't connect to it. So you have to constantly read the spiritual books, compassion so deeply because it opens you up to seeing the teachings. It opens you up to a greater understanding of truth. And this brings you into a higher state of mind.

0:18:41
Now, they often say that life is a dream, right? Life is a dream. And what happens is And what happens is, you know, the 10,000 states of mind are just the dreams of eternity. Life goes on and on and on and on through different states of mind, different dreams, illusions. Just like your dream last night, you had a dream. You thought it was real at the time. It was compelling. And then you wake up and say, huh, that was just a dream. It was compelling. And then you wake up and say, huh, that was just a dream.

0:19:17
But this life is just a dream. Just like last night's dream. Or yesterday. Right? Yesterday, during the day, when it was happening, it all seemed so real. But it's transient. A dream's transient. A state of mind is transient. states of mind, then all the things that were so real in one way completely change. You could look at life in a certain heavy way and then all of a sudden everything's bright and beautiful because you shifted states of mind. So what we think is real isn't real, it's an illusion. So the states of mind are just ways of looking at life, but they're States of mind are just ways of looking at life, but they're not correct ways.

0:20:08
They are ways that have modifications. You could say it's like the dark, right? So if you're in the dark, you can't see things. You might trip on something when you're walking, and that's a low state of mind. And as you come higher and higher and higher, you might just end up in some kind of cloudy, higher and higher and higher, you might just end up in some kind of cloudy, foggy state of mind. And then as you go higher and higher and higher, you go into bright states of mind. So we seek to go into the bright states of mind. We want to be higher and brighter. Because the more obscuration there is in a lower attention, the more we're confused. We don't see life properly and we have we're confused, we don't see life properly, and we have trouble. We would have the famous story of the snake and the rope. The snake is a rope, the rope is a snake, where you're walking down the path, it's a simile, you're walking down the path and it's dark and you see something across the path and you don't know if it's a rope or a snake. And if you cross it, thinking it's a rope, And if you cross it, thinking it's a rope, you might get bitten.

0:21:16
It's because it was a snake, you can't tell. And so you would make a mistake. Or if you also don't see it right, you go, oh, that's a snake. And then you sit there and you don't go on your way because you're held back, you stop. And eventually the sun rises and you go, oh, that was a rope, I wasted so much time. So we try to get into the higher, brighter way of looking at things.

0:21:36
way of looking at things. We do this through our practice of career success and business development. We meditate to clear our minds to go into higher states of mind so that we can have greater success and we measure our progress by that success. We can see that we shift into higher states of mind when we see that we succeed in our career and our business. So when we're working on and our business. So when we're working on something, it's like a big jump. You're like, how am I going to make this big jump? It's impossible. Yes, it's impossible from your state of mind. However, if you meditate, if you practice properly, you go into a higher state of mind where it is possible for sure. Everything is possible. Anything is possible as possible if you're in a higher state of mind. So we seek to go into higher states where we see greater possibilities in our physical lives, and then we take advantage of that, and then we see changes which also reinforce the truth of teachings, which brings us into higher states of mind.

0:22:48
So, these are the practices we engage in to go higher and higher and higher and higher. But at some time, at some moment, it's time to let go, to go beyond the highest states of mind. The highest states of mind are what they call God-consciousness. so high that you enter into a heaven reality, a God consciousness in your mind, and you just see everything as divine and unity and beautiful. In many spiritual traditions, they call this enlightenment. But Buddhist enlightenment is going even beyond God consciousness. and God-consciousness. Buddhist enlightenment is letting go of even an idea of the self as God, and then it's really letting go of the self completely. The 10,000 states of mind of viewing life are only reflections of a self. All there is is enlightenment, but sometimes, for whatever reason, it takes a certain form, you're reflecting back. And that reflection you see as a separate thing, but it's all enlightenment. And when you go beyond the 10,000 states, you go beyond self-reflection. And then that's the direct view of life, beyond any beyond any idea, concept, mental modification, and you see life and experience life directly and completely.

0:24:35
And that's Buddhist enlightenment. Okay. Thank you.

