0:00:00
Tonight, I'd like to talk about desire and attachment. On the pathway to enlightenment, there are many gifts in Buddhism. Buddhism fulfills your spirit's every desire. This is a wonderful blessing of Dharma. So, you just have to ask yourself, what do you want? So you just have to ask yourself, what do you want? What do you desire? And when you ask yourself this question, you come up with some answer. And whatever that answer is, is going to totally bring you into great suffering. But then you ask, well, how could that be? going to get my desires filled, and I want a new car, or whatever, then if I get it, isn't that going to make me happy? Well, Buddhism gives you everything your spirit desires. Your spirit is nirvana itself. There is nothing outside of your own spirit, your own being, your eternal soul. There's nothing outside of that. Everything is within you.

0:01:36
to get. There's nothing to want outside of yourself. So, you can be innately fulfilled, innately happy when you are aware of your eternal spirit. So, Buddhism brings you to ego, the limited self, we look outside and say, oh, that will make me happy. I want that. Oh, that will bring me fulfillment. That car, that relationship, that job, that status, that fame, you look outside of yourself and say, oh, that's what I need. And when you that, you set yourself up for suffering because you are identifying something outside of the self as being the thing that will make you happy, when the thing that will actually make you happy is within the self, the eternal self. So we seek to modify our awareness of to modify our awareness of what will create happiness. Instead of things, stuff, we look at, that we're looking at, we look within. Now, in a desire, there is always karma. So there is always karma. So if you follow a desire, it will have a result. It will bring you into some sort of karma. If your desire was for something that is along with dharma, then you get good karma. If it's something that is adharma, against the truth, then you If it's something that is adharma, against the truth, then you get bad karma.

0:03:43
A lot of people have self-serving desires. I want money, I want relationship, I want family, I want all these things to fulfill the self. And those karmas tend to bring great dissatisfaction and suffering. tend to bring great dissatisfaction and suffering. But if you have a desire that is for helping others, or a desire to meditate and become brighter, more aware of your infinite nature, those are good karmas. So, when you follow a good karma, a good desire, the desire to help someone a good karma, a good desire, the desire to help someone with their suffering, then you get good karma. There's no suffering from that. There's no pain. It still has a result.

0:04:36
It still brings you into an experience in the transient, but it is a better experience, an uplifting experience. Once Buddha walked down from an ashram, which was like a mile Buddha walked down from an ashram, which was like a mile away from the town, and he went and knocked on someone's door, who was a Hindu, and he was on his alms round. So he said, you know, would you be able to give me and my monks some food? And then the man who opened the door said, oh, look at you. You're so filled with desire for food. You'll walk a You're so filled with desire for food. You'll walk a mile down from the hill So who would have said of course now I'm just following a Dharma the Dharma of sustaining life Sustaining my physical body. It's not that I have a desire. It's that I'm following a Dharma and That Dharma does have a karma right you eat something bad you get a stomachache karma. You eat something bad, you get a stomachache. So there is karma involved, even in following a dharma so simple as sustaining your own physical life. So, you can't get away from desire. Not even Buddha, because he had a desire to follow a dharma. I desire to sustain a dharma. I desire to sustain my life. So I ask for food and I'll walk a mile for it.

0:06:06
And a lot of spiritual people think they have to get rid of desire completely. But where does it end? You can point at Buddha, like the Hindu, and say, you have desire. Buddha's like, no, no, no. Buddha's like, no, no, no. So it's not that you have to get rid of desire, you have to be a little bit more savvy about understanding desire and working with desires. Because you can't get rid of desire. You can only understand that there are higher desires, desires of and lower desires, desires that bring you bad karma. If you don't do anything about desire, you'll get stuck in loss of desire and a lot of bad karma from desire. But if you fight against desire, you'll also get stuck in the desire. the desire. There was a layman of Buddhism who was very bothered by his sexual desire.

0:07:27
So when he was 20, he went away because he was so bothered, all the thoughts in his mind, strong desires that he had, he went away to a cave to meditate by himself. So he sits in a cave meditating for ten years. It took him ten years of meditating all day to get rid of the thoughts of attraction, thoughts and visions and feelings of desire. And then he finally got rid of those thoughts and feelings and he's like, all right, And then he finally got rid of those thoughts and feelings and he's like, all right, now I'm going to go back to the world. So he comes back to the village and immediately when he walks into the village he sees all of these women and then he has ten times more desire than he ever had in the beginning.

0:08:21
Like a starved man, like someone's starving to death. like someone's starving to death. He was suppressing his desires and fighting against them, and he got stuck. So then immediately, you know, proposed to the first woman he saw and got married. Whereas if he had dealt with it in a better way, he might have handled his karma you know, handled his karma differently. So you can't fight desire, but you also can't just go with desire. In Buddhism, we learn a certain kind of acceptance of desire. We accept that desires come into our mind, run through our body and feelings and all sorts of things. through our body and feelings and all sorts of things. We accept that they come and we accept that they come and go. You won't be sitting there in a thought of desire or feeling of desire all the time. It'll come and go. Maybe it comes and it's strong. Maybe it comes often, but then it also goes. So we accept it. We say, okay, I'm not going to beat myself We say, okay, I'm not going to beat myself up, I'm not going to fight against this desire.

0:09:41
I'm going to accept that this thought, feeling, vision happened. But I'm not going to follow it. I'm going to assess it. I'm going to ask, is this truth? Is this right? Will this bring me higher? And if so, then perhaps you follow it. But if not, if you say, ooh, no, that's not a good idea, then you don't do it. You say, I've got to let this go. I just have to accept that it's there, but I don't have to jump into that river and go to wherever it's going to take me.

0:10:24
seek, we just have a detached acceptance. Now, desire leads to attachment. So not only do desires get us all worked up and bring us places and give us experiences and change but they tend to bring us to a place where we attach. Attachment is self-identification with something. So, at some point, let's say, you know, you had the desire for an ice cream cone, and at some point you said, okay, I'm going to go out and do it. I've assessed it, But then, you go, oh, I love this ice cream cone so much. I love ice cream. Me and ice cream are like this. So, at some point, you're completely attached to ice cream because you just have an idea about it and you've made a connection between yourself and the ice between yourself and the ice cream being something that makes you happier. So you've made that connection.

0:11:45
And then if someone takes away your ice cream, then you're sad. If you can't get your ice cream, then you're sad. You feel like there's something missing, that you're unfulfilled. when in reality you didn't have to feel that way. If you just said, oh yeah, I had a desire for some ice cream, so I had it, it wasn't so bad, and the next day, oh, no ice cream, can't get it, and there's no attachment, you just say, oh, okay, no problem. I'm not worried it without any mental consternation. And that's true. But some people can get so upset because of an attachment. People lose tremendous energy in attachment. One of the greatest ways that emotional attachments in relationships, and intimate relationships, and just relationships with friends. When you have these emotional attachments and then somebody does something that you don't like, when you have an expectation and then it's not met, when the self has created and has affixed to certain ideas of how it should be and what they should get and what to certain ideas of how it should be and what they should get and what should happen, then what happens is the other person will do something different.

0:13:21
And then all of a sudden, oh, emotional attachment, so much misery, so much suffering. But the nature of humans is that they change their minds all the time. They'll love, then they'll hate. They'll be happy, then they'll be sad. They'll do something you like, then they won't. And that's the nature of how people are. So if you're affixed to a certain behavior from one person, then you'll be really upset when they change. But that is their nature. They will change. great suffering if you have that expectation. However, if you know people change, you don't have to attach to an idea of someone. You can be with them, experience wonderful things together, but then when they go and do their own thing and change and do something different, you just say, okay, great. You're doing something different. I hope you're happy. And that's You just say, okay, great. You're doing something different. I hope you're happy and That's no problem versus people exploding with suffering because of these attached views In the end Life has changed and when you die, you can't take it with you so it's like your your spouse your children So it's like your spouse, your children, your wealth.

0:14:55
These are what Buddha calls soft fetters. They are attachments that hold you in a condition of suffering. And when you die, you can't take your spouse with you, you can't take your kids with you, you can't take your bank with you. So, you know, when you can't take it with you, you have to realize that there's no reason to attach to it. You have to let all of these things go. Let people be free. Don't limit worrying about money in the future. There was a man who was really a miser. He was very wealthy and he was very cheap. He always didn't want to lose any money and he always wanted to get more money. And he would just keep it and amass, he amassed a fortune. This back it and he amassed a fortune back in the time of the Buddha. He just held his money back.

0:16:10
Once Buddha came to his door and he asked for alms. He refused Buddha. He said, no, no, that will cost money, so I'm not going to give you something for free. Then Buddha And then Buddha gave him a teaching on impermanence. He said, what is money? You have so much money, what is money? When you die, money will be gone. And when Buddha gave him this simple teaching, he realized it. He had a deep realization of this truth of impermanence. And then he transformed transformed and he started to feed many monks and many other poor people and he started to spend his money and give his money away. And he started, and then all of a sudden, and he had a lot of money so it was okay, but he started to be happy and he was fulfilled.

0:17:12
take it with you. You have to see that this is the way life is. You know, we try to find happiness in stuff, but in the end, stuff doesn't satisfy us. That's why we did that little exercise in the Enlightenment workbook where you wait until you're really, really, where you wait until you're really, really, really thirsty, where you're really, really, really thirsty, and then you drink a glass of water. And at first it's wonderful. And then you drink another glass of water, and it's really good. And the third glass, you're pretty good. Fourth glass, it's a little too much. But the exercise is to keep drinking. And you keep drinking, and keep drinking, and keep drinking, And you keep drinking and keep drinking and keep drinking until the last thing you want is water.

0:18:04
You're like, I'm so sick of water. My teacher said, you know, he gave the example of cake. So, you can do that with cake too, but it might gain some weight. But you know, so the things that we see out there that we want, that we desire, whatever that we desire, whatever they are, they will give us some limited satisfaction, but it satiates after a while. You wanted the nice car, you got the nice car. For a while you're super happy, and then a little while later, no big deal. Then you want the house, you get the house, and it's great and amazing. Then after a while, it's just where you live. So, all these things, anything out there, it brings a little bit of happiness, but then that happiness just kind of fades away. And Buddha said it could rain gold and still your desires will not be quenched. It'll rain gold and then you'll still want more. There's no end to desire. So we really seek to find within ourselves that which satisfies our spirit, which is light. Now the deeper attachments that we have are attachments to the way that and who we think we are. We get attached to states of mind.

0:19:41
We become attached in descriptions of our lives, attached to our personal histories. And these are deeper attachments. They're more subtle attachments. We have to get rid of the basic attachments and desires to be able to deal with these. desires to be able to deal with these. Because if you're still caught up with desire for people, places, and things, and attachment to them, then you're going to not even be able to change your states of mind. But if you can deal with balance, detachment from desires, then you're able to start to change your mind. Look at what you think. See where start to change your mind. Look at what you think. See where there's errors. And make changes there. And then all of a sudden your life becomes much more powerful. Much more luminous. Your consciousness expands. You're able to shift from who you thought you were and be a whole new person. A higher person. A brighter person. And we do this really through through meditation. In meditation we detach from our thoughts and the moment that we stop thought, that the self, the attached views of life go away and we sit in a beautiful luminosity and that luminosity is our eternal mind, our eternal spirit. And in that illumination And in that illumination, we're able to come back and see where we had attached views.

0:21:20
And then we have the power from that light to make changes. So that we grow and reflect that light more accurately in our lives. All right. Thank you.

