0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about psychic development. Development is honing your mind to apprehend truth directly. To begin in developing yourself psychically, you have to understand that you're psychic. Completely psychic. completely psychic. You can directly know the truth of things. That's part of your being. Sometimes we see somebody who says they're psychic and they've got a crystal ball and they say, oh yeah, and they have some seeing and magic, right? Now, very often, we see and magic, right? Now, very often, if you've practiced the psychic arts, meditative arts in past lives, you've gained a psychic power that you're born with and reborn with, and you keep on working on it.

0:01:36
Now, if you don't see that in yourself, it's because you have to develop yourself more. It's that you're covering over that innate psychic consciousness. So this intuitive psychic plane exists in your mind. in your mind. It's innate to your being. And it's always a place of pure seeing, pure awareness. However, it gets covered over with things. It first gets covered over with your thoughts. and feelings, emotions. They cover over that innate apprehension of truth. Social conditioning. You're taught when you're very, very, very young that life is a certain way and usually it excludes the magic of spirit. of spirit. Because that makes it hard to be able to see the truth.

0:02:57
And the world, the world has many people. So we get this kind of psychic smog, psychic pollution. It kind of overlays your vision, covers your inner eye. So therefore you say, no, no, I couldn't be psychic at all because I don't see anything. If you go through the process of psychic development, you go through a process of removing these these layers of pollution, conditioning, and the kind of, you know, storms of self-thinking and feeling. And then you are very easily able to see the truth. Now there's two ways that people go about things. go about things. They go about things with thinking and feeling. Thinking is reasoning.

0:04:12
And so sometimes people will reason why they want to move to a new city, why they want to work in a And that's a way that is... it's something that doesn't show you a truth. You can reason your way, using pure logic, into a really bad situation. is by focusing on feelings, not emotions, because emotions will overlay seeing. But there's a feeling. Sometimes we call it a gut feeling. Sometimes we call it an intuition. It's a feeling of rightness. It's a feeling that you know what's correct. So when you're deciding where to live, know what's correct. So when you're deciding where to live, there's a feeling you say, this is right. You might have lots of thoughts and reasons that say, no, don't do that. Don't move there.

0:05:27
Don't take that career path. Don't take that job. You'll have many reasons that say no or yes, but when you're practicing the psychic arts, you start to listen to these feelings. When you're practicing the psychic arts, you start to listen to these feelings. And the feelings tell you something. They tell you a greater truth than reason. So you're able to know something. Now, let's say that you wanted to go into a certain career. And then another option comes up. Should you take the new career option? If you think about it, you might say, no, no, no, no, I'm already doing this, and to learn this whole new career path is going to be too much work, and, you know, who can say?

0:06:21
According to my reasoning, it's not a good idea. However, if you follow that reasoning, However, if you follow that reasoning and you go into the future, your career path might be fraught with a lot of difficulties. And then the new career path might have been perfect and powerful. So when you're feeling that gut feeling, you've got to pay attention to it. feeling, that gut feeling, you got to pay attention to it. A lot of people here have had that gut feeling about lots of things and didn't listen to it. You listen to your thinking and later on you say, yeah, I had a feeling. I had a feeling that that was the case, but I didn't listen to it. I listened to my thoughts.

0:07:12
I listen to my thoughts. So this is starting to understand that the feelings that you have are right, and that the thoughts are misleading from truth. A lot of people think, no, I'm not psychic, and psychic stuff doesn't happen every day. But no, you are psychic, and psychic stuff happens every day. These feelings are always inside. You are psychic, and psychic stuff happens every day. These feelings are always inside. These things happen. You ever, like, think of a person and then the phone rings and it's them?

0:07:55
That's being psychic. This has probably happened to you once or twice, but to probably 90% or 100% of you once or twice, but to probably 90% or 100% of you in the room, at least once, it's a phenomenon, a psychic phenomenon. It's just a sign. The thing is that you're not always 100% because you're unclear. But if you were clear, clear of thoughts, feelings, psychic pollution, psychic pollution, then you'd be, you'd follow that feeling, you'd know that feeling every time about everything. You would have a great clarity. Yeah, so it's funny when people doubt their psychicness. You've got to look to the times where you Now, when you're trusting that feeling, it gets you to the direct truth of the matter. If you're following reason and logic, you have to go through many steps, and then it still might bring you to a condition that you don't like.

0:09:12
a knocking at the door. And you say, hmm, I have a feeling, don't answer the door. Now, if you trust that feeling, then you just don't answer the door. And everything's great. But if you don't trust the feeling, you'll start to reason things out. You'll start to say, hmm, I wonder who is there. And the only way you can find out is to go over and open the door.

0:09:36
you can find out is to go over and open the door. And then it might be your neighbor complaining about something. And then you have to deal with it, right? You have to deal with someone throwing bad energy at you and getting you to do something. And you said, no, no, no, I had a feeling that I shouldn't open the door. I was just sitting to meditate. I'm not going to follow my reason. I'm not going to try to figure out who it is and what's going on. follow my reason. I'm not going to try to figure out who it is and what's going on. I'm just going to follow a feeling. And then that way you get to a greater condition of truth. It helps you.

0:10:15
If you followed reason, you'd have to gain the information and to find out that you shouldn't have done it. So we go So we go right to the heart of things. That's what the psychic awareness brings you to. It brings you to a direct truth. Now when we say psychic, we very often think about someone telling the future. you know, the madam with the turban and the crystal ball, right? And that's psychic. Now, telling the future is a part of psychic seeing. It is a skill, but it's really It is a power and awareness, but it's also kind of a hit and miss kind of thing, telling the future.

0:11:25
Because the future is always changing, depending on what people do. You can change your future by directing your mind to more positive things. to more positive things. Other people can change the future by directing their minds to negative things. And this affects the future of the world. So, telling the future is always in terms of probabilities. It's not a for sure thing. So someone can be very psychic, tell the future and be completely wrong. They were following a seeing. They were following a seeing.

0:12:03
So when you're practicing true psychic awareness, it doesn't have to do with the future. It has to do with seeing how it is right now. And then seeing at it how it is right now creates a probable future. So let's say future. So let's say you're going to buy a car. You go over to that car and you get this feeling, don't buy it. If you go, no, no, no, it's all shiny and new, I'm going to buy it. Turns out the car's a lemon. And then the car breaks down breaks down all the time. Now if you were able to see the future, you would see that, you would look at it that way. You'd be like, okay, let me see the future. This car is breaking down all over the place.

0:13:00
Spending all this time getting it fixed and all this money getting it fixed. So you saw that future. But that's kind of an abstraction because that's a probability. True psychic awareness is just right now in the moment, what is the truth? In the truth you know, this car is a lemon. You just know it's wrong. So you don't even have to look into the future. You don't have to see all the ways that it's going to play out. You just see right now in this moment, what's true. It could be that way for a place to live. It could be that way for a job.

0:13:36
for a place to live, it could be that way for a job. You say, this is what I'm going to do. I get this feeling that it's right. That's true seeing. It's not looking there and saying, hmm, you know, in ten years this is going to happen and that's going to happen. All of that's based on the truth of right now. So it's more important to see the truth to see the truth of right now, than to see some probabilities of what could happen in the future. In Buddhism, we don't like to focus on the future a lot. We really like to focus on the moment. Everything that we need to know is here in this moment. When we start thinking about a probable future, we start to draw our attention out of the draw our attention out of the place where our consciousness exists right here. And some psychics are good, but a lot of psychics are bad.

0:14:41
A lot of the psychic realms that they go into, realms for seeing, are very strange dimensions. A good psychic comes from a clear mind. Inside, they're very clear. They might use different tools, tarot cards, astrology, but they have a clarity of mind. And they're able to see the future or see truths about the present about the present because they have that clarity. Without that clarity, then they're just like those really bad ones. You notice you never hear, like, you never get like a newspaper that says, psychic wins the lottery.

0:15:31
Never get stuff like that. Being psychic doesn't give you things like lottery numbers. doesn't give you things like lottery numbers. It gives you a truth about your life. And if the psychics who always say they're so good, were so good, they would pull out lottery numbers. But usually they're at some little corner store, right? We've got like the neon lights on the sign thing, I've got like the neon lights on the sign saying palm readings, you know, and then you walk in and it's like all old and dingy. You're like, wait a minute, most of these people who are psychics, they're losers. Why would I go to a loser to have them tell me how my life should be better? tell me how my life should be better. You know, it's like you're sitting down there or you know paying someone $99.95 to give you a reading about how you should run your career. You're like looking around at this dingy place. What's the difference between an extra large pizza and a psychic. An extra large pizza can feed a family of four. Most of these psychics are total losers. They're just kind of scamming you. So when a psychic, if you ever come and meet a psychic and the psychic starts just talking about desires and fears, then they're probably then they're probably just scamming you.

0:17:15
Because people are like, oh yeah, let me tell you about your romance, and your family, and your money, right? And those are things that everybody, you can catch somebody and scam them because of that. Because everyone's interested in what they desire, and they're going to listen to things they're afraid about. But if you're a spiritual practitioner, But if you're a spiritual practitioner, a true psychic will notice that right away. They'll say, whoa, you're on the pathway to enlightenment.

0:17:48
This is different. Everybody else just wants to know about romance and how to get the lottery numbers. So psychics, you've got to be careful. So, psychics, you got to be careful. We tend to like to learn how to do it ourselves. If you know a good psychic, then that's good. They're helpful. But in general, we want to know the truth ourself. We want to be able to know what's right, what's true, without having to go to somebody else. A lot of psychics go to spirits.

0:18:24
A lot of psychics go to spirits. My spirit guides tell me you should marry her or him. My spirit guides tell me you should pay me another $99.95 and I will make you a little talisman or a picture or something like that and it will solve something and draw to you and it will solve something, draw to you, blah blah blah blah blah. Right? It's just garbage. Now, spirit guides are dangerous. So, again, we do everything ourselves. Everything that you need for enlightenment is within you. A lot of people try to get these, you know, defer to these spirits for assistance and aid, defer to these spirits for assistance and aid. But these spirits are beings that don't live in this physical dimension, and they might have a completely different agenda.

0:19:25
They can show you some information that you couldn't see yourself, but maybe they're going to want you to pay a toll later. You don't know. So no matter what the spirit is, and So no matter what the spirit is, and even if the information seems useful sometimes, we always say, nope, not going to listen to spirits. I'm just going to listen to myself. I'm going to find that truth in myself. I don't have to ask these spirits. It's like going to a Ouija board. A lot of the dimensions, the Ouija boards are contacting A lot of the dimensions, the Ouija boards are contacting spirits. And the Ouija board is a doorway to the very lower occult. So lots of weird spirits can come through there. It's a structure.

0:20:19
Even though you could buy it, it's like Hasbro makes one, right? You could buy it in Target or something, right? You can buy it in Target or something, right? But these things, even though it's made by some big game manufacturer, it's following some weird occult structure. And just by buying that and playing with it, you're opening a door to very strange dimensions. And they are dimensions where there's beings who can see things. And there are dimensions where there's beings who can see things. There is a little bit of seeing there, but it's very, very dangerous. So, when you go, you know, so a lot of the psychics will use weird dimensions.

0:21:03
Maybe not the Ouija board, but sometimes the crystal ball goes to the wrong place. Why did the chicken cross the road to get to the other side? to get to the other side. Why did the chicken buy a Ouija board? To contact the chickens on the other side. So it's very important. It's very important to really recognize that you can see a greater truth in your own mind. Greater than truth in your own mind, greater than tools to open up weird dimensions.

0:21:46
You have in your mind this intuitive dimension of the psychic realm is perfect. It's a perfect scene, perfect apprehension. It's not broken up or overlaid or bringing you to strange dimensions. broken up or overlaid or bringing you to strange dimensions. It's just a reflection of truth. So you got to be careful when looking at what the psychics do. Better for you to meditate and see the truth within you. When you really connect with that inner realm of seeing, it's like that inner realm of seeing, it's like all of a sudden a whole new awareness. It's like your eyes open and you see for the first time a great truth. Now this is the more profound side. There's things like, oh, I get a feeling I should do this, or I get a feeling I shouldn't do this.

0:22:48
feeling shouldn't do this. And then there's direct awareness of this dimension within you. And in that direct awareness, there's illumination. It's like opening your eyes, seeing a rose, right? And the rest of the world's walking around with their eyes shut. walking around with our eyes shut. It's a whole new dimension of awareness. And it's clear. And it's perfect. And then there's great beauty. Now in order to develop your psychic abilities, you have to live a different life in a different way. in a different way. Because the way that everyone exists in this world is within confusion and delusion. You've got to get above the heaviness. You've got to get above the... you've got to get above the self. You've got to get past your thoughts that confuse you. You've got to get above the psychic smog that's everywhere. It's the psychic smog that's everywhere.

0:24:04
It's kind of like, I was in San Francisco, and it was a very, very cloudy day. Then I drove across the Golden Gate Bridge and drove up Mount Tamalpais. And at some point, I drove above the clouds. So while it was very, very dark and gray under the clouds, very dark and gray under the clouds, and I got above it, onto the top of this mountain. And I can see the sun setting into the ocean. It's very beautiful. So that's what you have to do. You've got to get above the self, and above all the confusion of people. And we first begin finding finding that truth in ourselves, getting above the self in meditation.

0:24:53
Meditation is stopping thought. It's developing a very strong mind. When the winds of thought and feelings blow and you just go wherever they go, then you have no power. So you have to develop your mind through meditation. It's kind of like if you're a good sailor, you're sailing a ship, and even though the wind is blowing in the opposite direction than where you want to go, if you're a good sailor, you know how to sail and get to where you want to go. It doesn't matter what thoughts and feelings come up. to where you want to go. It doesn't matter what thoughts and feelings come up. Your skill directs you to be able to achieve your aims and your goals. So in meditation, we gain the skill to let go of thoughts and feelings that overlay our seeing. And we're able to and feelings that overlay our seeing. And we're able to move up and be higher, more clear, and be able to access that psychic awareness to apprehend the truth very clearly.

0:26:17
The other thing is the world is very difficult. There's so much toxic psychic pollution because psychic pollution because of so many people and all their weird thoughts. Being psychic also means that you are able to feel other people's thoughts. And when there's billions and billions of people thinking thoughts that are not too elevated, it creates this smog. this smog, and it's hard to be clear in that smog. So you have to give yourself, you've got to push off this heavy aura of life. You've got to push off the heaviness. And one of the ways that spiritual people used to do this in the past, was they would go to the top of some mountain, or into some to the top of some mountain or into some cave, they would go away and be away from people sitting in a cave meditating for years so that they can gain that personal strength to always be above the smog of psychic toxicity and also to control their own minds.

0:27:36
and also to control their own minds. So that's one way. It's still possible to do, but it's also difficult because these days there's a lot more people on the planet than a hundred years ago. A hundred years ago there was like 25% of the population. So now that there's more people So now that there's more people thinking more thoughts, it's a greater toxicity. So if you go into a cave, you might not be able to get away from it. So what we do is we make our lives very strong so that we can push off this smog. And when I say strong, it means that you follow spiritual disciplines, meditation, that you follow spiritual disciplines, meditation, mindfulness. You work mindfully. You work on projects with others who seek enlightenment and psychic development. And by working together, you form a team. And you are able to, together, be strong, be able to push off all of this together be strong, be able to push off all of this other information, extraneous vibrations of thoughts.

0:28:57
Because when you're working together on something that is powerful in truth, then you guys are reinforcing in your group, in the Sangha, or in a team, it's reinforcing powerful, positive powerful, positive thinking, powerful, positive awareness. So we have a life dedicated to truth. And following this lifestyle, developing ourselves this way, we're able to push off this heaviness of the world. of the world. And at the same time in this structure we develop our own minds so we can meditate, control our emotions, and we become clear through this practice. Now it's kind of necessary to buffer yourself.

0:30:00
yourself. It's kind of like you need, if you're a little plant starting off in the world, if you were just growing on the hillside, the winds might come and really blow you over. So you need a greenhouse where you can grow and be strong. That's like a dojo, right? So when you want to learn martial arts, That's like a dojo, right? So when you want to learn martial arts, you could just say, I'm going to learn martial arts on the street. Just start fighting. And that won't be good. It'll be better if you train in the dojo for a period of time, so that you become strong. Then if you get into a fight, you're stronger. So we have the Sangha and the practices of We have the Sangha and the practices of spiritual disciplines that act as a greenhouse for you. So these are things that are necessary in this world.

0:31:06
Now when you have a psychic seeing, it's very important to start checking it. Checking it against common sense. start checking it. Checking it against common sense. So a lot of people when they think they have a psychic seeing, they just have some weird idea like it's wrong. Your seeing isn't correct. There'll be many things that are incorrect before you start to see correctly all the time. So the phone rings, you know it's your friend, but most of the time you don't know who's calling. friend but most of the time you don't know who's calling unless you have color ID which we all do okay technology I don't need to be psychic I have an iPhone so yeah so sometimes you know they're gonna call before they call but But a lot of times you don't.

0:32:02
So you have to start to observe your mind and your life. Common sense tells you don't do something stupid. So you go, oh, I have a feeling. It's one of my new psychic awarenesses. I know what I'm going to do. I'm going to quit my job, move to India, and live in the jungle. to India and live in the jungle. Because I have a feeling, seeing that I should do this. And then you go, okay, let's go through the common sense steps. No that's stupid.

0:32:38
And they go, alright, check. And they go, whew. Whenever you practice psychic awareness, you should see that it brings you to a greater truth, that it complies with common sense, and every time it brings you, you say, oh yeah, that feeling was right. I see that. It makes your life better. You're able to navigate the difficulties of life and take advantage of things that you didn't see before through these feelings. take advantage of things that you didn't see before through these feelings.

0:33:16
But you do it little by little. Little by little, you say, hmm, had this feeling, how did that work out? Uh-huh. Then you start to trust the feeling. Had this feeling, oh, it didn't work out so well. I guess that feeling was wrong. You need to know what the wrong feelings are and what the right feelings are. This is how you gain discrimination. And you do it little by little. And you do it little by little. You have to start observing your life and say, you have to ask the questions of your life. Is my life working? Is it adding to my clarity, my psychic clarity? Is it adding to my psychic clarity to take this job, to go into this career path, to hang around these people, to move to this place?

0:34:00
this career path, to hang around these people, to move to this place, you have to start asking the questions. You might say, hmm, hanging around these guys who are playing video games and drinking beer all the time, yeah, I don't think it really helps my psychic awareness. So let me change that and see if it does change my psychic awareness in a positive way. And and see if it does change my psychic awareness in a positive way. And you've got to start looking at things and asking the questions before your actions. You say, I'm about to do this. How's this going to be? I'm going to go to this party or something, right? And how is this going to be? What do I feel? Then you say, wow, I feel bad about this.

0:34:46
And then you go to the party, and it's horrible. It's a bunch of drunk guys playing video games. And then you come back and say, wow, yeah, that was bad. When you start to become aware of it before, you say, ah, okay, I see. I see what this is. So we, little by little, become more aware of our lives, the things that we do, the people we hang around. people we hang around, we become aware of what they do to our psychic clarity, and we start to just pay attention more. And this is how little by little you're able to become stronger. So, psychic development makes you stronger. It's not running away from life.

0:35:32
You say, oh, I'm psychic and now I'm sensitive and now I want to run away from everything. That's just weakness. It teaches you how to be stronger. It teaches you how to navigate the difficulties of life, how to find new opportunities in life. So overall, with every imprint, every feeling, every acknowledgement of your psychic awareness, you should see that it brings you to greater clarity, a greater grounded awareness of life. And that's psychic development.

