0:00:00
All right, tonight I'd like to talk about purity and humility. Purity is unobscured truth. It is the transcendental light of being. experience purity through spiritual practices. Spiritual practices draw us out of the dualistic mind, the mind filled with toxic thoughts and feelings, and obscured views of reality. All spiritual practices drive us toward humility, and it is through humility that we come into experiencing purity. Humility, it's being self-effacing, it's not pushing your agenda, facing. It's not pushing your agenda. But ultimately, humility is accepting eternity as yourself. Humility is seeing that in limitation there's also enlightenment. In the dark there's dark, there's also light. So we seek through our spiritual practices humility. Humility is very, very powerful. In the I Ching, one of the designations, humility, is the mountain in earth. This is to say that it is a giant, powerful thing, but you don't see it. Humility giant, powerful thing, but you don't see it. Humility is the most important spiritual attribute.

0:02:14
If you do all sorts of spiritual things, have many accomplishments, gain lots of spiritual powers, become psychic. If you do all these great spiritual things, walk on water, you can do anything. But if you don't have purity, then it's all just a waste. Because it is through humility that you gain the purity. It's through humility that you go beyond the It's through humility that you go beyond the self. Humility is that selfless quality. That's selfless quality that drives us to the awareness of pure being. and there were two monks, two elder monks. One had memorized all of the sutras. He had taken all of the initiations. He had practiced meditation, visualization, mindfulness, discourse, mindfulness, discourse, debate, divination. He had become very, very, very, very strong in all of the disciplines available for the monks to learn.

0:03:54
The other monk simply meditated and practiced mindfulness, But he did it with great humility, and from his practice he really washed away a lot of the self. He came from being a rigid individual through humility to having a great degree of purity. When it came time for the abbot of the temple to choose a successor, he chose the humble monk. Not the monk that knew more, but the monk who was more pure. humility in all of our spiritual endeavors. We see that the greatest accomplishment is to be more selfless, more humble. Like truly, instead of like, yeah, I just got more humble. one up to you on humble. But we really seek to be humble. And it's because we're happy when we're humble. When the self is acting and reacting, you will always find dissatisfaction.

0:05:31
When you're pushing your agenda, getting your way, you're always going to be unhappy. But you'll always find greater happiness when you're more selfless and more humble. And you'll always find greater happiness when you're more selfless and more humble. And no one's going to pat you on the back for being humble. In the West, people look at humility and they think that it's weakness and stupidity. In the East a long time ago they looked at it differently. They would look at the quiet old man and they would pay look at the quiet old man and they would pay respect and think that he's got wisdom. Now in the East, it's kind of the same, it's heading towards the same as the West, where it's all about egos. The bigger ego, the more people think it's good and powerful. So, we seek just to be humble because in humility we find peace. We seek humility in our relationships.

0:06:41
So when you're dealing with people, I mean just look at regular relationships. Things things don't work out well because people are not humble. If there's a couple or a brother and sister or two friends, if they are humble, they're constantly practicing humility, then they will have a beautiful relationship. But most people have difficult relationships, difficult relationships, suffering in their relationships because they lack humility. They always want to get something out of the relationship. They always have an expectation in the relationship. They always have a stake in the relationship, a hierarchy in the relationship. There's just so much self involved in the relationship that they can never be happy.

0:07:36
relationship, that they can never be happy. So we seek in all our dealings with people to be humble. And then there's a greater peace, our relationships are more constructive. In humility we accept life, we accept what's going on. There's a lot of, yeah, just like what's going on. There's a lot of, yeah, just like, okay, that's how it is. I'm not going to fight. I'm not going to fight for my way. I'm going to accept the way that it is in life. The ego wants to be rich, famous. Everyone looks up to you and you climb the tallest mountain and everything. The ego wants everything for itself, every accomplishment for itself. The ego wants everything for itself, every accomplishment for itself. But in humility, we just work on what appears in our life as being constructive, positive, healthy, wholesome, and we just accept that that's what life has given us.

0:08:47
And if we're supposed to be rich, we will be. We're supposed to be rich, we will be, if it's the Dharma for us to be famous and we can't avoid it. But we don't seek anything. We don't seek not to be famous. We don't seek not to be rich. We just accept the Dharma, the truth that life presents us. And then we work with that. We like to be around people who are selfless. like to be around people who are selfless. We like to be around people who are humble.

0:09:18
So if you go to a party and at the party there's someone sitting there just talking about themselves all the time, it's no fun to be around them. They're draining your attention. So then we see that, oh, that's no fun, I want to go away. But if there's someone who has a genuine interest in you and is talking to you in terms of your interests, asking you questions and in terms of your interests, asking you questions, listening to the answers, then that person is listening. They're being more humble. And then we find that's more fun to hang around. So we have to start observing our self. We have to start taking stock of the self. How stock of the self. How humble are we? And observe it when we're around people. Are we the one at the party talking about ourselves all the time? You have to start observing that. When you're around people, that's when the ego starts to get challenged. You're choosing a position. I'm better than you, or I'm the best, or I'm the worst. The ego Or, I'm the best, or I'm the worst. The ego often goes to those extremes. I'm the best here, you're the worst here. Or, you're somewhere else. I'm the worst here, you're the best here. So, the ego very often is going in those extremes. When you find yourself saying, well, best and worst, you're definitely dealing with egotism. When you think you're right, When you think you're right, you're definitely wrong.

0:10:51
When you think you're wrong, then you're humble. And you can be humble with impeccability. Even a tenth-degree black belt going into a match will not be egotistical. They'll know that they can lose, even though they are a master. even though they are a master. They know there's always a way that an opponent can win. And then they go into the match with great impeccability and even greater success because of that awareness. When you have egotism, even if you're very, very powerful, very, very experienced, it is because of your egotism that you don't see.

0:11:36
because of your egotism that you don't see. Egotism blocks you off from seeing what humility would open your eyes to. So you see more opportunities for success when you have humility. The beginner's mind. Zen mind is beginner's mind. The expert sees few possibilities and The expert sees few possibilities and the beginner is humble and sees many possibilities So we start to practice When we're with people You got to take stock of yourself You got to take stock. You got to say what's going on in there in in your humility You have to say, hmm, I remember in this circumstance at work, I always get this certain feeling and I start to put myself in a hierarchy.

0:12:35
Or this place that, you know, with this group of friends, I always think I'm better than them. In this place with this other group of friends, I always feel like I'm worse than them. You start to figure out, really, where your ego starts to react, so that you can start where your ego starts to react, so that you can start to be mindful to pull away from those reactions. So you want to move away, but you have to take stock. You have to know what's going on. Because a lot of people don't know, you know, a lot of people are the person at the party talking about themselves endlessly, and everybody else is just like, oh my gosh, let me get away from this person. So you have to really, really consider it, and then you So you have to really, really consider it and then you can practice mindfulness when you see that you're heading into this place where you feel you're the best or you feel you're the worst.

0:13:29
In humility, we practice selfless giving. So, we find that it's extremely fun to give. That giving is a beautiful thing and that we're happy when we're giving. So we learn to give. And at first you start off with little things and simple things and then it gets deeper. It's like sitting there having a pizza sitting there having a pizza, and there's the last piece of pizza. You're sitting there with your friend and you're like, oh boy, it's the last, but it's the last piece. All right, I'll be selfless. You can have the last piece. So that would be humility. But humble and happy. It's not drudgery to be humble. If you're unhappy because of your humility, then you're not being humble. You're pretending to be humble, and your ego's still lurking in there, making plans. You're like, all right, so I got this plan. I'm going to give you the last piece of pizza, because that's going to one-up me on the humility one-up me on the humility thing, then I'm going to be like, oh man, I want to eat that pizza, but I had to be more humble.

0:14:58
So when you get into that consciousness, you lost to the humility, you might as well have that pizza pizza. So we seek, we seek true humility. And true humility, humility. In true humility, we say, all right, no, please, I want you to have that pizza. It's wonderful. It's great. And I'm happy that you have it. Now, in Bodhi Woods, our spiritual retreat, boy, I guess we got that lesson, and then here's what started happening. We have like a box with a cake in it, a box of cookies, a box with a cake in it, a box of cookies, a pizza box, and you go over to it, and you open up the cake box, there's one slice of cake left. You go to the cookie box, there's one cookie left. You go to the pizza box, there's one slice of pizza left. So, what started happening was we started having a lot of boxes around. So I had to tell people, if there's just one left, please just eat it. There's so much trash around here. Nowhere to put it. So we practice true humility. That was a beautiful gesture. So the way to experience When you stop thought, you stop the self, you stop the world that the self pulls desires and fears from. When you stop thought, the self is gone and any selfish desire is immediately gone. And then you experience true humility and then you have the direct experience of humility and then you have the direct experience of purity. So it is through the awareness and practices of humility that we ultimately experience through meditation complete humility No thought, no intention, just the direct connection with truth.

0:17:24
We develop a greater and greater awareness of truth. through meditation, through mindful humility. And we cultivate it in our awareness. Our awareness field becomes more and more clear, more and more pure through these practices. observing purity in the world. We go to places in nature. We go to places of power. If you go to a place in nature where there's no people, you can see great purity. You can see that You can see that in the simple things in nature, in a tree, blade of grass, a flower, you can see a great deal of purity. They reflect, a flower reflects truth. A flower has an energy of purity.

0:18:48
Purity in this world appears to be very fragile. It appears to be weak, fragile, delicate. But in its original aspect, it is very powerful. So the flower is just going to live for a little while, and it's going to wilt and die. wilt and die, but for the time that it's blooming, you can see, we can see in reflecting on that flower, the great power of purity. So we always observe the purity in nature. We recognize recognize in our practices of humility, meditation, and reflecting on life, we see that we have a lot of impure thoughts and feelings and intentions. We say, wow, I want to be humble and I want to be pure, but boy, I have this desire and I'm angry at this person and I'm I'm angry at this person and I'm depressed about this other thing. And the thing is, I can't deny that it's, you know, not there. It is there. So when you recognize that you do have impure thoughts, impure feelings, impure intentions, you accept it. You say, Okay, so this is a transient experience. I am having it. You don't have to start beating yourself up about it, because that makes it worse. You just say, all right, I accept the transient part of me as well. And I know that there's an enlightened part of me. And by following the Dharma, you come more and more into the enlightened side. So it is through meditation when you're in the light, the purity of the light beyond thought, it starts to starts to wash away your obscurities, your toxicities, your negativities, the darkness of the self. The transient mind starts to wash that darkness away so that the pure light the pure light of enlightenment shines through. That is the experience of purity.

0:21:43
And you might experience it only for a few moments in meditation, the purity of the light. You might be mixed with some thoughts, but over time, the purity of the light, of doubt, washes away the negativity and darkness of the self. So it is through meditation and other spiritual practices that we go into this great purity and we become it, we reflect It's important to be with other people who seek purity. If you're hanging around a bunch of people who are seeking only their desires, then you will, in association with them, have greater impurity. you will be really influenced by them. And just being with them, you start to make connections with them. And you start to, your energy supports them in their desires. And their energy of desires also is reflected in your consciousness. You probably will have just the same desires.

0:23:12
probably will have just the same desires. And that draws you away from purity. So it's important to be with a sangha, a group of people who are intent on humility and purity, on meditation and enlightenment. And by being with this group, even though the people are Even though the people are just learning, everyone's intent to be more humble and more pure, it elevates everyone. And then there's a greater opportunity. It's important to be with a teacher. to be with a teacher. A teacher who is humble and pure. When you're with a teacher, just like being with the Sangha, you have an internal dialogue, you create a connection, and you create a connection to a spirit that is truly humble and that is pure, that reflects eternity.

0:24:24
and that is pure, that reflects eternity. And in that inner connection, we grow and learn. It is through that inner connection that you see purity and that purity is inspired in your heart. You see new levels of purity and you're able to go to higher conditions higher conditions of purity just through that connection. So it's very important. Love and selfless service are beautiful ways of experiencing purity. If you love selflessly, you know, no expectation, only caring for the other's well-being, in that love there's In that love there's purity. You experience beautiful high dimensions of purity. In selfless service you experience purity. Selfless service really is a, it's a practice that burns out bad karmas. So you might have had like this karma where you always wanted the last piece this karma where you always wanted the last piece of cake or something like that.

0:25:41
But by serving the homeless a bunch of cake, it could be a way, if you do it selflessly, where the next time you're sitting there with your friend and there's a slice of cake, you go, you know what? I've figured this out. Here, you can have it. True selfless service helps you to get rid of even some very, very difficult karmic patterns. So we work through these means. We also work in our work to experience purity. In what we do, we seek purity. You know, there is a story. There was a layman, he was a merchant, but he studied Zen. And he worked all day, but he sat down and did his spiritual practices, meditation, every really, really focused. He was a very devout practitioner. And then one day he went to his Zen master and he said, I'm just not getting where I want to get. And his Zen master said, you know, you got to see that your spiritual life is in your physical life. You know, we is in your physical life.

0:27:16
You know, we lose track of life. We get so caught up in the physical world that we miss eternity. And eternity is where we become pure. So, from this instruction, he goes back to his work, and he brings his meditation attention goes back to his work and he brings his meditation attention into his work and he sees that in his work is enlightenment and he experiences satori, instant liberation. And this is by work that enlightenment is in there. And then your attention becomes pure. You reflect the light. So we work, and in our work we see enlightenment. In our work we strive for purity.

0:28:24
impeccable, and doing work perfectly, and purity in seeing that work, there's God in work, eternity is in work, the spirit is in work, and then in that experience, we experience purity. It's important to be mindful. We are constantly grooming our minds of negative thoughts and feelings. So we are always observing. Am I thinking something bright, expansive? Am I thinking something limiting and negative? And you're constantly directing your mind. By practicing mindfulness, you gain great purity.

0:29:12
you gain great purity. When you're mindful, you're replacing negative thoughts with positive thoughts, or you're redirecting your mind from a negative thought to a different activity, or you're being mindful through compassion, where you see someone suffering or you're suffering, through compassion, where you see someone suffering or you're suffering, and then it brings you to care for the suffering of others. These are ways to direct your mind that open your awareness to greater truth. Through mindfulness you gain greater purity. When we seek purity, we set the highest goal, whether it's a goal in meditation, a goal in our work, our yoga, our mindfulness, we seek the highest goal. And we direct ourselves there with our intent. And we don't settle for anything less.

0:30:26
Whatever you settle for, that's what you get. don't settle for anything less. Whatever you settle for, that's what you get. So you never settle. You set your intent for the highest goal. And by setting your intent, you elevate yourself and you experience purity. Okay. Thank you very much.

