0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about women, men, and the pathway to enlightenment. Essentially, in your spirit, you are neither a woman nor a man. In your essential spirit, beyond the body, beyond the subtle physical body, you come to what they call the jiva. This is a luminous body of spirit. It is the unity of male and female energy. So in your deepest you are not either a man or a woman, but both. Now when it comes down to the physical world and our spiritual lives, we find that because we're a woman or a man, that there's some difficulties, some obstacles because of our sex.

0:01:19
Women have it the hardest. Women, although they have a greater propensity for spiritual attainment, there have been and are far fewer liberated women. women. The reason why is because, well there's two primary reasons. One is because of the repression of women, repression of women's power. And two is because of the nature of Throughout history, women have been repressed. They've been repressed in every way. In socioeconomic women have been suppressed by men. I mean, even in religion, women are suppressed by men. Even in Buddhism, women are suppressed by men. Many Buddhists, probably the majority of Buddhists, believe that a woman cannot be enlightened. They're taught that. It's They're taught that. It's in Buddhist books. And they think, well, if a woman studies Buddhism, if they do a good job in this lifetime, then in their next lifetime they can be born a man and then they can attain enlightenment. That's what many Buddhists believe. Yes, and the Bhagavad Gita settled it when they said in there, they're all, no, even a woman or a dog could become enlightened if they really, really try. So in spirituality, oh great, I can do what a dog can do. That'd be a good trick though. But I'm going to treat for that.

0:03:36
So, even in spirituality, women have been suppressed. Now, why have women been suppressed throughout time? The main reason why is because men fear women's power. Women are more powerful Men have a stronger inner power. Men have a stronger physical power. And so, since men felt the power of women, and they're afraid of it, they use their physical power to suppress women. So it must have started off with two cave people sitting there, and there's some some food and then they both go to grab it. And then the man goes, hey, I'm bigger, pushes the woman down and takes the food and goes, ah, ah, ah. There we go. So this is how simple it comes down to. It came down to a man is physically stronger, fears women's power, and then uses his physical strength to suppress the woman. But then since a man can physically But then, since a man can physically suppress a woman, then in all aspects of life, our life, it's easy for a man to suppress a woman.

0:04:57
And that's why we have the world that we're in, the unbalanced, backwards world. This is a world that is run by men. It's a man's world. Therefore, a woman on the pathway to enlightenment has to learn how to navigate through a man's world and how to be successful in a man's world. So what women did, because men were suppressing them, when you're getting a hard time and really unfair, that's when you have to start to draw out greater power. So women learn how to use power in a different way, because women have a greater inner power than men, but not in a way that's visible to a man, but a way that's invisible. Women have learned manipulate men, manipulate men through sexuality. So this is called wrapping, influence, manipulation.

0:06:10
It's different ways where women use energy to attract a man and to get influence. And And the reason why women did this is because that is the only way they got power. The men suppressed them, so then they manipulate the men. A woman's power in this life is generally based on what man they can marry. That's generally it. There are more opportunities in the West, generally it. There are more opportunities in the West, but for thousands of years this is the way it's been. If you get the right man, your life is good. If you don't get the right man, your life can be horrible. So this is where women have become conditioned, socially socially conditioned to think that they're not powerful and to think that the only power in their life is to get the right guy. And then that becomes the main focus of life.

0:07:30
So it's a bad thing for women because they're giving away the responsibility for their lives. because they're giving away the responsibility for their lives. And sometimes women want to do that. They go, oh yeah, I don't want to have to work. I just want to play house and let somebody else deal with the harsh world. And I want someone to be able to pat me on the head and say it's okay, and things like that, right? you know, someone to be able to pat me on the head and say it's okay, and things like that, right? It's where you're not taking your power. You're not being responsible for your power. You're letting somebody else be responsible for your power. And then, no matter what, you know, even if you got the right guy, got the nice house, went on nice vacations, you got to go to the debutante balls and, I don't know, hang out with high society, you wouldn't be happy because you never took responsibility for your power. You manipulated your way into the life you wanted. So, for women, you have to take responsibility. We women, you have to take responsibility. We have to realize that this social conditioning that all women have learned from society and from their mothers and sisters, all of this conditioning is backwards. It teaches you how to be a manipulator and not to be powerful.

0:09:12
be a manipulator and not to be powerful. So, when you are on the pathway to enlightenment, you have to go past the social definition of the world, and you have to see your true power. Now, something very horrible that women do because of the social conditioning is they compete against each other. against each other. They say, if my happiness is dependent, if my power, the goodness of my life is dependent on the man, and if my sister or best friend could take the man away And so, with this competition, because of this social conditioning, women are not able to work together. They fight against each other. Every woman is a potential enemy, and again, this is a very bad result of this conditioning. It prevents women from being in a spiritual union together. It prevents women from being in a powerful company together. And it prevents really developing their own power.

0:10:53
Now women have a very powerful subtle physical body. Their energy body is more apt to pliability, change, and also circulation of energy. and also circulation of energy. It's easier for the Kundalini to move in a woman's aura. So when a woman is sitting with an enlightened teacher who does transmission, the light will come out from the teacher in meditation and it will go into the woman's aura and the Kundalini will move really fast. So that's the good part. Now, the other thing about a woman's aura is that it's very porous, so the light can come in very fast, but if the woman doesn't practice properly mindfulness and attention, especially towards men, then the light and quickly. So in mysticism, we learn how to retain the light in our work so that the kundalini goes up higher, faster. But this is why women have an edge. If they can learn how to hold their energy, then they move faster in meditation.

0:12:24
Now, a man has a subtle physical body where the fibers of light are very dense and also very coarse. So, for a man, a lot of harder, harsher energies in the world, it hits our aura, but it doesn't take energy out of us. We're able to be a little bit more resilient. be a little bit more resilient. Now in working with a teacher it takes longer for the energy for the light to go into your aura. But once it gets in there it stays in there. It's easier to keep it in there. Now when a man and woman have sex there are difficulties for each. For a woman when her aura, For a woman, when her aura, so when two people have sex, their auras merge. The man's aura will go into the woman's aura. And there's a connection. When the man's aura goes into the woman's aura, the man's aura being coarse will damage the woman's aura. That's just will damage the woman's aura. That's just the way that the auras are made. And for a man, when a man has sex, a man loses energy. They lose a vital chi. So it's an energy that It's an energy that really, really helps them meditate.

0:14:04
So a lot of men who have sex stop meditating. They don't have enough energy. They're not able to raise the kundalini because they're depleting their energy. at a very deep level, really fear women's power. So, even though the guy might be a nice guy, at a very deep level, the nice guy might still have a sense of control and repression control, and repression, and fear when he senses a woman's energy. So this is what happens in almost all human sexual relationships. It might not be, the people involved might be aware of it, but it happens. The man will have a certain feeling. He'll feel the woman's aura opening. He'll feel her power coming up. And then he has this little moment where he gets afraid of the power. And there's this reaction. And in that reaction, he puts a repressive energy out and he puts it out through his chakras and it harms the woman's aura greatly. It also teaches her how to be repressed because her spirit opens up and then what energy. Yes, so this is what happens. It is very, very possible for advanced practitioners And it's possible also in meditation, in tantric sex, to experience higher levels of spiritual awareness. But these things are very, very, very, very uncommon. Even for the people who get the little tantra book and say, hey, let's try this position, or whatever, right? Those you know, say, hey, let's try this position, or whatever, right?

0:16:52
Those are just nice ideas. You know, people going through certain considerations and thoughts and meditations. All of these things are just the surface. As it is, it's very, very, very rare. It's very, very, very rare. If somebody was practicing Tantra, they would be practitioners who can go into Samadhi regularly. At that point, they would have the clarity of mind to see past the aggression and suppression of the man involved. The man would have to man would have to go into samadhi. So this is very rare. Therefore, most relationships, most sexual experiences are damaging for the woman and draining for the man. And that's the way it is. Now, having said that, it's not necessary to be celibate. It's not necessary It's not necessary to be celibate. It's necessary for you to know the truth and for you to see how it works in your life. You have to see if, in fact, you get drained in relationships, in sex, then you have to do something about it. But if you don't see that, if you're not sex, then you have to do something about it. But if you don't see that, if you're not aware of that, then you have more information to see how you want to direct yourself.

0:18:42
The biggest place where people lose energy, men and women, in relationships are in attachments, attachments, when you get emotionally bound up with someone. That's where you'll lose tons of energy. And this is where you need to be very, very aware because sex for a woman doesn't lose energy. For a man, yes, he loses energy. But where they both lose way more lose way more energy is in attachment. So if you have, you know, these, you know, emotional connections bound up, then you can get into a little fight about nothing and lose tons of energy. And then you won't, and then your attention goes down. Your life is not brighter So this is this is the place where if you do have relationships You have to observe mindfulness and not losing energy in emotions Women should be cognizant that the sexual energy of men in general are constantly affecting them When a woman is walking down the street Men are watching a woman is walking down the street, men are watching. And, you know, they're constantly bombarding a woman's aura with sexual energy. So, it's very important to be aware of what you're doing and what you look like and what you're projecting. A lot of women like to A lot of women like to put out sexual energy so that men respond to them. And this is very dangerous because many men will respond and you'll get lots of impressions from men. And once you get the attention of one, then you have a shark on a leash. Why do you want that?

0:20:48
have a shark on a leash. Why do you want that? So, you have someone who's basically their energy is harmful towards you. So, you have to get out of the way of looking at life by your powers in getting that shark on a leash. You have to start to see another way where you can gain your own power, greater power. Men need to really examine their social conditioning. So many men have such strong conditioning that they don't even see that they are harmful They don't even see it. You have to look very carefully. You have to start, I mean, everyone does it, so why are you different, right? Well, you want to be different, so you have to look for the difference. Men have to start to be more sensitive, to build a delicate to build a delicate male strength, to not be controlling, to not be a clown to get attention. That's another type of conditioning. It's very edible. Men need to not try to control control women or overpower women. I remember one time my teacher had us do a little exercise.

0:22:36
He got a few couples, boy and girl, sat them at a computer and said, all right, so you guys as a team have to figure something out, you know, do this little exercise. And then do this little exercise. And then 15 minutes later, the man is sitting at the computer and the girl is sitting next to him. See, this is what happens. So guys, observe that because that's what you do. You will subtly want whatever take over. You want to be powerful. powerful, you want to be in control, you want to be the one. And you should support the woman. So instead of taking over, you think that you're doing a favor, because you're like, oh no, we're trying to solve this, and as a team we win. But really, you'll end up winning, you'll get the power. So you have to let, by fostering the enlightenment of fostering the enlightenment of women, you have to let the woman do it.

0:23:41
And then she'll be powerful. You're like, oh, I was just, you know, trying to help her out. Well, chivalry is not dead. It just stinks like it is. So you have to really observe those subtle things where you think you're doing a good thing, but really you are diminishing the power of the woman. you are diminishing the power of the woman. That's your conditioning. And you will only see it if you're mindful, if you look for it. I remember with my teacher, once, I was a new student, there was another new student, and he was being kicked out of the group kicked out of the group because he had bad conditioning towards women. And he had no idea. He was just like, what? I'm just normal. And he was just normal. But his conditioning was too disruptive. So my teacher said, you can't be here. So just because you're not And just because you're not aware of it doesn't mean that you're not acting in a very repressive way to the power of women.

0:25:01
So in this school, men are very mindful about repressing women. Men respect the power of women. In this school, we have very powerful women. In this school we have very powerful women. So when the two sit down at the computer, very often the woman will end up being the one on the computer. And that's great. But we want to really start to, as a man, start to hold back the thoughts of sex. thoughts of sex. You know, guys, you know, they think that they're very sexual because they have a lot of thoughts of sex, visions of sex. And this is part of the manipulation.

0:25:54
So the difficult thing from this social conditioning is that women manipulate men. So there was men. So there was some scientific study that said men think about sex eight times every minute. And I think this is true. So the funny thing about this is this is the manipulation. Just as a woman's walking down the street and the guys, all these guys are throwing All these guys are throwing attention at the woman over and over and over. Guys are walking down the street or just, you know, sitting around you, psychically picking up all of these energies of manipulation. And that's why guys think about sex so often. So, the truth is that those are not your thoughts. is that those are not your thoughts. You would probably think about sex once an hour if it was a normal situation, if everything was balanced. So that shows you how unbalanced it is. And for women walking down the street constantly getting bombarded with sexual energy from men, and it's not always like, oh, you know, oh, there's a pretty girl, I want to, you know, go on a date with her. It's just, you're this woman, you're that woman, I have It's just, you're this woman, you're that woman. I have this idea of what kind of woman you are, or that idea of what kind of woman you are. And all of it is suppressing. And men and women are constantly doing this to each other. So, this is something that you This is something that you have to be aware of.

0:27:40
So women, you have to examine your condition. You have to look very closely at what you do, what you're doing with your energy, what you're doing with your desires. Men and women have to observe their desires. Desire is like a river. their desires. Desire is like a river. When you jump in, it takes you somewhere. And you have to start saying, wait, maybe I should jump in. Where's it going to bring me? You have to observe desires. You can't, you know, don't be upset at yourself if you have them, So you have to start to look deeply about what your desires are and if they lead to truth. Women have to be cognizant of their appearance, how they talk, how they walk.

0:28:44
You don't want to draw additional attention. You want to try to find a way of being where find a way of being where men push you down the least. The more energy that you push out, the more men are going to try to push you down. Women should work on being powerful. So instead of using the energy of manipulation, which is when you're involved in manipulation, When you're involved in manipulation, you're using energy and consciousness for manipulation, which stops you from enlightenment. So instead of getting your power through manipulation, you have to get your power through learning the world of power, taking your own responsibility, being powerful. Start looking at some of the videos of the CEOs of Silicon Valley.

0:29:43
They're powerful. They have pushed down a lot of negative views of women from powerful men in society. And they've gained personal power and pushed themselves up to be strong. they've gained personal power and pushed themselves up to be strong. It's important for women to work together, to create a fellowship with other women and support each other, and to reactions of pettiness, nastiness, when you start going into competition. It's very important for women to network. When women can work together, especially in the context of empowerment spirituality, then there's a tremendous brightness that this world rarely sees. a sense of personal power. You have to regain your power and let go of manipulation. You got to be in society in a powerful way where you're not suppressed. And then for both men women, meditation. In meditation, we can see past the thoughts. See past, when you're meditating you stop thought. That's when you come into awareness of who you really are. Once you stop thought, you're not a man stopping thought, you're not a woman stopping thought. You're You're nothing. All there is, is light.

0:32:04
And in those experiences of light, you come back into your world and you see your conditioning more deeply. You go, oh, I've got some more conditioning. Oh, I realize I can claim my power more. could be more self-effacing and more supportive. And then it is with an enlightened teacher that you are also aided. When you're sitting with the enlightened teacher, the enlightened teacher is the enlightened aspect of the jiva, the atman, the awakened spirit. awakened spirit. And that's in the illumination of the unity of male and female. It's where they come together and are one. So it is sitting in this light, the light of the Atman, where your own unity of male and female energy.

0:33:18
OK. Thank you.

