0:00:00
So tonight I'd like to talk about the mature monk. a while ago in China, they would have a children's program for young monks. They would have every year maybe eight or ten monks who were between the ages of eight and ten come into the monastery. and they would teach them how to read and write, and how to be good Buddhist monks. And then usually at the age of 18, after you have your general Buddhist education, you could continue a life as a monk, or you would make a decision at that time to become a lay practitioner.

0:01:09
So, these monks come in, And the senior monk, who is the eldest monk, had been a monk the longest, besides the master, the abbot of the temple. He was telling them what their studies would be, what they would do. And then the master appeared, and he wouldn't usually appear for the young monks, but he said, Oh, don't worry, I will give them their duties. So he would say, you're going to work in the kitchen, cooking, you're going to work on motorcycle repair. You're going to work on this and that. And then the last boy that he came to, he said, you're going to be the new senior monk. And the senior monk was like, what? And all the other elder monks were like, but, but, you know, this one guy has been the senior monk, you know, for 30 years while we've been here.

0:02:23
And now there's a kid who's going to be the senior monk. There's a kid who's going to be the senior monk the senior monk Has to you know actually do important spiritual functions like he he holds the meditations He also gives Dharma talks when the abbot is not giving Dharma talks So they were a little confused But that's what the abbot said and the the abbot was enlightened. So he was a master The abbot was enlightened, so he was a master. So they said, I guess so, let's try that. So they went along with the structure and then at the end of the week, there was the meditation.

0:03:05
They meditate and then after the meditation, so the little boy, the little like 10 year a ten-year-old boy gets up there on the mat in front of everybody and they all meditate together. And they noticed that it was a very peaceful meditation. All the senior monks, all the elder monks, they said, oh, that's really nice. And then they said, all right, so, you know, this little boy who doesn't even know how to read, who doesn't know any of the Buddhist teachings, is supposed to give a Dharma talk. So they're sitting there So they're sitting there and they say, okay, now your thing, what you're supposed to do is give a Dharma talk. And then the little boy just sat there quietly and kind of was like, didn't know what to do, so he's looking around, because he's a little kid.

0:03:53
And then the abbot, he comes in and says, oh, why don't you just tell everybody, what you should, how you should treat people. tell everybody, you know, what you should, how you should treat people." And then the little boy goes, okay, and then he starts, he starts talking about how you should treat people. And he talked about you should treat people really well, when they're mad at you, you shouldn't get upset with them. But as he talked, the room filled with a golden light, and even though he said very simple things in golden light, and even though he said very simple things in simple words, he was expressing, he was transmitting a deep truth. So everybody gained a tremendous awareness of truth, awareness of the Dharma, by the little boy talking about how you should treat others. So, in this story, In this story, a little boy enters an ashram, and even though there's this older monk who's been there for many years, meditating, learning everything, the abbot saw that this little boy had a greater spiritual maturity.

0:05:12
maturity. So a mature monk seeks to have that spiritual maturity. Maturity does not come with age. Just because you're old and you've been doing something for a long time doesn't mean that you're mature in it. Buddha used to say, gray hairs do not a master make. not a master make. If you don't work on your disciplines earnestly and completely and selflessly, then you don't gain great maturity. Maturity, spiritual maturity, is knowing life. It's It's knowing life.

0:06:02
It's knowing the truth of life. It's embodying the truth of life. It's knowing that the divine, the eternal happiness, enlightenment is within you and not necessarily outside of you. Not necessarily outside of you. We always think, oh my gosh, I've got to go somewhere, I've got to do something to get me some peace, to get me some happiness. But a mature monk has come to the awareness that happiness is not outside of yourself. Happiness is within. yourself. Happiness is within. Happiness is not chasing down the perfect relationship.

0:07:01
That usually brings a lot of suffering. Happiness is not found in having a lot of money. Trust A lot of very wealthy people are very, very unhappy. They suffer greatly. They just have money. So that doesn't bring happiness. Happiness is not in being famous. Happiness is not in being popular or in an elevated status. Happiness isn't out there in the world. Happiness isn't out there in the world. It's not out there in the stuff and things that you can go and try and get.

0:07:44
I know the commotion of all of that out there, it looks shiny and bright at first. But then you get closer to it and involved in it, and it is a futile waste of time, energy, and attention. time, energy, and attention, and it leaves you drained, and it leaves you in a greater cycle of confusion. So the mature monk sees beyond that, sees beyond the neon lights of the of the physical world and sees a brighter light, and that brighter light is inside. It's in your mind. It's the eternal aspect of your being. And so the mature monk seeks that, because that's where there's true peace, freedom, and illumination.

0:08:48
freedom and illumination. Yet at the same time, the mature monk doesn't run away from the world. If you're running away from the world, then you're going the other way. You're going into an experience where you're denying life. And when you deny life, that means that you just can't handle the things that you're denying. And when you deny life, that means that you just can't handle the things that you're denying. And if you can't handle it, then you're going to get it. Life will find a way to give it to you, that thing which you're trying to run from, and then you'll just struggle with it. So, when you try to run away from life, it doesn't work.

0:09:36
The mature monk accepts life, accepts this experience, accepts what life offers, and also looks for enlightenment in the finite. So a mature monk will do their work and see in their work enlightenment. see in their work enlightenment. A mature monk will play, and in their play they will experience eternity. In exercise, in cleaning the floors, in doing the laundry, in cutting your hair, in driving in traffic, in everything in the physical world, the mature monk seeks In everything in the physical world, the mature monk seeks to find the infinite aspect. God is in everything. Enlightenment is in everything. So the mature monk doesn't run away from the world, but finds enlightenment in everything in the world.

0:10:48
world. A mature monk lives a very uncluttered life. Their life is very bright and tight and clean. All of their affairs are in order. Their relationships are clean. They've considered their lives and they haven't made a mess. They've trimmed the hedges of the self and cleaned out the closets so that there's nothing in their attention that will distract them from seeing eternity and everything. It's kind of like if your room is a mess, you go, okay, I'm going to sit down and meditate It's kind of like if your room is a mess, you go, okay, I'm gonna sit down and meditate. But then your room's a mess, you have so many things, right? So you sit there and you go, oh, well, there's my laptop, let me just check my emails real quick.

0:11:52
And then, okay, I spent a couple hours on emails, now I'm gonna meditate. Then you go, okay, I'm gonna sit down and meditate. Oh, look, I got the newspaper right here. Oh, there's a story that's really interesting, let me just read that. the newspaper right here. Oh, there's a story that's really interesting. Let me just read that. Read the whole newspaper. And then you sit there again and then all of a sudden someone texts you. So, then you find out that you don't have time for meditation anymore because you had a cluttered room. Everything is out of balance. Everything's grabbing your attention.

0:12:24
grabbing your attention. So we unclutter our lives. We have very, very strong, powerful lives. Lives where we have a good career. Lives where we focus on our physical bodies, being healthy. Lives where we constantly groom our mind of negativity. And that's a tight, negativity. And that's a tight, bright, clean, uncluttered mind. A mature monk will make a practice of seeking greater light, greater awareness of truth, every day. When you have a new day, you don't just kind of go, oh, I'm just going to kind of go through it like When you have a new day, you don't just kind of go, oh, I'm just going to kind of go through it like I did yesterday. You say, all right, this is a new day and a new opportunity for me to be more compassionate, for me to be more mindful, for me to be more impeccable.

0:13:31
We develop our disciplines and become strong. And a monk who is mature realizes a monk who is mature realizes that everything in life, the point of life, is to experience a greater condition of enlightenment, a greater condition of understanding the truth and seeing eternity. That's what a mature monk's life is all about. All the other aspects of life All the other aspects of life that are transient don't matter. The central focus is enlightenment. And yes, they bring all of the things in the transient fall into balance when you have that eternal focus. Now, a mature monk is really strong, strong in their heart, meaning they can take difficulties.

0:14:41
The pathway to enlightenment has growing pains. Just like anything, when you grow, there's some difficulties, there's some hardships. And the mature monk can handle the hardships. They can accept them. They can take it in stride. So sometimes you meditate, you become very psychically sensitive, and then somebody thinks Somebody thinks a thought or looks at you wrong and then you Get unbalanced and then the mature monk says, okay. I Can handle this I can find more balance and go on When someone says something bad about you instead of Getting upset you can be more brave. It takes courage to go beyond you can be more brave. It takes courage to go beyond the ego's reaction, and to have a greater awareness of compassion.

0:15:50
My teacher would say, if someone ridicules you, scorns you, if someone gets angry at you, that's when you have to have a sense of humor. That's when you have to have a sense of humor. You get a neighbor who is constantly angry at you, constantly causing trouble for you. Instead of getting angry at them, you have a sense of humor. humor, and it becomes a situation of illumination. A mature monk always turns enemies into friends in a very balanced way, in a very street smart way. But in your heart, you have compassion for someone who might be an enemy. Someone might be throwing a punch at you, and you have compassion for them. Unlike in Christianity, we don't get hit and turn the other cheek and get hit again.

0:17:13
We block. And we block. That's why we learn martial arts. We block and we're able to end the fight without harming the person. We care for them not to harm us, and not to harm us twice. And we care for them, so we end them. We stop them from harming us, and we also use intelligence and martial arts to stop but also use intelligence and martial arts to stop the conflict altogether. And that's caring tremendously for your opponent. That's a friend.

0:17:51
So we're always friends, but really expert friends. A mature monk is able to deal with tremendous hardship and negativity and enmity and always seeks to create illumination and harmony and balance in dealing with adversity. A mature monk lets go of the past and then opens focus and awareness to perfection. There was a story of two monks in Japan walking down the path. They came to an area where it was very muddy and there was a woman in a kimono standing to an area where it was very muddy and there was a woman in a kimono standing there. And she was looking for a way to cross without getting her kimono dirty and couldn't find a way.

0:18:59
So one of the monks picks her up, carries her over the mud, gets her on the other side, puts her down, and then the two monks walk on. Now, the other monk is sitting there The other monk is sitting there just really steaming for a long time about it. Finally after an hour, he says, I can't believe you touched that woman. It's against the monk's code to touch a woman. And you picked her up and carried her. And the other monk says, yeah, but I put her down an hour ago. And you're still carrying her.

0:19:36
ago and you're still carrying her. So that's a mature monk. Immaturity is to hang on to something bad that happened to you five years ago, you're still angry about it. To hold that happened when you were six. That's immaturity. That's not applying the teachings of the Dharma to your life. That's holding on to enmity. So, a mature monk always will take anything bad, anything hurtful and harmful, and put it down. My teacher said, My teacher said, you know, instead of forgive and forget, just forget. It's the fastest way. You can skip the whole forgiving part by just forgetting.

0:20:43
Yeah. And it's true. I mean, if you look at, like, a young child, sitting there playing with his friends, and then he wants to play with the ball, a young child sitting there playing with his friends, and then he wants to play with the ball, and then the other kid takes the ball away, and then he starts crying, and then the next moment he sees something shiny, and then he forgets completely about the ball that he wanted that caused him suffering, and then it's gone. So, forget about it. That's And when we can put down all of these sorrows, angers, vendettas that we've been holding onto, when we can put them down, then we automatically open ourselves to the radiance of eternity. eternity. We immediately go beyond the heavy burdens of the physical world. And we experience truth and the light, the light of enlightenment.

0:21:53
And living in that light, living in that light of enlightenment is being a mature monk. Okay, thank you. Okay, thank you.

