0:00:00
Tonight, I'd like to talk about overcoming stress. To overcome stress, we move from the surface mind to the deeper mind, to the true mind, what we call the one mind or the Zen mind, to that eternal being within you, not the external transient self. Now, my teacher had a koan, kind of a spiritual riddle to ponder to overcome stress. This koan is, life does not change, but we do. Life does not change, but we do. And by pondering this koan, you can learn how to overcome stress. this koan, you can learn how to overcome stress. It's the secret. This koan brings you to the secret of overcoming stress, which is going from the surface mind to the true mind. To begin with, in learning to overcome stress, we look at the transience of stress. Some people do many, many things. They might have a thousand Some people do many, many things.

0:01:40
They might have a thousand things, important things, to do in a day. Whether speaking in front of people, whether doing things of great significance, flying an airplane, operating on somebody. And they could do it. They could do all of these many, many things without any stress. Many things of great significance. And then there could be some other person of great significance. And then there could be some other person who can't do two things without stress.

0:02:08
They can't accomplish more than two things in a day. And they might be silly little things, like getting out of bed, right? So that's their accomplishment. Oh yeah, I did something today. I got out of the bed and went to the bathroom. And yet they feel tremendous stress. And yet they feel tremendous stress. So stress is not the same for different people. Also you might be able to look at your own life and see times where you had stress and times where you didn't.

0:02:41
You might have seen a time where you did many things. You made many accomplishments, you had many activities, and yet at that time you did not And yet at that time, you did not feel stress. You felt happy. And then you could look at another time, a different situation, and you could say, Wow, I had stress there. And I wasn't able to do many things. And I also felt bad. So stress isn't one way. Stress is transient. Self-stress is transient. And really when we look at stress from a Buddhist point of view, it's very important to understand stress does not actually exist. Stress is an illusion.

0:03:29
Stress is not real. You can't go out hunting in the forest and get you a stress. get you a stress. It's not a thing. You can't go fishing in the ocean and catch a stress. Stress is not actually real. The truth is that stress is a state of mind. Stress is just a state of mind. And it's a limited state of mind. It's a false state of mind. It's It's a limited state of mind. It's a false state of mind. It's a state of mind that doesn't reflect truth so When we see that stress is just a state of mind And then we can come to our Buddhist practices Because in Buddhism we move beyond states of mind from limited states of mind to more open states of mind and mind to more open states of mind, and finally beyond all states of mind to enlightened mind. So being busy, having tremendous demands on you, having very important things that have great significance to yourself and others, These things do not create stress. Not at all. Stress is a state of mind.

0:04:58
Wars, alarms, poverty, pollution, crime, punishment, all these things don't create stress if you're experiencing them. stress if you're experiencing them. What creates stress is your outlook, your state of mind. So all great difficulties, every great difficulty, the biggest difficulties you can imagine, don't create stress. And if you're in those great difficulties, or even small difficulties small difficulties that for you create stress, then you have to come back to ponder the koan. Life doesn't change, but we do. You can deal with war. There's lots of stories of samurai great battles, taking on enemies. Musashi, one of the most famous samurai, went into battle against 60 samurai by himself. No stress. No stress. He believed in his technique. He believed that he could... he just had a superior, positive state of mind. Anybody else would He just had a superior positive state of mind.

0:06:28
Anybody else would have stressed out maybe, but he went in there without any stress into battle and he told the army facing him who he was. And then they all stressed out. So he went to battle. Yeah, the day before he said, hey, by the way, I'm Sushi. And then they were all, they're like, well, there's 60 of us, but they didn't sleep well. They all stressed out. Then he goes in completely unstressed. War doesn't cause stress.

0:07:04
Sickness doesn't cause stress. You could have a horrible illness, cancer, and you could deal with it in a way of being completely stressed out, And you could deal with it in a way of being completely stressed out, or you can deal with it in a way free of stress It depends on your your state of mind Mila Rapa was very ill gravely ill he was a great enlightened yogi of Tibet and While he was while he was... while he had his illness, when he was going to die, but he was still alive and he was sitting at the table with some of his students and they were like, well you seem okay. He said, my mind is okay. He said, but let me show you the stress my body's having.

0:07:57
And he showed them by pushing this stress to a wooden door. The wooden door was like rattling this stress to a wooden door. The wooden door was like rattling and shaking and falling apart. And he said, that's what's going on in my body. But since my mind is in a place beyond stress, my spirit is positive and at ease. So stress is a state of mind. Now, when people are in the surface When people are in the surface of mind, in the transient awareness of life, they start to experience stressful things, difficult things, that lead them into a stressed-out state of mind. So, I mean, the world is crazy. The world is kind of backwards and insane. It's a world where there's war, where people just try to get power over others.

0:08:55
And being in a world like this, it's stressful. It's difficult, right? It's not easy. And if you let those forces of the physical world push your spirit, push it down, then you'll end up stressed out. So the world is a crazy place. So the world is a crazy place. It's a difficult place. All sorts of things can happen. You might be stressed out because of your manager at work. A lot of times in businesses, the managers are stressed out and they pass stress to you. And that could be very difficult because you're spending difficult because you're spending all of your time at work and your manager just wants more from you, wants more from you, doesn't like what you did, never happy, threatens to fire you, and this creates, this could create stress. You might be stressed out because your business is not doing well, or you might be stressed your business is doing well. You could be stressed out because you're minding other people's business, but this is none of my business. So there's all sorts of reasons to become stressed out. You pet Scotty, could have run away, become a Right? The FBI offers a reward. You know, so you could be stressed out about so many things. Anything. Little things too. Oh, it's raining. Stupid, stupid rain.

0:10:40
You get so upset. Yeah. Lots of reasons to get stressed out. All these little things, All these little things, or all these big things, can create stress for someone. However, if you can look beyond the surface mind, you can find that in all of these areas that would cause stress, that there's no reason to have stress. And if you experience, if you get pushed into this stressful state of mind, then you start to deal with it. into this stressful state of mind, then you start to deal with it. Everyone starts to deal with it from the point of view of the surface mind, of the stress mind. They start working on, you know, fixing symptoms. And so they'll say, yeah, I'm stressed out. I need to go take a vacation. Go to Hawaii. Go to the Grand Canyon. But wherever you go, there you are. Your mind is always But wherever you go, there you are. Your mind is always with you.

0:11:40
So people will go on vacation and they'll still be stressed out. They'll hold it. They'll look at the Grand Canyon and just see all their worries. They'll lie on the beach of Hawaii, frustrated, upset, still grappling with all the things that created their stress. They're not letting go of their state of mind. state of mind. They're still in it, even though they've changed locations and gone to a place that should be beautiful and restful. So that doesn't solve it. People will take a pill, go to their doctor and say, hey I'm stressed out, give me some medications. When a Zen master might give you meditations, but people use medications and that give you meditations, but people use medications and that helps for a little while, but overall it leaves you in a worse condition if that's what you rely on to cut your stress. Your life ends up more unbalanced. A lot of people self-medicate, they'll drink too much and then just the next thing is Then just the next thing is the next day they feel a little worse.

0:12:53
People try to do all sorts of things to cut stress, but this is from the surface mind dealing with the symptoms, not getting to the root of the matter. So this always leads you to a place of ultimate dissatisfaction. Now, from the surface mind, you have to understand that there's a reason why you have little buttons, red buttons. You've been constructed a certain way. And when life pushes these buttons, they create stress for you. The idea that you need to understand is that those buttons don't actually exist in the deeper True Zen mind those buttons aren't there But yet you have to understand what those buttons are and where they came from So We are conditioned by society by society By people around us by our family when we're when we're born. We're taught. This is good. This is bad Cross at the green light not the red look both ways Floss that's a good one You know brush after sweet sweet snacks and things like that, right? So we're taught things Sweet snacks and things like that.

0:14:26
So we're taught things, but we're taught what is good in life, and what we like, and what's positive. And sometimes that's not true. Sometimes for an individual, it doesn't work. So we look at Japan, right? So, through the 60s, 70s, 80s, they had this concept of a salary man. That was what is good for a man. And everybody wanted to be a salary man. Just have a job where you're there for life. And everyone wanted to do that.

0:15:12
And it created, for some people, happiness. For others, great misery. Everybody's not the same. A lot of conditioning for women is, grow up, find a man who's going to support you, have a family. And for some women, that's great. women that's great. For some women that doesn't bring them happiness. So we have to really understand ourselves. You have to reflect on yourself and your being. You have to see what really works for you beyond your conditioning. Because social conditioning sometimes tells you some good things that work for work for you. Sometimes it's completely false. Take Nazi Germany, when Adolf Hitler was there.

0:16:12
Social conditioning was to do things that were very, very negative, but people believed dream of what is right. But really, in a reflection a little bit later, it is wrong. If you believe it, it's not necessarily true. Society's dreams don't necessarily work for you. So you have to really analyze, what was I told? Is it true for me? Is it true for me? And then you might find That for you, there's another way Also we change So maybe when you were a little kid you might have played, you know at the age of 10 with these little red sports cars and You thought the red sports car was the most amazing funnest thing and you just the most amazing, funnest thing. And you just grew up thinking that because you got so excited about it when you were 10 that you just gotta have one. And then you get your first job, and then you spend way too much money on a red sports car, and then you find it actually And it actually doesn't even make you happy.

0:17:39
You bought that red sports car because you loved it so much when you were a kid. And you're not a kid anymore. But that impression lasted for you. And then you find yourself spending way too much on this car, stressed out because you don't have money for other things. money for other things. Sometimes your parents will create an expectation for you. You've got to grow up and be a lawyer. That's what's successful. That's what you should be. Then you grow up and become a lawyer. You go through all the school and all the work, past the miserable being a lawyer. Society, parents, self-experiences, these all create an idea of self, who you are and what you want to be happy.

0:18:42
But the truth is, in the midst of all these things, if you are stressed out, it is because out. It is because you're not doing what you want to do. You've got, you became the lawyer, you got the red sports car, you got the house, the white picket fence, and 2.3 kids, right? You bought into all of it and then you say, wow, I'm so stressed out, so stressed out. It means your life, in your life, you're doing It means in your life you're doing something you don't want to do. Because when you want to do it, when you find something in life that you want to do, then you are happy doing a thousand million things. You'll do ten times as much as the lawyer with the house and the red car. As the lawyer with the house and the red car, you'll do ten times as much and be happy.

0:19:46
You won't feel stress. You'll just feel great. You'll feel exhilarated by doing the things that you've got to do. Or maybe sometimes when you push away the conditioning and the limited self, maybe you'll do less and you'll be free of stress and happy. and you'll be free of stress and happy. It's not how much you do, it's if you're doing the right thing. If you're doing what works for you. Now, that Zen mind, that deeper mind, that mind of truth, that's within you.

0:20:20
And that mind knows what's right for you. It knows your pathway to truth. It knows your Dharma. for you. It knows your pathway to truth. It knows your Dharma. If you follow that mind, if you can get in touch with it, connect with it, and follow that path, then you'll be very, very, very happy. You'll be doing something that's fulfilling to your being. All the obstacles that come in the way, they won't deter you. They won't upset you. They'll just be things upset you, they'll just be things you got to work with, things you got to get over. When you are in, and when you're connected with that true mind, then the surface mind is not agitated. All the things that happen in the transient world, all the things that come up, they don't push you out of balance, they don't All the things that come up, they don't push you out of balance, they don't make you upset.

0:21:19
They don't give you a hard time. You have a very positive mind, and you look at things in beautiful ways. You know, when you're not in touch with that light inside, that truth for your being, that's when you find yourself stressed out, falling into stresses. That's when you find yourself stressed out, falling into stresses. You're doing things that are not right for your spirit. You say you're like doing a job but you're just like, I just don't want to do this job. You find yourself having shoulders and muscle strains in the stomach, tightness, other places. You know, so you start to get these physical symptoms and you can make yourself sick. That's... and you get this physical stress, then you get mental stress. You can get all sorts of difficulties by not listening to your heart, not getting in touch with yourself and knowing what is right for you to do.

0:22:36
If you're doing the wrong things, you know, in Buddhism they say, don't put a horse's load on a pony. And that means that you're not supposed to do the wrong things. You're not supposed to do the wrong things. You got to do the thing that's right for you. It's got to be balanced. If you were a kid and your dad said, you're going to be a pro football player, he pushes you and pushes you and pushes you and pushes you to do that, you might find yourself being a pro football player. It happens, right?

0:23:13
Might not be happy. You might not be happy. You might have been happy playing the piano. But you've got to find that in yourself. And then you'll find happiness. You'll find a way to release things. You won't have all this physical pain. You won't be waking up in the middle of the night screaming and realizing that you didn't even fall asleep yet. That's stress.

0:23:36
That's stress. That's what happens in your being when you're stressed out. So, you gotta let go. You gotta find out what those things are that are false, and you gotta let go of them and do the things that your true mind directs you to. you to. And that is Dharma, that's truth. It leads you to a higher, more powerful, more balanced place. So you might say, I've got to get a different job. I've got to get a job. I can't hang around these people. These people bring me into a stressed out state of mind. I might have to move, I might have to do different things. You have to really, I might have to move, I might have to do different things. You have to really, really look at what works and what doesn't. And then when you find what works, then you give yourself to that work.

0:24:40
You give yourself to that path. Now, once you find out something works, then you do it the best you can, but you also might then You do it to your you do it the best you can but you also might find that you have stress there So someone says okay, you know, I was living this crazy life. I finally found out that what I truly want is enlightenment So they join them. They join a Buddhist monastery Sangha, they get a teacher and then they find themselves stressing out there and And yet they truly found that this is what their heart stressing out there. And yet, they truly found that this is what their heart, this is what their true mind directs them to. And that's okay, but this is what happens. You bring the mind of self to the path of truth. And then you suffer there as well. So the only there as well. So the only way out is complete selflessness. If you're on the pathway to enlightenment because you found that that's what you really truly want, and then you find yourself stressing out about meditation, about mindfulness, about yoga, about anything, then Then what you're identifying is the self, the deeper parts of self.

0:26:07
And you gotta let go of them. You can't have expectations. You can't sit there and say, I expect to be enlightened in three years. Are we there yet? If you are doing that, then that's living in the way of self. If you say, I want to be on the pathway to enlightenment, this is what makes me happy, If you say I want to be on the pathway to enlightenment, this is what makes me happy Then just enjoy it. If you say I don't want to be a lawyer. I'm gonna start a tech company Enjoy it. If you find that that's what the light inside of you directs you to Enjoy it. Have no expectation Do your best and Enjoy the process Do your best and enjoy the process.

0:26:54
I mean, how horrible would it be? I'm on the pathway to enlightenment. I hate it, but I want that enlightenment. You'll never get there, right? And it's also, there's no spirit in starting a business to make a billion dollars and then and then getting to that billion dollars, scratching your way up, knocking people down on the way there, and then reaching it and go, yay, got my billion dollars. You're still unhappy because you have to enjoy.

0:27:27
If your heart directs you to a path, enjoy every step. Enjoy the challenges, enjoy the difficulties, enjoy overcoming them, enjoy every task you have to do. Enjoy overcoming them. Enjoy every task you have to do. Find light and peace and happiness in everything you have to do. When you're seeing that you have resistance, you say, no I don't want to do it, you start to get stressed out again, then you have to say, wait, wait, wait, let me come back to my have to say, wait, wait, wait, let me come back to my true mind, my heart's path. And then you say, all right, I do want to do this. Sometimes you say, no, I don't want to do something that's good for me. So someone who's overweight might say, yeah, I went to the gym, but I didn't like it.

0:28:21
Yeah, it's too stressful for me, going to the gym, exercise, eating right, going to the gym, exercise, eating right, it's too stressful. And that's against self. If you would meditate, if you would look at truth, you'd say, I need to let go of this self that stresses out because it's resisting health. I need to exercise, I need to eat And then I will and this is a higher Dharma. This is a greater truth So you so people who say that they get stressed out because doing good things Know the enlightenment the pathway to enlightenment is too stressful for me It's because there's a part of you that's pulling away. It's resisting. It's resisting the truth. It's resisting a greater awareness of life awareness of life. This is the self that says, no, no, no, no, the devil I know is better than the devil I don't know. I'm happy with my suffering. If I change, I might have some different suffering. So you gotta follow a greater truth.

0:29:30
And then you got to do it right. You have to follow the pathway to enlightenment, Follow the pathway to enlightenment. Follow your true career with balance. You can't overdo it. If you overdo it, then you fall off. So, even though it's the right thing, the right direction, you have to do it in a skillful way, a way that brings you greater balance. You can't do it in a way that you go, okay, I'm going to do the pathway to enlightenment the pathway to enlightenment and sit there and meditate for eight hours until You realize that you can't meditate and you're wasting seven hours and 46 minutes So you got to do it in the right way you develop yourself in a positive way there was once a Samurai he was going to go into his first duel one-on-one to go into his first duel one-on-one, mano-a-mano.

0:30:29
And he was trained, and he knew that this was his path. So the day before his duel, he trained all day long, cutting with a sword, working on developing his skill so that he was going to win. When he woke up the next morning, his arms were very sore. He went down to face his opponent, and when he went to pull his sword, his arms were so sore he couldn't even hold his sword anymore. So he had to give up. And this was a great disgrace, and it put him back. On the on the path of our heart the path of truth We have to do it in a way that creates balance Not a way that creates more imbalance In Buddhism we have a concept It's called right effort. In fact, it is one of the eight observances of the pathway to enlightenment You have to do things with right effort You have to do things with right effort. So the first thing that you have to do is you have to have enough effort Because the greatest amount of stress comes from lacking effort and impeccability so if you lack a Drive to make your life strong then your life will be weak if you're If you're really sloppy and messy, you don't hassle the details of your life, then your life is weak.

0:32:08
You're not putting enough effort into your life. And then you're struggling to get a job. You're struggling with, you know, just everything in life. You have a weak attention, a poor mind. So the first thing that you must do is you must pay strong attention. is you must pay strong attention. You must be impeccable, focused, and powerful. Then you're going to be able to live life in a positive, strong way. You'll get control over your life, your time, your mind. Then you can be balanced, happy, and productive, both in your physical life and also in your spiritual life.

0:32:48
in your physical life and also in your spiritual life. And then the problem comes if you become strong, if you keep pushing and pushing and pushing in the wrong way, then your strength brings you into another kind of stress, where you're going into overdrive. You're overloading yourself, redlining. redlining. So what you have to do is you have to come into a balance. There's a certain strength that you have to get, but then once you have that strength, you have to apply it properly. Right?

0:33:27
So if you're trying to break karate boards, you're learning karate and trying to break the boards, you're learning karate and trying to break the boards, there's a certain amount of strength that you have to have. But once you have that strength, you have to apply it. Because if you have the strength, and you just smash a board, it's not going to break. It actually takes technique. Or maybe you'll break the board and your hand. But there's a way to break boards.

0:33:59
There's a way to use a certain amount of strength There's a way to use the certain amount of strength in the right way to break the board. And if you look at your life, you can't just go smashing everything. You have to apply your strength in the right places at the right time for things to elevate. You want to do greater. Once you're impeccable and strong and powerful, then you need to apply yourself properly, not to imbalance yourself, but to apply yourself intelligently. You have to see the right things, and then that way you're able to accomplish more.

0:34:41
But it's not by just smashing into everything, becoming so strong that you can smash through walls. It's becoming strong enough to maybe climb over walls through walls. It's becoming strong enough to maybe climb over walls or walk around them. So they have this concept very prevalent in Taoism. Lao Tzu said, Be strong, be weak. He's got all these funny things. To go up, go down. To overcome, yield. He's got lots of these statements.

0:35:33
But he's got great wisdom. When you're looking at the fact that you have impeccability and that you want to do something great and go beyond, beyond your current karma, you've got to do something different. You can't just keep going at things in the same way. You'll start to get stressed out. You have to start looking at the deeper truths. You have to start looking at the deeper truths. I want to overcome an obstacle. And then Lotso says, in order to overcome, you must yield. So what must I yield to overcome this obstacle?

0:36:17
I want to be strong, but if I'm just going at it the same way, it doesn't work. So where do I have to be weak? Where do I have to be weak? When you start to ponder these very very wise Taoist aphorisms aphorisms You start to see a deeper wisdom, and this is what you come to in Buddhist practice This is in in Wu Wei Do Wu Wei Do Wu Wei Do constantly shows you ways of being much, much stronger than your physical karma.

0:37:01
There are ways of yielding to someone to be more powerful than them. So there's ways of, okay, when someone would push you, you would normally react, I'm going to be stronger. push you, you would normally react, I'm going to be stronger. But if you do that, you see that it's force against force and eventually you're weaker. But in the awareness of Wu Wei Do, you yield, your energy yields to the push and it goes in a soft way. And then you find that the person who's pushing you flies away. And you're like, what did I do? Where flies away. And you're like, what did I do? Where did that power come from? It came from yielding. So if you want to be strong, be weak. If you want to overcome, yield. In Wu Wei Do, we see that in our physical exercises of martial arts. Lao Tzu said it in terms of understanding life. But you life. But you need to see it in your life, in your work. You want to do something great in work, then you need to see the teaching of Lao Tzu. You need to see this exercise in Wu Wei Do. You need to see it in your work. You need to start pondering it. And the great thing about the wisdom of Lao Lao Tzu is that it is an enlightened truth.

0:38:28
The great thing about Wu Wei Do is you can see it actually in a physical exercise. It blows your mind. You're like, wow, I had no idea I could do that. Why would that work? Because it follows this enlightened truth. It's a physical exercise of the embodiment of what Lao Tzu was teaching. Now, can you make that happen in your business? Can you make that happen in your work? That's the way to a greater power, a greater truth. One where it's not force against force. You can only be so strong. You have to find that deeper power. The secret of wu wei de, You have to find that deeper power, the secret of wu wei de, the secret of Taoism.

0:39:19
When you find that in your day job, in your career, in your work, it could be in relationships, it could be in sports, it could be in anything. You can find these truths, and then it makes you magic. That's how you get to the next level. Magic That's how you get to the next level No strain no stress a greater power Now we come to in Buddhism finding this greater greater power in Letting go Right you let go of that idea that if someone pushes you you have to defend back with your strength with your strength. You have to let go of the things that don't work, and you have to find new things that work. So we begin first with mindfulness. We become mindful of the thoughts that we think. When we think thoughts that are dark, negative, heavy, we We say, wow, these things just come up, but we've got to let go of them, because they are going to hold us back.

0:40:31
Limited thoughts. And then you have to direct your mind to higher, brighter, more productive thoughts. Very simple. You've got to let go sometimes. Sometimes you've got to watch a ridiculous film. One of those kids' movies that's just ridiculous. a ridiculous film. You know, one of those kids movies that's just ridiculous. One that you would be embarrassed to tell people you saw.

0:40:55
Right? But something, and you gotta let go and let yourself laugh. You gotta see it from the kid's point of view or something. You gotta just let go and laugh. Sometimes you gotta dance. Get up, dance. Laughing, dancing, maybe laughing and dancing at the same time, but you gotta do something laughing, dancing, maybe laughing and dancing at the same time, but you gotta do something where you can let go sometimes.

0:41:18
Sometimes partying is good, right? As long as it's positive. So my teacher used to say, we work really hard, but we party really hard. And it's not a 50-50 situation. Ha ha ha. You gotta let go at the right time. So meditation is a place where you need So meditation is a place where you need to learn to let go for stress. In meditation, we're focusing on chakras a lot.

0:41:48
But once in a while, if you're feeling stressed out, after just sitting there and struggling with the concentration, maybe you're doing a 15-minute meditation. 15 minute meditation. After you're focusing for 15 minutes, half an hour, an hour, just meditate for one song or just for a few minutes where you don't concentrate anymore. You just try to really find that light within you, that true mind. Don't grasp on any thoughts, Don't grasp on any thoughts, let them come, let them go, but direct your mind completely to just that light within you. Let go. That brings you to a deep seeing, a deep connection with that inner light.

0:42:44
Now in meditation, when you're concentrating, it's a way of developing your mind, making It's a way of developing your mind, making it strong, so that you can connect to that light. But sometimes you also want to just have a little time where you just let go of even concentration. Ultimately, in meditation, your concentration is so strong that you concentrate for a little while until you let go completely. Concentration should be a greater part of the meditation practice. And by doing this, through this process of really understanding who you are, mindfulness, meditation, letting go sometimes, once in a while, to really just let go of stress, you come to see who you are, You come to see who you are, you know, essentially, your enlightened spirit, and you come to see your dharma, the path to truth, and you're able to move beyond places of the surface mind and all its problems and things that come up to see your enlightened side, your to see your enlightened side, your enlightened mind, and then all of the surface things and your enlightened being come into a balance.

0:44:14
And then the work that you do in life, the relationships that you have, they all bring you into a great peace. You move beyond the state of mind of stress, beyond the state of mind of stress, as we do in Buddhism, to a higher state of mind beyond stress. And you kind of get a higher perspective by doing this. Life is short, you know, we're only here for a little while. Stressing out about stuff doesn't make a lot of sense. Might as well be happy.

0:44:48
He kind of come to be able to deal with all the difficulties and still have a positive state of mind and hopefully with a lot of humor. Okay, thank you.

