0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about Right Livelihood and Computer Science. Right Livelihood was Buddha's teachings for enlightenment through work. It's his teachings of how to become enlightened by doing work properly, in a way of truth, in a way of Dharma. Buddha's teachings of right livelihood are identical to Krishna's teachings of karma yoga This is the path to truth through action and in the Gita Krishna speaks of you got to do your work. You got to do your job and You got to do your work. You got to do your job.

0:01:15
and so this essential teaching of Karma Yoga is the same as Right livelihood Buddha just recodified it for a new group of people a few thousand years later So from time to time we take a look at this So from time to time we take a look at this essential truth Right livelihood karma yoga the pathway to enlightenment through work and We kind of say oh and in this day and age We got to do it in a different way or have a little bit of a different way of looking at it To begin I always like to look at Buddha's teaching And I always like to look at Buddha's teaching of right livelihood and Krishna's teaching of Karma Yoga, because they're essentially the same, but outwardly very, very different.

0:02:17
Now especially in modern times, the way that people like to interpret right livelihood is really, I don't know, it's very one-sided. It's very optimistic, I don't know, it's very idealistic. And Buddha actually doesn't describe it the same way that most Buddhists talk about it. So most Buddhists think in order to do right livelihood, Buddhists think in order to do right livelihood, you would have to be like working in some green eco-aware, social conscious, non-profit company where you don't make very much money. And a lot of people think that that would be a place where it's right livelihood, because you're working for the environment. You're working to help homeless people. I don't know.

0:03:27
All sorts of things. The job has to be helping this person or that cause. Something that's good. And other jobs would not fall into that. If you said, oh, look, there's a Wall Street broker. That's not right livelihood, because they're too much into money. So the way that Buddhists are looking at it and talking about it now, it's very much like that. It's like, oh yeah, you got to be doing something where you're not greedy, where It's like, oh yeah, you know, you got to be like doing something where you're not greedy, where you're not focused so much on money or yourself, where it actually does something for other people. And it's got to promote societal goodness and a green economy.

0:04:18
I don't know. All sorts of ways of looking at things. And then also implicit in that is like, oh yeah, and I shouldn't make that much money. And then also implicit in that is like, oh yeah, I shouldn't make that much money. It's a big thing, because if you're making too much money, then you kind of think you're too greedy. So people look at the Buddhist way of looking at it, is kind of this description. Even though Buddha never described this, but this is the common viewpoint.

0:04:48
Now, I like Krishna on the other hand, because he has the same essential teachings as Buddha. But then the way that he's playing it out is with Arjuna at the battle of Kurukshetra. And he's sitting there saying to him, you know what your job is, your right livelihood? It's go across the battlefield here, kill your friends, kill your cousins, your grandfathers the battlefield here, kill your friends, kill your cousins, your grandfathers over there, go kill him. Right? So he's like, that's right livelihood for you. Wow. So it's kind of interesting to see that there's such a difference.

0:05:30
And the difference is truth. Both Krishna and Buddha, they say that whatever you do in your action, in your work, it has to be for and support the Dharma. So modern Buddhists look at that in a very simple way. They say, oh, there's the five precepts. So obviously you couldn't do a job where you kill somebody, because that's against one of the rules. you couldn't do a job where you'd kill somebody because that's against one of the rules. But the truth is, there's no rules. It's just that people can't see the truth. So then they start making up rules. So, I mean, like, here's a truth. It's bad to lie.

0:06:23
Lying is bad. And we could all and all modern Buddhists will say, Oh, yes, yes, never lie. And we could all, and all modern Buddhists will say, oh yes, yes, never lie. But if you're, you know, you're sitting there at home and the Nazis come knocking on your door, they say, oh, hi, it's nice to see you. Do you have any Jews hanging around? Right? And you don't say you do. You go, hmm, I can't tell a lie.

0:06:48
I can't tell a lie. You would, if you told the truth, if you said the truth, then you would actually be going against the Dharma. Or you know, like we have one of the five precepts, don't kill people. Buddha himself tells a story of when he was in a previous lifetime, saving a ship. a ship, there was a ship that he's on, 500 people were on the ship, and then some crazy guy was trying to sink the ship. So Buddha took an axe and killed him. And he talked about how that was right action. So, you know, you can't say that there's that killing is I mean, what if there's the bad guy, like Darth Vader, who's going to blow up your planet? You got a lightsaber and it's like, well, I could just let him do it, or it's my one chance to save all those people.

0:07:53
That would be the Dharma. That would be a greater Dharma. But you'd have to kill someone. So people get into a very simplistic way of looking at what's good and what's bad, what's a very simplistic way of looking at what's good and what's bad, what's truth and what's not truth, and then they apply that to their work, to their jobs. And that's when they end up sitting there, looking at things in a weak way or an incomplete way, an idealistic way that often does not serve your enlightenment, which is often does not serve your enlightenment, which is often not right livelihood.

0:08:31
So, the way that you come to understand right livelihood is by practicing the truth. And if you can't see the truth, you test the truth. You say, oh, okay, let me go out and be a social worker, because that's good. go out and be a social worker, because that's good. Then you go out and do it, and you realize that you don't make a lot of money, and that your life is suffering, that you can't meditate very well. And you say, hmm, let me change that. Or, you listen to somebody who knows the truth. And if someone knows the truth, then they can tell you, oh, look, obviously don't do this, because you'll have that problem.

0:09:12
do this because you'll have that problem." And then you say, Oh, you should do this, you try it and it works. And you say, Aha. So Krishna saw the truth, Buddha saw the truth too. But even in a place where one person might say, Oh, this, this can't be good. Krishna saw the truth. And he and he was able to show Arjuna, the right livelihood, his role, his job. So when we think about career, right livelihood, we can't just look at it in limited ways, goody, goody, tushu ways, right? Those ways often don't serve your enlightenment and therefore are not right livelihood.

0:10:00
don't serve your enlightenment and therefore are not right livelihood. So my teacher, who could see very well, back in the 1980s, he said, right livelihood is computer science. And so he had the majority of his students working on computer science. And he had a seeing that that would work for them. And then some decades later, yes, it has worked extremely well for all of his students, myself included. So when I came to the study, I had an idea of what I wanted to do.

0:10:46
But then I heard about this teaching of right livelihood. I heard about this teaching of right livelihood and I said, okay, I will try that and then it worked very well. Now, computer science is a very, very clean field. It's a non-toxic career. career. It's a place where when you're working in it, it's orically very clean. Like if you were to go to, let's say, a financial business, a trading floor, right? And you get into all the trades. It's very frantic. It's very fast, but it's frantic. And in dealing with the but it's frantic. And in dealing with the financial markets that way, you end up having just a very, yeah, a very toxic experience.

0:11:51
However, if you're dealing with computer science, you're dealing with software, creating constructs in software, data pathways, constructs in software, data pathways, different ways of modeling information, creating user interfaces, different ways of operating systems. And that interface is very clean. It's a very So, there are different ways of engaging in life. You know, like, some things are very toxic. Like, you could sit there and talk to a person, right? And one person that you talk to, after five minutes, you'll just be drained of energy. Because for some reason, whatever they're into, that person is kind of toxic, has bad energy.

0:12:48
kind of toxic, has bad energy. But you can talk to another person who's talking about enlightenment or something bright and powerful, and you can sit there with them for an hour and be uplifted. You can be very bright and spiritually open because this is a beautiful, the person's connected to beautiful dimensions. So jobs are like that. You can be in a job Jobs are like that. You can be in a job that's toxic, or you could be in a job that empowers you. So the energy of the computer science field is an energy that's very bright. It's a very good energy.

0:13:30
So when we are looking into a career, if you're looking into a career that, yeah, maybe you can make a lot of money doing this, or there's a benefit doing that, a career that, yeah, maybe you can make a lot of money doing this, or there's a benefit doing that, you have to consider what it's going to do to you overall. How is it going to be to work in that field? What's it going to do to your consciousness? Now, one of the reasons that spiritual practitioners do very well with technology is because in is because in the career of computer science, you develop your mind.

0:14:07
You make your mind strong. The focus and precision that you must gain in order to be a computer programmer is very helpful for meditation. It helps you to have a stronger mind. So, actually, when you're learning computer programming, mind. So actually when you're learning computer programming, computer science, you're learning to structure your mind, structure information so that data can flow. You can process data. You can interface with different functions. And that means that you make your mind logical. logical. When you can't code, your mind is kind of not logical. It might work for you to boil water and walk across the street, but you can't actually think in a stronger logical way. So by learning computer programming, you actually learn to structure your thinking.

0:15:12
to structure your thinking. And this is something that's very helpful, because there's a secret to meditation. In meditation, we seek to stop thought. But if your normal thoughts are completely messy, then you won't be able to stop thought. The first thing that you have to do is you have to order your thinking. you have to make your thinking strong, accurate, logical, clean, and then that way it's easy to stop thought. That's why whenever you come across a strong Buddhist master or spiritual master, even if they're a monk or a swami, they'll have a very strong, clean, clear mind. They'll be very your mind. They'll be very structured. The ones that are all wishy-washy here and there, they're probably not advanced. They probably don't meditate very well. They might go into weird spiritual trances, but to have a strong mind, to stop thought, to learn meditation, you have to have a strong, clear mind. It's got to be structured. And we gain this structure And we gain this structure through practices that challenge your intellect, your focus, your concentration.

0:16:36
Now a lot of the practices that you do in computer programming are similar to spiritual practices and disciplines of antiquity. So this is why it's the same for a Buddhist master and a computer programmer. why it's the same for a Buddhist master and a computer programmer. There's a part of their mind and concentration capabilities that are very similar. So in visualization meditation, so in a lot of Theten Buddhism, there's the visualizations, visualizations of the deity, visualization of all of the attributes of the deity, of the deity, visualization of all of the attributes of the deity, the world of the deity.

0:17:19
And all of those things, the deity, the way that they're, what they're holding as a symbol, everything means something. There could be hundreds of attributes that all have a spiritual meaning. They all have a relationship. meaning. They all have a relationship. That visualization is a way of making the mind strong and also structured. So it's very much like structured programming. Same thing with mandala practices. Either making a mandala, painting a mandala, or visualization of mandalas. These create a clarity of the mind and a structuring of the mind, very similar to structured programming.

0:18:10
So one can learn structured programming and gain the same mental strength. I also like very much relational database theory, because this reflects a very, very profound teaching of Buddha's, Because this reflects a very, very profound teaching of Buddha's, which is called dependent arising, that nothing exists alone. Everything exists because of something else. And Buddha said that this was one of the deepest teachings, or one of the deepest realizations that he had right before liberation. So he saw the truth of the relationship of everything in life. So with the understanding of data modeling, relational database theory, you come to a seeing of life that is dependent origination, the teaching that Buddha said was very profound.

0:19:12
profound. Another practice in software development is object-oriented coding. And this is also a very profound teaching, very commonly found in Tibetan Buddhism, where in Tibetan Buddhism they have many, many, many different deities. They call it deity yoga. in Tibetan Buddhism, they have many, many, many different deities. They call it deity yoga. And the deities have relationships. One deity will be an emanation of another deity, carry some of their qualities that have additional kind of attributes. And there's a big hierarchical system of the deities. So in understanding deities and deity yoga, Deity is in Deity Yoga, it is very similar to the developed mind that you gain from object-oriented coding. So it's very interesting just to me for my experience in software and meditation, that there's these skills that you learn just in regular computer programming that really, computer programming that really, really develop your mind in classical spiritual ways.

0:20:33
So this is the way that my teacher taught us the connections to higher spiritual awareness. It wasn't through religious dogma, it was through a brand new way. It's like beginner's mind. Because you know, you're reading all the spiritual books and they go, oh, you've got to, you beginner's mind. Because you know, you're reading all the spiritual books and they go, oh, you've got to, you know, say, you've got to chant like this, you've got to envision this, you've got to do all this stuff. And that's all good, right? That was the way a thousand years ago that people had the user interface to those dimensions. But those dimensions are right there. Those dimensions can be accessed perfectly if you don't have to think anything. perfectly if you don't have to think anything, you just have to have the mind.

0:21:17
So an enlightened master wouldn't be sitting there like doing all this chanting voodoo and stuff like that, right? They'll just go BAM! Enlightened dimensions. So this is why we learn these practices. It's to develop our mind and then we're able to immediately access higher dimensions of mind, and then we're able to immediately access higher dimensions of life. If you have to go through some little hocus pocus, a little puja, a little prayer, and all this stuff to get to a higher state of mind, you're still working on it. That's a beginning training. But when you've trained your mind, then you get there automatically. there automatically. So there are different dimensions. Dimensions of life, dimensions of being. And this training is training you to be able to access higher states of mind, higher dimensions of life. So when you have a strong mind, a clear mind, you have better you have better discrimination in understanding life. If your mind is all dark, then you're perceiving life incorrectly. So if your mind is dark, you'll look at something and see a problem where there's no problem. You'll see an obstacle where there's no obstacle. You'll see problems.

0:22:45
You'll have a limited view of life. But if your mind is clear, oh, that's not a problem, But if your mind is clear, that's not a problem, there's no obstacle, that is an illusion, and you'll see actually the higher dimensions of life. You'll see spiritual light and truth and everything will be completely illuminated. You'll see infinity in all things. So enlightenment is there. And when your mind is clear, when it's sharp, when it's precise, then you go to high states when it's sharp, when it's precise, then you go to high states of mind immediately, automatically. You don't have to do stuff to get there. So I like to say it's like training martial arts. So you're training martial arts, you're doing a kata, a form, again and again and again and again, do the form to get an outcome, you do a form to develop a certain power. Once you have that power, that power is always with you. You don't have to start doing a kata to all of a sudden summon that power. So someone comes over and attacks you on the street, you say, just a second, I'm going to start doing my little kata here. You immediately doing my little kata here, right?

0:24:03
You immediately have that power, boom, right? Now a lot of spiritual practitioners are doing katas and not really gaining power. They're getting a little power from the dance, but they're not training their spirit to actually get that power. So a lot of spiritual practitioners say, doing the little dance, doing my little meditation, Doing the little dance, doing my little meditation, visualization, throw something on the altar, all these things, that is their spiritual experience.

0:24:35
And that is a limited spiritual experience, because they only experience spirit while they're doing that. They're not really truly training their minds. So then you go, alright, let me actually train my mind so that I go, yeah, I got to do my so that I go, yeah, I got to do my little katas, but it actually gets me to a place where it's enlightenment is immediate, higher dimensions are immediate, empowerment is immediate, truth is immediate. So this is the goal of spiritual practice, right livelihood. That's why it's enlightenment through work. It's not, oh well, you know, that's one of the eight things It's not, oh well, that's one of the eight things on the Eightfold Path. I've got to go do the other seven.

0:25:19
Everything on the Eightfold Path, they're all one. It's one path, eightfold. Everything's there. Meditation is part of Right Livelihood. When you do Right Livelihood, you meditate. right livelihood, you have right effort, right view, right concentration, right speech. Everything's there. It is not separate. Right livelihood is the pathway to enlightenment. And my teacher has taught us to do it through computer programming, which is just completely fascinating. Fascinating. Now, very often when someone sets forth to do this path of right livelihood, they have some opposition. They might say, this is not me. I am not a computer person. Or I never wanted to have a desk job. All sorts of things. All sorts of things come up that say, don't do this, don't do this, do things. All sorts of things come up that say, don't do this, don't do this, do something else, I'm somebody else. But this gets to the primary teaching of Krishna. If you're going to do your job, you've got to be selfless. You've got to get past that self that's going to stop you.

0:26:44
That self that's going to stop you, it will stop you from following truth. truth. And you say, well I believe this is true. I mean, you know, Arjuna had a good point. Hey, you know, that's my cousin over there. I'm gonna go kill him. I think my truth is I won't do that. And Krishna said, no, here's a bigger view of the universe. And he showed Arjuna a bigger view of the universe. He showed him enlightenment. And then Arjuna was able to see beyond all these illusions. And he And then Arjuna was able to see beyond all these illusions. And he was able to see the truth, a greater truth. So when I came to the path, I had opposition. I did not really want to do the computer programming.

0:27:28
I said, whoa, that's not me. I had set my life. I'm like, I'm going to be a full-time fourth grade teacher, and then I'm going to be a grade teacher, and then I'm going to be a part-time Kung Fu teacher and acupuncturist. That's what I'm going to do. That's what I wanted to do. And then I was like, oh, but my teacher says that I have to do this. This is right livelihood. So I had to go past what I wanted to do with my life. And boy, I'm glad I did. Because when you're selfless and Because when you're selfless and you move past your self-identification, your self-desire, your self-opposition, whatever it is, and you follow a higher teaching, then all of a sudden there's greater truth, greater light, greater energy in your life.

0:28:19
So I had that opposition of, no, I'm not this person, I'm bad at math, there's no way I can do computers, and I just wanted to do other things. computers. I just wanted to do other things. But then when I moved past it, then my life became very, very, very strong. Very, very strong. Very bright. And I struggled a lot more than a lot of people to learn technology. When I took technology classes, I flunked them. I tried, I was very slow to learn. But my teacher said, if you're drawn to spirituality and meditation, you have a very strong mind. And you'll be very good at technology. You just got to get through the beginning. You got to, you got, your mind has been soft, You got it, you get your mind has been soft and you haven't applied yourself in this dimension of mind, this concentration, focus, precision, detailed, oriented, impeccability.

0:29:26
So you just haven't applied yourself to this in this lifetime yet, but if you're going to be good at meditation, you're going to do it. So I was like, okay, I tried and I really struggled with it. tried, and I really struggled with it, really had a hard time. But then, once I figured it out, then I became very exceptional at computer programming. I ended up being a top computer programmer on Wall Street, doing all sorts of advanced technologies, business business intelligence, data mining, I guess you would say big data, artificial intelligence, you know, so those things. I ended up being an advanced developer, but I would never believed that I could do that in the beginning. In the beginning I was like, wait, there's a in the computer.

0:30:25
I'm imagining a manila envelope in the computer. It's my first DOS class. So, that's true, true story. So, when I overcame my opposition, let go of my fear and my doubt, and I just committed myself to learning, and I just knew, maybe there's a thousand things to learn here, I'm just going to learn one at a time and I just knew maybe there's a thousand things to learn here. I'm just gonna learn one at a time until I know it. And then eventually I knew it and was very good at it. So my teacher told me and told all of us in the beginning, if you're drawn to meditation and the spiritual path, you're gonna be very good at technology. You just have to keep going. You've got to learn it. And And then, basically, you've got these tremendously strong skills of meditation and all of these disciplines from past lives that are going to help you to be a very good developer.

0:31:28
You just kind of have to learn to go from the mandalas to the computer programming. But the structures are the same. And that's why we can do very, very, very well. And that's why we can do very, very, very well. Now, a lot of people, they spend most of their time working. So adults on the planet spend most of their time working. And they usually lose energy. They usually go into some job where they just kind of don't want to be there. some job where they just kind of don't want to be there, you know, it's like heavy, they've got mean managers, and their whole experience is that it's not very fun. That's how most people experience work, but they have to work for their livelihood. Now, we recognize, as as Buddhists, just being logical, that you're working for somebody else.

0:32:35
They're paying you because they want you to do something. They're paying you for your energy, for your attention, for your time. So we say, wow, if I'm going, if if that's the deal, I'm going to get paid for me to do something for somebody else, and I'm going to be taking my life, my attention, my time, and that's what I get paid for, I'd better make it a good deal. And the way to make it a good deal is to get something out more than money. And that is that you can get power out of it. You can get light out of it. And that is by elevating that experience to be a spiritual practice. You know, you go into the office, if you're going in in the same routine, in the same states of mind that the other people have, then you're going to have a draining experience.

0:33:36
then you're going to have a draining experience. But what you've got to do is you've got to connect to a higher dimension. You've got to connect to the light that is within yoga. So, most people work for money. They work for the paycheck. And that's their focus. They say, if I work, then I get this out of it. If I work, then I get this out of it, and it's usually mostly money. And we work, of course, for money, for sure, but that's not the point. We work for light.

0:34:19
Implicit in the structure of yoga, of right livelihood, is a luminosity. of right livelihood is a luminosity. So while someone is sitting there, some other person's programming or doing whatever job, they're connecting to just their own thoughts and they are working for the fruits of their labor for a result, which is usually money. And that's their state of consciousness. state of consciousness. But when we work, we work in this world of enlightenment. When we work, we're seeing luminosity, empowerment, and truth. That's what our inner experience is in computer programming, or flipping burgers, whatever. It doesn't actually matter what It doesn't actually matter what you do. It's just that when you do it, you do it with the, you know, carrying out the teachings of Right Livelihood. It is yoga when you do it with impeccability. It's yoga when you see in your work perfection, truth, and the structures of light that are in this recodified teaching of my teacher.

0:35:42
Just like Buddha recodified the teachings of Krishna, my teacher recodified the teachings of both of them. And the essence is the same, but it's in a computer. And now you're like, oh, enlightenment's in the computer. Yes, enlightenment is in the computer. Yes, enlightenment is in the computer. And, you know, Buddha didn't have a computer. Krishna had one, he just didn't tell anyone. So this is a structure whereby we can access these teachings very clearly, and they're inner esoteric teachings of light and luminosity in computer programming.

0:36:26
Really in anything that you do. in computer programming, really in anything that you do. But there's some special ones in computer programming since a lot of the practices are so similar to meditation practices. So when we work, sitting there working for somebody, yet might have a manager yelling at you, coworkers bugging you, but when we're working, we're not sitting there interfacing with their world. But when we're working, we're not sitting there interfacing with their world.

0:36:52
Sure, we do successfully, powerfully, positively, but we're going into a brighter world. There's an inner teaching. We see when we're coding or doing whatever we're doing in our work, we see that we're connecting to a world of light. We see past the transient experiences, and it's fun, it's bright, it's uplifting for us. experiences, and it's fun, it's bright, it's uplifting for us. And then that way we don't get drained by our work, we get empowered by our work. We see a greater truth, power, and light in our work. And if you're not doing that, you've got to look deeper. If you're just in a routine and you're in the same states of mind as your co-workers, then you're not practicing yoga.

0:37:37
You're not practicing right livelihood. then you're not practicing yoga. You're not practicing right livelihood. Right livelihood is not just, you know, get a job as a nurse that heals hurt raccoons. Right? It's a practice of enlightened awareness while you're taking care of the hurt raccoon. Or, you know, whatever you're doing. So it's seeing enlightenment in what you do.

0:38:03
A lot of people who go out and say, So it's seeing enlightenment in what you do. A lot of people who go out and say, yeah, I'm doing Right Livelihood by, you know, helping these disadvantaged children from Mars. You could be doing that, and yet you might be egotistical about it. You might say, okay, I'm doing something that helps people. It's Right Livelihood. I'm good. Everybody else is bad. And then everything that goes against the poor little Martian kids, I'm good. Everybody else is bad. And then everything that goes against the poor little Martian kids is evil.

0:38:30
And then you end up in a you end up Not on not practicing right livelihood at all. You're stuck in a self You're stuck in a self doing something weird And even if you're doing the best thing in the world if you're stuck in a self then You're you're not really practicing right livelihood. It doesn't create enlightenment for you you're not really practicing right livelihood. It doesn't create enlightenment for you. It's nice to do something good, but it's important for you to walk the path of truth while you're doing something good.

0:39:05
Now, another important aspect of the technology career path is that it's very lucrative. is that it's very lucrative. So you're able to make, amongst the highest rates, the highest salaries, you can be one of the top 1% income earners in the United States. I guess that means the world. And if you're able to make a lot of money, then what happens is you're able to push away make a lot of money, then what happens is you're able to push away a lot of toxic energy.

0:39:45
So if you don't make a lot of money, then you have a lot more stress. So they did some study where they found a place where if you made less than $75,000 a year, your life was $1,000 a year, your life was like 15 times more problematic. You were stressed out more, you had many more bad thoughts and all sorts of difficulties. And then they said, well, you know, above the 75 is where it starts to drop off. So if you don't have enough money, heavy and hard in the economy and the social conditioning of our culture, that it crushes your personal power, it crushes your light. You're going to be spending so much energy like just pushing against the heavinesses of the world that you won't be able to meditate well. So when you're making a lot of money, then you can live in a nice place that is then you can live in a nice place that is reflective of your meditation.

0:40:54
You're able to drive a nice car, so it's like a nice experience, good tonal, you know it's not going to break down, versus a car that, I don't know, I might make it to work today or I might not. If you have a bad car, you're always stressing out, right? You're like, oh no, it creates a So that's why when you have a lot of money, it makes things easier. You don't have to worry about, oh, I need this. I can't afford it. So it is a very good idea to have a lot of money. And in computer science, it's very lucrative. You can make very, very high rates. Computer science in its advanced forms, it is itself a pathway to enlightenment in its advanced forms. It's like advanced meditation.

0:41:48
So with computer science, you can go into different dimensions of mind and draw out truths, create them in the physical world. create them in the physical world. You can reach into the intangible and pull out power. And this is what we do in meditation. We stop thought, we go into the worlds of enlightenment, and then when we're back we're bringing the light into the world through our being. We're bringing the truth, the light, and the Dharma into everyone that we serve. We serve truth, the light, and the Dharma into everyone that we serve. We serve people just with compassion when we see that they suffer. We serve people in our work. We selflessly work to help people. And in advanced software, programming, computer science, you're able to make these quantum leaps from the void, the synyata, the emptiness, enlightened into this world. And so, I think from the void, the synyata, the emptiness, enlightened into this world.

0:42:53
And so we will draw out power and light from the deepest stillness in our being and be able to create something, manifest it through the forms of software. So those are advanced software practices that we do. This is what we call our yoga projects. yoga projects. And they're very, very profound. They create tremendous shifts towards a greater enlightenment. Okay. Thank you very much.

