0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about happiness. Happiness is connecting with the eternal inner light of your spirit. It is becoming aware of the enlightened luminous nature of your being. it's to bring that light from the essence of your spirit out into your daily activities. Now, many people profess to wanting happiness, but happiness seems very elusive. You know, But happiness seems very elusive. You know, Buddha said that all beings wish to be happy. Even the smallest animal wishes to be happy.

0:01:27
Happiness is a condition of spiritual balance and peace. Yet, when you go about seeking happiness in the wrong way, you don't find you go about seeking happiness in the wrong way, you don't find that peace that you seek. So in Buddhism, we find a pathway to happiness. Now, some people think that happiness is overrated. They think it's for children. children, you know, they look at what they what their ideas of happiness is and they say, oh that's for You know fancy people children and things like that. There's more important things in life. There's more significant things than just happiness But that is an incorrect view Because happiness is true spiritual balance it's happiness is true spiritual balance. It's satisfaction in a crazy world.

0:02:33
Happiness is powerful. It's not weak. So, you know, someone could say, oh, happiness is when you're giddy and hyper and hysterical and grinning and laughing. If I was that way all the time, I would I'd be tired, exhausted. I would exhaust myself with happiness. And so that's, you know, that's a little bit part of happiness. It's easier to smile, it's easier to laugh. However, that's not happiness. Happiness is much more broad. a transient joy. Satisfying a desire can bring a transient joy. You're happy for a little while. You might be giddy and smile. And so some people look at that and say, oh, that's happiness and that's not powerful.

0:03:31
There's something more significant in life. But that's not happiness. That's just a transient joy. transient joy. Happiness is truly getting in touch with your eternal side, seeing life in a greater truth, coming to a true spiritual balance and strength. This is something that is not, you know, finite, but it leads to an eternal awareness. So, happiness is actually So, happiness is actually very profound, not trivial. So when we look at happiness, we look at it in a much more broad sense than perhaps our own experience of transient joys. Because happiness brings you to true satisfaction.

0:04:24
true satisfaction. And when you lack that awareness, then you're stuck. You're stuck in suffering. And even though people say, oh, happiness is just for children or something, happiness is something that brings you out of suffering. So when we examine our lives and we say, So when we examine our lives and we say, oh, yeah, I want to be out of pain, out of suffering, the way is to find that happiness, that inner light.

0:05:00
Now, most people seek happiness through the external world, the transient way of perceiving life. And that is to say, oh, OK, in this world And that is to say, oh, okay, in this world I need to get money. I need to get stuff and things that will make me happy. If I have the new iPhone or the new bigger flat screen television, a new car, a new house, all of these things will make me happy. Fame, fortune, relationships, the right things will make me happy. And when you seek happiness in the transient world, you set yourself up for suffering. Because in the transient world, everything comes and goes.

0:05:56
Everything that you get, you will lose. if you always are desiring something, if you get it, you might be happy for a little while, but you'll lose it, and then you'll be unhappy. And your spiritual condition will be unbalanced by this gain and loss. So this is the operating system in which people interface with life. It Desire and aversion operating system. I Want something I see that that thing will make me happy, but you're looking at something outside of the self and That will unbalance you Happiness is already within your mind. It's already within your being So I'm telling you about happiness, but happiness is something already within you. You just have to get it. I can't give it to you happiness, but happiness is something already within you. You just have to get it. I can't give it to you. I can't give you something you already have. Happiness is within you, but it is your work to find it, to see it, to see what's already there. And when you see it from the point of view of desire, seeking to get things desire seeking to get things that will make you happy and Aversion trying to stay away from things that will take away your happiness, then you're always at the surface of life and You know you always find dissatisfaction Even when you get something that you want You desire something greatly and you get it, then you'll have a joy a transient experience of transient experience of satisfaction. And for a while, you'll be happy with it. But then after a while, it'll go away. And this is the way that it always works. There's a satiation when there's desire. When there's a fulfillment of desire, it eventually goes away. So if you desire a piece of chocolate cake, and get that chocolate cake, and you and get that chocolate cake and you eat it, it's truly satisfying, really delicious, you're so happy, completely fulfilled.

0:08:09
And then after you finish it, you say, well, since that made me so happy, let me have another slice of cake. And maybe that one also is like really, really, really, really good. And then you say, well, that was pretty happy, let me go again, another slice of cake. And then you say, well, that was, you know, pretty happy. Let me go again, another slice of cake. Probably on the second or third slice, you start to say, well, it's good, but it's not, you know, it's not, at first it was like, wow, amazing.

0:08:39
And then you built this concept that chocolate cake is your happiness, so then you get another slice of cake. So you're on your fourth or fifth piece, and then you start to get sick of chocolate cake, right? and then you start to get sick of chocolate cake, right? And then you just keep shoving it in your mouth. And you realize after a while that this thing that brought you joy and happiness and satisfaction in the beginning, it ends up making you sick. The last thing you want to do is eat slice of chocolate cake. So this is the way that desire works. You'll desire it, and if you, if in reaching that desire, if it makes you happy, then you're setting yourself up for unhappiness. You're going to lose it, it's going to go away, or you're going to get too much of it, get sick of it. It's the world of desire. Buddha said the world, the, said, it could rain gold and still your desires will not be quenched. You'll desire one thing after another after another. There's no way out when you're in this operating system of desire and aversion. The way out is to go beneath it, beyond it. When you achieve desires, when you get the perfect thing, you think that your life is great, but then you could perfect thing, you think that your life is great, but then you could lose that thing.

0:10:06
So it either changes into something you're tired of, or you lose it, and then you suffer. So I remember I had a student who listened to the teachings and said, Oh, I don't need to meditate. I don't need to practice mindfulness. I'm already happy. I've got the right girlfriend I've got the right girlfriend and the right job. And every, you know, it's like the perfect girlfriend, the perfect job. And then I talked about the transience of these things. And he's like, yes, I'm completely happy. And then a little while later, the girlfriend leaves him and he loses the job. And that is a moment for him where he saw unhappiness. a moment for him where he saw unhappiness. But it gave him a reason to start meditating. So this is what happens. We go from chasing things, getting them, being happy for a little while, until we get sick of them, or until they leave us. And that whole way of operating always leads to, in the That whole way of operating always leads to, in the long run, spiritual dissatisfaction.

0:11:22
My teacher had a couple ways to find happiness. One is the simple way, and one is the profound way. The simple way is profound, and the profound way is simple. One is the outer way, and one is the inner way. One is the outer way, one is the inner way. So the outer way, the simple way, he had a koan. The koan is, happiness is a warm puppy. Now this koan is like a spiritual kind of riddle. If you reflect on it deeply, then you come to an understanding of this truth. of this truth, a spiritual truth in the funny little saying of happiness is a warm puppy.

0:12:08
So when you're in an unhappy state, when you look around and you just see difficulty, hardship, pain, and you don't see any joy and happiness in life, then you're in a bad state of mind. in life, then you're in a bad state of mind. That's a limited understanding of life. Life is tremendously beautiful. In truth, life is wonderful. There's ecstasy and beauty everywhere. But when you don't see that, then there's something wrong in your outlook on life. So So, what you should do is drop the things that are covering up your view of happiness. So if you have anger, you drop anger. If you have jealousy, you drop jealousy. If you have desires, drop the desires. If you drop these things, you'll automatically elevate to a higher state of mind.

0:13:12
to a higher state of mind. Your view of life won't be so dark and limited. And when you're in a higher state of mind, then happiness is automatic. You don't have to try to do anything to be happy. There's just a simple happiness because you've let go of the things in a dark state of mind. So, happiness is a warm puppy. If you reflect on it, it means that happiness is automatic. It's simple. It's easy. But you just have to drop So this is the outer way. It's a way of mindfulness. It's a way of observing your mind and seeing when there's negativity. And when there's negativity, directing your mind away from it, to something positive. And the moment you drop dark thoughts, negative thoughts, disturbing emotions, The moment that you let go of them, you go from a lower, darker, limited state of mind, where there's suffering, pain, and no happiness, you automatically go to a high state of mind, where everything's simple, where happiness is automatic. So this is the first step in the I'm very happy.

0:14:53
I've learned to be happy through these practices. Practice of mindfulness, letting go of negativity. And I did it for real. Not just in a kind of high-level understanding, but I practiced letting go of negativity. Practiced mindfulness. to practice mindfulness. And it brought me to a higher state of mind and ultimately to the inner awareness of happiness. Now I learned this from my teacher. So I'm very happy, but when I met my teacher I wasn't. I was in great negativity, great anger, great suffering.

0:15:36
great negativity, great anger, great suffering. And then I learned from my teacher these ways, these practices. He was very happy, and I learned the practices that brought me to this great inner peace. So this is the good news. The good news is that there's a way. I found someone who knew the way, I practiced the way that my teacher taught, someone who knew the way, I practiced the way that my teacher taught, and it brought me into great happiness, great satisfaction.

0:16:13
The inner way is what really worked for me. So the way of mindfulness, dropping negativity, reflecting on the koan, is one aspect. is one aspect, but the way that I came to great abiding peace and happiness is through contact with light. This is what we do in meditation. So there's the inner light. There's is fields of light, dimensions of light, planes of light. They exist in your mind. They are your spiritual illuminated aspects. So when you stop thought and you direct your mind dimensions of spiritual illumination. And in that light, you come to greater truth and awareness. So there's this inner light that we focus on. This is the profound way, the towards ultimate happiness. When you connect with this light, this inner spiritual light, in Buddhism we call it the clear light of reality, the Dharmakaya.

0:17:51
When you connect with this light, you're immediately happy. This is the light of spiritual transcendence. transcendence. It is the light that takes you from the physical finite world into the unlimited eternal reality that is your true being. And in this light you see the truth You find great peace, great happiness. You gain great wisdom in this life just by focusing on it. So the profound practice of happiness is to focus on the light. In meditation, we always still thought, but we have a point of navigation. thought, but we have a point of navigation. We say, okay, I'm going to meditate, but I'm going to go to a dimension of light. And then you still your mind, stop your thoughts. And because of that point of focus, heading in the right way, you come to focus, you come end up in great luminosity, this spiritual light.

0:19:17
And the spiritual light shows you the truth. The lack of that light, you will lack awareness when you don't have that spiritual light. There was a Zen practitioner, I think a monk, and he said to the, sorry, not Zen, Taoist. And he said to the, sorry, that's in Taoist. So in China, this Taoist practitioner goes to the Taoist master and says, I need to know the truth. And then the Taoist master says, oh, I have a scroll.

0:19:52
It's just outside over the balcony, down in the grove, in the back at a tree. There's a scroll sitting right there. If you get that scroll, you will find the truth. There's a scroll sitting right there. If you get that scroll, you will find the truth. And then the Taoist monk says, okay, great. Goes down out into this grove. Now it's nighttime. And he didn't bring a lantern with him.

0:20:19
So he's like, oh, wait, this grove, I got a little bit of moonlight. It's okay, I'll find this tree. So he starts going back into the grove. this tree. So he starts going back into the grove and then he sees this right next to the tree. He sees a scroll but he sees a great giant beast in front of it. The beast is rustling and making noise and it's got these glowing green eyes. He gets really scared and he runs back to the Taoist master and says, and says, Daoist Master, there's a beast guarding the tree and if I try to get the scroll, the beast will eat me. The Daoist Master says, you go and get that scroll. And then he says, okay, I guess so I'll try. So he goes back, he sees the beast again, then he runs towards the scroll to pick it up, but then the beast the scroll to pick it up, but then the beast moves. He gets very scared and he turns around and runs away. And then he goes back to the Taoist master and the Taoist master says, okay, I will show you. So the Taoist master comes down with him to the grove. The Taoist master brings a lantern and then by opening the lantern They walk into the grove, and then the monk sees that what he thought was a great beast is actually just a great bush.

0:21:47
It's just a bush being, you know, like wrestling in the wind. And what he thought were the great glowing eyes were two glow worms, just perfectly situated. So he says, oh, I didn't see it correctly. And then they walk over to the tree and there's the scroll. And of course, the teaching of the scroll is what I'm teaching. It is that when you see correctly, then all of the things that bring unhappiness things that bring unhappiness and dissatisfaction and suffering, they fall away into a perspective of eternal truth. The scary monster is a bush, right? This was the case with Buddha sitting under the Bodhi tree.

0:22:44
When he was about to become enlightened, Mara, the god of illusion, came with scary visions. the God of illusion came with scary visions. And if Buddha reacted to the frightening things, the things that would create aversion in a normal person, if Buddha reacted, his meditation would go away and he'd be caught up in thought. But Buddha saw that the scary monster was just a bush that the scary monster was just a bush, and that the things that would hurt him just wouldn't hurt him. Nothing could hurt him. And then in seeing that, in that spiritual illumination, all of these shadows and scary creatures and things that would create fear, they fall away into a balance of the awareness of truth.

0:23:36
into a balance of the awareness of truth. And then you see life in a more perfect way. And it is the light that brings you that. Now, my teacher said, in order to be happy in this life, you need to have the light. You need to meditate and have the light. But he also said you need a lot of money. a lot of money. Yeah.

0:24:02
And money can't buy happiness, but poverty can't buy anything. My teacher said, you've got to have a lot of money for practical reasons, so that you can have, you can support your practice. Support your practice you can have a comfortable life and not a painful life it promotes You know happiness, but He said you know in life He's seen many spiritual practitioners Not be able to practice well because they were suffering from the lack of money there's a harder harsher energies in the world that money There's harsher energies in the world that money can give you a buffer for.

0:24:57
So for example, if you have a bad car that breaks down all the time, there's a stress associated with that. If you have credit card debt, there's a stress associated with that. But if you have the money to have a nice, beautiful Mercedes and you can drive, not can drive not thinking about crashing or thinking about breaking down, and if you have enough money so that you can always pay off your credit card, then you don't have those stresses. Now those stresses, those kinds of stresses, my teacher saw stopped people from meditating well. So he said, make a lot of money. He said, make too much money. And if you make too much money, then you won't have those stresses. And if you make too much money, then you won't have those stresses.

0:25:41
Now, he said we should do the same thing with happiness. We should always meditate on light, and meditate so perfectly on light, that we fill ourselves and overflow with that light. And that light is part of our meditative experience, And that light is part of our meditative experience, but it's also part of our experience in our day. Everywhere we go, we've connected so strongly to these inner dimensions of spiritual illumination that it's not just in a moment of meditation, it's something that we perceive all the time. Be so full of light, so full of happiness, that when you're facing the ups and downs of life, you're still happy.

0:26:37
You can be happy in sickness, you can be happy in all sorts of difficulties, you can be happy facing death, because you're so connected with these eternal dimensions of spiritual Because you're so connected with these eternal dimensions of spiritual light, that when you're facing even death, your illumined, your spirit is looking beyond the transient of life and death and seeing that this light goes beyond it. of the Spirit, you see the truth. You come to know life in its greater reality. You see that you are no different than that light. In the light, as we meditate, we gain wisdom. We come to just know the truth about the way life is.

0:27:36
the way life is. Something that you can't really explain. But you see, you come to see how to be more conscious, how to be more happy, maybe how to be more funny. How to look at life in the proper way, in a way of balance. In meditating on light, we bring our consciousness into this illumination. into this illumination and it washes away imperfections of self. So you might have meanness, you might have anger, you might have depression, and in the light these things wash away. You go into this brightness, a spiritual brightness. You transcend the heaviness and the darkness of the transcend the heaviness and the darkness of the self and then you gain a greater spiritual brightness. After a while, the light washes away these obscurations of self completely and then all you are is this perfect luminosity.

0:28:47
So we seek to meditate, we seek to go into the light So we seek to meditate, we seek to go into the light again and again and again and again in all of our meditation and all of our mindfulness to really direct our minds to this light. Because in connecting to this light, which is on the border, kind of the gate to nirvana, We are connecting with the highest, brightest illumination possible. All of the saints in all the different religions talk about light in their spiritual experiences. So this is the light of the saints. So we seek this light, and in this light we find a deeper satisfaction. we find a deeper satisfaction. We come to see a greater truth about life, and in that light we find happiness.

0:29:45
Now, a teacher is someone who directs you to light. Sometimes, once in a while, somebody who's spiritual or not spiritual might have an experience of light, and it is a spiritual experience. They might be walking in the woods, experience. They might be walking in the woods, down at the beach, meditating, praying, and have some sort of bright experience. But an esoteric teacher, an enlightened teacher, who's got the proper training and empowerments, is able to direct you onto a pathway of many dimensions of light. In one lifetime you In one lifetime you might find a few experiences of light on your own, but when you come to a teacher of enlightenment, they're able to direct you to many thousands of dimensions of light in a constructive path of building up luminous awareness.

0:30:45
These dimensions of light are endless. They're infinite and there's thousands of them. They're endless, they're infinite, and there's thousands of them. And there's a certain path in our school of following these dimensions of light. And the teacher is someone who directs you to these dimensions. It's inward, because it's an esoteric teaching. They demonstrate the dimensions of light by showing you when you meditate with them. when you meditate with them, and you're able to go back into those, following these esoteric teachings and these demonstrations of light. The teacher can bring you right up into the light, just sitting with them.

0:31:24
This is a kind of empowerment of light. So a teacher is a great aid in finding this powerful inner happiness. So you want to choose happiness. Not joy, not fulfillment of a desire, but you want to orient yourself to spiritual balance, a deep, profound, eternal happiness. And you want to find that in and meditation. It's a choice that you make. You can choose happiness and direct your life towards that. And then you bring the full power of your mind to the right pathway to success in life. The right pathway out of difficulty. And my teacher had a couple exercises And my teacher had a couple exercises for this. One is to smile. When you smile, you start feeling a little bit better.

0:32:37
And he gave us a practice of, in meditation, smiling. So when you meditate, if you smile, then you're connecting with good energy. And he said, after meditating, just spend a few minutes focusing on happiness. Not something that made you happy once, not the fulfillment of a desire, but this is actually a meditation on the essence of happiness. So after a meditation session where you're focusing on chakras and light, So after a meditation session where you're focusing on chakras and light, then you just sit for a few minutes with a smile on your face. The smile is the key. And just focusing with your inner being, trying to reach the essence of happiness. Be grateful, be happy, feel a wonder of life. And I found that in this And I found that in this practice, it's very, very beautiful.

0:33:43
It brings you into a deep awareness of happiness. Another practice that he gave was to be mindful of happiness in your life, in the beauty of the world, the beauty of your life, at all times. world, the beauty of your life, at all times. So after your meditation, when you're driving to work, or at work, or at the gym, or whatever, you just look around and you see the beauty of your life, the beautiful things in your life. And you see in that beauty happiness. that you have help where you're grateful and you find happiness in that experience. Just look throughout all the things touching your life and you can see that your life is happy. The only way there's no happiness in your life is when you're grasping at things that make you unhappy.

0:34:48
So this is letting go of that which is unhappy and seeing that already within your life there's nothing lacking. Everything that you need to be happy exists already. It exists in your mind and this is a practice of seeing it in your life. So this is the Buddhist consideration and pathway to happiness. consideration and pathway to happiness.

