0:00:00
Tonight I'd like to talk about the nexus of all pathways. The axis of all pathways is spiritual evolution. It is the heart of seeing truth. That which leads you out of suffering and out of limitation, that which is the force expands consciousness and awareness of life and being. Now there are many spiritual paths but they all have a couple features. They have a focus on positive things or a focus on negative things. and some paths have focus on positive things and negative things and that is simply to say there will be asanas and sinasanas, things to do things not to do like this is good do this that is bad don't do that there are there we see in be a vegetarian. You know, it is good to chant for hours. It is bad to hit your sister. You know, it is bad to have a midnight snack. You know, stuff like that.

0:01:53
So they say there's things that are good and things that are bad. However, the path The path or the observances of affirmation and negation, they bring you to the same place. So if you follow a path where they say, don't do anything bad, don't do anything bad, don't do anything bad, eventually it brings you to a good place. And if you're on a path that says, oh, only do the good stuff, eventually it brings you to a good place. They bring you to awareness through affirmation or negation. They bring you to an expanded consciousness.

0:02:36
They bring you to a greater comprehension of life and truth. So either way brings you to the same place. But the essence of the path, whether it's through affirmation or negation, is the same. The essence is not one or the other. See, in the West we tend to think very linearly. This is good. This is bad. And that way we see things in a dual attention. However, in Buddhism, we see things as circles. Something that's good is a circle.

0:03:28
Something that's bad is a circle. Because within good there's bad, and within bad there's good. So, either way, there's both. Either way, there's both. But either way, there's the essence, which is beyond good and bad. And that's the essence, the nexus, something beyond good and bad, something beyond, you know, limitation. There is a story, an old Chinese Taoist story. There is a man, he has a son. His son goes out and finds a horse.

0:04:15
He brings the horse home and his neighbors say, Hey, that's really great, you got a horse. And he says, Good, bad, who's to say. Then the horse, a couple of days later, weeks later, runs away. Then the horse, a couple days later, weeks later, runs away. Then his neighbors say, Oh, that's horrible, your horse went away. And he's like, Good, bad, who's to say? And then, after a while, the horse comes back with a mare following him.

0:04:42
And, hey, great, look, you got two horses now. Isn't that great? Good, bad, who's to say? And then his son's riding the horse, the mare, Who's to say? And then his son's riding the horse, the mare, and falls off and breaks his leg badly. And the neighbors say, wow, isn't that horrible? He's like, hmm, good or bad, who's to say? And then the army comes through recruiting conscripts for battle, and they can't take his son because his leg's broken.

0:05:14
So they go, isn't that great? his son because his legs broken. So they go, isn't that great? Your son doesn't have to go to war and surely die. So, isn't that great? And father says, well, good, bad, who's to say? What is good will always lead to bad. What is bad will always lead to good. Yin to yang, yin to yin. These are only surface views of life and eternity. surface views of life and eternity. So instead of something being good and only good, linear, dual, there's also the opposite. And there's what's beyond the So, so on the, uh, the spiritual path, when we're following the good path, that is just one aspect of being.

0:06:15
And when we're on the spiritual path and we're following the bad path, that's just another aspect of being. They really don't bring us to enlightenment. But it is the nexus of the paths. It's the center of the circle that is enlightenment. So when you're on the circle, when you're in the circle... Can you guys do something? Okay. When you're in the circle, you're not at the center of the circle. So, much to do in positive and much to do in avoiding negative, but it doesn't actually bring you to enlightenment. brings you from good, bad, and ugly to enlightenment. That's the point. The nexus of all paths is the essential spiritual path of evolution. Now the reason that we do the path of the positive, the path of the avoidance, is the positive and path of the avoidance, is because momentum brings you closer to the center.

0:07:46
So we try to develop awareness through these paths. But there's a secret, and the secret is the way beyond the yin and yang to the essence. the Yin and Yang to the essence. And that's meditation, stopping thought. Thought is always bound up in the circle of Yin and Yang, but when you let go of thought, you can come right into the essence of the path, the essence of any spiritual path. the essence of any spiritual path, and that is the awareness, the direct awareness of the light itself. Now, when you're on the spiritual path, and you're looking for awareness of that essence, you have to realize that you are not you.

0:08:50
So, the you that you are right now is not you. So the you that you are right now is a dream, just as your previous incarnation was a dream, just as last night's dream was a dream, and the you in the dream was a dream. You are an illusion. It is only that you think that you're yourself that binds you to reality, Think that you're yourself that binds you to reality binds you to limitation and You are recreating Your self your personal history Everything you're recreating it in every moment Out of the essence of life out of out of light You create the manifest out of light. You create the manifest, finite, transient experience. But that's not completely true. You have to reflect on what is real and what is not real. So, Xuanzi, he had this dream, this Taoist master. He had a dream where he was a butterfly. And in the butterfly dream where he was a butterfly and in the butterfly dream he's like I'm definitely a butterfly he was down with that and then he woke up from the dream and he was like oh I'm not a butterfly anymore I'm now oh yeah I'm Cisco so when you're in a dream you enter into a karmic reality it becomes fixed the It becomes fixed.

0:10:27
The moment that you believe that you are something, you're fixed in that karma until that karma ends. So it's a fixed structure where there's a lot more limitation, unless you can see through it. But right now in your life, you say, no, this is very physical, I definitely have this condition and that condition, and life's very real, very physical, I definitely have this condition and that condition, and life's very real, and I definitely have my personal history. It seems that you are so fixed and so limited and not infinite and filled with just ultimate possibilities. So you're looking at life in a very fixed way. That's because you've created a fixed karma. You've created this experience.

0:11:12
You've created a fixed karma. You've created this experience, but let's say You had a dream once where you were not you or you were a different profession Maybe you had a dream where you were a butterfly or maybe you had a dream where you were, you know a soldier or a king or queen Right and in that dream when you were that profession or that other person And in that dream, when you were that profession, or that other person, or that other animal or something, you had no doubt that that was you. You were like, yeah, this is me. I'm the Easter Bunny.

0:11:50
Definitely. And you go around doing whatever it is, but that self has agreed, it has agreed with life to be fixed in that awareness. agreed with life to be fixed in that awareness. And then you could wake up and say, oh, it's me again. Or you could have a different dream. And instead of being the Easter Bunny, you could be a mother of four and experience that experience. And you really believe this is who I am.

0:12:20
Just like in this lifetime, you think you are who you are. But it's only because you're fixed into a transient structure. But it's only because you're fixed into a transient structure of yin and yang, not within the essence of life. In the essence of life, in the nexus of the path, there is just light. There's no specific, fixed viewpoint of life. all possibilities in its essential form. So, we seek to find that way back to that essence.

0:13:04
But while we have this physical life, we are in the dream. We're in a dream until the stream is over, but within this stream we want to see through it to reality. to reality. It's kind of like we're a snowman. Someone we did, we balled ourselves up and created a snowman. And we're going to be in this form until, you know, we thaw, basically. and then we're out of that form. And we're only in that form for a time. And then all we do is smell carrots. That's what snowmen do.

0:13:54
Smell like carrots to you? So we really are seeking to melt the self in our mind, to see it through the transient nature of the self, to see what is the essence of our mind. Now, when you do this normally, you do it through reincarnation. This is how everyone goes through it. Everyone totally believes that their lives are completely physical and that you're totally who you are until you die. At the moment of death, your personality disappears or becomes fluid. or becomes fluid. And your whole life, your whole drama, your whole, you know, who you were, personal history, it's all gone.

0:15:01
And then your spirit, that part of you which lives from life to life, that lives on, goes to another form. another form and In that form you wake up in a new incarnation and you believe that that's who you are solid for sure But you're a totally different person, but your spirit's still there right that's eternal spirit So we live we die we live we die we go through many incarnations But when what we seek to do is to see beyond that circle of life and death to do is to see beyond that circle of life and death. We seek to see the essence of our spirit that is the nexus of all pathways, to see the consciousness, that perceptual principle of being, that part, that continuity of awareness that goes from life to life, continuity awareness that goes from life to life, being aware. We seek to move beyond an understanding of just this person who we are now, with our story, to understanding Pathway to enlightenment. This is the understanding of Past lives you're able to see That if you've had past lives where you really thought you were something that you could look into this lifetime and see That you were something in the past and that you were something that goes from life to life that goes from life to life.

0:16:50
Alright, go ahead. And when you can see that, then you start to become aware of your multi-incarnational being. It broadens your awareness of who you are. Now, most people in a lifetime, Most people in a lifetime, they just try to improve a situation in that lifetime without knowing themselves. So it's kind of like if we're all in a... A lifetime is an amusement park and in the amusement park everyone's like trying to get onto a better ride. You know, you're on the carousel and you're all, yeah, this is alright. The roller coaster looks really fun. I want to get onto that.

0:17:36
all right. The roller coaster looks really fun. I want to get on to that. But then you could be on the roller coaster and be a really nasty, angry, mean person. And you'll be going on a roller coaster, having an experience, a ride for a transient time, but you'll still be an angry, weird, mean person. So what what we we seek to resolve that in our heart that would make us angry or mean. And then we could be on the carousel and be actually happy. It's not what ride you're on, it's what's in your heart. Because if you refine your being and get rid of the meanness, get rid of the anger or whatever or get rid of the anger, or whatever, karma, and you see your essence, then every ride in the park, everything in life is the best, it's the most beautiful, the most wonderful.

0:18:37
But so many people are just trying to kind of experience the best things in the world without experiencing the nature of themselves, which is the best thing in the world. This is the nexus of all pathways. In Buddhism, we've found the truth, the pathway to this awareness of life, this light. That there is light, the essence of all being, of life, this light, that there's light, the essence of all being, and that there's structures of light, and that by working with the structures of light, we're able to come into an awareness, not just of our story of self, our karmas of self, not our life, not our death, not Not this life, not our last life.

0:19:39
But we come to an awareness of our eternal being. And this is the nexus of all pathways.

