0:00:00
All right, so tonight I'd like to talk about Tantra the left-hand path And the spiritual practices that we do we always receive amazing benefits Meditation we clear our mind we experience eternity In yoga, we gain greater personal power, we expand our awareness. In Bodhicitta, we practice compassion. We see the world with a bigger heart. But sometimes we find that whatever we do doesn't work. doesn't work. Meditation doesn't work, mindfulness doesn't work, bodhicitta doesn't work. We find that whatever we try, mysticism, going out and meditating in nature, doesn't work. We have no discrimination, we have no heart for anything, we just find that we're stuck, that we're in the dark, and that all the regular spiritual practices that would normally get us to a condition of spiritual practices that would normally get us to a condition of greater luminosity, we find that it doesn't bring us to luminosity. And yet we're disciplined in it, and we try, we've had experiences where we've gotten higher, but just this day, or this month, or this year, or this lifetime, whatever it is, This time it's not working. That's when you use Tantra. Tantra is for that time.

0:01:45
It is the remedy for practicing spiritual practice and not having spiritual experiences. Tantra is called the left-hand path because it is the path less taken. Generally there's all these pathways, spiritual paths, right? Generally, there's all these pathways, spiritual paths, right? Many of them out there. The path of devotion and love, the path of selfless service, the path of discrimination, the path of mysticism. There's all sorts of ways. There's Zen, there's Vajrayana, there's Christianity. There's all these different pathways to spiritual growth. different pathways to spiritual growth and all of these paths are Great, but when you find that none of them work Then there's this this other one that nobody kind of knows about it's the secret one and that's called Tantra and Tantra works For the to solve this problem it works works for the to solve this problem it works because Tantra is the reconciliation of opposites so that means when you're experiencing bad that you come to see that bad is good so it's quite quite simple that way in all of In all of the spiritual paths, in any spiritual path, they always say, this is good, do this.

0:03:21
This is bad, don't do this. In Tantra, we see that there is no good and there is no bad. There is no bad and there is no good. That all there is, is eternity. All there That all there is is Eternity all there is is enlightenment all there is is God essentially So we come to see beyond The opposites beyond yin and yang beyond good and bad and we come to an essential awareness so Once there was a Lama He had meditated for years and he was running a monastery He had meditated for years and he was running a monastery in the Himalayas.

0:04:08
He was well-known. He had practiced. He had learned. He had cultivated. He had wisdom. But he got to a point where he wasn't enlightened and he wasn't breaking through. and he wasn't breaking through. And he was very frustrated. It never happened. He's like, I've got to get to enlightenment, but I'm just stuck. I'm stuck in my practice. One day, a famous enlightened master came to visit.

0:04:46
And he was overjoyed. He said, He said, Oh, great master. I am a learned Lama, but I can't break through. I'm stuck. And then the master said, Oh, okay, well, I will teach you a meditation practice that will definitely bring you to enlightenment. So he said, Great. This is wonderful. Let's said, great, this is wonderful, let's do it. So he sits down with the Lama to meditate, with the enlightened master to meditate. And the enlightened master reaches into his robe and pulls out a big bottle of extremely hard liquor. They said, for this meditation, drink And the lama says, are you kidding? I can't do that.

0:05:41
That would be breaking my precepts. And also, being drunk doesn't help for meditation at all. It goes against everything we've ever learned in meditation. And the master says, drink it. So he says, okay. And he drinks it. The master is very patient while he's drinking it, because it takes him a while to get through The Master is very patient while he's drinking it, because it takes him a while to get through the whole bottle. And then he's sloppy drunk.

0:06:09
And then the Master said, now meditate. And so the Lama's all, all right, it's time to meditate. And he's wobbling around and he's all like, oh yeah, I forgot meditation. All of a sudden, out of nowhere, he experiences this instant enlightenment. Now, this was the enlightened master, the tantra master, and he saw that the Lama was stuck. Stuck in a view, stuck in a practice, and unhappy, not getting ahead. stuck in a practice and unhappy, not getting ahead. And the way that he got him to see outside of that view is to simply break the rules, break the precepts, do something that you think is the opposite of what will work.

0:07:09
But when it's done with enlightened wisdom, then it works. wisdom, then it works. So the thing that we seek in our experiences is that enlightened wisdom. We seek the reconciliation of opposites, where it reconciles in spirit and not just So, we, to practice Tantra, we find that sometimes, no matter what, we're stuck. Like, people who practice Tantra are very strong. They have to be. You can't practice Tantra if you're not strong. You have to be able to see that the things in life are empty. Empty if you still think that you're going to go out there and you know Be a famous movie star and that's going to make you happy or find the right husband or wife and that'll make you happy Or you'll get the Ferrari and it'll make you happy if you're if you think that there's happiness out there if you don't see the emptiness of All those things then you're not strong enough to practice Tantra You can't have Tantra. You can't have, you can't seek fulfillment and sensual desire. Otherwise, you won't be able to practice Tantra. So a person who practices Tantra is strong, very strong. They only want enlightenment. And they'll try everything. They are very disciplined, They are very disciplined. They have great personal power.

0:08:52
And also detachment. But at the same time, they find themselves getting stuck. Here and there. The self is very subtle. And when you lack awareness, you get stuck. What we do is we let go of being stuck. In Tantra there is a beautiful idea of surrender. We just say, I can't possibly have the power to decide anything in my life. It is the will of eternity that I am where I am. Everything that I do is not my decision. that I am where I am. Everything that I do is not my decision. I surrender to life. Life guides me.

0:09:45
I blow with the winds of eternity. And then when you find yourself stuck, then you don't blame yourself. You accept that you're at that point in life. You don't beat yourself up. You accept that up, you accept that this is what life has given you as an experience, as a lesson. And then in that acceptance, you don't have to see it as bad. You can see it as God. And this is what you do in Tantra. You don't define things as good or bad. You try to see enlightenment to find things as good or bad. You try to see enlightenment in all things. So let's say in your religion, they say there's a rule, no eating ice cream, right? But you find yourself, you know, really, really, really wanting ice cream.

0:10:49
If you have that rule and that desire, If you have that rule and that desire, then you're hung up as a hypocrite with a rule. You're hung up and bound to the karma of ice cream because you're trying to push it away. So what we do in Tantra is we say, yeah, yeah, yeah, according to my yoga, ice cream bad. But if you find that you really, really, really do want ice cream, But, if you find that you really, really, really do want ice cream, you have to be self-honest. You can't be fake. You have to have integrity. So then you get a big ice cream sundae.

0:11:28
Bananas and hot fudge. And then you enjoy it. And you see God in it. You see enlightenment in it. enlightenment in it and you just, you know, enjoy it to the highest degree possible and that's a spiritual experience. So otherwise, you know, you would be like, you're like, okay, I really want ice cream. You sneak off to the ice cream parlor, you get your ice cream and no matter what, you know, if you're following the rules, you're gonna feel bad. You're gonna be like, I did something you're gonna feel bad. You're gonna be like, I did something wrong, I broke the rule. But in Tantra, you don't feel bad, you say, yeah, I did it, I ate that ice cream.

0:12:13
And then, that's great. So Tantra's funny that way. But people in Tantra, they don't seek non-spiritual experiences. seek non-spiritual experiences. It's not that you go out and seek to do something weird, strange, or opposite. You're always actually trying to do the best things. You're trying to follow the pathway to enlightenment the best you can. Love, wisdom, bodhicitta, yoga, meditation, mindfulness. You're trying to do all those things great, but when you see that all those things great. But when you see that you get stuck, you don't have a rule that says you can't do it. You say, oh, I'm here in a position that it kind of is in opposition with the general spiritual path that I follow. So now it's tantra time. And you accept that see deeply into it, but you can't run away from it. You have to go through it and see the spirit. So this is why relationships and sexuality is permissible in Tantra. In a lot of spiritual paths they say sex is bad. However, in Tantra they say, hey, if you find yourself However, in Tantra, they say, hey, well, if you find yourself, you know, with the sex thing, then how about do some enlightenment in that instead of not.

0:13:49
So in the West, you know, everyone's like, oh, Tantra equals sex, but it's not, right? They say, there's gotta be some like sex practices that are called Tantra, where people have sex until they're enlightened. called Tantra, where people have sex until they're enlightened. And that's not what Tantra is. Although Tantra doesn't exclude sex. And therefore, if you find yourself having sex, you might as well become, you know, you might as well see God in that experience.

0:14:25
So that's the trick, the danger of Tantra. So that's the trick, the danger of Tantra. The danger is that you think you're doing it, but you're not. You think you're having sex and seeing God, but you're just having sex. It's kind of like drunken Kung Fu. You're like, I'm going to learn drunken Kung Fu. And then you start drinking and doing Kung Fu. And at some point, you might lose the Kung Fu part and just be a drunk. you might lose the Kung Fu part and just be a drunk. Drunk in Kung Fu is developing your power and your martial arts capability. But at some point, if you lose that, then you're just drunk. You're just a drunk person brawling in a bar. So that's the danger of the Contra.

0:15:11
You have to have discrimination. It has to be real. You have to have discrimination. It has to be real. Otherwise, you're just caught up in delusion. So Tantra is something that really breaks our way of looking at life. life. You know, because we look at life in a fixed way, but when we get stuck in the fixed way, and it doesn't help us anymore, we have to break it. And then you go through it to a deeper awareness. So, when you find yourself stuck, you find that you're not moving then you do Tantra.

0:16:04
People who practice Tantra are very, very well trained. It's an advanced path. And they're so well trained that they have to go beyond their training. So it's kind of like if you want to learn jazz, you're playing the piano, right? You start off learning jazz by practicing scales. learning jazz by practicing scales. Scales, scales, scales. Structure, rules, structure, rules. But at some point, you know the scales so very, very, very well that you can do improv.

0:16:43
At some point, you could just leave the structure of the scales, and everything that you do is perfectly structured. But there's a new manifestation of music perfectly structured, but there's a new manifestation of music and improvisation, some new flow of energy that's coming through you. And this is Tantra. When you are feeling stuck, you got to have that improv. When you're feeling stuck, here's a practice, an exercise of Tantra. of Tantra. You take a high moment and you bring it to a place that would normally be seen as low. So let's say you went out to Mount Tamil Pai, had a beautiful sunset meditation once and there's just you remember the light, you remember the power, you remember the stillness of the meditation.

0:17:36
you remember the stillness of the meditation. And then you go to, you know, Ikea, you go somewhere, you know, into the mall, Ceremonte, and you walk around and you see, you go to a place that's draining, essentially, where people are not being spiritual, they're just going around Spiritual they're just going around doing people II things where it's like a heavy low vibration and you go there and you bring the state of mind that you had on the mountain and You see it there You take the high you bring it to the low and it all comes together and you see through the transient world You see that in the low there is the high in the high that in the low there is the high, in the high there's the high. And this is Tantra, the left-hand path. Thank you very much.

