0:00:00
Tonight, I'd like to talk about meditation. Meditation is stopping thought. It is going from the awareness of self and the transient finite world to the awareness of infinity, the essence of life. It's going from limited mind to unlimited consciousness. Consciousness now this is a profound definition of meditation Because over the years Meditation has Changed not that meditation has changed, but the definition of meditation has changed most practitioners Most practitioners, even monks, their definition of meditation is that you still the mind a little bit and you have some relaxation and some inner peace. But this definition doesn't bring you into This definition doesn't bring you into true practice, doesn't bring you beyond the self.

0:01:46
My definition of meditation is radical. It's tremendously transformative. It is the essence of all spiritual practice. And this practice of meditation brings you to liberation Liberation from suffering liberation from any limitations of the mind now Meditation is stopping thought When when you have thoughts they obscure your view When you have thoughts, they obscure your view.

0:02:29
So let's say there's a lake, and at the bottom of the lake, there's gold. Now if there's waves, you don't see the gold. You just see the waves. The surface is all stirred up. But when the waves are calm, and the lake is placid and clear, And the lake is placid and clear. You can see down to the bottom. It's very easy to see the gold. So that gold is enlightenment, right? And what most people do, because of the incorrect view of practice, they seek to just calm the calm the waves a little bit so that they can see the reflection or the refraction of the light from the bottom.

0:03:21
But in meditation, we seek to completely still the waves so that we can see clearly the gold, so that we can get the gold. with some gold light, but we seek to really, ourselves, get that gold. And that is becoming liberated. That's enlightenment. Stopping thought. It's a radical idea. Most teachers, most Buddhists, or Hindus, or Taoists, teachers, most Buddhists or Hindus or Taoists, they all say just relax through the thoughts, you know, let them come let them go yes, let them come let them go but There has to be an intention and a method to go beyond them Because if you never go beyond thoughts, you're always going to be caught up in the transient awareness of self So true meditation is learning how to stop thought So true meditation is learning how to stop thought. The mind is like the open blue sky and thoughts are like birds flying around. So you're just looking at the sky and then the birds come. You look at the birds and the birds are squawking and they look different. A lot of thoughts A lot of thoughts are boring, so there's just some pigeons flying around.

0:04:54
And then some thoughts are amazing, like you might have amazing thoughts, like there's phoenixes flying around. So there could be all sorts of amazing birds in your mind, but still, when the bird flies by, it takes your attention from awareness of the whole blue sky to the bird, or many attention from awareness of the whole blue sky to the bird or many little pigeons or sometimes you got some birds that come in and start attacking you a lot of people have this they they attack themselves with these thoughts these birds come in and they're just it's like that Alfred Hitchcock movie the birds getting attacked by birds, right? And that creates a very troubled life, a troubled consciousness. So we seek to go beyond the birds. And in the beginning, you know, we sit there and we come still. The birds fly in, we let them fly in and fly out, right? We've learned to But eventually, you have to go beyond where thoughts can reach you.

0:06:06
So I see this as the birds are flying around in the sky, and you go up to where the birds are, but beyond where the birds can fly. You have to go beyond thought. And once you're beyond thought, then those birds, those angry birds, can't reach you. Those birds as angry birds can't reach you They just can't they can't even touch you and then you're in a place beyond thought this is meditation When you go beyond thought You immediately enter into the dimensions of light these bright planes of enlightened consciousness And in that light consciousness and in that light you gain wisdom and awareness you purify your mind and your consciousness and your being and this is the pathway to enlightenment as I know it is to meditate in all spiritual forms in prayer in prayer, in chanting, in all sorts of visualizations.

0:07:22
All of the spiritual progress comes down to becoming still and moving beyond thought. So there's many ways to meditate. One can meditate in many different forms. many different forms. There's many doors that lead to the inside of the house. Once you go inside the house, that's the point. That's meditation. Any door, there's many doors. Doesn't matter which door you take. But in our school, we tend to do sitting meditation. meditation in martial arts, scuba diving, dancing, all sorts of ways to get to that still place. Now, meditation is a non-doing. You undo self, self-reaction, self-concept, ideas. self-reaction, self-concept, ideas. You come to a place of stillness. It's an organic connection with eternity. A lot of people in meditation try to figure things out. They try to figure out their lives, they try to figure out problems, they look for creativity. So they'll sit down and think about things and they'll So they'll sit down and think about things, and they'll become still and maybe see a clearer way through a problem a little bit.

0:08:56
But this is not meditation. That's not the best way. The best way is to stop thought. In stopping thought you go into an unlimited, the unlimited side of being. And there's many more options for solving problems and figuring out the best way to do things. You don't find them in thinking about it. You find them in stopping thought. The transient changes all the time. So if you're focusing on transient things that are happening in your life and trying to figure them out, they're just going to keep changing and your consciousness remains and trying to figure them out, they're just going to keep changing, and your consciousness remains moving and shifting in the experience of the limited self.

0:09:48
But if you meditate deeply and stop thought, then you enter into the inner eternal illumination, and in that infinite selflessness, when you come back out of your meditation, you can infinite selflessness When you come back out of your meditation, you can look at problems and find brighter higher better solutions it's kind of like if you're sitting around sitting around in a fog and the fogs really thick and You're like well, okay. Let me try to get my way through the town, right? you might not be able to see very well, so you don't know if you should go down this street, or take a right and go down the next street.

0:10:34
But if the fog's cleared away, then you see everything. You say, oh, okay, I see where I'm going. It's the easiest way to get there. So it's all about clearing the mind. We're all about clearing the mind. And we clear the mind by going into, by stopping thought, by going into the light. Thinking just keeps us trapped in a limited view. So in meditation, it's not that we sit there and think about solutions and think about new creative ideas.

0:11:12
about solutions and think about new creative ideas, we have to stop thought. And that's the way to clear the mind and see the best options for success. Now, there's many ups and downs in the practice of meditation on the way to mastery. Sometimes you'll have a good meditation, sometimes you'll have a bad meditation. a good meditation, sometimes you'll have a bad meditation. And the thing is that there is no good in bad meditation. So this guy goes over to his Zen master and says, Zen master, my meditation practice is horrible. I have all these thoughts, it's terrible, my legs hurt when I'm sitting, everything's just terrible. And Zen Master says, this too shall pass. And then a week later, the student comes over and says, Zen Master, my meditation is wonderful, my legs don't hurt, I go into high states of mind, I'm so happy. And the Zen Master says, this too shall pass. The things that are bad about meditation, and the things that are good about our meditation, we all, these These are all things that we can perceive in the transient.

0:12:29
There's something much more profound in meditation. It goes past the good and the bad meditation. You can't just sit there and say, this was a bad one, I meditate bad. When you meditate, things are happening that you might not be aware of. Just like if you go to the gym once and lift some weights, Just like if you go to the gym once and lift some weights, you might say, that didn't do anything, I'm not stronger. I tried really hard today, and I lifted weights, but it didn't do anything. It does do something, but it takes practice, it takes time.

0:13:07
And little by little, through the practice of meditation, you get stronger. stronger. Some people just don't push hard enough in their discipline of meditation practice, and then they'll always be like, oh, I went to the gym once. I go to the gym every couple discipline or You don't get a lot out of it So it must be must practice daily and diligently earnestly and Then little by little you'll gain strength that means something It ends up doing something, but you got to get out of the lightweight practice This is a discipline that radically changes your life. You can't be sitting there in meditation going discipline that radically changes your life. You can't be sitting there in meditation going, oh where's this inner peace? Where's this inner peace? I don't have all day. You know, we're sitting there going, oh I gotta check my emails, let me text someone real quick. Right? You have to really really put that away and then you practice and then and then the practice of meditation is very very and then the practice of meditation is very, very, very powerful.

0:14:32
True meditation changes your being tremendously. You're able to see different dimensions of life. Your awareness shifts and changes and opens. and you're able to do more with your mind, with your spirit. It's kind of like back in China, ancient China, only certain people were taught Kung Fu. There were these, sometimes there were the monks, Shaolin monks, Wudang monks, monks, wudang monks, but a lot of times it was like a family, right? This family of nobles, and only certain people in that family were taught Kung Fu. And then, when they went into a battle or a fight, their skill level was so much higher than anyone else, because no one else had the anyone else, because no one else had the secrets of the teachings.

0:15:42
The Kung Fu was real, taught by a Kung Fu master where they were able to actually access chi, great amounts of power. And then anybody who was a warrior who just picked up a sword and had a bunch of fights, they might have some experience, a little bit of skill. experience, a little bit of skill, but the level of power and technique from the trained Kung Fu practitioner would dwarf their ability. So this is what we gained from meditation. Nobody meditates well. Nobody is very happy. Nobody uses their Not nobody, but very few. There's very few people who use their mind in a way that you can through meditation. You gain tremendous abilities and awareness and consciousness opens.

0:16:42
You see life in new ways, you see great opportunities. in dissatisfaction, stuck in life, stuck in business, through stopping thought, going into the planes of light, into eternal consciousness, you become free, and you find opportunities for success. So you grow. The problem is that most people are in illusion. They are in Maya. They're stuck in this transient view of life and self. They tremendously believe in time and space and that when they were a kid, when they were a kid something bad happened. Personal history, right? Limitations. They believe that they believe their angers. They believe their fears. They believe their depression. This is illusion. It's not who you truly are. And in meditation, when you stop thought, that self goes away. When you're not, when When you can stop thought, the whole self, you, disappears.

0:18:07
And you find the truth of who you are, which is a limitless field of light. All of your personal history, the bad thing that happened to you when you were six, is gone. your anxiety about what you have to do tomorrow, the bills you have to pay, it's all gone when you stop thought. And you see life in a true and unlimited sense, and that is a spiritual experience. Stopping thought brings you into spirit, your spirit beyond the transient world. And then from that experience, you're able to come back into this world From that experience you're able to come back into this world and be more balanced and happy Enlightenment is bringing that experience stopping thought into your waking moments Into your day into all moments And then you're going around in traffic shopping shopping, work, and you always have that light in your mind.

0:19:19
You're always connected with that brilliant, eternal God consciousness. So when you're in illusion, you think that you believe all the limitations. You don't know your higher self, your true self. You don't know your higher self, your true self. There was a prince long ago in China. He went into battle. And during the battle, the enemy split his army. And the prince was hit in the head. He had a helmet on. So he fell unconscious.

0:20:02
And he was on a horse. he had a helmet on. So he fell unconscious and he was on a horse. So his horse runs away. Now the battle ends and then the soldiers return to the kingdom and report that the prince was probably killed because they can't find him. So the king thinks, oh, my son was killed. But he was just knocked out on a horse. The horse ran away, far, far away. His helmet knocked out on a horse. The horse ran away, far far away. His helmet fell, his spear fell, his shield fell, and eventually he fell off the horse. And he wakes up with amnesia. And he wakes up at the side of the road and then a farmer comes by and the farmer needs a farmhand. So he sees this guy who forgets who he is farm hand. So he sees this guy who forgets who he is and he says, Oh, you're my son. Okay, come over. So he brings him onto the farm and then for a couple years this prince is just living in poverty, doing hard labor.

0:21:10
One day they take their harvest near to the castle. their harvest near to the castle. And on this day, the king decides to go out from the castle, heading somewhere, and everyone has to take a knee while the king goes by. And the king looks down and sees his son holding a bunch of strawberries. I don't know. You know, a bunch of vegetables.

0:21:35
And he says, this is my son. And then he says, oh, you know, come over here, This is my son." And then he says, you know, come over here, come into the castle, you're a rich, wealthy prince again. We have sort of this amnesia. We don't know our true selves, our higher self. We forget. We've been knocked out, unconscious, Unconscious and told different stories about who we are and these are limited and not true.

0:22:09
So in meditation we find our higher self. create concepts, ideas, mental models of the world. So when we were very, very young, let's say two years old, you looked at a tree and you saw a tree. You felt a tree. You didn't have so much of a mental model of what a tree is, but you learned over the But you learned over the years just a couple years later. You learned what a tree is We learn things about life little by little Until everything in life becomes a mental model. We don't see life as It truly is because we've created ideas and concepts that actually cut us off from seeing life well, I have a from seeing life. I have my iPhone. Now, this is my iPhone. Now, on the other side of this iPhone is, like all smartphones, I have a little touch screen. Now, you all know this.

0:23:36
When I show you the front, you're actually seeing a concept, because you've known this before, and because your mind is so conditioned by forms of ideas and concepts that you don't see life anymore. To see life directly, you have to start stopping thoughts. You know, sometimes we will do open-eye meditation, and when you do open-eye meditation, when you can stop thought, then you see life correctly. Open-eye meditation, you see that there's all these beautiful energies, that there's deep dimensionality to anything. You could meditate on a tree, looking at a tree, and if you can stop thought, that tree will glow, and that tree will be God.

0:24:45
But everything that you have developed in a mental model cuts you off from understanding in a mental model cuts you off from understanding life. These mental models, they create limited states of mind. And we seek to be free from these limitations. Limitation and freedom is in the mind. Heaven and hell exist in the mind. Heaven and hell exists in the mind No matter what our physical circumstance the most important thing is To free your mind to wipe away the limited states of mind the limited mental model mental models and To see life in a more beautiful way now Milarepa a famous enlightened yogi of Tibet Now, Milarepa, a famous enlightened yogi of Tibet, he lived in a cave and had very little food.

0:25:49
He would just have some nettles. He would collect some nettles and he would make nettle soup. They said that's all he had, so after a while he ended up turning green. after a while he ended up turning green because he just had this to eat and it was very skinny and so you could say he suffered because he didn't have a lot to eat and he was cold in the Himalayas and he was homeless and lived in a cave you know you could say that this is great suffering but for him the way that he The way that he saw the world was enlightenment, magic, power, light, beauty, love, happiness. His awareness was connected with his eternal being. Just the reflection of eternity That's a very bright way to look at it We all look at the world through a state of mind. It's like a window So you might look out a window and be overlooking the ocean you might see Whales and dolphins and sunsets and it might look spectacular and beautiful and that's a state of mind it's a way it's a view of life and then You might be in You know the ghetto looking out the window seeing the alley seeing someone get mugged seeing somebody else selling drugs and That's a different view of life And that's a different view of life.

0:27:41
States of mind are just views of life. We seek, through meditation, to really shift our state of mind. Wherever you're at, you're looking at life in a certain way. But through meditation, you can move higher. higher. You can shift to a view that's higher and brighter, where any physical limitations don't matter, where you can see happiness and truth beyond any physical condition. And this is what we do in the practice of meditation. It's a shifting to a higher place, and then It's a shifting to a higher place, and then finally beyond any place. The practice of meditation is radical. It completely changes the you that you think you are.

0:28:44
You think you are a certain way, a personal history, certain fears, certain desires. certain fears, certain desires, but through meditation you radically change your being. You perfect your awareness field. And when you do that it completely changes your life. It changes your view, your perception of understanding who you are in the universe. So this is a profound practice. So this is a profound practice. Now the best way to meditate, to learn meditation, is to meditate and learn meditation from an enlightened teacher, an esoteric teacher, a teacher who knows how to meditate, how to stop thought. Not just slow down thought, but how to stop thought.

0:29:36
but how to stop thought. Because when you sit with an esoteric teacher, they will stop thought, they will go into higher dimensions of mind, the planes of light, and then by sitting with them, you feel those dimensions. You're exposed to those dimensions, and you're You're exposed to those dimensions. And you're able to learn this inner art by the experience of meditation. It's kind of like in martial arts. You can learn martial arts from a book, but you won't gain power. But if you have a fifth-degree black belt teacher, the teacher will impart awareness and power. The teacher will impart awareness and power.

0:30:29
So when you're learning something, you're not just learning something in a sense of just the first attention, the outer world. You learn an inner truth, an inner power. It's just something that is psychically transferred. transferred when you're learning an inner art martial arts meditation healing all sorts of inner arts the power of the inner art comes from a transference so the teacher has to be able to do the art perfectly powerfully but they also have to be able to transmit it so someone might be a golf expert and they might be So someone might be a golf expert and they might be able to hit a hole in one, right? And then if you say, oh, I want to learn how to do that, how do I do that? They might not be able to tell you.

0:31:25
They all will your swing at the ball. Yeah, they might be able to tell you all sorts of words, but they might not be able to really transmit to you how you can do it, too. So an esoteric teacher is someone who is an expert, is capable, but they can also tell you how to do it. They can transmit that to you, and then you're able to understand. So to learn meditation, you've got to be able to sit with an enlightened teacher, You've got to be able to sit with an enlightened teacher, someone who can go into very, very, very high states of mind and actually bring you into those states of mind, transmit those states of mind to you, so that by sitting with them, your mind touches those dimensions. And then you're able to, on your own, go back and meditate and go back to those dimensions.

0:32:24
and meditate you go back to those dimensions so it's a very helpful thing now meditation takes years to master but a teacher can really help you a teacher is your meditation police you have the right to remain silent you know that You know, they teach you the right focus, the right attention for how to practice correctly. There's a tone, there's an awareness. And they teach you, they emphasize the right way, they show you the right dimensions. Because meditation is an invisible practice. Someone could be sitting there, just sitting there, thinking of a bunch of thoughts. practice. Someone could be sitting there, just sitting there, thinking of a bunch of thoughts, and you say, oh that looks like meditation. Someone could be sitting there going into bad dimensions, thinking negative things, going into lower occult awareness. Those are the wrong dimensions. So a teacher has to say, okay, don't go to those bad places. Here's these dimensions of light. They direct mind to a higher place. Don't just sit there and think. Go beyond thought. There's a way.

0:33:44
And the way is an inner way. It's a way of practice, discipline, and focusing on the right states of mind, the dimensions of light. And by doing that, then in the blue sky of then in the blue sky of your mind, these birds will be there and then you'll go beyond them. You go beyond thought. And that's meditation. It's the true definition of meditation, not the popular one. Because in the popular definition of meditation, they've forgotten what meditation is. Probably because they can't meditate. is, probably because they can't meditate. So this is true meditation.

