0:00:00
Tonight, I'd like to talk about spiritual balance and happiness. Spiritual balance is great joy, bliss. Spiritual balance is not being pushed out of your center by the goings on in life. center, in your heart, then you're happy. In the chakras, it's anahata, the heart chakra. It's the center of your being. It is the chakra of love, unity, and oneness. This is living in your heart. Now if you're living and you get angry, you come out of this heart consciousness. You fall out of your center and you lose your happiness.

0:01:16
A lot of the reason why people are not balanced in their spirit is because they have an incorrect view of what will bring them peace, what will bring them balance. A lot of people think that what will bring them happiness and balance is, let's say, a nice day at the beach, winning the lottery, marrying the right person, having the right car, the right house. A beautiful meditation. We have all sorts of ideas of the perfect meditation, the perfect spiritual We think of all of these things as being that which will bring me spiritual balance. And then we think of the other things, like being in traffic, shopping in Ikea or Tesco, depending on where you are in the world. people, having to deal with angry customers, co-workers, bosses, you know, having your house foreclosed on you. We think of all of these horrible things, the terrible meditation, a terrible experience. We think of all these things that are bad as bad, something that will draw us out of our balance. But spiritual balance is neither good nor bad. There's balance in the good, but there's also balance in the bad. There's a nice little Taoist story of a man, he's a farmer, he has a horse.

0:03:51
His horse runs away. And his neighbors say, oh, that's such a bad thing. The horse ran good, bad, who can say?" Then a little while later, his horse comes back. This time it brought a mare with it. So then his neighbors say, Oh wow, you're so fortunate. Now you have two horses. This is so good. And he says, good, bad, who can say?

0:04:21
Then his son is riding the new mare, and he falls off and badly breaks his leg so that he has a limp for the rest of his life. And his neighbors say, Oh dear, that is so horrible. Such a bad thing that your son fell off the horse and hurt himself. And the old man says, Good? Bad? Who can say? And then shortly after that, the military comes through conscripting all able-bodied youths for a war, a horrible war.

0:05:06
And they see that he's got a limp, so they don't take him. And his neighbors say, oh, that's so good. And then he says, good, bad, who can say? Because now he has to live with his son. So, you know, we look at the things that are bad in our lives and we say, that's bad. But we need to draw back from seeing good as good and bad as bad. We need to start looking at life in a broader sense. Sometimes when bad things happen, it forces us to do good things. And that's what we should direct our attention toward, instead of the dualistic identification of good and bad. When you're balanced, then anything can happen in life and you can take it. If you're balanced, you can take hardship. You can take the worst thing if your spirit is balanced.

0:06:14
You're able to handle it. In martial arts, you find that the first power that you get comes from balance. So in martial arts, the first thing that you learn is stance. To stand in a balanced way. And you gain power from learning how to stand. Because if you try to punch someone or kick someone and you don't have the proper balance, then your punch and your kick only hurt you and do no damage to your opponent. I remember when I first started taking Kung Fu classes, it was very important to practice the horse stance, horse riding stance. And this is a stance where your legs are shoulder width apart and you bend your knees as far as you can, and you stand like that.

0:07:16
And it's very, very, very painful, even after a minute. However, in my school, we had to do it one hour a day for years, because stance was so important. So I, at first, did a little bit of it, and it was so painful, and I said, I don't want to just stand around. I want to do all these kicks and punches and all these weapons and everything. But my teacher made me stand. And I stood and I stood and I stood for hours and hours and hours and years. And after about three years of standing like this, I realized there's a great power in stance, a great power. And then I was able to use that power in my martial arts and self-defense. So there is power in balance. One of the difficulties that we're always pulled off of balance, out of balance, by our attachments.

0:08:33
So we'll be balanced, but then we'll be attached to an idea or a person, and once we are grabbing onto that attachment, once we're, you know, we're attached, that attachment pulls us out of balance. And then our spirit is unhappy, we're out of our center. So, in order to be spiritually balanced, you have to let go. You have to flow with life. Life is always moving, and we're always trying to fix life into an idea. We're trying to make life still. It's like if you take a picture of a bird. There's a bird flying by, and then you take a picture, and then you say, this picture is the bird. But no, the bird flew off somewhere. But with attachment, that's what we do. We attach ourselves And we have a very limited view of life, and we're pulled off center because of that view. Now, truly we find spiritual balance in humility, because the opposite of humility is egotism, if you observe, you will feel worse. You might have hubris for a little while, but then you'll come around to see that your condition of life is worse, more limited, darker. But when you have humility, then you gain a greater spiritual balance, and in humility you have a greater happiness.

0:10:34
We seek to live a life of humility and purity. We seek to enjoy our lives in a simple way, in a wholesome way, in a happy way, to do the things that are right for us, that bring us joy. This is a way for spiritual balance. Selfless giving and compassion are powerful tools for spiritual balance. to another, you are really transcending the self. You're going away from egotism because of care for another. And compassion is even more powerful because it is a deep awareness attention to solving that suffering. So these are very powerful ways to gain spiritual balance. Now, we find spiritual balance comes naturally in loving. It's not self-expectation loving. There's no return on investment in the love. It's got to be selfless. So we love people, we love what we do, we love life. And we seek to just love purely, because loving purely brings you into spiritual balance.

0:12:34
We avoid obsessing. So sometimes people want to make fast progress. effort, and they've got a one-year plan for enlightenment. So I'm going to do this, this, this, this, and this. I'm going to nail that meditation thing and get my enlightenment. Some people will obsess like that, and then you fall out of balance that way. You start off like this happens. Sometimes someone goes, you know what I'm going to do? I'm going to get in shape. I'm going to start exercising. I'm just going to become super strong and healthy and lose weight and everything. And then they exercise like crazy one day. The next day they're too sore to exercise again. That's imbalance. much as you can, as much as you can, without injuring yourself or making yourself sore that you can't exercise the following day. And this is also the yellow belt syndrome in martial arts. A beginner starts martial arts and is like, yeah, I'm totally going to do this. And then they come to every class kicking and punching. And then, after they get their yellow belt, they start to realize, this is pretty hard work. And I kind of get it. There's kata's and then there's punching and kicking.

0:14:14
And then they just kind of, they push really hard and then they just quit because they Enlightenment is a grand marathon, it's not a sprint. So we have to realize that so that we don't get out of balance. Sometimes we're just really, really, really doing our work, seeking balance and happiness, but never finding it. You're like, okay, I'm going to do this and this and this and this and this to be balanced. I'm going to do this, this, this, this, and this to be happy. And meanwhile, you find that you're really not balanced. You're really not happy. You have to stop being obsessed, and you have to see that your life is happy. Your life is balanced, even when it seems unbalanced. Even now, you can find spiritual balance. Otherwise it would be like someone working their whole lives putting every penny away for their retirement because they want to have a really good retirement.

0:15:22
But then they find that once they reach retirement age they get in a car accident and die. So their whole life they were saving up for that one day that they never got to. You can't put off spiritual balance. You have to find spiritual balance now. Now, spiritual balance brings happiness. Happiness in the face of good and bad. So no matter what's going on in your life, if you can find happiness in hardship, happiness in ease, that's spiritual balance. No obsessions, living in the heart, So, what we do in Buddhist mysticism is we create a purpose for life. What's the meaning of life? I'll tell you the meaning of life. The meaning of life is that there's no meaning.

0:16:42
Life has no meaning, it just is. However, you can create a meaning and then it has meaning. This is the magic, the mysticism of Buddhist mysticism. We say, okay, the purpose of life is to be happy. And then once you create a purpose, you create an outcome. That's the dharma and the karma of creating a purpose for life. So then what you start to focus on, you start to experience. So if you're looking in life. If your way of looking at life is, oh, life is a rat race, it's a dog-eat-dog world and you're gonna eat a dog or get eaten by a dog. So and that's what your reality will be. So when we create a purpose for life, then we start to experience the outcome of that purpose. As we seek to gain greater awareness of that purpose, then we find all evidence that that's the truth of life. Now, you can't find happiness in life if you expect everything to work out. So if you're trying to make everything happen your way, if you're trying to make everything go right, everything's got to be in order, then you're never going to find happiness, because things will go wrong. So you can't have the this and this and this have to be this way for me to be happy, to be spiritually balanced.

0:19:16
You have to be able to take all of those and experience them and be happy and find spiritual balance even in dealing with that. I mean, we try to do powerful, positive things with our lives. We want it to go right, but we have to accept and find balance when it doesn't go right. Money doesn't make you happy. Stuff doesn't make you happy. The perfect this, the perfect that, fame, fortune, all of these things, they don't create happiness. They are fine things. They're okay. Maybe they can be something that adds to happiness if you have the right way of looking at it.

0:20:29
However, they don't bring happiness just in themselves. So, we look beyond that. We find that happiness comes in a spiritual experience. When we go beyond the physical self, the self of limitation, and we experience eternity, then that's where we find satisfaction. That's where we are spiritually balanced and very happy. We find this experience in meditation. In Buddhist mysticism, our primary focus in meditation is light. We learn that there are causal dimensions, these luminous dimensions of intelligent light, wisdom and love that exist. And when we bring our attention to these dimensions in meditation, when we seek those dimensions, then our mind enters these illuminated states beyond the self with great, great transformation. And when we experience that, we're fulfilled.

0:22:07
We're balanced. We're back in our heart and our center. And we experience in those luminous dimensions, we experience bliss and ecstasy. And that's where we find fulfillment. Beyond meditation, we also have additional practices in Buddhist mysticism that condition our lives and direct our focus to the dimensions of practices like martial arts. When we do martial arts, we're not just doing martial arts like the karate school down the street. We're doing it more like the Shaolin monks. There was a structure created by Bodhidharma, and their practice of Kung Fu was also a spiritual practice. There was something in the martial arts itself that taught the spirit, not just the body. We also do this in developing our career. In the way that we approach career, in our practices of career development, especially computer software programming. We develop our mind. We develop our spirit. It's connected to these dimensions of life. Additionally, we will build businesses. We will develop businesses in a certain way with an emphasis on compassion. So we draw from these dimensions of life, of compassion.

0:24:05
So we have these practices, these ways that we work, when we're not just sitting in the meditation, but we're working through our lives, where we're accessing these dimensions of life. When you're seeking spiritual balance, it's good to find somebody who is a teacher, who is spiritually balanced. Someone who you can see in them that at a very, very deep level They are living in the heart. They are centered. They're happy. And this is what we're talking about at the deepest spiritual level. When you can sense that and see that in them, then that is someone who can teach you how to be spiritually balanced. A spiritual teacher will observe you and help you by pointing out your flaws, the places that you need to work on things.

0:25:26
And they'll give you exercises and practices and meditations and teachings that will help you to do that. So you might be standing there and say, oh, I'm pretty balanced. And the teacher will say, oh, no, no, I see all these places where you lack balance. So the teacher might tell you, look, let me show you. Stand on one leg. So if you stand on one leg, if you're balanced standing on two legs, that shows you something. But if you stand on one leg, then you'll start leaning a little bit to one side and then muscles that never, that you never used for standing start to work to push you back. They go the other way and then some other muscles that you really don't use very much start to start to operate. And little by little you start to become strong all the way around. And then you're able to be balanced. That's real balance.

0:26:28
So a teacher will point out what you need to do, how you need to change so that you grow in your spiritual balance. project, an esoteric teacher, projects the dimensions of light. In meditating with them and being with them, they exist in the dimensions of light. So, just being with them, you connect to the dimensions of light. So if you can't meditate very well, or do yoga very well, then just being in the presence of the teacher, or a student of the teacher, you don't even have to be in the presence of the teacher, you have to have a connection to the teacher, or be psychic, be open to the teacher, then you can see the dimensions of light in their mind, in their heart, and you can connect to it, and you feel it, and it brings you into spiritual balance. So spiritual balance comes from choosing to be happy despite whatever happens.

0:27:53
Most people say, well I'm going to be truly, deeply happy. And then we find spiritual comfort. Yeah, it's a decision you make. You don't just let the karmas of life blow you from left to right. You develop this gentle strength and a victorious spirit. And if stuff isn't fun, you make it fun. And that's the way that we do it. We decide that we're going to be happy, and we live our lives in a very bright spirit. We do this like Buddhists. And there's a great spiritual balance from walking this path. Thank you.

