## REFLECTION v01
---
family: F1
voice_mode: teacher
mechanism_emphasis: automatic

The depression I am describing is not the one that announces itself. It is not the one that makes it impossible to get out of bed, that produces visible crisis, that has a clear enough shape that the people around me would know to name it. What I am describing is the quiet kind. The kind that looks, from the outside, like fatigue. Like distraction. Like someone who is managing everything but is not quite herself.

I noticed it first in the way pleasure stopped returning. Things that had reliably produced a sense of satisfaction — finishing a project, time with close friends, the particular quality of a Sunday morning — began yielding a muted version of themselves. I could remember that these things had been good. I could identify that they were supposed to be good. But the felt experience of good was absent, replaced by a flatness that I kept attributing to busyness, to tiredness, to the particular stress of this period.

The mechanism I am examining is the one that converts depression into explanation. My nervous system, trained to attribute states to circumstances, kept finding reasons for the flatness. The fatigue explained it. The season explained it. The difficult year explained it. The explanations were plausible enough that the depression itself was never addressed, because by the time one explanation expired, another had arrived to replace it. The mechanism ran on explanations for years. The explanations were not wrong — I was tired, the year was difficult — but they were incomplete in a way that had consequences.

What I could not see from inside it was the way the depression was metabolizing the things that might have restored me. The exercise I stopped doing. The friendships I stopped tending. The creative work I kept deferring. The depression was eating the very resources that might have countered it, and the mechanism kept explaining away the consumption.
---
靜默抑鬱的代價是那些看似從外觀甚至內心都像正常生活的年歲。我上班，照顧家人，履行義務，生活繼續下去。但在我四十五歲左右的某個版本中，我並沒有完全活在其中，因為我在物理上存在，但在真正重要的層面上卻不在場。代價不僅僅是痛苦——那份空虛本身，那份缺乏真實樂趣的感受——還有在經歷痛苦時流逝的那些年月，在那期間我不曾全心投入。

抑鬱症還體現在從這種平靜中做出的決定上。它不會顯而易見地做出災難性的選擇。它會做出小而低能量的選擇——那個需要更少、要求更少、冒險更少的版本。它會選擇避免對話，延遲面對衝突，接受足夠而非爭取想要的。這些選擇累積起來。單獨看來並不像抑鬱症，但集體來說描繪了一個比可能的小一點的生活。

現在我最誠實地承認的是對我所愛的人造成的影響。那些年份中我的存在質量平淡無奇，即使孩子們沒有明確指出也感受到了。我的丈夫不知道他在應對什麼，適應了當時可以得到的那個縮小版本的我。我不缺席，但並未全心投入，這是一種當時我和他們都缺乏適當語言來表達的情況。
---
