## REFLECTION v01
---
family: F1
voice_mode: teacher
mechanism_emphasis: automatic

I have been the emotional center of this family for twenty years. Not by official designation. By a kind of gravitational arrangement that developed so gradually I cannot locate its beginning. When someone was struggling, they came to me. When there was conflict, I was the one who held it long enough to help everyone reach the other side. When my mother cried about getting old, she called me. When my daughter couldn't articulate what was wrong, she found her way to my kitchen at night. When my husband needed to process something from work, I was the container. I received all of this willingly. I am good at receiving. I am good at being present with difficulty without flinching.

The mechanism I am now examining is what happens to the container when nothing is being replenished. Compassion fatigue is not the absence of compassion. I still feel it. I still care about the people I love with an intensity that has not diminished. But the caring now activates something closer to dread than to the open, available quality I associate with actually being able to help. When the phone rings and I see my mother's name, there is a fraction of a second before I answer where my body knows the cost of the call. The knowing is automatic. It precedes the decision to answer, which I always make. It precedes the care I reliably provide. But it is there, and it was not there ten years ago.

What I understand now is that the capacity to be present for other people's suffering is a resource, not a character trait. It can be depleted. The depletion does not announce itself clearly. It masquerades as patience wearing thin, as the slight flatness of my empathic response, as the growing effort required to generate the quality of attention that used to arrive without effort. I did not know this was happening while it was happening. I thought the growing difficulty was something I was doing wrong. I did not consider that the difficulty might be the natural consequence of twenty years of uninterrupted service as the family's primary place of emotional arrival.
---
現在我感受最深的代價，是失去了一個曾經獨有的能力：與處於痛苦中的人保持真誠的同在。我想我是異常擅長這一點的。我可以坐在那裡，即使面對困難也不急著尋求解決方案。我可以承擔某人的悲傷，而不必希望它停止。我可以接納人們帶來的複雜、不適且令人不安的情感，讓他們在攜帶這些情感時感到不再孤單。這感覺像是一份禮物。我為此感到感激。然而，隨之而來的同情心疲勞，在沒有我的同意下到來了，讓這個能力從原本自然流露出來變成了需要努力才能做到。

我哀悼著這一點。不是以自憐的方式，而是如同哀悼任何真正的失去一樣。某個曾經是我生命意義來源的事物，某個構築了我的自我認同和存在目的的東西——它的可得性已經改變了。我仍然可以做這些工作。但我不再能像過去那樣去做，不再有那份輕鬆自如地到達每個人需求的新鮮感。現在每次到來都帶著前一次到來留下的顯而易見的負擔。

次要的代價是對這份代價感到內疚。對於那些將自我認同建立在關懷之上的人來說，同情心疲勞帶來了一種特殊的羞恥感。我是應該擅長這個的人。我的疲憊感覺像是一種背叛了我的身份。它讓我覺得我讓依靠我的人失望了。這種內疚是不合邏輯的——耗竭是真實存在的，解決方案不是更努力地去嘗試，而是補充能量——但這份內疚卻是徹底的。它沿著最初訓練所說的軌跡運行：我的價值被衡量為我對他人痛苦的可得性。
---
