## REFLECTION v01
---
family: F1
voice_mode: teacher
mechanism_emphasis: automatic

I want to name the mechanism of somatic suppression in high-performance environments, because understanding it changes the way the body's eventual communication can be received.

The executive context requires a specific relationship to the body's signals. When the body produces discomfort — tension, fatigue, pain, the somatic expression of unprocessed emotion — the professional context does not have a frame for that information. The board meeting does not accommodate the signal that the jaw is clenched and the chest is tight and the shoulders have been carrying something for three weeks. The body's communication is irrelevant to the agenda.

Over time, in a context that consistently cannot receive the body's communication, the person learns to suppress it. Not as a deliberate choice — as an adaptation. The suppression becomes automatic. The body sends a signal. The executive function overrides it. The work continues. This is a skill. In the short term, it is a functional one.

What I want to name clearly is what happens to the signal that is suppressed. It is not eliminated. It is stored. The nervous system does not discard information that is not processed in the moment. It holds it. The jaw tension that was overridden during the quarterly close is still in the tissue. The grief about the decision that had to be made is still in the chest. The anger that could not be expressed at the leadership meeting is still in the shoulders.

The body accumulates what the career does not allow it to process. This is the ledger that somatic work opens. And the ledger is often much larger than the person expected, because they have been suppressing and accumulating for years.

When somatic work begins, the body does not present the accumulated material in a linear sequence. It presents whatever is closest to the surface. Sometimes that is recent. Often it is older. Sometimes what comes up in the first session has nothing obvious to do with the presenting complaint about work stress.

I have come to understand that this non-linearity is not a problem. It is the body reporting in the order that it finds most necessary, not the order that the analytical mind would prefer.
---
我一直在思考，多年來靠著皮質醇和腎上腺素這種燃料維持高效率身體運作意味著什麼——以及當這股燃料開始減少時，身體會發生什麼變化。

皮質醇和腎上腺素的運行模式並非可持續的基線。這是應急燃料。身體在面對壓力時產生這些激素，因為它們確實能在短時間內增強表現。它能提高注意力集中度。加快處理速度。抑制通常會讓身體放慢下來的疲勞和疼痛信號。

在高壓的工作環境中，這種模式成為了默認選擇。每個重大挑戰都會激活系統。而在持續面對重大挑戰的環境下，系統也將不斷被激活。身體學會在此水平上運作。它適應了。這種升高的活躍狀態變得正常化。

代價寫在生物學中。當交感神經系統占主導地位時，沒有獲得足夠血液和資源的器官和系統——消化系統、免疫系統、生殖系統、修復與恢復系統——這些系統在此期間的功能會降低。短期內這是可以接受的。但經過數年後，這種情況會積累起來。

我見過這種積累最終顯現時的情況。在三十幾歲開始出現的消化問題，被歸咎於飲食而非壓力。反覆生病而被認為是暴露所致而非耗竭所致的免疫系統衰弱。頸部、肩膀和下背部的慢性疼痛模式，被認為是人體工學問題而非多年持續肌肉緊張所導致。

身體不會立即開出帳單。這份帳單會在一段時間後以一種通常不立即顯現為職業代價的形式出現。

我現在明白的是，在四、五十歲時開始進行身心工作往往是在整個職業生涯中積累的帳單遲來的開啟。身體準確地記下了這些帳目，只是需要一段時間讓個人擁有讀懂它的工具。
---
