## REFLECTION v01
---
family: F1
voice_mode: teacher
mechanism_emphasis: automatic

What I notice is that Sunday has a different quality from every other day of the week. Not the whole day. The morning is often fine. By mid-afternoon, something shifts. The body begins a process I would describe as loading — a quiet preparation that happens beneath whatever I am visibly doing. The list of what is unfinished begins to organize itself somewhere in the background. The week ahead begins to take shape not as a plan but as a weight. By evening, I am not quite present to Sunday. I am already partially in Monday.

The mechanism I am describing is anticipatory activation, and I have noticed that it does not respond to preparation. I can have the week fully planned. The lessons can be mapped, the materials copied, the emails answered. The mechanism activates anyway. What it is loading for is not the logistics. It is the sustained social and cognitive demand that cannot be prepared away. Thirty-two students in a room for six hours. Each of them requiring something. Each of them at a different developmental moment, a different emotional state, a different level of readiness for the material. The body knows what this costs. The body begins to brace on Sunday afternoon.

Sleep becomes complicated by this activation. I lie down and the mechanism is still running. The week's demands are inventoried in a way that resembles planning but does not produce plans. It produces a kind of circling — not the productive problem-solving loop but the anxious rumination loop, which returns to the same concerns without making progress on them. The distinction between these two loops is something I have had to learn to identify from inside them, which is not easy.

What I have come to understand is that the Sunday night pattern is not about discipline or preparation or the right bedtime routine. It is about a nervous system that has learned that Monday carries genuine demand, and that the cost of that demand is real, and that the cost accrues whether the system has rested adequately or not. The mechanism is trying to prepare. What it cannot understand is that preparation in this form is not rest, and the week will arrive regardless, and what I actually need for the week is the rest I am not getting because the mechanism will not stop preparing.
---
我想要指出的成本是從內部最難看到的那一種：以睡眠為單位衡量的教學年份。並非戲劇性的失眠，而是那些在面對困難家長會議前的一夜、在州級評估前的一夜、當個別化教育計劃會議出問題時的一夜、以及整個學期裡的每個星期日晚上，還有在學期中工作量最大而儲備最少的時候。單獨看，這些成本是可以管理的。但加起來，在職業生涯中，它們代表了我生物修復時間中有很大一部分是在激活狀態而非恢復狀態度過的。

這個機制並非與專業身份分開存在；它是專業身份在睡眠中的延續。我非常重視我的工作，也非常重視我的學生。導致睡眠紊亂的機制就是讓我成為一名堅定教師的那一個。它不知道如何下班。它已經學會了，這些風險是真實存在的，錯過任何事情後果也是嚴重的，而與每一批學生相處的時間又是有限的。這一切都是準確的信息。只是這個機制尚未被告知——或者還沒有相信——這些信息的準確性並不需要在睡眠中處理。

我最能感受到的是「休息充分教學」的缺失。有一個版本的我可以和三十二名學生在一起，並且真正感到充滿活力。能夠應對複雜課堂中的困難，當理解突然開闢時，會有類似興奮的感受。這個版本存在過，我也曾是她。然而，在睡眠不足的情況下，我仍然可以教同樣的課程，管理同樣的教室，並在大多數指標上取得相似的成果。但有些東西不見了。真正的學生接觸發生在一個空間裡——能夠全然地活在此刻而非從遠處管理的能力——這種空間感是疲憊最先關閉的部分。

學生體驗到的是老師的存在。他們不會直接感受到我的睡眠不足。他們可能體驗到的，是那個完全在場的老師缺席了，那個可以與他們的能量相應並提升它們的老師，而不是那個僅僅撐過下午的老師。
---
