## INTEGRATION v01
---
integration_mode: physical_interrupt
reframe_type: loop_to_exit_ramp
integration_mode: capture_and_close
reframe_type: rumination_to_extraction
integration_mode: text_release_practice
reframe_type: perfection_to_completion
integration_mode: sensory_reentry
reframe_type: abstraction_to_presence
integration_mode: schedule_the_worry
reframe_type: ambient_to_contained
integration_mode: outcome_tracking
reframe_type: catastrophe_to_data
---
The overthinking loop lives in your head. The exit lives in your body. When the replay starts — the conversation, the text, the thing you said — move something physical within five seconds. Stand up from the desk. Press your palms flat on the table and push. Walk to the sink and run cold water over your hands for thirty seconds. The temperature shock redirects blood flow. Your brain shifts attention to the sensation. The loop stutters.

This is not distraction. This is neurological redirection. Your prefrontal cortex cannot sustain two demanding tasks simultaneously. The cold water commands sensory attention. The replay loses its grip. Your hands register temperature. Your mind registers the present.

Practice the interrupt three times today. Each time the replay fires, choose one physical action: cold water, ten jumping jacks, squeezing an ice cube, walking one lap around the library floor. Your body catalogs the exits. Within a week, the first hint of a loop triggers the physical response automatically. Your legs stand before your brain decides to replay.

Track which interrupts work best. Cold water at the dorm sink. A walk between library shelves. Squeezing your own hand hard for five seconds then releasing. Your body prefers certain exits. Honor the preference. The best interrupt is the one your muscles choose without debate. Speed matters more than style. Five seconds from loop onset to physical action. The gap closes with practice.

Overthinking pretends to process. Real processing has an endpoint. Tonight, give the replay a container. Open your notes app. Set a timer for ten minutes. Write every thought from the event that loops: what you said, what they said, what you wish you said. Unfiltered. Unedited. Your fingers move faster than your inner critic.

When the timer rings, stop. Read the list once. Circle one item that contains a genuine action step. "Follow up with email." "Study chapter 6 harder." "Ask the professor to clarify." One action. Transfer it to your task list. Delete the rest. The useful fragment survived. The noise died.

Your brain resists deleting the notes. It insists the other details matter. They do not. The seventeen replays already proved that no new information emerges after the first two minutes. The remaining eight minutes of writing drained the excess. The deletion signals completion. Your chest releases.

Do this after every event that triggers the loop. Study group: ten-minute capture. Career fair: ten-minute capture. Difficult conversation: ten-minute capture. Your brain learns that the review has a scheduled container. It stops running the replay at midnight because it trusts the ten-minute session handled it. The system builds trust. The midnight loops dissolve within two weeks.

Tomorrow, send one text without rereading it. Type the message. Hit send. Place the phone face down. Your thumb trembles. Your stomach drops. The urge to check screams. Sit with it for two minutes. Time it. The urge peaks at thirty seconds and fades by ninety. Your body survived sending an unpolished message. The world continued.

Build the tolerance gradually. Day one: one unreviewed text to a close friend. Day three: one unreviewed text to a classmate. Day five: one unreviewed email to a professor. Each level raises the stakes. Each completion proves your words survive without seventeen rounds of editing. Your throat loosens with each send.

Track the outcomes. Did the friend respond normally. Did the classmate misunderstand. Did the professor reply with anger. The answers arrive: normal, no, no. Your evidence file grows. Unreviewed messages produce the same outcomes as agonized-over messages. The extra hours of editing change nothing except your cortisol levels.

By the end of two weeks, the send button loses its charge. Your thumb presses it without the preceding freeze. Your jaw stays loose. The phone goes face down without a fight. You reclaim hours previously spent editing, deleting, retyping, and staring. Those hours now hold meals eaten warm, walks taken outside, conversations had in person. The real world fills the space the replay occupied.

When the overthinking trance takes you — eyes unfocused, food cold, bus stops missed — use the five-four-three-two-one method anchored to your campus environment. Name five things you see: the bus window, a backpack, the floor grip pattern, a water bottle, the driver's mirror. Four things you touch: the seat fabric, your jacket zipper, the metal pole, your own thumb pressing your index finger.

Three things you hear: the engine hum, a conversation behind you, the door chime. Two things you smell: recycled air, your own shampoo. One thing you taste: the coffee still on your tongue. Your senses fire in sequence. Each activation pulls neural resources away from the replay loop. By the fifth sense, your eyes refocus. The bus exists again. Your body arrived.

Practice this during meals. Name the food's color before you eat it. Feel the fork's weight. Hear the dining hall noise as individual sounds, not a blur. Taste the first bite deliberately. Your jaw chews instead of clenches. Your hands hold utensils instead of gripping your phone. The meal becomes an anchor point.

This week, use the sensory reentry once per day during a non-crisis moment. Practice when the stakes are low — waiting for class to start, sitting on a bench, riding the elevator. Your brain builds the pathway during calm so it remembers the route during chaos. By the time the next overthinking trance arrives, your body already knows the exit. Five things you see. Your eyes refocus. You return.

Your overthinking spreads across the entire day like a gas filling a room. It has no container. Every hour holds a potential replay. Today, you build a container: worry time. Fifteen minutes. Same time each day. The dining hall at 5 PM. A library bench at 4 PM. A specific chair in your apartment.

During worry time, ruminate deliberately. Pull up every concern. The text. The grade. The career fair. The thing you said. Let the replay run at full volume. Your jaw clenches. Your stomach tightens. That is allowed. For fifteen minutes, the overthinking has full permission to operate. The container holds it.

When the timer rings, stand up. Walk away from the chair. The session ends. If a replay starts outside the scheduled time, note it briefly on your phone: "Career fair replay — save for 5 PM." Your brain receives the note. It files the concern for later. Your chest releases because the concern was not ignored. It was deferred to its scheduled slot.

Within one week, the ambient overthinking compresses into the fifteen-minute window. Your brain trusts the schedule. The replay attempts outside the window weaken. Your body loosens during the twenty-three hours and forty-five minutes that are not worry time. The gas has a jar. The room clears. Your shoulders drop between meals. Your food stays warm. Your bus stops register. The containment holds.

Your overthinking predicts disaster. The text offended them. The essay failed. The career fair burned every connection. These predictions feel like certainty in your chest. They squeeze your ribs and dry your throat. Today, you start testing them.

Open a note titled "Predictions vs. Reality." Draw two columns. When the overthinking generates a prediction — "They are angry about my text" — write it in the left column. Include the date. Include the body sensation: "Tight chest, 7/10 intensity."

Wait forty-eight hours. Check the outcome. They replied with a normal message. Write it in the right column: "Normal reply. Chest tension was 7/10 for a non-event." The prediction failed. Mark it wrong. Your eyes see the mismatch between the alarm and the outcome. Your nervous system registers the overreaction.

Repeat for two weeks. Every overthinking prediction gets logged and checked. By day fourteen, the left column holds ten to fifteen catastrophic predictions. The right column holds ten to fifteen mundane outcomes. Your brain predicted disaster fourteen times. Reality delivered normalcy fourteen times. The record stands: zero for fourteen.

Read the full log on the fourteenth night. Your eyes scan the pattern. The body sensations — tight chest, locked jaw, clenched fists — responded to fiction every single time. Your nervous system overspent its budget on threats that never materialized. The evidence rewires the default. The next prediction still arrives. But your chest responds at a four instead of a seven. The record speaks louder than the alarm.
---
