## REFLECTION v01
---
family: F1
voice_mode: teacher
mechanism_emphasis: automatic

The depression I am describing is not the one that announces itself. It is not the one that makes it impossible to get out of bed, that produces visible crisis, that has a clear enough shape that the people around me would know to name it. What I am describing is the quiet kind. The kind that looks, from the outside, like fatigue. Like distraction. Like someone who is managing everything but is not quite herself.

I noticed it first in the way pleasure stopped returning. Things that had reliably produced a sense of satisfaction — finishing a project, time with close friends, the particular quality of a Sunday morning — began yielding a muted version of themselves. I could remember that these things had been good. I could identify that they were supposed to be good. But the felt experience of good was absent, replaced by a flatness that I kept attributing to busyness, to tiredness, to the particular stress of this period.

The mechanism I am examining is the one that converts depression into explanation. My nervous system, trained to attribute states to circumstances, kept finding reasons for the flatness. The fatigue explained it. The season explained it. The difficult year explained it. The explanations were plausible enough that the depression itself was never addressed, because by the time one explanation expired, another had arrived to replace it. The mechanism ran on explanations for years. The explanations were not wrong — I was tired, the year was difficult — but they were incomplete in a way that had consequences.

What I could not see from inside it was the way the depression was metabolizing the things that might have restored me. The exercise I stopped doing. The friendships I stopped tending. The creative work I kept deferring. The depression was eating the very resources that might have countered it, and the mechanism kept explaining away the consumption.
---
静かな鬱の代償は、外から見ると、時には内側から見ても、完璧に機能している人生のように見えてしまう年月です。私は仕事をしました。家族のために現れました。義務を果たしました。しかし、私の四十年代後半には、私が完全に住み込んだわけではない部分がありました。体感的にはそこにいましたが、重要な意味では別の場所にいたのです。代償はただの苦しみだけでなく、その苦しみが続く間、実際にそこにはいなかった年月も含まれています。

また、フラットな状態の中で行われた選択にも代償があります。鬱は明らかに破滅的な選択をしません。それは小さな、エネルギーの低い選択を行います——必要なものが少なく、求めるものも少ない、リスクが少ないものです。それは会話を避ける選択、対立を先延ばしにする選択、望ましいものを求めずに適当なもので済ませる選択です。これらの選択は積み重なります。個々には鬱とは見えないかもしれませんが、全体としては可能だったよりも少し小さな人生を描きます。

そして今最も正直に感じる代償は、愛する人々への影響です。その年月の私のフラットな存在感は、子どもたちが言葉で表現できなくても感じていたものでした。私が何と闘っているのか知らなかった夫は、手元にある縮小した私を受け入れざるを得ませんでした。私は不在ではありませんでしたが、当時、私たちには適切な言葉もなく、完全にそこにいられていなかったのです。
---
