## REFLECTION v01
---
family: F2
voice_mode: mirror
mechanism_emphasis: cost

What I find genuinely difficult to explain to people is the specific nature of the irony. I experience social anxiety. I teach. I stand in front of a room of thirty-two people for six hours a day. From outside, these two facts do not appear compatible. The assumption is that people who are anxious in social situations do not choose professions that require constant social performance. The assumption is wrong, or at least it is wrong about me, and I suspect wrong about more teachers than people realize.

The mechanism that makes teaching possible despite the anxiety is a particular form of role-based safety. When I am in the classroom, I am the teacher. The role provides a structure that organizes the interaction. I know what is expected of me. I know my part. The students know their parts. The relationship is defined before it begins. This is different from the unstructured social situations that are hardest — the party where I do not know anyone, the group dinner where the conversation might go anywhere. The classroom is not unstructured. It is the most structured social environment I inhabit.

The cost of this arrangement is that I have spent years developing a version of professional confidence that does not fully transfer outside the classroom. Inside the room I am capable, present, even magnetic on good days. Outside it, in the staff lounge, at back-to-school night, at the department social event, the mechanism activates with its full intensity. The role is gone. The structure is gone. I am just a person among people and I do not have a lesson plan.

Back-to-school night is perhaps the most concentrated version of this. I am standing in my classroom, which should be safe. But the people in the seats are not students. They are adults, most of them older than me when I started, some of them more professionally accomplished, all of them evaluating whether I am good enough for their children. The room is the same. The configuration is the same. The mechanism responds to the shift in audience with an intensity that surprises me every year. I had forgotten, over the summer, how acute this is. Then September arrives and it is exactly as acute as it was before.
---
我注意到的是在教學時被觀察的特殊體驗。不是正式評估，而是非正式的觀察。門口有家長探頭張望。管理人員匆匆經過。大學實習老師在一旁做筆記。這種機制在我心中啟動的方式與普通的課堂焦慮不同。此時此刻，我突然同時佔據了兩個位置：一個是對學生在場的教師，另一個是知道自己正在被評估的表演者。

這兩種身份之間的碰撞就是焦慮存在的地方。真正的教學需要一種無自我意識的狀態。它要求我們更關注教室內發生的事情，而不是自己在外人眼中的形象。社交焦慮則會把注意力從當下的互動拉開，轉而進入一個監控循環，不斷追蹤我被他人如何看待。這兩種態度是相互排斥的，當機制在觀察時啟動，結果就是一種技術上足夠但失去了真實性的教學。

學生們在這些時刻的感受——我不確定。他們可能沒有注意到。或者他們可能會注意到我的語氣變得稍微正式一些，表現得更加表演化，不太願意跟隨那些本來可能是有意義的線索，因為它們更難向一個缺乏上下文理解的觀察者解釋清楚。我做得最好的教學通常不會被觀看。而被觀看的教學則會受到這種意識的影響，在大多數情況下並沒有得到改善。

產生這種現象的機制不是出於自戀。這不是主要為了想看起來很好。這是社交焦慮機制在面對評估聽眾時進行標準威脅評估，並產生其標準結果：自我監控增強、部分撤離當下的瞬間、將認知資源從發生的事情轉移到如何被他人看待上。這種機制無法區分家長對教室的好奇與對我職業地位的真正威脅，它們會以同樣的方式作出反應。
---
