0:00:00
I was just downstairs where they have the large ballroom and there's a big law firm, forgot their name, just a bunch of last names. And they're having their Christmas party. And, you know, got a live band and plenty of drinks and everyone's having a great time. But then I come back here and I look at you guys and I see a lot of brightness. You know, that's the key to enlightenment.

0:01:05
It's brightness.

0:01:06
There's a whole lot of light in enlightenment. It is the light of being, the essential light of life. And it's something that we experience in meditation. It's something we experience in reflection, in all of the We experience this great light, it's a transcendental light, and that light illuminates our mind. We can see who we are, we can see what's what, and we can deal with life because we can see what's going on. You know, in the dark there could be a rope in front of you that you think is a snake and it keeps you paralyzed because you don't want to take a step forward, it might bite you. But when there is light you can see that there's a rope and then you can coil that rope, take it with you and make a swing out of it. But there's a tremendous amount of light. The experience of enlightenment is an experience of brilliant light, when your awareness, your spirit is connecting with, in union with, the golden state. Nirvana meaning life and death and Nir meaning the end of it. The end of it all. At the essence of being, beyond good and bad, beyond all of the ten thousand states of mind, and beyond all aspects of life, if you examine your mind through meditation, if you examine anything, if you examine truthfully, actually, without concept, without mental modification, you come to see that life is luminous and then it is a golden luminosity. It exists in me, it exists in you, it exists everywhere. There is nowhere that it doesn't exist. All of these things, all of these worlds are one in this life. But at the same time, here on the surface of life, we see physical things, we see differences. We have good days, bad days. But the spiritual practice is to focus on that which unites us. That that golden light that is within yin and yang. That is within your good times and your difficult times. They're not bad. They're not things that you should run run from. In the spiritual practice, we learn to face difficulty and we learn to see the divinity within that which is opposition. We learn to see that the difficult things in our lives are an aspect of our own mind and within those things that we call difficult, those hardships, there is that golden light. And that golden light, when we don't separate ourselves from it, when we don't push it away because we're running from it, or fighting with it, or defending against it, when we acknowledge and see in peace what life is, what opposition is, what difficulty is, is. We come to acknowledge even those hard things as our pathway to enlightenment, as the essential aspect of our spirit. And we embrace that and we know life more deeply and we experience a stronger awareness of life and being able to accept the difficulty. And this golden state that I talked about, nirvana, enlightenment, this is something that is really the goal of Buddhism. Golden State, to always be in that perfect awareness of eternity, the essence of life, even though you're in the physical world. My teacher used to say that true wisdom is being in two places at once. So while we're sitting here in this room, in the morning, you have your life, your struggles, your difficulties, everything. At the same time, that golden state of enlightenment exists and is real and is timeless. When you center your life in the awareness of the timeless golden state, then the crazy, hectic, difficult, depressing and frustrating things of the surface of your life come into balance. There's a balance between the outside world, your life, and your spiritual life. There's a balance. There's not one or the other. They both exist. And what we seek in Buddhism is to come into balance. That means that we are intelligent and strong in our physical lives, in our financial lives, we're successful. We focus on that success. At the same time, we focus on meditation, stopping thought, becoming aware of subtle physical. So we seek, both in the physical world and in the spiritual success and we see the balance. The reason why is a lot of people get confused about spirituality. They get frustrated with their physical world, with the difficulties they face in life, so they want to run away and they want to jump into the spiritual world and focus on that because it's kind of an alternative thing. However, that will just make their physical world suffer. If they focus on too much spiritual stuff, then they will not be able to be successful in having a strong career, which in the end makes their life difficult, makes their whole complete life difficult. A strong aspect of this study is what the Buddha taught about right job, so right occupation. And that was a very important aspect of his teachings for enlightenment, but they're very often overlooked in the West. People don't care about right occupation. I mean, they think about it sort of conceptually, ponder it, but they don't live it. In the West, in Buddhism in the West, it's very important it is probably one of the defining factors that gives you spiritual balance. It's very difficult to practice meditation in the West if you don't have a strong career. And by strong career, I mean that you make enough money to support your practice so that you don't have to be stressed out all the time about finances. Financial stress is extremely draining and it really prevents you from having the ability to succeed on the spiritual path. It really does. I had mentioned before, one of the greatest stresses in a marriage is financial stresses. So these two people who get married love each other completely, will find that money starts to pull them apart, starts to make them get angry at each other. It's also the leading factor for divorce. So, when you think about it in terms of money's effect on marriages, where two people completely love each other, think about, consider how powerful finance is. So it's very important when you're, if you're taking the spiritual path seriously, that you make your career strong. Because if you don't, you won't be meditating. That's basically it. The pressures of our culture are so strong, it won't happen. There are subtle physical, energetic, and psychic conditions that are against you, unless you make your career strong. So that's a very important focus in this study. And everybody in the study always succeeds tremendously in their career. I myself, when I started, I was really into martial arts. I wanted to be a martial arts teacher. And I had an aversion to money because I grew up very poor and I never thought I could make money. And so I didn't really want to, but my teacher told me, you know, what I'm telling you now, that it's very important. So I tried. I worked on it. Ferrari and a Mercedes later, you know, it worked out. And after I succeeded in it, I was able to see what my teacher was talking about. And also watching other students who didn't succeed, who didn't take the lesson to heart, and seeing what happened to them. You know, what happened not only to their finances, but to their meditation. What my teacher told me was true when I'm telling you is true. So a very important part of succeeding on the spiritual path in the West is having a strong career. This has got everything to do with your financial life, with you going out there doing the right job and succeeding. Now, to a lot of spiritual people, people who are interested in spirituality, it's not very interesting. It seems so worldly. But it's the key factor in this incarnation, in this culture, that brings your physical life into balance with your spiritual life. And if you don't hit that balance, if you don't work intelligently and efficiently to create that balance, then your meditation practice will not flourish. It's a bummer, but it's true. So, light is our focus in meditation, the transcendental light. Your career is something that you can push forward with your willpower that comes from meditation on the navel, but also with just applying your mind, thinking about it, thinking about it in an effective way to push yourself forward. Every student of mine, every student of my teachers who succeeded on the spiritual path became very successful in their career. that's because it's a developmental study. This study is something that you can see working over time. I say look at your life month by month in the beginning. Time and time and time again, with these beginning practices and also with the advanced practices, it leads to a very powerful, enlightening condition of being. Now, as you work on your physical life, you also meditate. It's very important to establish a meditation practice. Twice a day is best, but if you're not doing it twice a day, at least do it once a day. But try and do meditation every day. That's what will make your meditation practice strong and powerful. Now, when you meditate, you will always come into a stronger, brighter condition, a greater condition of this light, this inner light. And this light is the spiritual light, the spiritual experience. We always focus on this light. We focus on our chakra, but we have an experience of light. We're open to the awarenesses of light. The light is the light of the causal dimensions, right? There's certain types of experiences of life, certain states of mind that are very high, very bright, very enlightening, and really on the shores of nirvana. So we focus on light. The music that we listen to is music that comes from these dimensions of light. So, you know, the music is kind of weird, you know, or whatever, to meditate to music for the first time or the first few times. It could be a little distracting or, you know, a little weird. But it's music that is created by Buddhist monks from my school, and they created this music as yoga, as their spiritual practice, where they meditated very, very hard to connect to these very high dimensions and to make music that has the spirit of those dimensions. And so, when we listen to this music, it's really coming from a very, very high place. So, what you focus on, you will become. In meditation, when you focus on this bright music that connects to, in spirit, to these beautiful dimensions of light, you're able to really connect. You walk through that door by listening to the music and focusing on the chakra, and it hits dimensions that are very constructive in your enlightenment process. light, if I could generalize it that much. There are two types. The first type is a white light. And the white light, when you experience Savakopa Samadhi, you go beyond yourself and you completely merge your mind with all of being and you are aware of all of being. You're aware of infinity. You still have a self. It's just a whole self. It's no longer a partial view. It's a complete view of you as the universe, you as everything, nothing excluded, in perfect balance. That's salvacopa, God-realization. Now, if you get so good at meditation that you can go into salvacopa, if you master that, then that's pretty much enlightened. That's pretty much being enlightened. is such a powerful experience to go into Salva Copa. When you go into Salva Copa, you completely let go of yourself. It's like putting an ice cube in a glass of warm water. You're the ice cube, a fixed mind, right? A hard, you know, a hard surface. It's got its, you know, its kinks and it's got its crystallization inside. But eventually, the mind in a warm glass of water, like an ice cube, will melt. And it'll go, not away, but it will join with all of the water in the glass. And then the mind is not in a fixed condition, it is connected with all in the glass. So it's everything in the glass of water. And that the experience of your mind losing its form, its description of the world, its model of life, your sense of I as an individual, when you let go of that and you embrace all of life, the whole glass of water, it's very beautiful, very profound. And when you have this glimpse of eternity, never the same. It changes you forever. So even one experience is tremendously powerful. It was a Kabir who had a moment of God-realization. He worked at serving life and truth because he had that to be that. But at the same time, it's better if you can do that every time you meditate, then it goes higher and brighter. You get to integrate that experience into your life in a more profound way. So it's definitely possible to experience this Salvacopa Samadhi. It's definitely possible. You can experience it tonight in our next meditation. It's possible. But there's another type of samadhi, and that's Nirvikalpa samadhi. And that is the samadhi which leads to the golden state, which is enlightenment. It goes beyond God-realization. It goes beyond a sense of awareness of everything. It's impossible to describe what it is, but it is something that brings you into a tremendous and beautiful view of existence and non-existence. That is what the Buddha had attained, the Nirvikalpa. There have been basically enlightened people who have attained experiences of salvakulpa, the white light. And the white light is an experience. You have it, then it goes away. You have it, then it goes away when you come back into this physical world. See, the difference with nirvikalpa is when you have nirvikalpa, then you don't come back to this world. Your karmas go away. At that point, you're that's a true liberation. And it's something that changes your being forever. You can have Nirvikalpa and the self is gone. The self is a whole description of the world. It's whole set of karmas. And in salvakalpa samadhi, the white lights, you can go and let go of them for a while and you feel bliss, but then you come back. Those karmas are looser. You can change more. You have more power. You have more knowledge. So you're more flexible with those karmas. But when you go into nirvakalpa, then those karmas don't even come back. They just come back to the world with nothing. That's complete freedom. And that's the gold instinct. That's the gold light. So when you see the gold light, you're seeing the light of enlightenment. The white light ain't bad either. I remember when I started going into Salva Copa, like, very often. I was very happy with it. In fact, I was pretty satisfied with life at that time. But I always remembered that I could sit down and meditate and go into the white light. And I was always pretty happy about that. Until I met a gal in my Her name's Kundalini. And Kundalini was enlightened. And she said, oh, yeah, yeah, Salva Copa's all right. And I said, oh, there's something more than that? Of course I knew, because my teacher had taught me. But I had just become satisfied with a certain level of experience. And then she reminded me to go further. So when you meditate with me, you can see the gold light. I go into nirvana. I let go of any description of the world and I go beyond the white light into light, the golden state, into the very essence and nature of being. And when I do that, it's so powerful and so bright that my mind is so luminous and my energy body becomes filled with the light. And I actually fill the room. I fill the minds that are focusing with me, with this light. So it gives you an opportunity to have an experience of enlightenment, to meditate with me. And then you can say, wow, that was pretty nice. Now, from your point of view, it's not an indigenous experience where you go into nirvana, which would be the most enlightening, but you get a view of enlightenment by meditating with me. You can follow me in as far as you can go. So it's very often that, even on someone's first meditation have very, very high spiritual experience. There are lower samadhis. I talked about the God-realization, Salvacopa, and complete liberation, Nirvikalpa, because they're the real significant ones in terms of a person's awareness and suffering. But there are three lower samadhis that are very beautiful, amazing, powerful experiences of light. In India and Tibet, they used to say, just sitting with an enlightened teacher and experiencing these dimensions of light is so powerful that you gain a light body, or you go into nirvana. And it's true. You do. Profile in your past life training matters. But I've had many students who've had their first meditation with me go into the lower samadhis. And these are experiences of tremendous light, very directly. So I don't only do this when we're meditating, I do this right now. One of my little secrets is I go into nirvana and I talk. And, you know, so, you know, while I'm engaging you with words, I'm also teaching you in the unseen world, in the second attention, in the world of spirit, where no words make any sense. mind with my connection with the essence of being. I'm teaching you, teaching you how to get there yourself. So I can help lift you up, I can open the door so that you can have the experience of light. But then what you do is you go home and in between the times that I see you, you meditate and you try to come back to this feeling, to this in the second attention, this light. And when you come back to it, you'll have experiences of light that are just profound and enlightening and beautiful. you know, then you'll see your being getting higher and happier and stronger. Yeah, Buddhism has results. We focus in results in the physical as well as in the spiritual, because then that way you can observe that with your, you thinking mind. You can see, yeah, I have proof in my physical life. But you have to apply your mind to your physical life as well. But there is a light, an inner light that you're all experiencing right now. And this light is a light that you can work on, you can reconnect to in your meditation over the next month. You can develop a greater and greater connection with this light so that next month when you see me, it's even brighter. It's even brighter. You can follow me into this golden state to a greater degree. And that is very, very, very powerful. So, we're going to meditate for three songs, yourself, to experience this life. Now, on the third song, on the third eye, I'd like you to open your eyes and look towards me. I'd like you to look this way. Just keep your eyes open and look up here.

0:34:22
Okay.

0:34:46
Excellent. Things that you've been wondering, you can ask. Or if you had an observation or an experience during our meditation, it would be good to share it with everybody. Funny thing happens when you experience it, sometimes you see something and then you just don't recognize it until someone says, I saw this. And you say, yeah, I just saw It'll be a pattern you see after a while. So if anybody had a very clear seeing, then it's beneficial for everyone if you share it. Or if you have questions that you'd like me to answer. Yes.

0:36:20
Just observation. The third eye medication, the room was vibrating really fast with gold light. It's kind of disappears, it just becomes a golden silhouette bouncing

0:36:57
through the energy. Who read Diving into Enlightenment? A few of you, okay. We just submitted it to the publisher so it should be out soon. There's the chapter of being the ocean where Sam, the scuba diving Buddhist monk, disappears underwater. I think everything in that book is real. Anyone else? I experienced like a fluidity of the room during the third eye, just the flow of everything within everything. Fluidity.

0:37:44
Nice.

0:37:45
Nice. It was an experience I had as well.

0:37:48
head. Because I did feel that bombardment of information and the times when I just remembered to trust you and to let go and to follow you, that was when I was able to see the physical world. That's why, you know, it's kind of important to the ability to just put yourself aside and you get to have an experience. And Sean? With the way to be going to the really high states of samadhi just to be practiced more? Because I can see a lot of light when I meditate, but I don't see it all day, every day, all the time. Yeah. In time, you will. It's good if you see light in your meditation. As I said, the lower samadhis start when your meditations are filled with light. You sit there and say, okay, I'm going to meditate, and then all of a sudden there's a lot less light, but you'll still have thoughts. But the self becomes distant in the light. So that's very good. know it's like that in any system of spirituality. The spiritual light, the inner light, will come and it will bring somebody into that timeless state. So in Zen, they don't talk about energy. They don't talk about the Kundalini. They do talk about the navel chakra. That's the primary focus besides posture and breathing. But they don't talk about anything else. They just say sit up straight, you know, fold your legs a lot and focus on the dan tian. And then what happens if you observe, I know a Zen master, the light goes up, the kundalini rises. So the same thing happens, it's just that you address it one way or another. We find it useful in Buddhist mysticism to focus on these observances. It gives us a more broad description of the world. It opens your awareness to energy, to that essential point of life energy. And then when you have an awareness of it, you can use that information, the awareness of it, to increase your spiritual progress. So the fact that you see the light is good. It's a very, very, very good thing to see the light. I've had students who didn't see the light at all for many years. They were, you know, psychically blocked. If you weren't, if you're not psychically blocked, it's obvious, but in this day and age, it's easy to be psychically blocked. So I've had students who were, you know, blocked for a while and then eventually, you know, their minds cleared and they were able to see the light very easily. So it takes, you know, it takes time for some people. Some people see it right

0:41:51
away, but all the hair on my body from the top of my head felt like it was shining.

0:42:12
Some chakra. That's when the gold light comes out. It's necessary for me to raise it all the way to the top, to the crown chakra, and that's when samadhi happens. But that experience of so much spiritual energy is something that you can feel in your body. It actually stimulates your sushumna. It stimulates your kundalini so that the energy rises in you. So since I'm able to raise it so strongly, this is something that you also experience. And there's all sorts of different ways that you become aware of it. You feel it in all sorts of subtle ways. As you meditate, you gain different subtle awarenesses. Sometimes you'll feel a vibrating energy all around your skin. Sometimes your hair stands on end. Goosebumps. For the people sitting closest, there's a little, we call it, Kundalini burn. It's a very strong energy and you know it actually you can feel it you'd end up feeling it on your cheeks and forehead. Yeah. It's weird but it's true. Yes. Excellent! That's great. That's wonderful. I've had a very similar experience. Yeah, that's really fantastic. You know, when I first met my teacher, I would sit there, you know, and he'd meditate, and I'd be like, something's going on, I'm thinking, but well, something looks weird when I watch this guy. And I had a very similar experience when I just had this awareness of being not in a room and in some place where there was light everywhere. So that's being in two places at once. It's very good. Very good. I like that one. All right. Any pressing questions?

0:44:52
What if you see other people's light?

0:44:56
You see other people's light? Yeah, well, when you're sitting in the back of the room, you'll see everyone's heads glowing. It's true, yeah. That's because the light expands out and the light fills all of your auras. So when you look at any one of you look at each other after this evening, you'll say, wow, you're bright and shiny. Yeah, so I've had similar experiences as well. Sitting in the back of the room and I just see this, like everybody in the audience, all this light floating above their heads. So that's cool. Yeah, actually, you know, when I do this the whole... Are the lower somati states that you talked about associated with other colors besides gold and white? Sometimes there's a blue, sometimes there's a purple, and sometimes there's a green. So yeah, sometimes you'll see those colors and they're okay. In Taoism they really like the purple. They thought it was really pretty. And then in the Tibetan mantra they talk about this thing called the rainbow here, and that's like supposed to be above enlightenment. Yeah, but sometimes you'll definitely see some colors, like especially blues and purples. Chakras have colors, they just have a... each chakra has its own kind of color, and as the Kundalini moves up, you'll see sometimes a little bit of blue, purple, sometimes a little green. Yeah. In fact, you'll have all sorts of weird experiences. You'll see lots of stuff. You'll start to, you know, your subtle awarenesses will open and you'll have different experiences, different sensations. And, you know, as long as they're all valid. You don't want to make stuff up. You want to be open to what's happening, but you don't want to make stuff up. Because if it's not true, then it doesn't really add to your progress. But if you have a seeing that is true, then that's good. You become more aware of some energy, more aware of some light. And that helps you. It helps you to understand, to make that connection between the physical world and the spiritual world. That's good. All right. Anybody else? Excellent. all got it. Very nice. Yes, so you've all done really well tonight. I realize it's difficult to meditate. These sessions together are kind of like a workout. You have to meditate really hard and when you come in here, you're being exposed to a lot of Kundalini energy and a lot of the Raja Kriya Yoga techniques that I do that are techniques that aid a student. And these They get the energy in your chakras working properly. They connect you with the right dimensions so that you can go home and practice and get to the next level in your meditation. And they also bring you to a stronger condition in life so that you can focus on your physical lives, your professional lives and your lives as a student in a strong way. It's good to see some new faces and it's good to see some old faces or some faces from last time. The ones who didn't get taken out by the turkey. Last time we had our meditation So leftovers. It's either a meditation class or leftovers. You know, you've got to make choices sometimes. Yeah, but you all did very well. our selfless giving this month as a group. Every month or so, we do some kind of tithing. A lot of you are around when we are doing one of my favorite things called microfinance. And microfinance is empowering entrepreneurs in the developing nations. And since I love to talk about, because it's a big part of our study, I love work. I love working and I love people to focus on work and to develop themselves in terms of a professional career. I love microfinance because there's people out there in different countries, maybe Cambodia or Peru and they are seeking some capital, some money, so that they can work. And it's usually not that much, maybe $300 or up to $1,000. But it's amazing how a little bit of money can start someone on a livelihood that will take care of them and their family forever. I found this out when I was in Nepal. There was a woman up in the mountains in the Himalayas whose husband ran out on her and I bought her a yak. It was like a hundred and ten dollars for a yak. And with a yak she was set for life. She had food, she could trade, she had money, and it basically provided for her and her kids. An even easier one that's also mentioned in Diving to Enlightenment is I bought a woman a goat once. Just because she had a goat, she had it made too. $25 for a goat, what a deal. And then she could trade goat's milk. And she was set. Her and her daughter were set with a goat. So we like to have a positive impact in people's lives, in the lives of these entrepreneurs, the people who are looking for a hand up with their livelihood. And oh, or work. It's another one. You can do it on the websites. So this month we bought a woman a cow in Tajikistan. She wanted a cow, she's happy. You know, she can provide for her family, and she can, you know, trade milk for things. And the other thing is, we're helping a Vietnamese pig farmer. So they can start their pig farming, which is a good way to go in Vietnam. Yeah, pig farming. So yeah, you know, I really like microfinance because it is helping people who want to work. It's empowering them to work in the developing nation. And you know, it's a good deal for them. And, you know, coming from a background in Buddhism where, you know, somebody, you know, helped me out and gave me a hand up, I like to do the same for others. That's why we have tech classes for those of you who don't know what you're doing with your career. If you've got a better idea, good. But if you don't, tech classes are good. Excellent. So you know, your homework, meditation, right? For the next few days, through about, you know, until about the 22nd, 23rd, meditate real hard. Connect with the light of the solstice. You're in a great position to cultivate a tremendous amount of light and then around the 22nd or 23rd, determine what you want to focus on. What do you want to get ahead in? And then focus on that. You know, say to yourself, I am going to take this light from this time of power and I'm going to focus on doing X, you know, learning technology, getting a promotion in my job, getting my grades from B's to A's, whatever the thing is you want to improve in your physical life, improve it. You will, by practicing, by meditating, you will bring your meditation and your spiritual practice up. Sometimes you might want to use the energy to get a consistent meditation practice or a consistent mindfulness practice. That's fine as well, but just determine what the main, you know, goal or two or three, what are the goals you want to really focus on and get it, and you want this goal to get in place by the equinox, March 21st. So it's a, you know, the goal of the quarter. We always follow these. We're going a quarter out. And then you can see if you make progress with your meditation, and you make a goal and focus on it, you can see that you're achieving those goals. You can do it. All right, and then, so I'm going to be taking my students down to the desert. We meditate out in these very sacred, beautiful places of power, during these times of power. And we'll tell you more about that next time. Good. Alright, thank you all very much. we'll tell you more about that next time. Good. Alright, thank you all very much.

0:57:09
Thank you all very much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
