0:00:00
If you're interested in Buddhism, you find yourself drawn to meditation and the spiritual Buddhism before in a path life or two Especially if you found your way to this school, this teaching This school is a very kind of hard to find school I guess I'd say. It's not something you would regularly come across. In Buddhism we say there are no coincidences, and especially about things like meeting a that you're interested in the spiritual study because you're drawn back to the pathway to spiritual advancement. You're drawn back to doing what you've done before, moving higher towards enlightenment. Now it's very rare for a being to come across an enlightened teacher. It doesn't happen every incarnation. It doesn't even happen ever for some beings. And even if you're a spiritual seeker, there may be thousands of incarnations before you meet an enlightened teacher. It's a rare thing. It's an opportunity. It's a unique opportunity and one that you shouldn't overlook. There's a story about a guy who said, he said, you know God, I really really want to hear you. And then he says, God, I really, really, really He just brushes the butterfly off that lands on his hand. He misses it. Because he doesn't acknowledge God. So he hears a thunder clap and he says, Oh gosh, I hope that storm doesn't come over here. Anyway, God! And then the wind blows and you say, wow, gosh, I guess that storm's a-coming. You're thinking about it in the wrong way. You're looking at it in the wrong way. You have to have the presence of mind to engage in the teachings of enlightenment. If you don't have the presence of mind, you won't see it. It will be invisible to you. The golden state is invisible unless you can see it. But it, you know, to someone who's awake, it's tremendous. Tremendous. For those who are wise, for those who have a presence of mind, how fortunate. So, especially in coming across the teachings of enlightenment, consider it's no mistake, no coincidence. Now, in Buddhism, it's very important to understand that we seek a balance in our lives. the high ecstatic experience of the Golden State, Samadhi, the super-conscious, ecstatic, beautiful, bright meditations. strong foundation in our physical lives. That balance is essential in practice. A lot of spiritual people shy away from the physical world. They don't want to focus on the spiritual things a little bit more. And they like an alternative lifestyle. And they fall out of balance. It's about the balance of the spiritual world and the physical world. This is a foundation of Buddhism. See, if you focus on the spiritual world too much, then, you know, the second intention, right? Then you can just say that you're having amazing meditations, you can say anything you want, you can say you're enlightened, and who can argue with you because you're just saying whatever comes to mind. So if you focus on the second attention, the spiritual world too much, then you're just focused on, you know, daydreaming or experiences that are transient. However, if you focus on balance between your physical life gets stronger and moves in a positive direction, you can see that your spiritual life is also getting stronger and moving in a positive direction. So that means that when you're practicing with this awareness of balance of these two aspects of life. You are developing your spiritual side in a way that it is empowering and integrating into your whole life. It's not just a spiritual experience that's all weird and out there. strong. So it's very important to acknowledge this. This is important in the path. That's why we focus on computer science. That's why we focus on having a strong financial life, a strong financial life, the right job or right occupation, one of the aspects of the eightfold is very, very important in this age of spiritual seekers. In this age, in this time, in this society, with conditions as they are, it's extremely important for a spiritual seeker to focus on right job, right occupation. And the primary thing that makes an occupation right in this time is financial solvency, cash flow. You need to make a lot of money in this incarnation so that you can practice meditation, so that you can follow the path. You need a certain amount of insulation, and this is insulation from the pressures of life. So, if you were in a job where you didn't make enough money, or you were stressed out about it, and you're suffering from the pressures of this American life, you would not be able to learn to meditate. That is pretty much the way it is here. Now you can be optimistic and say, yeah, I can live out on a community, be a hippie or something like that, but you would most likely find that you're not really learning to meditate. Or you know, it's not real, it's nice and relaxing or whatever, but it's not something that will bring you to enlightenment. That's the way it is here, those are the conditions. That's why right occupation is so important. Now, if you were in another time or another society, it could be different. You know, if you were homeless in the jungles of India, probably you can still learn to meditate. But if you're homeless in the wilds of America, or downtown America, there is such a tremendous social pressure that you are psychic, it's true, and it has such a strong effect on you that you will, of course, as a homeless person, would not be able to meditate. But if your job, if your occupation is not strong enough, if you're not in a strong occupation, on track for one at least, if you're not going to be making enough money, then you really won't learn to meditate. It is an essential aspect of practice in the West. So this is why I talk about it. In Buddhism, when something is important, we talk about it, we repeat it, we go over it again and again. It's just an important thing. And if you're serious about learning meditation, then that's fantastic. If you don't have a career path that leads you to a great deal of money, then it's an intelligent thing to get into computer science you have a great deal of help from my students because they are senior technologists and we teach tech classes so it's a good thing to get that help. They can give you a fast track to a very strong career path. If you have another career path that you're on, you need to evaluate it. Are you making enough money? And then if you're not, then you need to look at the computer science career path and see if it's a stronger career path, if it will help your financial situation enough. If you're stressed out about money in this world, that stress is pretty heavy. And that stress can introduce so many problems in your mind that you won't learn to meditate. You know, just consider, why do most marriages end? Because they're arguing about money. Right? So, it can tear two people who love each other to be torn apart by the stress of money. And the stress of money can definitely tear you apart from being able to learn to meditate. Therefore, it's something that you should take into serious consideration. It's an important aspect of the study. And that's just for this time and place. There were times where the emperors, you know, bought us temples. And the emperors gave us, you know, all sorts of great stuff. But we don't live in that time anymore. So we have to deal with the conditions of society that we have. That's why we follow the ancient Egyptian model. We work and we are very strong. We use work and learning how to do work as a yoga, as a way of making our spirit brighter. We use the development, the cultivation of our career as part of our Buddhist practice. So it's very much in line with the balance, the balance between the physical world, your physical life, and your spiritual life. You'll see that when you're meditating well that your physical life is getting stronger, your financial life is getting stronger, your career path is getting stronger. And you'll see that as, in this consideration of balance, as you get stronger in your career path and your finances, your meditation improves. You can't have the two separated. observe the balance of the spiritual world and the physical world on the pathway to enlightenment. So it's a very sobering thing to consider. I know it's very difficult for some people when you're married to ideas that are not profitable, but consider it. You don't have to make any changes. You don't have to do it. You can try. A lot of times you try to work with what you got. So trying to do something doesn't seem like the most profitable idea, but you're trying anyway because you really love what you want. And then after a while you see, okay, this might not work out. Okay, and the other thing has a lot of merit, so let me just try the other thing. It's okay to try. It's okay to just observe. But just, you know, it's just a good thing to consider. This happens a lot. is very attached to what it desires and to its concepts of mind. And a lot of times, students come to me and ask me, Oh, what should I do about this? I have this problem, what should I do? And I give them the answer, you should do this. But it's very challenging for their ego, so they say, Oh my God, I couldn't do that. Let go of that, or go and get that, do this or do that, and whatever I say is going to be challenging to your ego, otherwise you wouldn't have a conflict to ask me about. And then the good student will just follow the teachings and advance. struggle with what their desires are and their aversions. And either they're taken out by their desire and aversion, or they struggle with it for a while, and then they come to understand the limitations of their desires and aversions. And then they move on with my advice. This happens a lot. But a good student sees the truth and follows it. You know, they get stoical, they look at things clearly, and they follow the path of truth. But you don't have to be a good student. You know, you just have to consider things, keep on meditating. A lot of times you need to take a little bit of time to figure things out. And then, you know, I was this way too when I first started in this study. I was like, hmm, I don't know if I want to do that. It took me a while, but then I started taking some steps forward and then everything started working out pretty well but in the beginning I was very skeptical so you know just consider what the teachings are just listen to them consider them for your life consider what you're doing Consider that balance of your spiritual life and your physical life. Consider that right occupation is a very important aspect of study in this day and age. It's a good thing to consider. Alright. We're going to meditate a little more, and then we're done. It's a little. I've exhausted my playlist, unfortunately. Let me see what I got.

0:22:17
I'm going to put it on. Alright.

0:22:46
We'll do a happy song. It's a happy song from the new Diving Into My Different Album and we'll just meditate for one song. In this meditation, the important meditation, I'd like you to keep your eyes open and look up this way towards me.

0:23:43
Yeah. Alright. No, I was really bad at meditation in the beginning. I didn't even think I would ever be able to meditate. I would just sit there and kind of think and try and concentrate. it worked out pretty well. Meaning, you know, if you if you follow the teachings, and if

0:24:20
you practice meditation and mindfulness earnestly, when you follow the considerations of the balance balance of your spiritual life and your physical life, you will see that your life becomes more powerful and happy. You can measure it, in the beginning you measure it basically every month. So you can observe your life getting better and happier and brighter as you meditate and follow the teachings of Buddhism. Buddhism brings you, with every meditation, with every observance of humility, brings you higher and higher up the mountain of life, towards the golden state, towards enlightenment. And every time you go higher, a step higher, you have a more beautiful view and life is better, life is happier, it's brighter and stronger. So Buddhism is something that you can observe. Your life is making you happier and stronger. So as I said, on the solstice we will be ready with our Diving into Enlightenment album. We always love the arts, study the arts, and use the arts as yoga, as a means towards enlightenment as well, as part of the path. So this Diving into Enlightenment album is meditation music, and that means that it's created by yogis, created by those following the pathway to enlightenment, using the music as a vehicle to their own enlightenment and doing a beautiful job of connecting to the dimensions of light in this music. So the music itself is the dimensions of light, the golden state, or many golden states. It's actually a number of different dimensions of life. And the composers and artists who created the music meditated very well, went into the causal dimensions, the golden state, went into the samadhis, into the bright light that we aim for in our meditations and created and basically went into that light and listened. What's this light sound like? It has a quality of sound. And how can I take that essential sound and make it into a song? So that's what the yogis did. So the spirit of enlightenment. And every song has kind of a different dimension of life. And it's really, really beautiful yoga. Really beautiful to meditate to. You know, you'll have fun exploring the new music. And it'll be writing again, Mama Solstice. Fantastic. All right, so, thank you all very much. It was a pleasure meditating with you this evening. It's good to see you again, and it's good to see the new folks as well. Our next meditation will be December 18th. That's very close to the solstice, which is a very strong time of power. On the solstices and ephanoxes, we always have very special meditations. We have these meditations out in places of nature, places of power. And we go there and it's a very magical experience. It's a very magical experience. And this upcoming solstice where we're going to be going to a place in the desert down near San Diego. But this is limited to my students. There will be an opportunity for you in the summer trip, a power trip out into a desert or something like that where we'll have a magical experience. But you need to learn a little bit more about places of power. You need to meditate more. Going out to these places you have to be together. You have to have a strong Christian tension. You have to practice meditation a bit. Otherwise the energy there might be a little strong for you, a little too much, which isn't very comfortable.

0:31:22
So, meditate hard.

0:31:23
If you have your to-now together and your meditation in order, then the summer solstice will be your opportunity for Tales of Power. Read Tales of Power too. Tales of Power will give you an idea of what occurs on a desert trip.

0:31:49
Good. Excellent.

0:31:51
Well, thank you all very much. I'm just going to say, you know, the hard part is talking, you know, getting really high and saying the words because it would be really boring. I just thought it would be boring for you. Work on this. My little golden candies over there. They're what we call prasads. Make sure you have one. They're special. They're sweet. They're sweet.

0:33:09
Come on, boy.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
