0:00:00
Three song meditations, all done it before.

0:00:06
Make yourselves comfortable.

0:00:09
Okay. Okay.

0:00:13
Alright. Alright, so three songs. Evil Heart Third Eye. Very nice. So I'm glad that you have all made it. It's nice to have you all out on this solstice time.

0:00:58
So tonight we're going to talk about the solstice because we're in the solstice and places of power help you on your way to enlightenment, the golden state, the golden state of being, the golden state of consciousness. Enlightenment. Yes. Good. So, the solstice, what is it? You all 21st of December, 21st of June, the beginning of winter, the beginning of summer. But it's also a special time for a meditator. It is what you might call a time where the Vedanta schools would get together and have very powerful meditations. It's not part of some Buddhist schools, but it's definitely a very important observance in the schools of Buddhist mysticism. And this is one of those schools. of the solstice, we meditate. The time of the solstice is a time that is very bright. The veil between the worlds is very thin. During solstice, you can have deeper meditations. You improve your meditation to a significant degree by having these observances of times of power. It's not just solstices, it's also the equinoxes, and those are the times where we go into spring and fall. So the 21st around March, September. Those are powerful times as well. The equinoxes are times where the energy leads to a greater balance, so they're very peaceful and balanced times. The summer and winter solstice are times with great power. They're the times where there's a very strong push. And we can use these times, we can use that current of energy to propel our practice. So we observe that time. We observe that in meditation and we also observe that time in planning our lives. We set goals around the solstices and equinoxes because they are times where you can see, you can observe your life, you can see how you're doing, you can see what obstacles are in your life, you can see any difficulties that you've come across. So in meeting these goals, it could be a spiritual goal, a personal goal, it could be a professional goal, but in meeting goals around the times of the solstices, you're able to see progress in your spiritual life, in your physical life, in all aspects of your life, by measuring and planning and observing forward movement around these times. So we kind of, you know, set these milestones, we set goals for these times where the energies are very powerful so that we work our way up to meeting goals and we can see how we're progressing. Also by meeting a goal at a time of power, like the solstice, it gives you kind of a breakthrough in energy to go and get higher, go and do better, to accomplish more. So then you kind of reach right into what's the next goal for the upcoming equinox. So it's a good idea, to meditate very hard and then to look at what you want to do next, what you want to accomplish and to set a goal to accomplish it by the... so where there's obstacles that have been holding you back, you can overcome those obstacles with the power of the winter solstice. It's one of the special energies that you have at this time. You can think of a solstice kind of like a river. So you're walking, trying to get somewhere, and there's a big, fast-flowing river next to you, and it's going in the same direction that you're going. Now, the trick is, how do you negotiate the river? Because if you just jump in, it might be very cold. It might have rocks that are dangerous. You have to actually access that awareness. You have to be able to get into that river and use that flow of energy. And you do that simply by using the second attention from the Don Juan books or the unseen world from diving into enlightenment. They're synonymous. But it is a spiritual method of using this energy, of connecting with this flow of energy. It is something that cannot really be said in words but it's something that we're going to do tonight. We're going to make a connection. We're going to be able to utilize the flow of the river to bring us along in our paths in life. And the way cannot be said in words, but it's a definite and real and powerful way. That's why we're meeting tonight, to go on this adventure into the solstice. This is the solstice transit. The solstice is on the 20th or 21st, usually, somewhere in between there. And in December, there's also one in June. And the energy, the real transit of the energy starts maybe a few days before and goes until a few days after, or a couple days before and a couple days after. So there's a few days where this energy is very powerful and we are in that time right now. So it's a very fortunate meeting. In Buddhist mysticism, we always observe energy, things that can help us. They have a saying in technology, the lazy programmer. The lazy programmer is a programmer that doesn't sit there and write tons of code. They use existing structures most efficiently so that they can accomplish their goals. So Buddhists are efficient. Buddhists try to be efficient in every way. Efficient in their thinking, efficient in their not thinking, efficient in every physical action, from physical action to professional action. A Buddhist seeks to move through life in the smartest way. You know, why reinvent the wheel is the idea. There was a very good martial arts sensei that I knew in New York. karate teacher from SKA, Shokan Karate of America. And he had, you know, truly the samurai spirit. And his students practiced very basic techniques. And I had been doing martial arts since I was six years old, so I knew a lot of different techniques. And I was kind of bored training with them. Because just simple blocks, and simple punches, and simple kicks, that's all we trained over and over and over. And there was a very nice spirit in the training, but it was very complex movements. And if you come from a Kung Fu background, where you're flying through the air with a spear and you know, all this jumping and kicking and all these beautiful movements, you know, the Shotokan basics look a little bit boring. So there was one occasion that I was training with this sensei where we went to a tournament and in the tournament, you get to spar different schools, different martial arts systems. And I was watching, in that school I was a white belt, so I was sparring in a white belt. I won the white belt category because I had 15 years of training already. In that school I was a white belt. But I watched the black belt division and in the black belt division there were some very, very talented martial artists from other schools. I felt that out of 20 of them, five of them definitely were senior to me. They were very fast, very good technique, and when they sparred, they were just it was incredible. They're just shooting across the floor, punches and kicks, it's just flying through the air, kicking, punching, amazing technique. And so I was absolutely excited you know, excited watching them, but I thought that the black belts from my karate dojo were going to lose. I thought they would be completely beaten because all they knew was into the ring with this fourth degree black belt from another school. And I had seen the other, you know, the fourth degree black belt sparring, and I thought that Snowball would lose. And then when the referee set begin, the fourth-degree black belt came at snowball with just amazing speed, amazing kicks and punches, amazing technique, and snowball just kind of moved away, basic block, just like in our training, and then a basic punch, and then the fourth degree black belt fell down on the ground. Point goes to snowball, and then it happened again. They said, okay, that's one point, you got to get three points to win. Same thing happened. Begin, guy comes in with jumping, flying, spinning kicks, you know, it's like he looked like he was doing like crouching tiger, hidden dragon moves that were just incredible. And Snowball just kind of blocks a little, skips to the side, does a basic punch, and then the guy's on the ground again. And then third time, same thing right in a row. And I was amazed, coming from a martial arts background where I had really seen a lot of martial arts because I trained in a lot of schools and been in a lot of tournaments. And these guys and the other black belts from the school did the same thing. They beat everybody in the division with very simple movements, Very simple attacks and nothing wasted. No block for no reason, no punch or kick for no reason. Every punch, every kick landed. It was efficient. So then I, all of a sudden, my mind opened up and I said, oh, I saw the power of efficiency. The other black belts in the division would throw amazing combinations and they would jump in the air, but for no reason or not efficiently. They wouldn't use their techniques in an intelligent way while these SKA guys, they were very efficient. Nothing wasted, absolutely no movement wasted, everything perfect. It was the best school that I had ever been in. And at first it just looked very boring to me. But it was teaching efficiency, efficient use of energy. And it's something that is very Buddhist. And that's why my Buddhist teacher told me to train that, so that I could learn that kind of efficiency. When you learn something in the physical, it teaches you something inwardly as well. Now, you know, that's why I have my students also study in SKA or that efficiency. I had a friend, a buddy from my old Kung Fu school, who also became a Buddhist monk when I did, and his name was John, and we were studying with this school, and he got so bored one day, because he had he had been training for you know 15 years along with me, and he got so bored one day he decided to just really you know use his kung fu techniques and beat these guys, you know beat Snowball. In fact he was he was sparring with Snowball. And so he's just like, ah so bored of this you know simple blocking and simple punching. So he did this amazing combination one day on Snowball. And Snowball backed off and then he kicked John. And it was just, everything was perfect. His defense was perfect, his attack was perfect, and it was very effective because it nearly knocked John out. So when John amped up the energy on him, he responded, which is dojo etiquette. And so anyway, the next day, John had a black eye. And we both worked together on Wall Street. And when we went to work, everybody said, oh, my gosh, what happened to you? And this was during the winter. So he said, I got hit by a snowball. Yeah, so speaking of which, you know, we're here in the Ritz and, you know, I'm sitting here wearing a tie and we all try to come here and dress well. It's a different kind of thing when you consider Buddhism. And yet this is authentic Buddhism. This is very authentic Buddhism. It's just that we have a sense of humor is because we're Buddhists in America and we do things a little differently because we're Buddhists in America. You know, if you go to Thailand or China or Nepal, the Buddhist monasteries are like palaces. They're beautiful. And Tibet, forget about it, right? Tibet, everything's around Buddhism. The palace is the monastery. So for Buddhists, we really like beautiful things, beautiful places. We like a very beautiful aesthetic. And it is conducive to practice. So when you dress well, when you come to a meditation and you dress well, you pay attention to your dress, it helps your meditation. And the reason that we meditate here at the Ritz is because it has a nice way, a nice aesthetic, and it helps your meditation. We come to the Ritz-Carlton, places like this. We've gone to other places as well. But we come here because it's a more formal place, and it creates a more formal attention. And a little bit of formality is nice for meditation. It helps you meditate. At the same time, we have a sense of humor. It's very important. Otherwise, you get too serious. And Buddhism isn't necessarily so serious. I mean, you have to work hard, but you have to have a great sense of humor. Buddhism isn't what you might think. You know, you look at the great histories of Buddhism, and you have to realize, as Buddhism went from country to country, it changed. Buddhism in India was one way, when the Buddha started it. And then when I went to China, it was very, very different. I went to Japan very different. As I moved around, it changed. It changed because the people in the country were different. There are cultural differences. And what works in India might not work the same in America. So as it goes from culture to culture, Buddhism has changed. Yet at the same time, the spiritual foundation of Buddhism have not changed. The spirit of Buddhism hasn't changed. Buddhism is a way, it's a method that brings you to enlightenment. And there have been techniques from the Buddha, from others who have awakened to the Buddha way, like Bodhidharma. And these techniques, these ways, these lessons are things that bring someone into a condition of liberation from suffering. And it is as valid in America, sitting in the Ritz-Carlton, as it is a thousand years ago in in China when Bodhidharma brought Buddhism to China. So you got to have a sense of humor. You have to be open minded. Because if you think Buddhism is a robe or a palace or something like that, or a monastery, really. Yet the teachings of Buddhism are real. And they work in this culture. They work in this time. So when you look at Buddhism, you see these monks wearing robes, and they look kind of tired. Monks all look tired to me though, because they don't sleep very much. They wake up at 3 in the morning and you say, okay, so that's what Buddhism is. And I stayed in some monasteries in Nepal and I was bored out of my mind. It was nothing like what I had learned in Buddhism. And you know, they're trying to tell me to stay. Like, no, unless I can change things. No, you can't change anything. Okay, so yeah, Buddhism, you know, the monasteries have been going on for so long that it's kind of become a tradition. So, you know, a lot of monasteries to me are just kind of like Catholic school. It's just a bunch of rules and it's not a lot of conditioning, you know, a conditioned way of understanding Buddhism and spirituality. So in the West, you know, if you keep an open mind and if you observe the teachings and see if they work for you, then, you know, then you'll do well. But if you don't have an open mind, then you won't see anything. You won't gain anything from it. I remember meeting a guy who was really interested in learning Kung Fu. I had a really good Kung Fu teacher at the time, but he was white. This guy was really interested, he saw my techniques, and he was like, this is wonderful, I'm excited, and then he said, what's your, what's your Sifu's name? I said, Larry Smith, and then he said, okay, I'm not gonna study with him, I'm only going to study with a Chinese person. I'm like, huh, you know, that, that is somebody's model of understanding. They watched a bunch of kung fu movies and they figured that the master must be a certain way. But no, a master doesn't have to be a certain way. A master is what a master is, if a master is a master. So, you know, we're here in the West and these are teachings that I've learned from my My teacher, who was an American, he went to the Far East. He met his teacher, perfected his techniques out here in America, and taught here. And I've mastered the Buddhist techniques for liberation, and that's why we're here. of learning meditation a little bit, to have a nicer day, or it's not a study of just gaining a little bit of information about Buddhism in terms of intellect and philosophy. This is a study of enlightenment. This is the study that brings you from a condition, from your condition of suffering, negative thoughts, from dark states of mind, from any limitation. And then, in that liberation, you're basically in a state of spiritual peace and you can handle the difficulties of life with equanimity. And at the same time you're always aware of the infinite, even when you're in any moment, in any transient moment, when you're standing in line in the DMV, or if you're at the dentist, they're drilling a molar, or if you're sitting in meditation, or going out on a hike. But you know, Buddhism, you get into this way of looking at Buddhism, you know, it's kind of, you've seen, you know, television or something, or you read a book about someone, you get an idea, a mental picture of what Buddhism is, what a teacher isn't. And you have to be open-minded, at least see that that's one expression, maybe not all expressions of Buddhism. Buddhism started with Buddha, right? 2,500 years ago. And then it's changed. Now enlightened teachers have kind of recodified the teachings, the essence of the spiritual teachings as times changed or as they went to different cultures. So us working on the pathway to liberation in America and sitting in the Ritz and doing what we do is just a way. It's a way, but it's a way that's real. It's a legitimate path that uses the true essence of Buddhism and it brings you higher, it makes you freer and happier. When you practice Buddhism, you can see month by month that your life is getting stronger and brighter. And that is the real proof that you should observe. You shouldn't get lost in concepts. Just observe. Just practice meditation, mindfulness, sit with your meditation teacher, come to these events, do your enlightenment workbook, read some other good, high, happy, bright, spiritual books, and just observe your life. you engage in stopping thought and being mindful of cutting out negative thinking, and your life changes. It's really amazing. Your life changes. And that's what Buddhism is about. It's about being able to get out of a situation. So observe that as you engage in the study. That is the truth of spiritual study. If somebody is practicing Buddhism or some other spirituality and they're not getting more powerful and bright and strong in their life, then there's a problem. Probably a problem with them. But, you know, it's not really spiritual practice. It's being, you know, it's indulging in self or something. So if you follow these teachings, you will see this magical process. You'll see yourself transform. And you'll see a greater degree of light and brightness in your spirit and in all of your life. So Buddhism isn't a lot of those ideas and concepts that you gain from looking at these tired monks walking around. Yeah, I used to hang out with the tired monks and I was tired too. And also, you know, since Buddhism was created so long ago, and there's so many unenlightened people talking about what Buddhism is, you don't know. These are just concepts that people keep talking about. There's a story of a young monk who comes to the monastery, and they give him the sutras. And the sutras are the spiritual scriptures that they follow, they learn from and follow. And he's reading the scriptures and he realizes there's an error. Just a syntax error. It didn't spell something right. And he goes over to the abbot of the temple and says, yeah, there's an error here. And then the abbot looks at it and says, oh boy I didn't see that before and then the monk says, why would there be an error? And the abbot says, well you know we copied down, you know all of our copies, each monk has a copy of the Sutra, we copied it down, you know years ago somebody transcribed it from the original document that the Buddha wrote. And so he said, so it must have been when the first person copied it down wrong, we got something, we made a couple of mistakes. And then the abbot said, I'm going to go pull out that one original sutra that the Buddha wrote and I'm going to take that and I'm going to correct everything and then we're going to have the proper sutras. So he goes down into the little library and then all of a sudden the young monk hears him yelling and the young monk walks over and says, what's wrong? And he's like, he's like, oh, darn it. And he's just like frustrated and angry. He's yelling. And the young monk says, what's going on? And the old, the abbot says, okay, we made a serious mistake. We, we missed the R's. So very often when you look at Buddhism and when people recapitulate what Buddhism is, it seems like it's very heavy and serious and difficult and stuff like that. But really, Buddhism is fun. Buddhism is very bright. It's very exciting. And it's immediate. It's something that you see in your meditation. You see in this moment. Every time you follow the Buddhist path with every thought, with every intention, you take a brighter condition, a happier condition of being, and it's fun. So on the solstice transit, we are following that bright, happy path, and we are doing it with great efficiency. You don't want to waste a lot of time, right? If you knew the shortcut to happiness, you would take the shortcut instead of the long way around to happiness. I mean, unless you're a glutton for punishment. And that's the power of the winter solstice, the ability to drop bad habits. You know, everybody is a glutton for punishment. Everybody gives themselves a hard time. You know, the thoughts that you think, the way your outlook, your description of the world, is you giving yourself a hard time. It's true. But the power of the solstice, especially the winter solstice, it lifts you out of those attached views, it lifts you out of those models, and it's very powerful, very beautiful, very wonderful. And that's what we are engaging in tonight. We're engaging in that light that uplifts spirit out of its attached models of existence that create suffering. Because, you know, why suffer? When you know the way, when you can have an efficient path to a greater brightness, I mean, logically speaking, nobody wants to suffer. Nobody wants hard times. Everybody wants enlightenment, logically speaking. But at the same time, you get stuck in patterns that prevent you from seeing the way. from taking a simple step into happiness. And the power of the winter solstice allows you to get past that roadblock. So you're looking at that river, it's flowing nice and fast, it's taking you in the end up to freeze. But you want to be able to get into the river and successfully follow that current so that it takes you more quickly and effortlessly to a greater condition of happiness and peace and brightness. And that's what we're going to do tonight. That's what we're doing tonight. that river, that river of light that is available at these times of power. And at these times of power we can make tremendous shifts in our lives and we can learn more about meditation, we can learn more about our higher self, we can dark states. You can let go of old ways, enmity. You can let go of depressions, anger. You can shift and change. It's a time of power and in times of power there's a great energy. See in Buddhist mysticism we use power. Power is the energy that allows us to shift and change. And the solstice is a powerful time. So since it's there, we're going to use it. Good. Now, here's how we're going to use it. It's an unseen teaching. So the reason that we sit together, me and you, is because I can do a lot of the unseen teachings. When you're studying with my students, they're teaching you everything that you can say in words. They also have the ability to teach you more than that, but to a certain degree. But this teaching, this unseen teaching of the solstice, plugging you in to that flow of energy, is something that they can't do yet, and it's something that I can't. So that's why we have these monthly meetings, because there's things that I've learned from my teacher that I can offer to you that my students haven't learned yet. They're good, you know. But there's a few other things. So this is an opportunity for you. What we're going to do is we're going to sit together in meditation for just a few minutes, In this meditation, when you still your thoughts, you'll be shifting. Shifting from a state of mind, a normal, regular state of mind, to the state that empowers you to change your your life in wonderful ways. It's magic. That's why this is Buddhist mysticism. It comes from the... It's ancient. It's ancient. But these techniques date back to, well, 1,200 years 1200 years ago, Tulupa, Naropa, they were enlightened teachers of the Indo-Tibetan Tantra. So, in Buddhism there's many gifts, is what we say. We weren't aware of something that was helpful for our happiness and our spiritual peace. And then in Buddhism we become aware of something helpful. And we focus on it, we work with it, and it helps us. It makes our lives stronger and brighter, more successful. So we're just going to meditate for just a few minutes, and in this meditation, you will be receiving this unseen teaching that really calibrates your spirit with this time of power. slide at the Manteco water slides. Only you get to direct the slide in what direction you want. It's your choice and I always recommend that you put your mind into very positive things so that that momentum from the solstice gets you going in the way you really want to go. The greater focus that you can bring, the greater success you'll see. The energy of the solstice gives you a momentum, a spiritual uplifting momentum. So when you put your mind on learning meditation or developing a stronger career, then these things will help you move forward. Just one song. And just still your mind. You can focus on the third eye if you'd like. Very nice. Nice. Good. So, as I said, when you have your spirit aligned with the power of this time, you have an energy, an uplifting energy, an uplifting power, bright energy that you can bring to your life. You can direct it with your mind. What do you want to use your income, and it helps. Having a clear mind for meditation, having a strong mind for meditation, and having awareness and a connection with this flow of power during this time of power, helps you in all constructive ways in your life. So consider what you want to focus on. You'll have the opportunity to meditate and gain and store this power for the next few days. The actual I think on Saturday around 4 o'clock, 4 or 5 p.m. And if you meditate during that time, you will gain even more light. So you have to practice, cultivate this light. It's a special teaching and it's a special opportunity. Now that the door is open and you have a connection, you're going with this flow of light, it is your job, your work, to connect to it even more strongly. And simply to do that, you meditate. You stop thought as well as you can. You do your meditation on time. You wake up, don't skip a meditation over the next few days. Wake up early if you have to. Meditate. Even if you're tired, before you go to bed, meditate. Wash your face, wake up, and meditate. If you take advantage of this opportunity, then you'll have a greater cultivation of light during this time of power. And then over this solstice transit, consider what you would like to put this energy into. What do you want to improve in your life? And what is it? The whole experience of cultivating this light at this beautiful time is a very spiritually uplifting experience. Your meditations will be deeper and stronger. So everything about it is spiritually beautiful, but I'd like you to look at your physical life and I'd like you to say, okay, I'm going to put this wonderful power that I've been connected to into doing something extraordinary. Maybe it's, you know, succeeding in a new career, maybe it's succeeding in school, maybe it's, you know, starting Shotokan Karate of America, SKA, or, you know, martial arts or an exercise program. Think of something constructive, something that you you want to do and you could focus on it and this power will it will help you. All right so we're going to take a break now now that you're plugged in plugged into the solstice we're going to take a break you're plugged in plugged into the solstice we're going to take a break just for you know six or seven minutes




Transcribed with Cockatoo
