0:00:00
Welcome. Cool, we have some new friends tonight. Very good.

0:00:10
So, to begin, I'd like to thank all of you who came to the mighty Nepal benefit party that we have. It's a very good thing that you did. dollars toward awareness and benefit of this organization. And this is a very good thing. and donations were very helpful. Very helpful. And also, your presence as a party was very helpful to the spirit of the Gilead. Now, this organization is a very noble organization. It's an organization that saves people's lives and saves their souls really from tremendous suffering. Raising money for such an organization is a very good thing, a very positive thing. So thank you. I mean, consider, you know, $100 can save a girl from going into slavery, or get medications to save someone's life. One hundred dollars. So it's amazing what a hundred dollars can do. And if you've ever traveled in the third world, Africa, you get a sense of how much good a hundred dollars can do. It's a lot. It can save a life easily. At least one life. Sometimes twenty-five dollars saves a life. So all of your efforts in spirit, all of your donations have been very helpful. It's good. It's good karma. So thank you for that. Now the costumes on the other hand. It's your first past life scene. Your first past life costume party. So it's okay. But we actually do the past life scene around the same time of the year, every year, for a few years, five years or so. And you'll notice that your seeing gets better and stronger. It gets more accurate and you're able to bring the past life awareness over in a more constructive way. So you get better little by little. But the costumes were cute. Sol-Tan's costume was the best. He's the guy So that was really, really, really nice. And the party was, okay, we've got to work on Buddhist parties. They get really good. We've just got to work on them. The first couple ones are always a little bit awkward, but then after a while, you say, wow, these Buddhist parties are okay. You know, when I first started going to Buddhist parties that my teacher held, he asked us, you know, he told us, you know, okay, you're going to have to dance at this party. And I didn't dance at the time, kind of danced a little more until finally, the third or fourth party, I had fun doing it. And partying, dancing, coming to one of these parties and enjoying yourself is a Buddhist practice. So it's something that we do, we throw parties from time to time and we get better and better at having a good time. A good, clean, bright, fun time. And as you'll see as you go through the practice of Buddhist parties, it gets really fun. Parties are like powerful meditative experiences. Speaking of powerful meditative experiences, the group that was in here previous to you had a powerful meditative experience. It was amazing. They did a good job last time. You guys did a good job last time as well. You did a good job. Very nice. Okay, so what we'll do, let's begin with meditation. We'll do a meditation for 15 minutes. minutes, one song per chakra, just to have a preliminary meditation. So again that's the preview of the Diving into Enlightenment album that we are making. It will be available to you for meditation after solstice. Holy time. So thanks for coming out to meditate, you survived Thanksgiving, almost overdosed on So, tonight, I'd like to talk a little bit about what Buddhism is. Buddhism in its essence is the pathway to enlightenment. So that begs the question, what is enlightenment? All life. Enlightenment is complete life.

0:10:01
Everything.

0:10:03
Life, the universe, and everything.

0:10:09
Complete.

0:10:10
Life being a mountain and everybody, everyone is somewhere on the mountain heading somewhere. There's many roads, many paths on the mountain, trees, or you have a perspective on life from that aptitude of being. But then as you ascend up the mountain higher and higher, you see more. You have a greater view. You come above the tree line. You see beyond the valley to other mountains. And then as you go higher and higher, you see the tops of the mountains. You see the whole world, the whole universe spread out before you. And this is, you know, the higher perspectives of life. Now at the top of the mountain, at the very peak of the mountain, is enlightenment, what I call the golden state. The golden state of mind, the golden light of eternity. This is at the top of the mountain. Now there's a lot of paths going around this mountain. Some paths just go around the mountain, and it's in a perfect circle that just keep you going around the mountain. Some paths go up a little, some paths go down. There's many different paths that one can take in life. But the Buddhist path is halfway up the mountain. I guess there are several different types of Buddhist paths as well. There are different types of Buddhism. There is not any one kind of Buddhism. Buddhism started with the Buddha. You've read about it in the Enlightenment workbook. 2,500 years ago, this Buddha, the Awakened One, created a doctrine of teachings for noble truths, they called path. This is where Buddhism came from, although Buddhism was really something that was more ancient than 2,500 years ago. But it's all formed from this enlightened being, the Buddha, his basic teachings. His, really his aesthetic, his way, his expression of enlightenment. This is where Buddhism comes from. But it changed over time. Buddhism moved. And as it went to different places as people studied Buddhist teachings as they became awake, then they would recodify the teachings of Buddhism to kind of work with their culture and work with the time. Times change. Buddha didn't have the internet. Cultures change. When Buddhism went to Japan it changed, and to Tibet it changed, and to America it changed. So there's many different Buddhist paths, and amongst the Buddhist paths of every country where Buddhism has gone, where those have awakened to the Buddha way, there are different paths. There was a meeting once, a while ago, I think it was in the 50s or 60s, one of the first meetings of Buddhists from different countries. It was a Zen master meeting with a Tibetan Rinpoche and, you know, two very different strands of Buddhism. And they got together and they got together to discuss Buddhism. And so as and says, what is this? to the Rinpoche. And what the Zen Master was doing was a koan. The koan is a little riddle that is supposed to be answered by another person so that the Zen Master can determine their awareness of enlightenment. That's the way they do it in Zen, in the Zen Zai school. And the Rinpoche looked at it like he was crazy and said, What? You've never seen an orange before? So, you know, Buddhism might be different. Such as Tibet. In Tibet, there's all three types of the Buddha himself. They call it the small vehicle. A small car, compact, good gas mileage. of Buddhism. And this is called the Great Vehicle, or the Big Vehicle, the SUV of Buddhism. And this is the inspiration of the Bodhisattva, so that one doesn't only seek enlightenment for themselves, they seek enlightenment for all beings. And they follow a doctrine of yoga and meditations that lead them to enlightenment through that vehicle. the third type of Buddhism. It's called Vajrayana. And that's the advanced teachings, you got your Bodhisattva teachings, and you got your tantra, the fast path to enlightenment. These strands of Buddhism. So Buddhism has changed since the Buddha taught. He was skinny on a path. Things have grown from a small vehicle to a great vehicle to a fast vehicle. And different pathways on this mountain. So you got your Japanese going one way, Chinese going another, Tibetans rolling around there. Some people are going fast, some people are going in the small vehicle, some people in the SUV. All going in one direction though, and that's towards the golden state, towards enlightenment. And that's Buddhism. It's what's enlightened. And that's Buddhism. It's not a simple thing, Buddhism. It is very diverse. What would two enlightened people say if they bumped into each other? Nothing. Would they agree? Yes and no. Does it matter? No. Yes. So, the Buddhism is quite complex. But Buddhism is really the Essentially, no matter what country you're in, no matter what robe you wear, whether your head is shaven or not. And that's what's so fantastic about it. Now Buddhism isn't a religion. There are religious aspects to Buddhism. Some people practice it as a religion, but in its essence it's not a religion. Buddhism is a way of life. It's a way to observe your self. It's a way to observe a living. It's a way of being, a way of doing. It's a discipline. It's an awareness. So Buddhism is not praying or wearing certain clothes and following certain ordinances, vows, rules. Buddhism is really just a way of life. It's a way of life that leads to a greater awareness of truth. It's a way of life that is conducive to enlightenment. It's a way of life that brings you closer to that golden state, brings you up the mountain of life, brings you higher. Every observance, every meditation, every act of humility, every observance of truth in Buddhism brings you higher up the mountain of life, brings you closer to enlightenment. And that is really the function of Buddhism, There's these fixed statements, you know, thou shall not X, thou shall not Y, thou shall not Z. And these rules are good for people who are so, you know, in such a basic state that they need those guidelines. It keeps society in order, keeps people in a general state of being moral, I suppose. But when you're seeking enlightenment, when you're ready to take responsibility really for yourself, then you don't need any rules. But when you're ready to take responsibility for yourself, for your life, for your happiness, for your awareness, for your enlightenment, then the rules and say, oh, rules are meant to be broken. And what's more important than rules is etiquette. In Buddhism, there's a great degree of etiquette. Not rules, but just harmonious ways of being. So, how do you determine what is harmonious? You observe it. Are the thoughts that you think making you happy? Do they make you brighter? Do they help others? Do they bring you to a greater degree of truth? Do they bring you closer to light? Are they conducive to awakening? You are the one who observes it. Buddhism is a pathway of observances. It's a way of being that is conducive to awakening. So you observe your thoughts. Buddhists observe their thoughts first and foremost. In meditation you get to know your thoughts a little bit by trying to stop them. You become aware of your thoughts. You guide your thoughts. You direct your thoughts. You control your thoughts. You focus your thoughts. So that what you think and what you focus on are very positive things, things that are bright, things that are conducive to truth. So in Buddhism, we observe ourselves, we observe our thoughts, we observe our words and our actions, and we see what we're doing, and the things that we find cause problems for other people and problems for our own peace of mind and happiness, we apply greater awareness, greater etiquette, so that we come into balance. You are the ultimate judge of what brings you into a harmonious balance, what brings you into a greater degree of truth and awareness by observing your own life. So, when you see yourself interacting with someone, and there's something difficult, there's a problem, then you apply etiquette. You say, hmm, this isn't working out so well. You start off kind of ignorant because you haven't practiced observing your mind, observing your life. So you find that you do things that are a little out of balance. And then as you observe them, as you see these things, as you start to meditate, practice mindfulness, and start to look at what's going on, then you seek a more harmonious way of thinking, of speaking, of acting. And then you find yourself figuring out good etiquette, figuring out how to act in ways that are not destructive. You figure out how to act in ways that are very positive and how to speak in ways that are not destructive. You find out how to speak in ways that are positive. And you observe your thoughts. When you see negative thoughts, dark thoughts, you start to learn the etiquette of mind. And that is to let go of the dark thoughts, redirect your thoughts to positive thoughts, focus on things that are bright and constructive, focus on things that are conducive to your cultivation of spiritual knowledge. So, this is the etiquette, not the rules. Life doesn't have rules. It's always free flowing. Like the Tao, it's flowing. Life is always moving. In one situation there's something that's right. In an identical situation a moment later, it might be wrong. But there is one thing that is always real, and that's truth. So when you're observing the truth in any moment, when you observe what is bright, what is conducive to enlightenment, in every moment, then you are following the way of life. You're following the pathway to enlightenment. So, there's no rules, just etiquette. And you learn etiquette from your mind, but you also learn etiquette from a teacher. A teacher who has a tremendous amount of etiquette can point out to you where your etiquette is poor. And when a teacher points that out, you should thank your teacher. It's something they didn't have to do. But if you follow the rules of etiquette, you'll be happier and better. You can deal with other people better, and you can deal with life better. So, etiquette. That's what's so fantastic about Buddhism. But Buddhism isn't something that is in any fixed way in itself. now sitting here in the Ritz Carlton and we're dressed well. And that's pretty odd. One would not think that Buddhism would be in an aesthetic like this. When we think of Buddhism, we think robes and Buddhist temples. And that's one way. That is a way to think of Buddhism. But it's not the only way. You know, we're here in the West, and in the West things are different. Following the kind of foundation of Buddhism, we seek to have a beautiful experience in our spiritual practice. And to have a beautiful experience when we get together in satsang, in this meeting, we get together not only beautiful meditation, to have your highest meditation. This is meeting with enlightenment. So we bring our best to it. And in our culture. If we are in a different culture, we might be in a temple, we might be wearing robes, but we're not in that culture. So, you know, I'm an American, but I'm an enlightened American. I followed the Buddhist teachings, not the Tibetan way of life, not the Chinese culture, not the Japanese societal teachings, but I followed the heart of the Buddhist teachings and I awakened to the Buddha way. I can teach the pathway to enlightenment in America, but it is real. Buddhism gets you higher on the mountain of life. Buddhism is a very powerful and true way to enlightenment. It's not a daydream. It's not fake. It's not your ego regurgitating upon itself. It is the truth of life, and it is the way to truth, the way to enlightenment, and the weight of the golden stick. Now, it's very important to understand what's involved in Buddhism. They call the components of Buddhism the three jewels. The three jewels of Buddhism, the way to enlightenment, the pathway to enlightenment. That exists, that is real. Then the second jewel is the Sangha. The Sangha is the organic fellowship of seekers who work together towards enlightenment, towards the golden state. They are the components of Buddhism. It's possible to follow the pathway to enlightenment. It's possible to practice Buddhism if you only have the Dharma. That is the most important one, the Dharma, the pathway itself. However, when you have a Sangha, it increases your chances of success. It helps you stay balanced as you are working your way up the mountain. So the sangha is a very helpful component to your spiritual path. And then really the greatest aid to a spiritual seeker, to someone who is following the pathway to enlightenment is an enlightened teacher. And an enlightened teacher is able to really teach you the proper way to ascend the path, to ascend the mountain. is not helps you to understand why it should be positive, why it's very positive. But most beings are pretty much happy with themselves. They're happy with their suffering. Not that they're not dissatisfied enough to want to get rid of it. They're just, you know, the devil they know is better than the devil they don't know. They're afraid of change. The ego becomes attached to its misery. And it's very difficult for people to let go of their suffering. They cling to their suffering, guarding their suffering. So the reason that an enlightened teacher is so helpful is because the enlightened teacher knows the way out of suffering and can show you, little by little, why it's good to let go of your suffering. Why it's good to be free of suffering. I mean, everybody thinks objectively, yeah, I want to be free of my suffering. But then, you know, when you get to that point where you have to take a leap of faith, as it seems, people tend to cling to what they know, which is their limitations, and ultimately suffering. So then my teacher is very helpful in showing you the way to let go, the way beyond your suffering, and then it's quite fantastic. Now an enlightened teacher is very different than a regular teacher. That's why they say that the three jewels are the Dharma, the Sangha, and the Buddha. Now, there's a lot of Buddhist teachers, a lot of abbots, Rinpoches, Lamas, and stuff like that, who, you know, might be the head of a temple, the head of a monastery, the head of a ashram, but they may not be enlightened, in which case they're basically sangha, because they help you stay balanced and inspired to continue on the path. And they give you some information. They might know a little bit more than you, they might have the books that you haven't read yet, and then they can share that information with you. So, some Buddhist teachers are not enlightened, and they can only give you certain information, but it's helpful information. But the reason they say that the third jewel is the Buddha An enlightened teacher can help you tremendously. An enlightened teacher is an esoteric teacher. An enlightened teacher helps you not only with knowledge, giving you information about what's what, the path, and things like that. But an enlightened teacher can do for you. An enlightened teacher gives, first of all, something called transmission. And that is a transmission of really Kundalini. It's a very refined spiritual energy. And this energy has tremendously high amounts of consciousness. It's just bright. It is uplifting. This transference of energy really ignites you, ignites your spirit and it gives you the power to lift yourself up spiritually much, much, much faster than if you tried to develop that energy yourself. So, an analogy would be if and you're saving up for it. You know, you're sitting there, you know, the credit system is bad, so you can't get credit, so you have to save up all of your money, right? So you're saving up, you know, a couple hundred dollars here and there when you can, and eventually you want to buy that car. But what the Buddha can do for you is the Buddha can come over and say, oh, you want to buy that car, eh? Well, here, I can give you $20,000. And what it does is it gives you the cache you need in order to get where you want to go. And then it gives you the money you need to get the car, and then you're on the road. So that is really, in a spiritual sense, what a Buddha can do, what an enlightened person can do. They can transfer spiritual energy. And when you use that energy in a constructive way, then you can make a lot of progress, a lot of positive progress in your life. This Kundalini, this transference, is really not just similar for money. It's power. It's a spiritual power. And it's a spiritual power that you can use. You can use that spiritual power from that transference of energy. And you can use it to do great things and to move along very quickly on the pathway to enlightenment. So that is probably the key most important thing about an enlightened teacher, about the third jewel. So the most important thing in the study is the pathway itself. The second most helpful thing is to have an enlightened teacher, because an enlightened teacher can give you the turbo boost. And really, the world is pretty heavy. The world is pretty dark. The world is just not a positive place for a spiritual seeker. It's very physical. It's very power power oriented in a negative way. People are grasping for their piece of the pie. That's pretty much the nature of this world, the level of consciousness of the people on the planet. And it has a tremendous effect on a psychic person, a spiritual person. It makes it makes it very, very, very difficult to be able to go into higher states of mind, to save up the cash for the car. It means that when you're saving up the cash for the car, you're not saving at a very rapid rate. So it takes you a long time, especially in this incarnation, but just in general, a long time for you to develop the personal power you need to be able to jump into that car, into higher states of mind. But when you have an enlightened teacher who can transfer this energy, then you can move a lot faster. So that's probably the most important aspect of having an enlightened teacher that aids you on the pathway to enlightenment. But there's others. An enlightened teacher knows very constructive ways for you to. So when you follow their teachings, then you're able to move quickly as well, just following, taking the right steps. And then, Hermione's teachers are interesting, kind of fun to be around, in a way. Sometimes challenging to be around. Enlightened teachers are often challenging. An enlightened teacher challenges your ego. That is it. Because Buddhism, the pathway to enlightenment, is the pathway to humility. Any step in the direction of the golden state, the direction of enlightenment, you will notice that you're less reactive, you're less clingy, you're less whatever has caused you suffering. You're less angry at people, you're less depressed, you're able to let go of a condition that is less egotistical. And that's what it is all about. It's about being less egotistical, less attached to your self-description, more fluid, less limited in your thinking, more So the pathway to enlightenment brings you from a small self to an open mind. And that's what humility is. So an enlightened teacher very often, you know, looks at your ego and and pushes your buttons. Pushes your buttons so that you can let go. You can let go of the thing that causes you suffering. If it's a button, it's an ego. So that's one of the wonderful things that the Enlightened Teacher do. They always teach you where your ego is still clinging, or you're clinging to a limited sense of self. Yeah, so, it's pretty good that way. And, enlightenment, the Buddhism, the pathway to enlightenment, you know, it doesn't have any rules, you know, a lot of times people think that you have to you know, I don't know be celibate That you have to be a vegetarian You have to have a shaved head Yeah, but no no, there's no rules. Not at all. There's only etiquette. Although, most Buddhists are vegetarians. Although they like to flavor their vegetables with beef, chicken, chicken we're going to take a little break right after we meditate You know, this holiday season is a little heavy. A little heavy. So, since you guys made it here, it's a good sign. So, since you guys made it here, it's a good sign. But, you know...




Transcribed with Cockatoo
