0:00:00
All right, so we will begin with meditation, just like you're trained to do. We'll do three songs, Okay, let's begin. Welcome. Welcome, welcome, welcome. Some new people tonight, good. Tonight we'll be going It's an inner journey into the miracle of being. Life is a miracle.

0:00:57
It's magic.

0:01:00
And when we set forth on the spiritual path, we go deeper and deeper into the beauty and the infiniteness of life. So you've got to have a sense of humor when you're looking into your mind, when you're dealing with self-discovery, when The spiritual path is funny. That's a miracle. Buddhism came from India 2,500 years ago. And it had developed into many different traditions and sects throughout Asia. And when we think about Buddhism, what comes to mind is the monasteries and the monks in their robes. And we tie in a completely different culture. It's possible for it to exist right here in the West. You have to imagine that in the beginning it was very odd in China when the first teachers that came across from India of Buddhism and enlightenment, they were Indian. But after a while, China started to develop its own tradition of Buddhism that was actually very different than the Buddha's original teachings in its outward manifestation. But inwardly, the principles of the Buddha were upheld. So it's possible for different places, different cultures, different lands to continue on with the Buddhist tradition, the Buddhist ideals, the spiritual foundation of Buddhism in a completely different form. And then as it changed form, and now since the West has an open mind, Buddhism appears in the West. And so here we are. And that's funny. So in In Buddhism, we really bring our best to our practice. We bring our best and most earnest effort to our meditation. And when we come together, we call the meeting satsang. And satsang is where we sit and listen, listen with our hearts, listen with our minds to the teachings of enlightenment. So these meetings are what we call satsang. When we come to satsang, we bring our best. And we bring our best in terms of our attention, and we bring our inner attention, and we also seek to have an equal, matching, outer attention. So the reason that we meet in the Ritz, or nice places like this, is because it's a nice place. The reason that we wear our best clothes is because we are in dressing well for the event, bringing our best to the satsang. And it all adds up to respecting your spiritual path, bringing your best to it so that you can get the most out of it. Now I don't know if you've ever been to India, Nepal, China, Thailand. These countries in the Far East where Buddhism flourished or still flourish, they have beautiful, beautiful The Buddhist monasteries and temples are as beautiful as the Emperor's castle or the King's castle. There is a tremendous refinement to a Buddhist meeting, a Buddhist temple. We love places that are refined, that are beautiful. We find that a place that has this refined energy, this refined attention, enables our meditation. It enables us to focus, it enables us to bring our best to this satsang. In the Far East, the monks and lay people wear robes. Now this is really out of a cultural condition. If we were meeting in India and we were Indians, we would bring our best to it by wearing the best clothing in that culture, by dressing in the best way in our culture. And we're Americans, so it would be silly if we wore costumes from another culture. That would be very odd. So authentic Buddhism can exist in another the spirit of Buddhism, although we might wear jackets and ties. And instead of meeting in a temple, we meet in the best next place, the Palace of the Ritz. And then we have a nice experience together. It's a good thing to pay attention, to dress in nicely, do your best. Do your best. That's good. And then we meet here in satsang, in this meeting, the spiritual meeting, so that we move along the pathway to enlightenment, and we can see the miracle of life. You know, life is a miracle. Life is the miracle. The world we live in is miraculous. The stars, the blue sky, you know, why is the sky blue? It's a miracle. Life is a miracle. You're a miracle. Your mind, your thoughts, the opportunities, your higher self, your dreams. It's all a miracle. It's amazing. Now, most people don't see the miracle. Most people completely miss it. They look at the world in a way where they completely miss the happiness, the opportunities, and the spiritual life of being. And then they're unhappy. There's a story about a guy, I mean it was a joke, about a guy who was caught in a flood, and then the flood waters rise and he goes to the roof of his house. And he's standing on there and the water is rising more and more. And then there's a guy going by in a boat. And then, well, this guy, first of all, he's very pious. So he says to God, God, send me a miracle. Save me. Bring me a miracle. And then there's a guy going by in the boat, and the guy throws him a lifesaver, one of those floating devices. And he just lets it go on by, and he says, God will send me a miracle. And then he says, God, please send me a miracle. And then another guy comes by in a boat, send me a miracle. And so the guy says, okay, whatever, and he goes off, leaves him there. And then a helicopter comes. They drop a rope ladder, and they say, climb up. And he says, no thanks, God will send me a miracle. And then the helicopter goes, okay, and they move on. And then eventually And eventually the waters rise higher and higher, and eventually sweep him off, and he drowns. Then he reappears in heaven, and he's sitting there talking to, who is it, Peter or Gabriel at the gate, or Peter Gabriel at the gate? And he says, why has God forsaken me? I asked him for a miracle. And then the angel says, well, we sent you a lifesaver, a boat, and, you know, a helicopter. He just didn't take it. We're sorry. So we really have to look at life in an intelligent and balanced way. First from the disposition of understanding that life is a miracle. It's miraculous and that the things in our lives are miracles. They are miraculous. So when you have something that works for you, something that helps you, helps you to develop yourself, helps you to be happy, saves you from drowning, all of these things are miracles. You know, someone who starts off on a career path will just look at it like, well, I've got a good job, and I guess this is a logical thing to do. And they'll go into their career, you know, step-by-step, learning what they need to learn, start off as a, you know, a junior person, work their way up, climbing the corporate ladder, or whatever job path it is. But then when they look at what it affords their life, the ability to have some entertainment, the ability to go on a vacation once in a while. These are powerful things. They're actually miracles. It's just that people don't see it like that. People, as soon as they get get something they want someone else. You know, you look at people who make the top salaries, you know, who have really great jobs, are they happy? Or people who are just independently wealthy, you know, they just have money from an inheritance or something, are they happy? No, you know, not most of the time. Most of the time they are still still filled with desire, seeking other things. This is the way that people miss seeing the miracle of life. They just miss it completely. They're caught in the self. They're caught in the small-minded view of the universe, the small-minded view of life, the dark view of life. This is the wall of limitation that most people on this planet experience, see life as a miracle. They don't see all the great blessings in their life as the rope ladder to safety. They look at everything as, I want this or I'm afraid of this. Most people live lives of desperation, lives filled with desire and fear, filled with themselves, their limitations, their personal history. People live lives of concept, that of habits of looking at the world that they can't break out of. They're completely stuck in a way of looking at life, a way of being in life. And as these limited concepts encompass your attention completely, you find that life is not happy. Life is filled with sorrow. So I was talking to the older group earlier, and they understand that a little bit more than you. Because when you're young, you're filled with more energy and more dreams. So you can look at things and say, Oh, yeah, you know, I got all the time in the universe. I got these grand goals and then I'm going to get them. You look at everything and everything seems great right now. But things are transient in life. When you experience joy, then you could come up and be happy and say, yay. the I Ching, the book of changes, teaches us that everything that is one way will turn into its opposite. So when you experience joy, it's going to change. It's going to change. So, you know, the older students in the last class knew that. They knew that by heart because they were at one point young, filled with energy, filled with, you know, hopes and dreams. They were, you know, happy with, you know, all the stuff they were doing. They were experiencing their joys, but then they saw what happens in life. And what happens in life is life starts to weigh down on you. Things change, comes down on you pretty hard sometimes. Look at your parents, or look at people that you've worked with who are older and look at their condition of awareness. They fall into a very heavy condition. They fall into very locked karmas. Adults, that's it's a little bit more serious. In fact, that's why I have the older people in a separate class, because they've gone through some of these experiences of expecting life to turn out a certain way, and then it doesn't. But most people end up having lives that are really filled with self and suffering and joys are transient. That's the condition of most people's awareness on this planet. So when you're a smart student of the spiritual path, you see this transient nature. You see it, you're aware that this happens. And then you develop yourself in the spiritual disciplines so that you move beyond a transient awareness of life. So for the older students, they have that as a blessing. They have the ability to know that their dreams, their personal ambitions against life don't necessarily always work out, and that they come to the spiritual path because they're seeking peace. When you're younger, you're usually looking for clarity and personal power. You come with these open-minded, wonderful wonderful aspirations for liberation, for spiritual knowledge. And that's good. That's fantastic. When you're older, you've been beat down by life. And you come back and you're like, I just need peace. I need to be able to get out of the suffering of life. So it's good. It's good either way. But But the reason I have those students in a separate class is because I can work with them at that level. They have seen the ups and downs. And they get beat down, and it's hard to lift them up. So there's a lot more energy that I have to use to lift them up. For you guys, it's a little bit happier. It's a little bit brighter. But you can't be ignorant or foolish. You have to understand the transient nature of life. Really, look at older people. Very, very, very few of them have attained their dreams. And the ones who have attained great goals, like built a business, became a rock star, or whatever, a movie star. Look at them. And even though they had the power to attain the goals, they're not happy. They are not at peace. What brings you to peace, what brings you to happiness, what brings you beyond the transient awareness of the world where you experience joy and pain, where you're locked in suffering, the way out is to see the miracle of life. And to see the miracle of life, it's very important to meditate. Meditation exposes eternity. When you meditate, you stop the world, you stop your thoughts, you stop everything. When you first sit down to meditate, when you're a beginner, as soon as you close your eyes and turn on the music, start to have visions of your life appear, thoughts, concerns, there's bills to pay, my boss is mad at me, I've got a term paper due. All of these things come up, they are present in your mind, and this is your life in its essential form. It's a reflection of of worldly or surface attention. But as you meditate, as you practice, as you develop your meditation, you slow your mind down and you gain the ability to detach from thoughts. So that is, as you sit there and meditate and a thought arises, Oh my gosh, I have a paper due for a class. You're able to recognize that that's a thought. You're able to let go of the thought and bring the focus back to the chakra. You will, after a period of time, slow down thought. Your mind will become strong. Those are like mental push-ups, you could say. Every time that you notice that thought, you let go of it and refocus, your mind becomes stronger, stronger, and you develop a greater amount of mental clarity and personal power. And with this mental clarity, you're able to just let go of thoughts. You'll notice in the beginning, tons of thoughts. And after some practice, the thoughts start to slow down. They start to slow down. You have times where there's no thought, and there's times where there's just great luminosity. And that is when you are experiencing the miracle. When you can stop thought, when you don't think of it. And the concern with your boyfriend vanishes when it's not in your thoughts. Through meditation, through focusing on the chakras, through bringing up a very refined energy, you go beyond all thought. You go beyond these very specific views of life. You go beyond your concerns and your feelings and you experience the miracle of life directly. Beyond thought there is a beautiful luminosity, an emptiness of being, a stillness, a silence. And that is something you can't explain, you can't describe, but it is something that is illuminating to your spirit. It is the spiritual experience. It is something so fantastic and bright and wonderful, enriching and enlightening. It is Sattva. So the best way to break out of the darkness of a habituated, limited life is to meditate. When you meditate, you see the miracle. It's there. And it's a matter for you to do. It's just stopping thought. It's your meditation practice. You reach beyond yourself into the light of the infinite. And in that experience, you're happy, you find peace that way, you gain personal power, you gain clarity of mind, and then you could go into your life and see beyond the limited views of life. So if you practice meditation, after you see the light, you see that miracle, then when you're interfacing with the world, when you're at work, school, dealing with your friends or family, you can see great brightness. You can see a greater perspective. You don't find yourself so stuck in self. You don't find yourself so stuck in the same reactions to the same people. You don't find yourself doing the same things that cause darkness and limitation and disempowerment in your life, you go into your life stronger and happier and brighter. So meditation is the foundation of Buddhist practice. It is powerful and beautiful and it is the principal we come to see the miracle of life. There are other kinds of miracles. There are miracles that are called Siddhas. And Siddhas are powers, you might say. And you know, they're the kind of powers that you've probably read about in the Bible or in some spiritual books here and there, there are things like walking on water, levitating, healing the ill, all sorts of powers. And then there's other kinds of powers. In martial arts, martial arts is a big study of powers. In martial arts, you can watch the Chinese kung fu movies, you can watch these people, you know, jumping up into the trees and, you know, flying around. So funny. You know, you can see them doing all these magnificent things. And those are what we would call sit-ups. There's a lot of sit-ups associated to the martial arts, causing damage to others. And then there's a lot of Siddhas associated to healing. And there's all sorts of Siddha powers. And they're real. And there are different people around the world who have different Siddhas. There's martial artists. You can go to a dojo with a good sensei and he'll have some cultivation of those Siddhas. You can go to a great healer and they'll have some capability. There's also mystic types of Siddha powers. There's a Siddha power of killing a yak, with mine bullets. Yeah, there's all sorts of Siddha powers. There's the power of the Tummo, which was very popular in Tibet because it was so cold. And of course, that's how to stay warm when it's cold. You know, these days we have heaters and jackets. Although, you know, when we go out to the desert trips, or we call them power trips, when we go out to these places in nature, whether they're sacred mountains, sacred deserts, or, you know, very soon my students and I are going to Hawaii and we go out into the ocean. We go underwater. It's really fantastic. And we go to these beautiful places that are sacred that have a very high, powerful vibration. And in those places, you know, there's also a lot of the mystic experiences. That's a very important part of mystical Buddhism. So this is a form of Buddhism that is Vajrayana, which is a sect that's called the fast path to enlightenment. But it also includes mysticism. So if you're reading the Enlightenment workbook, you're learning about what mysticism is in the second half of the book. And it's basically things like mindfulness, observing your energy, seeing when you gain awareness and when you lose awareness, simple things like that. But when you go out to places, sacred places, places of power, then it's magical. It's a miracle unto itself. So we have a tremendous fun time on the pathway to enlightenment because we have a lot of drive to sit there and go through dealing with your thoughts. When your thoughts come up, they seem to just bombard you with limitation. And it takes a lot of patience. It takes a lot of earnest effort. But when you engage in it and you still your thoughts, the results are always very enlightening, very powerful, very beautiful. And when you do it, you'll see why it's worth it. You see that when you can still your thoughts and experience a greater vision of the world, of your life, that there's a great happiness, a happiness that is not transient, a happiness that is eternal, a, maybe we'll call it more a peace, a kind of peace, a spiritual peace that you gain from spiritual practice. And it's completely fantastic. It's a wonderful thing. That's why we do it. But you have to sit there and go through it. Now, miracle in satsang, in sitting with an enlightened teacher, there's a miracle. And the miracle of enlightenment. So, an enlightened teacher who has mastered meditation is perfect meditation. So when I sit with you, I am in meditation. I am in Samadhi, which is the highest kind of pinnacle of meditation. It is the unity of all of life. It is being in nirvana. So although in the physical I have a body and I can talk at the same time. This experience is an experience that extends to you. In satsang, when we're together, when I'm teaching you, I'm teaching you not just in terms of words and concepts, but there is an actual experience of enlightenment when you sit in meditation with me, when we're here in satsang. There is an actual experience of the light. When you sit with an enlightened teacher in satsang, you can see the light. It's visible. You can see the gold light. It's gold in color. If you look at life, you look beyond the surface of the physical, look beyond the outer forms of the subtle physical. And when you look in and see the nature of your mind, the nature of all things, you'll see that life, your mind, everything is luminous. in its essence is the transcendental light. It is a light that brings things together. It is, you know, you can call it love. It is what brings things together into unity. And in its most essential form, the light is gold in color. You know, beyond the surface colors of life, there is a color of the light of enlightenment and it is gold in color. So that light is the experience of enlightenment. Now a lot of people see the gold light right away. It's pretty easy to see when a teacher is sitting in satsang, teaching you. When a teacher is in samadhi, it's pretty easy to see the light. And if that's the case, don't worry about it, don't beat yourself up, just continue to meditate. When someone can't see the light, it's just because they're wrapped up in a strong concept of life, so strong that they really can't see the subtle physical. Yet the subtle physical, the light of enlightenment exists. It's in everything. But in this experience, when we are together, there is a miracle of light. It's the miracle of enlightenment. You can see the light. It's a golden light. You might say it's a golden aura. And sometimes it seems to fill the room. Sometimes it just looks like a gold aura around things, around me. Sometimes the aura fills the golden light. Yes, it's true. And whether you see it or not, when you're in satsang, you are experiencing that light. It's not a thing that you just hear about, conceptualized. conceptualize. I'm an esoteric teacher. I have an awareness that might be deeper in terms of the spiritual nature of your mind. And I know the structures and forms and techniques of teaching. And so I teach. I teach you. What I teach is beyond words, but it's an experience. It's an actual experience of light, of enlightenment. And you can take this experience and use it to step up into a greater capability of meditation, a greater awareness of life. When you come to the spiritual path, you've got to be open-minded. You don't know everything. Be open to learning what you don't know, what you can't see. Enlightenment is invisible to the physical world. But boy, what a difference! The physical world is the opposite of enlightenment. The awakened spirit is infinite. There's no limitation. Enlightenment is the awareness of the miracle of life, the unmodified awareness. The awareness that is not limited by mental concept, not limited by fear or desire. Enlightenment is the direct awareness of this miracle of being. And it's pretty happy. It is joyful. So there's people who see the light and there's people who don't. In my school, they just had a feeling that something was good, the teaching seemed authentic and powerful and strong. They saw benefits in the program, in the study. They didn't really maybe understand everything or get everything or see everything, but they understood that there were benefits that were powerful. So they continued on in their study. And then after a while, when you've meditated enough, then you really do move from a state of the physical attention to a greater state of subtle physical and spiritual attention. It happens, and it doesn't make you spaced out. It just makes you more aware of the many dimensions of life. Buddhists are actually quite pragmatic. We're intelligent about our lives. And we want to be successful and strong in our lives. It also helps us to be happy. So you got to be open-minded, have a sense of humor. Some people have had accomplishments in their life. They've mastered an art. Maybe it's painting, maybe it's martial arts, maybe it's anything. In Taoism, they say, if you can master one thing, then you know a whole lot about everything. They say, don't waste your time doing a whole bunch of different things, because if you focus on one thing, and you master it, then you learn something about all of life. There's a deep wisdom that comes from that. So if you've been good at something in your life, if you've moved from of being a beginner to intermediate to advanced in something, then you have looked beneath the surface of life a little bit more, and you've seen that there is greater dimensionality to any subject. Now, when it comes to the eye, so it's very, very subtle. But as you uncover the spirit, the light, the miracle of life, you find that there is great dimensionality. There is something to be seen, and there is something that means all of the difference between self and enlightenment. There is something to the spiritual path. It's something that brings you to peace, to personal power, to clarity and success in life. That is the miracle, the miracle of life itself. There is something to it. So if you've ever taken on a task or taken on a study and you've seen it from the surface and you've drilled down into it and you've seen the greater dimensionality, then you know something powerful and wonderful. So, we are going to do another meditation session. We will again focus on three chakras, one song each. And I'd like you to still your mind, relax, focus, and we will look deeper into the miracle of being. Very nice. So this music as a form of yoga, as a way to develop our spiritual awareness. We listen to music in meditation, especially in the beginning, because it's very helpful for beginners. You know, beginners have a lot of trouble learning to focus and concentrate. Yet, in our culture, we've grown accustomed to listening to things, listening to music. And when we listen to music, we kind of put our thought patterns aside and we open our mind a little more. So that is a good disposition for meditation. That's why we meditate to music. It also is nice in a group because it helps us time our meditation. And then if someone's coughing next to you or or something, it doesn't interrupt you as much. So we meditate to music for those reasons, but we also make the music that we meditate to, and the students who are musicians, do this as a form of spiritual practice. So we work with the things in our lives, our work, our hobbies, not in just an ordinary way. We make them a part of our spiritual practice. They become karma yoga, an exercise of spiritual mindfulness. And then it makes the things that we do in our life, our work and our play, it makes it part of the spiritual path. It brings a greater awareness and success into what we do because we're paying attention more, we're focusing on it, and it gives us a greater ability to be happy and in peace and balance with what we do. The music is music written by yogis. It's quite nice. So let's take a break. Take a break for six or seven minutes.

0:49:53
Quick break.

0:49:54
Use the restroom, have some coffee, get ready for the next round of meditation. Thank you all very much.

0:50:07
So, I'm going to go ahead and get my coffee. Oh, I'm sorry. Oh, I'm sorry. Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
