0:00:00
Alright, very good. So, we'll begin this evening with meditation, as we always begin our evenings. together for three songs, one song for each chakra. All right, very good. So tonight I'm going to show you yoga. You that we meditate to. It is yoga. It is a product of yoga. Our music is done by yogis and it's created for meditation. It's created as a way of selfless giving to others for their spiritual practice and it's also a means of the pathway to enlightenment for the yogis who perform the music, who compose the music. A little bit later, the group of new music yogis will get together with Mudra and myself and talk a little bit more. But tonight, we'll talk about yoga. We'll experience yoga. Tonight you will see yoga. First of all, a lot of Westerners have a lot of, they have a great difficulty in really understanding what yoga is. We have a lot of concepts and ideas already in our culture from movies or books or friends who told us something. And I think one of the reasons why people have trouble understanding what yoga really hear me say yoga they think I'm saying yogurt. No no, it's different. I'm talking about yoga. And if I tell you I'm going to give you the ancient Asian recipe for yoga, well I'm not talking about food. So don't ask me questions like, what kind of fruit goes with this yoga? I'm talking about yoga. Now, yoga is a Sanskrit word. It is the union of the finite and the infinite of man and woman, time and space, the physical existence and spiritual existence. Yoga is a pathway to that union. It is a way that you can experience the unity of being, the unity of life. So it's both the definitions the definition of both unity and the way to unity. Yoga is very practical in its goals and it's also very infinite in its goals. The goal of yoga ultimately is enlightenment. It is that unity with all of being. When you experience the pinnacle experience of yoga, which is called Samadhi, it's enlightened mind. It is the experience of complete unity, of completeness, of being. And in that experience, you are fulfilled. You are not lacking. In that experience, you move beyond suffering and into a balanced and perfect and happy awareness of life. Really the correct and true awareness of life in all its forms, in its goal because yoga helps you in this moment with your current situation. So it's not just that it's some high and lofty, someday I will experience spiritual enlightenment and meanwhile I'll just have a hard time and feel bad. But yoga is an experience of maybe a little bit more light and detachment, spiritual elevation. Now, yoga is now. It's dealing with your mind, with your problems, with your karma, everything. Everything that is a cause of suffering or limitation, yoga deals with it now. It addresses it. And through yoga you get a little higher, you get a little brighter, you are able to understand your life, your mind, get control, and get clarity. And it improves your condition of life now. It helps you deal with the difficulties that you have now. And even if you've got the most impossible difficulties, yoga is a way through the impossible. So yoga is both practical and infinite in its goals. So we engage in yoga to feel better, to be brighter now and in the future. From now until, you know, in life, we engage in yoga so that we have a brighter existence, an existence that has less suffering. So there's four types of yoga, primarily. Four types of yoga. There's Karma Yoga, that is the yoga of spiritual action, and that's a yoga that we focus on a lot. There's Bhakti Yoga, that is a devotional yoga, and that is the yoga of discernment, the yoga of discrimination, the yoga of knowledge, seeing, understanding, comprehending life in its true reality. That's to be one of the more advanced units. And then there's mysticism. Mysticism is the pathway to enlightenment through the study of power, essentially. Through power, places of power, dimensions of power, the awareness of power. So with mysticism, you can see that there's the study of Don Juan. This is the study of mysticism. We also practice mysticism. We have a strong component of mysticism and karma yoga in our practice. And it's kind of useful, I think very useful for Westerners. It's a good mix of yogas for the West and for our current situation. So Karma Yoga is a yoga where you do something. You take action and through action, through attention to action, you really excel. You get higher and brighter. We have Bhakti Yoga. Bhakti Yoga is basically where you see one being as being kind of the essential God or enlightenment figure, and then you love that being. Because it's easy to, if you come around an enlightened person, or if God happens to be present, and you have some accessibility, then if you love that enlightened person, then it's very easy to have very high spiritual transformation. And yana yoga is very contemplated and it's very advanced. Meditation itself is a practice of yana yoga. When you stop thought, you push away everything that's not real. You stop thought, everything that's unreal goes away. And then you're left with yana yoga, the perfect discernment of true reality. So there's these different types of yoga, even though they might be very different in its outer nature, but in its inner nature, it leads to the same place, enlightenment. So in a bhakti school, the devotees might sit around the guru and chant and bow, and and a yana yogi would think that's very strange. A yana yogi would sit in meditation silence and not focus on any being. So, you know, even in that there could be a way of seeing a big difference. When a yana yogi could say, you heretic, go away. If you don't love the Beloved, then there's something wrong with you. So there's all that funny stuff. In Karma, you'll be just work. Yes. Just work. And then in mysticism, we're off in the desert, meditating, experiencing different magical

0:13:43
dimensions. Mysticism is fun.

0:13:45
That's a fun one. Now, in the West, when we think about yoga, we often just think about Hatha yoga, which is the yoga of stretching. So that's what's very popular here in the West. And most Westerners say, oh yoga, yeah. I take yoga classes sometimes. And we, you know, sometimes in yoga classes they'll meditate. And we kind of just think that's yoga. But in the East it's very different. In the East, yoga is not seen to be anything to do with the physical. It's all contemplative, meditative exercises for gaining Siddha powers. Those are the miraculous powers that some teachers have or some yogis have. And also to ultimately attain enlightenment. So in the West here, we have a very physical view of yoga. We kind of missed the point. Karma yoga really is an aspect of... sorry, Hatha yoga is an aspect of karma yoga. It's action of the physical body. And so even though we think it's just physical, if someone really practices Hatha yoga in an enlightened way, they will be doing karma yoga, essentially. In fact, every kind of spiritual practice, every religion, every spiritual practice, is going to be made up of the basic four yogas, primarily. So, in Christianity, we have bhakti, primarily bhakti yoga where people kind of pray to Jesus or God or the Trinity and they just pray to that thing and say, you are God. I devote myself to you. I pray that you give me stuff. Please. Yeah. Oh, God. Please give me stuff. Yeah, everyone gets to that point if you're a quasi-Christian or definitely Christian. You get to the point where you really want something bad enough so you'll pray. Or you really don't want something so you'll pray. So that's devotion. That's fossey. Yeah, so every form of spiritual practice is made up of these four yogas. Ours is made up of primarily a lot of karma yoga and accented by a little bit of mysticism. And you could Zen is more yana yoga. Zen has a great yana yoga focus. You can come up with every type of spiritual school you've ever seen and be able to say, oh, they're pulling very strongly from this yoga or this yoga and that yoga. So it's kind of interesting. Now, Buddhism came along thousands of years after yoga. And Buddha has really incorporated the essential teachings of yoga into his path, the path of the Four Noble Truths. What happened over time is we just started calling the Buddhist path, Buddhist yoga. doesn't follow, doesn't speak about this precise yoga or that precise yoga, has incorporated the aspects of the four yogas in his teachings. And you could say that ultimately, Buddha's teachings are yana yoga. However, there is a strong component of karma yoga in the Buddhist teaching. So when we look at what Buddha taught as his yoga, we come up with the Eightfold Path. This is what you got to do. The Three Noble Truths prior to the Eightfold Path are realizations of the pain of life. And this is very important. It's very important to understand that life is suffering, there is pain in life, and that the Eightfold Path is the way to liberation. So it's very important to understand that. Have that understanding before you start off on the path, because you won't succeed, you won't do it if you don't understand that your life has a major malfunction. So Buddha's teachings on the Eightfold Path have things like right action Right action and right livelihood are karma yoga. They are karma yoga. So we focus on that, especially in the West. It's very necessary to focus on right livelihood. It's something that's overlooked in the West, that spiritual practitioners do not come to balance with. They stay very conceptual and they usually have a feeling of incapability because jobs in the West are so incongruous. You'll start off thinking, yeah, I want the right job, so maybe I should become a nun or maybe I'll just volunteer for this or that, or I'll just start farming. You start getting into these ideas that don't create a powerful life. It makes it difficult to create a powerful life in the West, in Western Buddhism here, we have to focus on right livelihood in the true way, in a powerful way, so that you can have a livelihood that is powerful, that works in this place. So the great thing about yoga and about Buddhist teachings is that they are based on truth, based on ultimate truth. And you're able to experience that through these teachings, no matter what culture you live in, you don't have to be in India or somewhere in China or something. You can be here in America and practice Buddhism perfectly, So there's a great focus on karma yoga in the Buddhist teaching of right livelihood. It's very important. Now no matter what kind of yoga you do, there is, I guess, two principles that you have to observe again and again and again. You have to watch it. You have to see it in your yoga, moment by moment. Those two principles are selflessness and impeccability. Your work in Karma Yoga must be selfless work. Otherwise, your ego will obscure all light. It will obscure the light of the yoga. So, you have to constantly observe your selflessness in your work. It's very different than what most people do. The world of work, the world of livelihood, is filled with egotism. People are very, very, very attached to their self-definition in what they do. And it's a tremendous mistake. And it brings nothing but suffering and sorrow. It's very important to observe yourself in your work. Observe your actions, your thoughts, your words, your intentions, and observe selflessness in it. It makes things brighter, and it makes your work go better. It helps you to be more successful in your work when you're selfless. So if you seek selflessness in your work, then you'll be a lot happier and successful. The second principle of yoga to observe moment by moment in your work is impeccability. You can't be a schlep. You can't be someone who doesn't feel like doing things, trying to get by, you know. Lazy, right? You can't be lazy. You have to excel. You have to give it your all with every task, any task. You've got to give it your all. your mind into the moment, focus on the task at hand, and do the best you can. If you do that, then even boring tasks will become fascinating and bright and powerful. You can spend all day at work honing your attention, becoming stronger. You'll develop personal power by observing impeccability in your work. So it's very advantageous to observe selflessness and impeccability. So I just gave an example within Karma Yoga, but it applies to all yogas. So this is the principle that you'll always observe. These are the yoga guidelines. And this works just as well when we go out to the desert, when you're practicing mysticism. It's very important to be selfless. It's very important to be impeccable. It's always luminous. Yoga is the plot. Yeah, that's it. So, you know, you're watching a movie and you know how some movies take a long time to get around to the plot? You're just kind of introducing them to the characters and you're seeing the little dramas and situations they have going on. And then all of a sudden, oh, okay, there's a plot, right? And so now, yoga, the plot. When you have yoga in your life, then all of a sudden, you know, your thoughts, your words, your actions. You know, this is the layout, the setting of your life. Awareness is a light that are just unimaginable. You just don't know what they are until you change your life, until you're selfless, until you're impeccable, until you follow yoga. brings you into so much satisfaction and relieves you really from the karmas that would cause great suffering. And it's so powerful and so bright that it's the plot of your life.

0:29:13
The plot has come.

0:29:14
You know, you might say, well, I have a plot going on already. Right? You know, I had the setting, and I had a plot occur, right? And I even had a couple plot changes. It's like that movie was from dusk till dawn. You start off with a bank robber movie or something like that, fugitives going for the Mexican border, and then it ends up with vampires. Yeah, you've had your plot twists already, I'm sure. The is a life that will bring you into suffering. Yoga is a way to transcend self and thereby transcend suffering. That's why the Buddha's teachings are, you know, the first three are so that there's a reason to do yoga. It's incredible. So, when we're looking at yoga, when we want to understand yoga, when we want to know how to be in yoga, what to do in yoga. It's very good to look at the lives of successful yogis. So we can look at the biography of Tibet's great yogi, Milarepa. And from learning about his life, and seeing the difficulties that he experienced, you're able to see, you know, that's a model for how you should be. Milarepa, in his lifetime, became fully enlightened through the practice of Karma Yoga, it's a wonderful template to understand how you should be. So, the story of Milarepa began a thousand years ago in Tibet. And Milarepa was a son of a wealthy merchant and when Milarapa was a young boy, his father fell sick and died. And he left all of his wealth to his sister and brother and he said, you know, when Milarapa, you know, and he said, take care of my family, my wife, my son Milarapa, and my daughter. And when Milarapa is old enough, give him his inheritance. So the brother and sister, after the wealthy merchant brother passed away, they got greedy and they started squandering his wealth or using it for themselves. They just said, okay, it's mine now. I'll let my brothers out of the way. And they did take care of Milorapa's family. However, they didn't take very good care of them. They left them kind of poor and hungry while they lived well on Milorapa's father's wealth. So, as Milorapa was growing up, he had a difficult existence. But his mother was really pissed off, because he married this wealthy merchant, and then when he died, she didn't get the money, and then she was really upset about it. Now when Milarepa came of age for the inheritance, they asked for the inheritance and the brother and sister said, nope, sorry, tough, we won't give it to you. So Milarepa was here, around 18 years old, and his mother was very upset that she was treated so poorly and that they suffered so much for 18 or 10 years or so. And then she sent Milarapa to go learn sorcery, black magic, because she wanted him to get revenge. And he dutifully followed his mother's direction. She said, I want you to do this, I want you to learn this, because we need to get revenge. She sent him away. He said, okay, good son, right? Go and learn black magic for mommy. And then he went away and he excelled in his study. He just took to it like like water for a fish. Okay so after his period of study when he had completed his black magic certificate program he returned. He returned home, but he realized that even though he did well in his studies, that he didn't have the right spells to get revenge. So his mother really said, you've got to learn more. You've got to get the spells that are necessary so we can get revenge. So he said, okay. So he begged his master. He said, please teach me more magic. And he explained the situation and how upset his mother was. And his magic master looked into it and he felt that they had been wronged. Also, Milorasa's mother was quite destitute at this time. And she said, if we can't get revenge, I'm going to just kill myself because I'm so upset. So the magic master said, okay, all right, I'm going to teach you the serious stuff that I was holding back from all the others, because it seems like you have a situation where you need to know it. So he taught him the serious, deep dark evil and secrets of magic, and how to really do some damage. So when Milarepa mastered the technique, he goes back to his little town, and he casts a spell on them. He waits for a while until they're having a party. His uncle and his aunt are having a party in the house. There's a whole bunch of people there. And then Milarepa casts his spell and kills a few people. It kind of knocks the house down and kills a few people and injures a bunch of people. And then he's like, okay, that'll be counted as revenge, right? And his mother was so happy. She was happy, but it didn't improve her life. Revenge never does. It only makes your life more difficult. But she was happy that she got a little of that revenge. And the problem was, now the villagers were very, very afraid of and angry at Milarapa, so he's kind of banished. He's out there living in the hills somewhere. If they found him, they would try to kill him. He had to hang out away from town. He's sitting there living amongst the mountains, and then this thing hits him. He's not happy. In fact, he's in great suffering. He keeps on having these dreams and nightmares and visions about the evil deeds that he did. He keeps seeing the faces of these people who he killed and who he hurt, and he's suffering greatly because of it. There's a big rule in magic and the mystic art. Don't hurt anybody. It's a big rule, unless it's self-defense. But don't hurt anybody, because if you hurt someone, magic is so strong and powerful that it has a tremendous karmic kick. So hurting someone with power is worse than hurting someone with your hands, or at least equal. It has a very big karmic kick. So he felt terrible. horrible thing even though you know part of the intention. To. Obey his mother and mother said she's going to kill herself so he was trying to do the right thing. But. It's just the wrong thing to. It is against life to have that intention to carry out. In any form killing. killing people. Therefore, he was suffering the bad karma of his actions. So he was miserable, miserable, miserable. And he went to his teacher, his magic teacher, and told him, I'm pretty miserable. And then his magic teacher said, yeah, me too. I'm getting old now and I've just had a lifetime of killing people with magic and doing crazy things. I'm starting to get concerned for my next incarnation. I don't want to go to hell. I've done some bad things. So Milarepa says, well, is there a way out of this?" And then the magic teacher says, yeah, Buddhism. Buddhism is a way that you can transcend karma. And he said, but I'm too old to do it. So why don't you go and find a Buddhist teacher and maybe you can help us both out. So Milorath was very happy. He says, okay, great, there's a way out of my suffering. So he hears about a great Buddhist teacher and he goes to him and the Buddhist teacher says, oh yeah, definitely. You can definitely transcend your suffering. In fact, simply hearing these teachings can make you enlightened. So Milorov says, oh, that's great. This is exactly what I need. And he goes, you know, becomes a Dovah, he becomes a little monk and he's sitting there in the temple. And, you know, he hears about the teachings. And he says, yeah, this is exciting. But then he doesn't really follow them. Because he's like, I heard about them. I'm waiting for the enlightenment to happen. But after a little while, his nightmares come back, and his horrific visions, and his bad feelings about what he did come back. So he goes over to his teacher and says, hey, that stuff didn't go away, and I'm not enlightened, so what do I do? And his Buddhist teacher says, oh, you're such a bad student. You didn't even meditate. You didn't even follow the teachings. However, what will help you is if you go and study with my own teacher, Martha. Now, Martha was an enlightened teacher, and he was well-known and had a great deal of followers and success in his school. So this guy says, oh yeah, you need Marpa. Take two of these, call me in the morning. So he sent him on to Marpa and then Milarepa goes to this great teacher Marpa and says, hey, I got sent over here and Marpa is like, I'm not sure if I want to accept you as a student. And Milorath is like, I need to be your student because I got to get over the suffering. I'm suffering so much. I'm so unhappy. I did some bad stuff. I got to get through this. So what do I do? And then Marpa said, okay, I'll teach you the Buddha Dharma, spiritual teaching for enlightenment, if you build me a tower. And he said, okay, so come over here. I need you to build me a tower here, okay, 70-story tower. And Lila Rafa says, all right, okay, so that's the deal. I've got to build you a tower, and then you'll teach me. Okay, I'll do it. That's the payment I got to do. So he, you know, he gets the instructions for what to do and he starts building the tower. And you know, it's out of rock, so he's putting the rocks in place. And he's about a third of the way done, maybe halfway done. And then Marfa comes over and, you know, it's a seven-story tower, so it takes him a while. He never built a tower before, so he had to figure things out, and work on it really hard so it wouldn't fall over. And he gets it about halfway done, and Marfa comes over and says, well, that's in the wrong place. Yeah, yeah, okay. So, and then he's like, well, it doesn't matter that much? I mean, it's not that far away. And Martha's like, no, it has to be in the right place, otherwise you don't get the teaching. Miller-Roth was like, okay, all right, all right, I'll just do this right. So he takes all the rocks down, and he goes over to the place in the east and he starts building it again. All right and again he builds it up about halfway and then Marpa comes over and says, that's in the wrong place. And Miloraf is like, no you definitely said to do it here. And then Marpa is like, no impossible I didn't say that. You got to build it over here on the west side. And then Miloraf is like, you totally said to build it here. Look, you got to do it right, otherwise I'm not going to give you the teaching. And Miller-Roth was like, I need this teaching. I got to get over my suffering. Okay, so she said, all right, all right, all right, fine. I'll do it. So he takes down all the rocks, goes over to the west side, builds a tower. Now a third of the way through, guess what happens? Marpa comes back. He says, what are you doing? That's the wrong place. He's like, you got to put it in the north. And the north was the first place where he started. So another rock was like, no, wait, no, stop. He's like, you told me to do it here, and you said you were sure. And Martha's like, no, you got to do it right. So Miller-Rodman says, okay, but wait, let me get some of these other monks here. He gets the other monks, and then he's like, these guys are my witness. Where do you want this tower? And Martha says, it has to be in the north. And then he goes, all right, you guys saw that. Everyone agrees, right? Okay, we're going to build it in the north. So Narappa's like, okay, takes down those rocks, goes to the north back where he first started building the tower, and he's building the tower again. Now the other monks really like him because he's a nice guy, and he works hard, and they don't understand why Marpa's giving him such a hard time, so they want to help them out. They come on over and there's like five of the monks pick up this one big corner stone and they bring it up to the fifth floor. They put it there. They're like, cool, we're helping you out. As soon as they do that, Martha's coming, so they just run away. Then Martha says, that big stone up there, how did that get there? And he said, Milarepa says, well, you know, some of the monks helped me out. And then Rapa says, take it down, it's wrong. Take it down, fix it, and you can put it back up yourself. So then Milarepa has to go up and undo some more work. And Milarepa is just having a really, really tough time. So he does that, he continues on building and building and building, and then Marpa comes over, he's not done yet, and Marpa remembers, yeah, okay, so he already has witnesses saying that I told him to build this tower here. And he says, you know what Milarepa, I need you to build me a meditation hall over there by the temple. So he says, okay, this is impossible at this point. Milrop is thinking, this guy is just gonna have me running around building things, and he's never gonna give me the teaching. But I have no other choice. If I don't do it, I definitely won't get the teaching. If I do it I might but he's just so upset because he just keeps on building things and he doesn't even get to finish the tower and now he's got to build a meditation hall so he's like so confused and he talks to some of the other monks and they say no no my book gives a lot of teachings yeah he does it every day some guys just walking off the street and he gives them the teaching so he's definitely going to give you the teachings. And Miloradov is like, okay. He's like, this is hopeless, but I'm just going to keep doing it. So he builds, you know, a meditation hall. He got pretty good at building by now. So he's doing it nice, and it's working out, and going well. And then Marpa decides to have an initiation for some of the new students. And Milarapa says, oh, maybe I could sneak in on that initiation, and then I'll all of a sudden become a monk, and I'll get the teaching. So there's this line of monks coming up for the initiation, and Marpa's like, giving them spiritual teachings and the wonderful transmission of Buddhist knowledge. And Milarepa gets up there and Marpa says, what are you doing here? You can't get this. You've got to build that meditation hall and then build that tower. And then he, Marpa, he's intense. Yeah. And he keeps on getting very angry that Milarepa didn't do things right. So at this time where Milarepa tried to sneak in on initiation, Marpa gets serious and yells at him and he scares Milarepa so much that Milarepa jumps out the window to get away from him. They happen to be on the second floor. They fall down and hurt themselves pretty bad. At this point, little Rapa has lost hope completely and then he just like scurries over to a rock and he's miserable. He's just all like, I'm gonna kill myself because I'm tortured, you know, by my suffering and then Marpa And then Martha won't give me his teaching. And it's not going to happen. So if I can't get the teaching to get rid of my suffering, then I'm going to have to just kill myself and get it, that'll be the way to get rid of it. So, you know, he's sitting there contemplating how to do it. He's like, maybe I can jump off my tower. No, it's not big enough. And then, and then Marpa summons him back to the temple. So Milorapa's totally upset, confused, walks into the temple and then Marpa says, all of a sudden seems like he's not angry anymore, and he's smiling, and he says, All right, so good. I wanted you to do more, because if you did more, it would have burned away all of your karma, and you would have been enlightened. But you've gone as far as you can go. And now it's time to take a more traditional approach of actually meditating and hearing some words about the Dharma. But he said that his anger and his work was directing Milarepa to actually transcend his karma. It was the pathway to enlightenment. And then he said to Milarepa, so when was the last time you had a nightmare or a vision of this terrible thing? And Milorapa said, well, I guess it was kind of a long time ago. Maybe it was on the second or third tower that I was building. And then Milorapa said, hey, wait a minute. This suffering that I've been trying to get out of

0:52:46
is gone away.

0:52:47
I was trying to get out of my suffering and somewhere in all of that tower building, it went away. But I thought it was just because I was so tired from lifting rocks. But no, I haven't had these nightmares. I haven't had these visions. And so, Martha said, yes, Yoga gets you to transform, to change, to transcend karmas that create suffering and limitation. So then, Milarepa's like, wow. It's like one of those karate kid moments. You mean painting the fence is karate? Yeah. So, Milarepa, at that point, had finished the primary lesson, the intermediate lessons, really, of Karma Yoga. And then he went on to the advanced lessons of Jnana Yoga, where he just sat in a cave meditating until he became enlightened. And he finished his path by meditating and going into Nirvana. He became the lineage holder of Buddhism in that region. And all of the Tibetan Buddhist sects, they all say Milarepa is great. They disagree with everything else. Oh, the yellow hats are bad, or the black hats are bad. You know, there's differences in the different groups of Tibetan practice, but they all say, yeah, that Milarapa guy, he was all right. So when you are doing yoga, you should use the story of Milarapa as a template for your experience. And that means you don't have it so bad. When you think you can't do it, you can do it. When you think it's so hard, it's not so hard. Narappa had it harder. So just always reflect on this great yogi's pathway to enlightenment and what he did. He was aware of his suffering. He was aware that he wanted to get out of that situation. And he found an authentic teacher, and he engaged in yoga, even though he didn't know he was. And he didn't even know that he was doing the teachings, but he did it. Karma means action, actually. And if you take action, then you're doing something. If you're not doing anything, then your yoga is probably very poor. So, he did what he was told by his teacher. And he did it because he wanted the teaching, but what he was doing, it was the teaching. And he, even though it seemed impossible to him, even though he didn't understand why we had to move a tower from here to there, to there, to here, it just seemed like it was never going to end. It seemed like it was impossible, that Marpa would never be satisfied, but he just kept doing it. He did what he was told, and that's the way that he learned. Yeah, I guess. Very similar to the karate kid. Wax on, wax off. All right, why? I don't know. Just do it. Just do it. Yeah, because if you let your thoughts get in the way, if you let yourself get in the way, you won't do it. You will find every reason why not to do it. You'll say, this is crazy. It doesn't make any sense. You know, it doesn't. It doesn't make any sense to the self. It doesn't make any sense to the mind of karma. And therefore, it transcends self and it transcends karma. So when you're working on your yoga and you're having a hard time and you're asking yourself, why am I even spending time on this? Why am I spending energy on this? Why am I doing this? Because it's the pathway to enlightenment. It's yoga. It is a way to gain personal power, clarity, and to move yourself out of the habitual way of thinking and seeing life. It is the pathway to enlightenment. It brings you higher. It makes you stronger. If you don't understand what's going on, just do it. Look at Milarepa. He just did it. Marpa said, do it with me, but he didn't understand why. He just did it. So it's really good to reflect on Milarepa and look at the hardships he had, and then you don't have to feel so bad about yourself. You don't have to feel so sorry for yourself. That guy had it harder. And he was successful by doing Karma Yoga. So there's three motivations for Yoga. Three motivations for the spiritual path that a yogi, a person, has to do Yoga. The first motivation is to get out of suffering. You got to get out of suffering. You know, you feel suffering, you feel pain, you need a way out. This is exactly what Milarepa experienced. He had tremendous suffering and he needed a way out. And he found it through yoga. And this is exactly what Buddha teaches. The first noble truth of the Buddha, the first teaching of the Buddha, life is pain. You experience pain and suffering. He calls it dukkhu. That's the Sanskrit word. Dissatisfaction, suffering. That's life. That's something everyone experiences in life. So when you're in touch with that, then you have the opportunity to do something about it. But if you're like, you know, going around saying, yeah, life is great. I got all the time in the world. Everything's going my way. I can play hacky sack today, tether ball tomorrow, badminton on Wednesday. You know, you got all this stuff going on and you see a problem with life, everything's great, then you don't really have a motivation to do yoga. Would you go through what Mila Rapa went through if you are having fun with your hacky sack? Probably not, right? You'd say, uh, no, I'm, you'll say, nah, that's hard. Why would I do that? So that's the first motivation is to be aware of suffering. So that's why the Buddha comes over and says, did you know you're gonna die? Have you thought about that recently? And you're just going to sit there playing hacky sack, you know, paddle ball, you know, doing some inane thing that supplicates your mind for a little while and that's enough for you? So this is why the First Noble Truth is, hey, life is suffering. Life is suffering. Consider that. And then that gets you to say, oh yeah, that's true. I actually do have some suffering. Buddha comes over, you're not happy. You're going to die. What do you think of that. Now that you mention it, what do I do? A full pack, baby. Karma yoga. So that's one motivation. And it makes a lot of sense. When you're a mature being, you are aware of this. You get past the, you know, you look at the American dream or whatever society is selling as happiness and goodness and you say, wait a minute, it doesn't work. It doesn't work for the people who are trying to sell it to me. This is not enough. There's got to be more to this. So a mature being sees past all the stuff that humans say and do. And so it's wow, you know, there's something bigger. Let's get down to the truth of the matter. There's something I can do about my suffering. That's a mature feeling. Now, there's other motivations. The second motivation is the motivation for gain. You see something that's cool and you just want to do it. And that's something that we focus on in this school. Because, you know, basically out here in California there's so many things to do. It's sunny a lot, you know, you can go to the beach, see a movie, go to a nightclub. There's so many things that can draw our attention out of the view of reality, of truth, of eternity, and can just take up our time, kind of like playing video games. Just take up time, keep our mind occupied, give us a little something to do. So there's so many things that just pull us out of balance this way, or into a transitory view of life, that it's hard for us to say, oh wait, I am suffering. Oh, I am going to die. It's hard to have that outlook for most people. So therefore, in yoga, we look to second motivation. This is cool. There's something cool about it. There's something to gain. We say, wow, you know, we are in a culture that wants to get ahead, you know, motivated by, what, money or something, you know. So that's why we engage in things like computer science. That's why we engage in yoga projects that can give you skills, yoga projects that can give you money. That's a good motivation. It's a motivation for a strong, right livelihood attention. And it's easy to say, wow, that's a great thing. I want that. I want to do it. I want to get it. It's fun. And it's the same with mysticism. So for our mystical yoga, you can say, wow, you know, we're going to go to the desert, we're going to meditate, and we're going to see Siddha powers from a teacher who has Siddha powers. We're going to see magic, Buddhist magic, and say, that's fun. That's interesting. You don't see that every day. So the motivation is that exploration, that experience. And that's a great motivation. So we have that motivation of adventure and mysticism, and we have the motivation of skills and money in our projects, their business projects. And then you say, wow, cool, I want those things. I want to do that. I want that success. And that's why I'm going to do this yoga. has this motivation. It is the motivation for enlightenment. So some beings may not be experiencing suffering, they may not be highly motivated for material gain, but they just want enlightenment. Now that's a very advanced being. They're not experiencing suffering because they're an advanced being and they can hold their mind in a way where they don't experience so much suffering. And they're not just getting caught up in the video games and hacky sacks of life. And they're not motivated for skills and technology or money because they even see beyond those material things. And they just want enlightenment. That's considered to be the highest motivation. If you got it, you're lucky. If you don't, find another motivation.

1:07:05
All right.

1:07:07
Very good. So we're going to take a little break, 15 minutes, and we'll come back and meditate a little more and chat about yoga a little more. more. Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
