0:00:00
So in our October seminar, we were focusing on seeing and apprehending our past live awareness. very important in the beginning of Buddhist study. It's important to bring back any higher awarenesses that we've had in past lives, so that we're able to be more complete in our awareness and personal power in this lifetime. And then with that we're able to move ahead on the spiritual path and get higher and brighter and stronger than we've had a seeing and also the integration of that lesson. And the seeing was a seeing exercise in the seminar, and the second was the past life. In our past life scenes, we were seeing powerful past lives. We were looking for past lives where we had, through spiritual discipline, overcome many of the difficulties of self-karma or difficulties of dealing with life in the world. And in our past life visions, we saw these powerful times, these powerful conditions, where we had really succeeded to a much greater degree on the spiritual path than we have in this lifetime so far. So the way it kind of works is when you can integrate the awareness of past lives, then it helps you to integrate that lesson that you've learned then and get higher. Before you integrate that lesson, it's very possible to have self-karmas and conditions in life hold you back. And you don't necessarily get to the highest peak experiences and levels of consciousness in every lifetime. You have to, in every lifetime, push and learn and strive. And then it becomes a karmic pattern that you always reach the highest levels of your incarnations. So, in an incarnation, you might have a good one. And, you know, everything happens well, and you decide to work hard, and you have a great, powerful incarnation. It's also possible that you decide to be lazy in an incarnation, because maybe the conditions of your life are easy enough, so that you're not... you don't have to strive to do different things. So, in one incarnation, you might have been very spiritually powerful, and then in another incarnation, not so much. So if in every incarnation you strive to be powerful, you'll set a karmic pattern, and then you'll always do that. You'll always hit the highest states of consciousness. But for many of you, you've had some past lives a long time ago that were very, very powerful. And that awareness and power has not been integrated, or we're in the process of integrating it, so that this could be one of those lifetimes where you have a very powerful, high consciousness. So, we saw it through the seeing practice and the costume party was a spiritual method for integrating that consciousness. And now tonight we're going to talk about how to bring it into a greater integration. So, what I'd like you to do is I'd like you to bring to mind what that experience was, whether it was China, India, Japan. Bring to mind the high past life that you saw in the October seminar. So I'd like you to just sit for just about a minute, bringing all of the visions and feelings to mind. So just for about a minute, bring it to mind. Good. Now I'm going to give you an assignment of integrating your awareness. So I'd like you to brainstorm. Try to come up with more than what you saw in your vision. So when you first do seeing, you often have a picture. You see yourself on a mountain or in a desert. And sometimes you just see the ocean or the desert. And you say, yeah, I had a seeing, however, it was very partial. I knew I was in India and I saw, you know, the jungle or something. And that's all I know. But I'd like you to start brainstorming, putting down phrases of what feelings you had and maybe what other things there were, what other data points are in the peripheral of your vision. When you start to brainstorm, when you start to just write down, when you focus on it for a moment, and you just start to write down things that come to mind. Sometimes you start to expand the vision. In fact, I'd like to do that right now. If you have paper and pen or pencil, you can even write it on the back of any piece of paper. The idea is in brainstorming, you actually open your mind more to the information that So just take a couple minutes. We brought to mind this vision of our past life seeings. And I'd like you to take one or two of those visions and just write down what comes to mind. And even if it's silly stuff that comes to mind, just write it down. Just write it down. It doesn't have to make sense, but through this act of bringing the vision to mind and writing down what comes to mind in addition. There's the opportunity to expand and gain a greater vision. So just spend the next couple minutes brainstorming You had figured something out about life, about spiritual practice, that made you more powerful, more humble, and more luminous in consciousness than in this lifetime some things that you have not overcome in this lifetime. There are some karmas that you have that create limitation and suffering for you in this lifetime that in that lifetime you had figured out, you had overcome. What I'd like you to do is I'd like you to identify from the reflection on this past life and from your brainstorming and from taking a moment of reflection on your suffering or conditions of limitation in this lifetime, what you had figured out in that lifetime. What was the way, the inner way of awareness that liberated you in that lifetime from something that you suffer from now? So for sure, in that higher lifetime, there's something that you were able to deal with that you're suffering from now. I'd like you to identify what your suffering is now, and how the vision of that past life was a way to liberation from that suffering. to see what suffering that lifetime lacks, and to write it down. And for some of you who didn't see in the practices,

0:12:36
didn't see your past lives,

0:12:38
and you don't have much to brainstorm because you didn't see it in the first place. Or maybe you don't believe in reincarnation and it makes you frustrated just thinking about it. Find an open-minded aspect of your being, where you can be open-minded to the possibility of having lived before and having been in a higher condition. And use that. And say, OK, well, if I lived before and I was in a higher spiritual condition because of lots of meditation, maybe I didn't see anything, and you can't brainstorm, and you're frustrated about it, then use that in itself as an exercise, just a writing exercise in humility. And just play with that. Have fun with that. But find that open-mindedness in yourself, and play with that as your connection of suffering to what you had overcome in this previous incarnation where you had greater spiritual awareness. And for everyone else, what suffering that you experience now did you overcome in that lifetime? Okay, good. So this is a way of opening your mind to the vision of your past life and a way to integrate this information. What I'd like you to do is I'd like you to, for your homework, is to write this down nicely for me, and then I'd like you to work on this. To write down, first start off with what your condition of suffering is in this lifetime. And then the vision of your past including some of the experiences of our October seeing, some of the experiences of feelings that you've gained in your brainstorming, and then write down how the consciousness of that higher past life awareness freedom of your current suffering. This takes some real analysis, but how is that energy, that feeling, and all the aspects of awareness that you've gotten from seeing, integrating information, How is that a liberation from your suffering? The last thing I'd like you to do to help you with this is to do a little bit of research with Google. I'd like you to try to figure out where you were and when you were in that incarnation, you could say, oh, I saw myself on top of a mountain in China. Google Chinese mountains, try to see the pictures of the mountains and see if you recognize the mountains from your vision. That's exciting sometimes, because in seeing a connection, sometimes more information comes. And if you saw yourself as a monk or as a sadhu, look at a picture of a monk. Different monks at different places and at different times wear different clothes. See if you could find a picture or a drawing or something of the period of time, the close from the period of time. You might be able to find the time where you had that lifetime. You might be able to find the place, maybe the exact mountain, maybe the exact Buddhist temple. And in doing so, it strengthens your awareness of that past life memory. So, play around on the internet, see what you can come up with. In some cases it will be really awesome and amazing, and sometimes it will be so vague you couldn't find it. But try anyway, it will help. And if you do find the mountains in particular places, then include them in your story of who you were and what you did in that past life. You can do, if you've seen two or three or four past lives, you can do four past lives if you want. If you only had a chance to focus on one of the past life visions in this class, can go home and listen to this again and follow the instructions of brainstorming and seeing, and you can brainstorm and see and write about another past life seeing and integrating this information. It's very important in this stage of practice. So I'd like you to just spend an hour writing this down. Excellent. Your current life suffering and who you were in that past life, what the story was about you in that past life, and how that awareness of that past life teaches you how that you experience in this life.

0:20:54
You can learn from yourself. Excellent. Good.

0:20:57
Thank you. Last, I would like to just meet with everyone who came to the past life party. I know some people didn't. And the next consideration is only for people who came to that party. It's important because there's some things that are progressive in terms of seeing and consciousness. So we'll take just a break for just a few minutes so that those of you who are not at the party can exit. a break for just a few minutes so that those of you who are not at the party can exit and then those of you who are at the party will just have a very short consideration, maybe then those of you who are at the party will just have a very short consideration, maybe

0:21:54
15 minutes or so. Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
