0:00:00
We can turn it on by Adam.

0:00:02
I will. Thanks.

0:00:04
Our music is so powerful.

0:00:06
I know, right? It's uh... stronger than the speakers can handle.

0:00:12
We do have bigger speakers.

0:00:14
Yeah. Next time? No.

0:00:16
We have our Buddhist party speakers.

0:00:18
New? Yeah. Buddhist party speakers.

0:00:22
Those are heavy though. Those are heavier.

0:00:24
We need to come up with more compact ones. Thanks.

0:00:27
Alright, we're just waiting for the film to turn on. Thank you. So there's another way to store power. A couple other ways that we'll discuss tonight.

0:00:52
And the way is location-based.

0:00:59
So notice we meet in very specific places. We meet pretty much either on Knob Hill in San Francisco, or Stanford, or Mount Pamalpais. You go there with my students, not me yet. These are three local places of power. Places where there's a tremendous amount of energy, and it's a very high, fast, and enlightening vibration, if you use it properly.

0:01:40
So, Nob Hill is where we used to have all of our classes, because it's just a very beautiful energy line. It's very sharp, it's a very high vibration. When you meditate there in the Fairmont or the Ritz-Carlton, it's a beautiful experience. Also the hotels that are there where we meet have a beautiful energy, beautiful tonal, beautiful palaces and that's why we meet there. So there's an energy there. You got to observe the world, observe your life in terms of energy first and then everything is a manifestation of energy. So when you're in a beautiful place, there's some energy there that engenders the construction of the hotel or engenders the beautiful scenery. There's a feeling of the place. So we meet in Nob Hill because it has a beautiful energy, a very wonderful energy for meditation. We We go to nature or you go to nature sometimes with my students in Marin. Certain beaches, certain mountain tops. These are places of power, local places of power. They have a very beautiful energy nature. When you meditate there, you can expand your aura, clear out, feel very beautiful, balancing natural energy and have beautiful meditations. And then we meet here at Stanford now, because Stanford is a very powerful energy line. It is the premier university on the west coast and it has an energy, a power, it's a place of power and it's a place of power for learning. It's got a great energy field where the mind is clear. So you could meditate well, you can understand new concepts well. You can learn about the pathway to enlightenment by meditating here. Now some of you have been engaged in our tech classes and you have started the tech classes in San Francisco City College and then we also moved those tech classes to Stanford. Stanford and you were able to see a big difference by learning technology in City College, where the people who go there are very confused. Don't know what they're doing with their life. Just finished high school. So they basically say, I don't know what I'm going to do. So I guess I'll go to City College. And the whole energy line there, it's kind of like that. It's nice. It's OK, but it's a little bit confused. So by learning technology there, it's a little more confusing. When you come here, there's less confusion. There's a sharper energy line. The mind can be clearer here. So you get to see by learning about the locations, a little bit of a contrast. So we meet in places of power, places where there is a high, fast and beautiful vibration, where it is nice to meditate together. The energy of the place aids your meditation. It aids you in learning these lessons that you need to learn. So, there are different places that have different energy. In the summer solstice, I'm going to take some of you who are interested to go to Joshua Tree. It's the desert, kind of south and east of Los Angeles. And Joshua Tree are ancient, beautiful places of power. They have connections, you might say interdimensional connections, to very high, beautiful energies of power. very similar to the Naval Center. So when we go to Joshua Tree and we're meditating there in the time of the solstice, which is kind of a Buddhist mystic holiday, the energy of that place is very much congruent with the energy of enlightenment, the energy of enlightened power, spiritual power. So when we have our meditations there, they are life-changing. They are extremely transformative. That's why we do this a few times a year on the equinoxes and the solstices. We go to places of power. We have special considerations, special lessons, special meditations. If you come with me to the desert, then you'll have an experience of tremendous power. And it's just wonderful. So I encourage you to come to the desert if you can make it. Right now, the desert trip is open to students who are in the technology classes, simply because if you're engaging in the technology classes, you have a stronger attention. In Buddhist mysticism, it's very important to expose the people who are ready for the energy to greater levels of power. If you're exposed to spiritual teachings that you don't understand, it'll just be a little confusing. If you're exposed to levels of energy and power, that could be very helpful, but you don't have the personal power, the presence of mind, the awareness to understand the teaching or the energy, then it could be confusing and a little uncomfortable. So the people who have been taking the technology classes have been doing a good job. They have been strengthening their attention and as I observe in the group I see that their attention is stronger. So there's a lesson. They can handle the energy and the power and the light of the desert trip. Now there's some other people in the group who also could handle it. If you're not going to do the technology classes, but you would like to go to the desert, and you think you're up to it, then let your meditation teacher know, and then we'll talk. We'll look attendance and your eagerness and your interest. And then we'll see. It depends on your level of awareness and personal power. If you're in a state of attention where you can benefit from the greater amount of spiritual power that you will experience there, then good. And if not, then next time. We'll do it again. So if you don't go on this one, it doesn't matter. If you stay on the path, you'll come around to the next one. But the desert trips are really experiences of direct power. They're where we go from more of a physical experience to a more spiritual experience. We really open up the subtle physical dimensions of life. And there's a great and tremendous experience of spiritual power. So, if you are available, if you're interested, then I highly recommend it. Now, when you go to a place of power, if it's a local place like Stanford, Nob Hill, Mount Tamalpais, or if it's a great place of power like Joshua Tree, there's other deserts that we go to deserts, sometimes mountains, sometimes islands. There are places of tremendous sacred spiritual power. You are able to store power simply by going there, simply by meditating We consider them kind of a spiritual pilgrimage, since they are sacred places. The energy of these places have just a beautiful flow of life that is spiritually enabling. When we go to these places, just by sitting there and being very still, you pick up that current of life. And you have to have the right attitude. You have to be humble and open and grateful to the place. You know, a spiritual attitude. And then just by being a little bit still there, you gain this tremendous life. Because the place has such a great vibration. So we go there and we meditate. We have access to beautiful dimensions of life and it forever changes us. It's tremendously powerful. Now from that experience, you not only experience tremendous life, but you automatically store power. So that means that you go on the desert trip and then two weeks later or six months later, you can think of the place and you will remember that light and beauty and power and it lifts you up. In fact, you're thinking of it as a way for you to consciously access that light. But when you go to a place of power, you don't have to consciously access the light. The light actually connects with you and always kind of comes through you. It's a bank, a dimension of luminosity. And having that connection makes you forever brighter, forever more empowered. You're able to draw on the light of that beautiful infinite experience at all times. So we go to places of power and simply meditate and that's a very strong way to experience light and to store power. is the most powerful way. You know, you could write and kind of recapitulate things and store power. You can write down experiences. It's very bright and beautiful to store power. So writing is a good way. But it's a small way. It's a good way. You need to do it. But it's a small way. Going to a place of power could be a life-changing experience. But it's just one, you know, one life changing experience. On the pathway to enlightenment you have one after another of these tremendously powerful, ever expanding experiences of life. And you know, the pathway It goes on, bigger, brighter, more beautiful, infinite, always changing. So it never ends, but it's always good. So, going to places of power is good. Both writing and going to places of power are helpful, very helpful, extremely helpful. But there is something that is much more helpful, much much more helpful and that is yoga. Yoga means union and as we engage in yoga it is the pathway to union, it is the pathway to enlightenment. We engage in karma yoga, it is the yoga of action. It is enlightenment through the result of action. So, Karma Yoga is something that you do. It's called computer science. And we do it because it's the method that I learned. Karma Yoga could be any action, but I learned the form through computer science. And in computer science, you develop your mind. It's a completely mental exercise so it's very strengthening of the mind. And when you strengthen your mind through computer science it's very helpful to your spiritual practice, helpful to your meditation. But more than that, through developing your skills in computer science. You store power. If you went to places of power, meditated, wrote down your experiences, those are all very good things, but they are definitely not enough. In order to be successful on the spiritual path, in order to store enough power to be able to learn the higher teachings, you must do yoga. You just got to, otherwise you will not gain enough personal power. When you do yoga, whether you want to be a computer programmer or not, skills, you will be doing a spiritual discipline of yoga. And you will gain the personal power, you will store the personal power in that discipline so that you can gain the spiritual power that you need. So the greatest amount of stored power comes from yoga and the principle yoga is technology. So we are doing technology courses currently and we will be doing we will start a new round of technology courses in May. So if you're if you're considering it, consider it. It's a good way to take the study very seriously. However, you know, if you're kind of new to this, don't worry. We'll start another round of tech classes in a few months. And I don't know, that might be the last one. So we might do a couple more rounds of the technology classes. Then we'll see who's around to work with them. We'll go from there. So the tech classes start May 2nd or May 3rd. I'm not sure. And these classes are designed and headed by Mandala. And she's also another Buddhist monk from my school. She's a student of my teachers as well. And she's an excellent and fantastic teacher of technology. Teacher of yoga through technology. And she's taught technology to all of my students. And they've been very successful. So if you're interested in learning about yoga and or technology this is an opportunity that's coming up that I definitely recommend Excellent now, there's a couple other yogas that we do. They are not the primary yoga They are the yogas that come after the primary yoga. They are martial arts and music. So the students who do martial arts and music as yoga, as ways to store power, as ways to follow the pathway to enlightenment, they have done their technology yoga perfectly and then they have been so good at their technology yoga that they have taken a step further into an additional pathway to enlightenment. It's yoga and it's storing power, both of these techniques, martial arts and music. So martial arts, we've had a few students who had a martial arts test today where they've gone up a level in their martial arts practice and they've gained a greater degree of personal power in that transition, in that shift. And it's a beautiful thing. It's magical. You go and do your test, and then you get a higher level. You get the distinction of having completed a course of study. And it gives you a greater amount of personal power stored. Martial arts is the study of awareness of power. You gain awareness in martial arts. You don't just get faster and stronger. You might get a little faster and stronger. And you don't just learn techniques. You learn an awareness of the naval center that is very intelligent for the world that we live in, because it's an awareness of how to keep your life safe, how to defend yourself from physical attack. So when you do martial arts, you gain an awareness of power, how to stay out of trouble, and if you get into trouble, how to take care of it, how to defend yourself. When you learn martial arts, you don't just learn to punch and kick, you learn a kind of awareness when you're walking down the street. It's a sense when there's someone who might attack you. And you get to learn how to avoid that kind of thing. So martial arts is very powerful. Very powerful. But I recommend it in addition to technology, not by itself. And then there's music. So the music that we listen to in meditation, it is music of yoga. That means that Buddhist monks, yogis in our school have developed this music as meditation music and they have developed it as their pathway to enlightenment. Now, the music that we listen to, that they have composed, that they have recorded, is music that reaches into very bright and beautiful dimensions, dimensions of life. When you meditate to this music, it helps you meditate. At first it can be a little confusing, disorienting. That's just weird music we're listening to. But after a little while, if you just listen to the music and meditate to it, you will feel beautiful dimensions of life. The music directs you to the light because the yogi who composes it goes into these dimensions, into these states of tremendously luminous consciousness and then they draw sound out of that. And that is the connection, that is the doorway to that higher plane of mind, to that higher dimension of life. So when you just listen to that music and you get past your surface ideas, your surface reactions, and you just listen to that music, you start to automatically touch these high planes of life. And the yogis who are writing this music are very good. They can go into these dimensions perfectly. So Mudra is the head of the band, the band is Vayu. And Mudra goes into the states of mind perfectly, very bright, luminous dimension. And then he draws a sound out of it. You listen to the sound, he gives you a way to connect. We call him, as of right now, Zen Maestro. Zen Maestro Mudra. We call him Maestro Mudra a lot. But now we'll call him Zen Maestro. Zen Maestro. And it makes meditation kind of fun when you listen to music, because, you know, it's kind of a happy way to do it. Listening to music kind of times your meditation, you know, one song on each chakra, two songs on each chakra. Also when you're meditating with a large group and people have to cough and move around, you won't hear it because the music will be playing. So you've got to have a sense of humor to hear music and read about dolphins and enlightenment. It's fun. Mysticism is about adventure and it's about having fun. It's a very exciting way to follow the path of enlightenment. And then Buddhism is always just so pure and beautiful and strong. So Buddhist mysticism is this adventure of purity and enlightenment. It's fantastic. Alright, so we're going to do another meditation. And then we'll be done for the evening. All right, so we'll meditate for another three songs. Gable, heart, third eye.

0:27:50
I'm going to go ahead and put it on. Very nice. Then there is the fourth level of Buddhist mysticism. It's called sharing power. There's

0:28:36
a couple of ways that we do this. We do this in teaching and we do this through our Karma Sharing power. So you've seen mind students teaching you. So they have a level of mastery. They are able to gain a tremendous amount of power by the way they lead their lives. And they've had years of refining their life and their mind, the way they think, the things that they do, the people they interact with, so that they don't lose power. And they have gone on these power trips with me many times, have stored a lot of power. They've done writing, they've stored power. Now they have the ability to share power. They are able to teach you and as you know there is tremendous light and energy when they teach you. They are good doorways to enlightenment. So teaching is one of the ways that we share power. We also might teach technology as a way of sharing power, teaching martial arts as a way of sharing power, teaching music as a way of sharing power. We might do these types of teaching for those who are interested. is an advanced karma yoga. It is the yoga of building stuff. We use our ability of karma yoga to build something that we can then share with others. So, in the past we have done this by building software products. It could also be building websites or building different types of multimedia applications. And when you do building a product or a site or something with technology, if you do good yoga, you will be able to build something wonderful and share it with others. And then it will, if it's a good software product, help people do their business. If it's a good website, it will be interesting and fun or whatever it's supposed to do. It will engender an experience for those who interface with it. Or if it's multimedia, for example, someone here tonight is Todd. Todd is an expert in technology. He's created over the years his own yoga project. It's a spiritual project that is a graphics engine, a real-time graphics engine, and it makes these magical visualizations that you can just observe and watch. You can even connect them to our music and watch these visualizations through the music. And that sort of thing is something where you're sharing your spiritual development. You're sharing the light. And so, hopefully one of these days we'll put this music to these visualizations and have something wonderful to show you all. But through the yoga building stuff, once you have mastery through a developmental discipline, you're able to then share. And when you do it in a spiritual way, there's humility, there's light, there's those Buddhist fundamentals of intelligence, pragmatism, and humility. And it's very beautiful. It's very enlightening to develop, and it's also very enlightening for people to interface with. Or, you know, in writing, you know, so Savitri wrote, Diving into Enlightenment, and that this is something that she's able to share. This is a way of sharing. And it's a very beautiful and powerful way. And of course, when I meditate with you, I share the light. I create a doorway to enlightenment through this whole structure, through all of these teachings, through all of these forms and methods, through the desert trips, the technology classes, your weekly classes with your teachers, through these monthly classes, there's a beautiful doorway to enlightenment that I share because of my mastery of power and enlightenment. So the fourth and really the advanced level of Buddhist mysticism sharing power. So I just wanted to thank you all very much, those of you who gave me a birthday equinox card. I enjoyed them very much, it was very kind of you. I was in Europe in Budapest with my students there. I really had a good birthday and I enjoyed getting cards from you. If you ever get me a card for my birthday or for the solstice or something like that, I'll be happier. So I wanted to thank all of you. And Barbara was the one, the card from Barbara was the funniest one. And it, what did it say? It said, living on the planet Earth is expensive, but you do get a free trip around the sun every year. There's a lot of cute ones, but that one for some reason, really, really, really special. In Europe, my in Hungary, for some reason, they got you know how we have like blonde jokes and stuff like that. have Chuck Norris jokes. There was this one. This is one joke that was like this. Chuck Norris counted to infinity. Twice. And I don't know what it is about that. It's just cracking They also have a lot of angry pig jokes. They don't translate well. So, yeah, I like jokes, I like to laugh. Funny cards is great. So I appreciate that. Now, before we go, I need to check my Hannah Montana notebook. But I know what she's going to say. I like her. I used to work at Disney and afraid of her. Oh yes, of course. The video, right? Okay, so some of you know that we're working on a video competition, and it's really not a competition. But if you do a good job on your video, then you will win something. And this is a video of, it's really a video advertisement for meditation classes and we're going to put them up on our website and YouTube and stuff like that. And it'll be a video that hopefully is funny or it can be profound, but I like humor. It'll be a video that encourages someone to try meditation, to learn meditation. Some of you have already broken up into teams and are working on it, and some of you haven't yet and if you haven't I recommend that you get into a team and do it. They could be 30 seconds long, they could be two minutes long, they could be a little longer if you want, but just simple happy meditation videos. So those are going to be due next month, let's say May 2nd. Then we'll all get together and look at them and we'll have a great fun time looking at our strange meditation videos. They'll be fun. And if you do a bad job, do it with a smile on your face. Give it a shot.

0:38:43
Do it laughing.

0:38:44
Have a sense of humor. Because I always say, on your first video, it's going to be bad. You might have in your mind like you know this Spielberg quality 3D effect and then what comes out is going to be like our first video. We've done first video too. You guys will hear all about that someday. The great math adventure. So anyway, good, good, very nice. Now, we will end now, but if anyone has any personal questions and you'd like to stay after and talk to me, I will be available for a little while. Excellent. So thank you all very much. So thank you all very much. So thank you all very much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
