0:00:00
Hello everyone. Alright. Hey! Laughter

0:00:16
I was like, wow. How about that, huh? Old friends. Old friends from past lives. Good. Welcome everyone. Good to see you again. Each of you. We'll begin with three song meditation. Meditation on the navel, heart, and third eye. Okay, let's begin. Meditation gets better and better. And the process of meditation kind of spills over into your whole life. It starts out as a peculiar sitting exercise, and then it becomes a very powerful and luminous discipline. And then from that discipline sprouts all sorts of magnificent luminous hands of happiness that crisscrosses throughout your whole life to become this big tapestry of enlightened brilliance. But you know when you have a good meditation? You know when your mind is clear, when your mind is bright, when you feel a great peace and happiness? That is a good meditation. becomes your operating awareness field after time. Those really bright still meditations, they come to integrate into your life. In the beginning, they might be a peak experience of spiritual luminosity. That after some practice, those peak experiences are where you always reside. The stillness and brightness of meditation is a way that you become through this practice. So when you have those really bright, beautiful meditations, remember that's your true nature. When you feel confused and out of balance, remember that you've had a glimpse of your true nature, the brightness and stillness that you experience in meditation. That's more of who you are. So the thing you want to work on is getting back to that stillness. Whenever you're making decisions from a confused mind, from an unbalanced mind, from a mind that is leaning one way or the other, being pulled by attachment, propelled by fear, pulled by desire. That's when you can be sure that you're not operating in balance. You're following the way of the self, which will always bring you to suffering. Try and remember those times in meditation where you're able to feel balanced and free, like the world is big, the universe is filled with endless opportunity. And that's the truth. That's what's real. If you can get to that state of mind, if you can get back to that still condition of consciousness, then when you're making decisions, they're following the truth, the Dharma, the way of

0:05:26
life.

0:05:33
So we just had a nice meditation. We listened to three of the songs from the new Vayu album, Big Island. That will be available to you guys soon. And Vayu is a musical group that does music as yoga as a means of spiritual practice. Some of you who are musicians will be able to speak with Mudra, who is the leader of the band, Zen Maestro Mudra, as we say, tonight to talk about learning about music as a spiritual practice a little bit more. So that will be very nice. Now whenever we come to the Ives of October, we start to reflect. so that we can gain a greater awareness. We can come into a more full awareness of who we are and what we know, the power that we have. During this time each year, we work on a Buddhist mystic exercise of seeing our past lives. So tonight we'll be looking into our past lives so that we can see and understand what we've been in terms of awareness. So we will have a fantastic adventure forward into the past. But before we get into the actual mystic exercises, life, and the afterlife. In the West, we tend to think that this is our only life, and that when we die, we'll either go to heaven or hell. And this is something that's really kind of ingrained in a lot of questioners. Even if we don't really, really, really believe in heaven, we still have that kind of conditioning where we kind of believe in good or bad, yin or yang, heaven or hell. So we start to operate and think about life in that way. So we think that when we die, if we lived a good life, we'll go to a paradise world and we'll be in a place that is beautiful and free of suffering. That is heaven. And we think that if we're bad, we'll go to hell, a place devoid of divinity, where there's a devil and fire and great suffering. and an eternity of unhappiness. That's what we believe in the West. In the East, we believe countless lives already, and that our lifetime now, this life, is a result of our past lives. We believe that if we do good in this life, we do good things, that we will have a higher incarnation in our next life. And if we do bad things, that we will have a lower incarnation. A higher incarnation is an incarnation that has nicer things and less conditions of suffering. So this is the belief system of people in the East. And they really believe it. You can go to India and people really this thing just like we believe in heaven and hell. So as far as cosmologies go, I think both of them sound quite ridiculous. I mean, you really think that when you die, you're go through the Golden Gate, get some wings, get a harp, fly around and just have an eternity of pleasantness. Well if that were the case, I'd probably get bored and go check out hell. I'd be like, whoa heaven's cool but boy is it boring. Let's go see what's going on in hell. Or if you're bad, you go down into fire and brimstone and have some devil with a pitchfork giving you a hard time. Is it really? Or God is a lot like Santa Claus has the naughty or nice list and on Christmas Day you get either lots of wonderful presents, everything you've dreamed of, a Wii, or nice plasma TV, or I don't know, whatever. Or, you get your lump of coal. Depending on what Santa decides, you know, Santa judges you. So, you know, in terms of our cosmology story, we have, you know, the God, and he's going to decide whether you're good or bad. A really ultimate decision, heaven or hell? To get into heaven, I don't know, is it 50-50, people on this planet? I mean, how good are people on this planet? Do most people go to hell? I don't know, you know, so the story is interesting. But then reincarnation is pretty far-fetched too. I mean if you had past lives, why wouldn't you remember? And if you, you know, when you die, you know, how are you going to come back again? Why would you come back again? Does that make sense? You know, Reincarnation is also kind of far out there. It's a little easier for Westerners to think that reincarnation is strange, because it's a foreign concept to our social conditioning. But both of them are kind of strange. But tonight, I'll tell you the truth about heaven and hell and about reincarnation. The truth is that heaven and hell are real and that reincarnation is real. Both are real. Both cosmology stories hold up. They actually work together. It's not either or. It's and. The genius of and. And brings things together. So how can How can this be? It is a factor that is in our lives and it is a factor that is in our after lives. We have heaven and hell and reincarnation after we die. So let's talk about heaven and hell and reincarnation while we're alive, because this is so easy to understand. Heaven and hell is a choice that we each make in every moment. There's the Zen story of the Zen master and the samurai. The samurai comes to the Zen master and the samurai is feeling bad because he had killed so many people in battle. So he says to the Zen Master, I fear at the time of death I will go to hell and I'd like to find the way to heaven. So You uncouth, dirty, slimy, scummy samurai. You couldn't understand anything, so get out of my sight." And this great samurai is highly offended, gets very angry, pulls his sword, raises it, and is intending to cut off the head of the Zen master. And then the Zen master points at him and says, this is hell. And then the samurai immediately realizes that the Zen master is teaching him what he needed to know, what he was asking about. So he throws his sword away and he bows. And he has gratitude because he understands that the Zen master is pointing out the problem. And then while he's bowing, then the Zen Master points to him and says, this is heaven. All heaven and hell, most heaven and hells are in your mind. Most So you could think of times where you were extremely happy, everything went your way, things were very pleasant, and they were without suffering, maybe with great love, joy, that's kind of like heaven. Or if you think of a time where you were angry, a time where you were depressed. Anger and depression are filled with suffering and unhappiness. And that's like hell. If heaven is a place of joy and happiness, and hell is a choice you make. It's up to you in every moment, whether to be like the angry samurai or the one who is yielding and open. So, Heaven and Hell is that choice, and you have that choice in every moment. You have that choice right now, to be closed Open your heart. And that's heaven. Now, reincarnation is very simple as well. When we think of reincarnation, it's kind of challenging for us as Westerners, but let me tell you what reincarnation is. is the process of changing into this moment. It's as simple as that. It is the process of changing into this moment. So we're in this moment right now. And now that moment is gone and here we have a new moment. From moment to moment we reincarnate, we take incarnation into the current moment. Very simple. So now you all believe in reincarnation. Because obviously, it's simple to understand. Now, this is how heaven and hell and reincarnation work together so well. You see, when you choose to be open, to be happy, to let go of angers, enmity, depression, when you're confused, to just relax, breathe deeply. In all those circumstances, you will that elevates you. You'll be choosing something that's brighter. And you'll be choosing heaven. Now when you choose heaven, when you choose a way of thinking, of speaking, of acting, of thinking that is more enlightened, that is brighter, then you incarnate into the next moment in that state of mind. You choose right now, but then that choice manifests and incarnates into the next moment. So if you chose to be angry right now, in your next moment you'll be in an angry state of mind, which is limited and suffering and problems. And that was your choosing. You chose hell and you incarnated into hell. If you choose heaven, bright, happy, beautiful, then you become happier in the moment and in the next moment you incarnate into that state of mind. You're given just this wonderful state of mind from your previous moment, right? Because you made the choice to do that. And then in this current state of mind that's happy and bright, you feel better. There's less suffering. So that's how heaven and hell and reincarnation work together while we're alive. Now, it's very important to know about the moment, because the moment is right here, right now. This is where you perceive life. This is where your consciousness is. It's not in the past unless you focus on the past. It's not in the future unless you start focusing on the future. It normally rests and resides right here, right now. When you go into the past, it can often unbalance you one way. The future unbalances you another way. If you just let your consciousness be still, it resides right here. And this is where consciousness is in balance with life. Now, in this moment, you have a current state of mind, and your state of mind is the way that you see life, the way that you understand life. If you think back to a time where you're angry or depressed, in those circumstances, you were in a different state of mind, and you can remember that maybe it was a time where you felt suffering, where you were sad, where you were unhappy, where there were problems. However, when you're not in that state of mind, you don't actually experience it. So the time where you were depressed, you say, boy that was a bad time. Yeah, I felt really bad, but now I feel okay. In In the time where you were depressed, life seemed a lot smaller and darker. There were more problems. But when you're not depressed, in a different state of mind, in a balanced state of mind, life is bigger. And the concerns and awareness of the depressed state of mind no longer exist. So you can change states of mind. The state of mind that you're in right now is the only state of mind that matters. The state of mind that you're in right now determines your awareness of life. You can't remember states of mind. States of mind are only right here, right From this moment, this is where you're able to make the choice. You're able to choose states of mind. You're able to choose heaven or hell, which brings you into the incarnation of the next moment, which determines your next state of mind. So if you're ever in suffering, you're upset, you're imbalanced, you're confused, that's where you practice choosing heaven. Say, I choose heaven. You think about positive things. You let go of negativity. Let go of problems and confusions. And you focus on bright and positive and constructive things. Look at your life in a bright way. You can always choose to look at your life in a bright way. No matter how messed up it is, no matter how confused you are, how much darkness you see around you, say, I am going to look at this in the brightest light. I'm going to see a way to enlightenment in this situation, because there's always a way. And then you will be choosing an elevated, an elevating consciousness. And you'll incarnate into the next moment in a brighter state. And if you continue, you will dig yourself out of the darkness. You'll dig yourself out of problems by choosing bright thoughts, bright words, bright actions. Constructive, strong, actions and thoughts. And those will bring you into higher and higher states of mind. The higher the state of mind, the more balanced and successful you can navigate problems. The lower the state of mind, you're always going to be acting out of kind of the smallest karmas, or the most restrictive karmas. When you're going into darker states of mind, or you're going into lower states, you have fewer options, fewer possibilities. But when you use your willpower to get up to those higher, brighter conditions of consciousness, You choose heaven, reincarnate. Choose heaven, reincarnate. Then you see more possibilities. The truth of life is that enlightenment and happiness is always here. It exists innately within you. Therefore, all you have to do is get to a place of balance and brightness to see it. And it's only selfish desires, angers, attachments that draw you away from that natural view. So that is heaven and hell and reincarnation. Now, at the same time, you have the afterlife. And the afterlife is where, when you die, is the concept of heaven and hell and reincarnation in the afterlife are true. They're actually real. Now, in order to understand this, it's necessary to come to terms with one thing. One thing. And that is that you, that all of us, we are eternal spirits. Deep down inside of you, if you search your heart, you will realize that there is an essential aspect of your being. The essential aspect of your being is without bounds. It is eternal. So that's your spirit. That's the jiva, the spirit, the soul. It is eternal. It goes beyond this life. It goes beyond time. The soul, the spirit is something that transcends life, transcends death. It goes beyond duality. So, there is an aspect of your being, the essential part. If you get in touch with it, you get in touch with your eternal nature. And you come to say, okay, yeah, there's something about me that is out of this world, out of the transience of this life. And that is what you have to get in touch with in order to realize that there is some kind of afterlife. Because what happens after you die if you have a deathless spirit? Something. Spirit goes on. So that is the one thing that you got to figure out, otherwise you'll never... if you don't meditate on it, if you don't get in touch with that eternal aspect of your being, you don't see that in your meditation, if you don't see that within you, then it's hard to believe, besides a conceptual belief, it's hard to believe in reincarnation or heaven and hell. But once you see that, once you understand that you're an eternal spirit, then you know there's got to be something there. And then it's easy to understand what the next step is. The next step is to understand the universe as being completely infinite. The universe has everything you can imagine within it. Everything you can imagine exists somewhere in the universe. There's all sorts of aspects of the universe, not just the stars in the sky, but the universe of everything, the universe of dreams, the universe of emotions, the universe of everything. Everything exists. And therefore, somewhere in there, there's heaven. And somewhere in there, there's hell. There are what we call paradise realms. that one could incarnate into that are hell-like. You know in Asian cosmology there's not just one hell. There's 10,000 hells. So there's a whole bunch of them. The hell of Ike. The hell of 10,000 snakes. You know, there's just like all sorts of different things. And those things are said to exist, and if you go into the negative, dark states of mind and actions, you'll follow your life into incarnating into a lower, fewer possibilities, and if you continue down, if you go down your whole life, then you'll die. And then the vibration that you're at will bring you into maybe a physical incarnation in a different place. So you might think of it as a radio, a band of, you know, the radio band. We as humans are all perceiving a certain station and you know on the radio you can kind of go down to the bottom of the station and it's like a little bit and then you bring it right in and then there's a you know then it's clear information and you're twisting the knob and it's still clear and still clear and then you could to the top and it goes again, right? So you could say that, you know, with negative thoughts you start going down, you start incarnating moment by moment down to the bottom of the dial. Now in this lifetime, you're still going to be in that station, but if you're, you know, if you've been pushing the bottom of that van in your next incarnation, that's a time of fast transformation where the physical aspect of your being can change. That's where you can drop into a lower incarnation, into a hell realm. Or, you can go up the dial. You can go up to positive thoughts, higher states of mind, and you'll be hitting the top of the dial. And if you keep on hitting the top when you die, that's when you can go through that rapid transformation and up to a higher incarnation. And that would be a heaven realm. So, in terms of understanding the cosmology of the universe, with everything in the universe, everything you can imagine and can't imagine, there's certain... there's structures. There's what's the next step down and what's the next step up. There are structures of things that can and can't happen that you can come to understand It's very, very true that if you push your meditation, you go into really, really high states of mind and you really work on it, that you can get out of this band, get off of this station. You're bored of this station. You've heard all the songs. Now it's like the golden oldies to you. It's a little bit boring. You've heard the songs too many times, you want a new station. You want a new exciting station. So you push all the way up to the top of the band and then you experience BAM! A brand new station with much better music. So within the cosmology of everything there is a structure and it's possible to move up, it's possible to move down. And the proof of heaven and hell and reincarnation are visible in the present moment in your life, where you can see yourself going to high states or low states. You see that you generated from the previous comment. Everything about the universe exists in your experience right now. That's what's so wonderful about it. You can validate life, death, the universe, and everything in your present experience. So that's pretty good. Good, good, good. So I wanted to talk a little bit about reincarnation. Since we're going to be looking into our past lives, you have to have some awareness that you actually lived before. And when we do the seeing exercise, you will see past lives, whether you've seen them before or not. You'll have some awareness of it, which is very good. Now one of the fundamental aspects of Buddhism is this belief of reincarnation. And it's something that we come to understand through meditation and also through going through the process of the mystical teaching, seeing past lives. And we might wonder, if we had past lives, why don't we remember them? And it's important to understand that there is a way of illusion. And the way that, you know, the transient world, you know, what we call maya or illusion, the way that it works is just like a state of mind. You know, if you're in a state of mind that's happy, you don't remember what it feels like to be depressed. You just feel happy. If you're in this illusion, this maya, you don't remember the previous illusion. It's just not anything accessible to you. this illusion, this moment, is what you are conscious of. However, it's possible to be more conscious. That's what we'll be working on tonight. Past lives are kind of like past dreams. So maybe last night when you went to bed you You had a nightmare about a three-eyed monster that was chasing you. And it was just like one of those out there strange, weird nightmares, but at the time it seemed real. And you were afraid, and you were running, and oh my gosh, it was terrible. And then when you go to bed tonight, you have a normal dream about friends and work and stuff like that. There's no monster there. It's not a nightmare like it was before. In the dream tonight, you will not remember the monster from last night. You will have no way of remembering that monster from last night in your dream tonight, because your mind will be consumed by the illusion of the dream that you're in tonight. That's the way that illusion works. That's why you can't remember your past lives, because it works the same way. But we'll work on that. When I dream, I remember my dreams from the night before. I remember my previous dreams, and I remember my previous lives. Because through meditation, especially meditation on the third eye, you start to break through illusion. You break through the binds of illusion. You break through those structures that hold you in a certain state. You can shift states of mind very easily. You're conscious. You're fluid. When you're awake and also when you're asleep, and also of your past lives and your eternality. That's what comes from meditation. That's why meditation is very good. So tonight we'll be breaking a whole from this illusion, looking back to a previous circumstance. Now, when we look to our past lives, when we do this mystical exercise, you'll not be just looking for the story of that life, the history and biography of you in a past life. You'll be looking for your awareness, attention that you had gathered, consciousness that you had come to. So, each of you, if you've made it in this room, you've sat with my intermediate students and they gave you the thumbs up to come to this class, that means each of you have practiced spiritual disciplines in past lives. It's true. Otherwise you wouldn't get into the room. So, you know, let's say in a past life you studied meditation for 60 or 80 years. You probably, you know, maybe you were a monk, right? Maybe you were a yogi or yogini. If you did that, you probably came to some interesting level of consciousness. You probably had learned something about life. You probably had some insight into the eternality of being. And at this moment, you're separated from that. You don't have it. It's not with you. But what we're going to do is we're going to make that connection. We're going to open up and we're going to see that past life so that you can bring that awareness into this life. Once you see something that you already are, you're basically breaking down the wall of illusion that separates you from who you are at a deeper level. This is an important aspect of the study for the first several years, to bring back past life knowledge, to bring back that awareness, that you, you know, the awareness and insight and Siddha powers, Siddha, that you have in past life, bring it and integrate it into your awareness field now. So what that does is it brings you to the highest point that you've ever been. Going through these exercises, bringing that information, that awareness back and integrating it into your current attention. This brings you to the highest point that you've ever been. And then it gives you a great foundation to continue practicing to get higher. So you can go beyond that. But you definitely want to get everything that you've worked so hard for in every past incarnation. So if you've had dozens of lifetimes, you can think of it as... If you've had dozens of lifetimes of meditation, you can think of it as kind of in those lifetimes you are creating spiritual gold, spiritual gold pieces. And in this lifetime you want to collect all that gold so that you are as rich as you have ever been. And then that gives you a good foundation to go further. You can use that capital to bring you higher. So that will be our task tonight. Looking into our past lives, seeing our awareness. Sometimes you might see a vision. Very often there's just a feeling, a feeling of a place, a feeling of your consciousness. You want to be open and aware to your visions and feelings. Sometimes you hear things, sometimes it looks like a movie, but what we're looking for our awareness, that spiritual goal that we created in that lifetime. We're looking at specific lives. We're going to go on a little journey through our past lives together. We're looking for specific lives. Since all of you have been in spiritual disciplines, we're going to look for those lifetimes where you were in those spiritual disciplines. You know, you've had a lot of, you know, a lot of farmers. farming. You know, so you had a lot of uninteresting past lives, but those help you get to the interesting ones. You just get so bored and dissatisfied, and then it makes you yearn for a higher incarnation. But you all have had high spiritual past lives, and we will be looking for those peak moments because we want to be able to access that spiritual goal and bring it across. So it's very important I'm telling you this because it's directing what you look for. You know because if we just open up the third eye and look at past lives you might see a lot of boring stuff or dramas. We're not looking for the drama. We're not looking for all that suffering. Some people just like open the third eye and see suffering. Oh yeah I remember that incarnation where I had that spear poked in me. That one where I died because I was hungry. The one where I died because I was thirsty. And then the Well that's the thing about reincarnation. You've had many incarnations. You've lived many times and you've died many times. So when you start to understand the truth of reincarnation, it gives you an opportunity to relax a little bit. It's not just this one lifetime where you have to figure everything out. And you don't have to be so stressed out because you've already died before. How bad can life be? Yeah.

0:50:11
But at the same time, when you look at your past lives

0:50:13
and you've seen that there's moments that were great and some moments that were difficult, you say, wow, I see the moments that are great give me more possibilities. So in this lifetime I'd like to get to that point where I get higher and have more possibilities. Ascending in life is the way of life. It's the dharma of life. So it gets you to relax a little bit, chill out, not be so hectic, and it gets you to a point where you say, yeah, I really want to make something of this life and really practice hard because it's brighter. on a little journey. We're going to start off by focusing on a specific location. We're going to go through a number of locations and they're places that all of you have had spiritual path lives of high Dharmic discipline. These These are... these seeings are meditative exercises. So, sit up nice and straight. What we're going to do right now is focus on the third eye. Focus on this area. Maybe touch the third eye just lightly. Focus there, and now with your intention, try to see through your third eye a light that is slightly up to the left. Slightly up to the left. So the intention of feeling the third eye, seeing through the third eye to a light that is up to the left. My left, not your left. Just kidding. So just take a moment to feel the third eye. Look out and up to the left at a light. Good. Yeah, this is the feeling in which you want to practice this seeing. This is how you see past life. You get a see through the third eye. And we look off to the left into the past. Now what we're going to do is we're going to listen to some music. We're going to focus on the third eye. It's a soft focus. And from time to time you want to, you know, focus and look up to the left, but just relax. Don't trip out about, what, am I going to the left or the right? Is there a light there? I'm confused. Just relax. We're just going to listen to some music and have a soft focus on the third eye, seeing through up to the left into a light. And this is a song that was written by yogis in our school. It is a song about India. Okay, let's begin. Continue to focus on the third eye. As you can see, India rocks. India was a wonderful place for spiritual study.

0:55:43
Very good. Okay, and please stop. Good.

0:55:53
Alright, now, I'd like for someone in the audience to share with everyone else a seeing or a feeling or awareness that you had during this exercise. So if you would please raise your hand if you would like to share a scene. You're raising your hand. Okay, someone in the back. Okay, see a hand up in the back. I had the experience of finding great stillness. Very still and very, very... Very nice. Stillness with rock music. Okay, and in front? And above the Ganges River, I saw the Ganges moving up to this and it's always floating around. And it's very peaceful, everything around me. Very nice. Good. Thank you. Thank you both. Good, good, good, good, good. Very nice. Good. Well, before we continue, we're going to take a break. We have a lot to do tonight, so we'll have a short break, just about 15 minutes, and then we'll get back together. We'll do some more of the seeing exercises.

0:57:47
Thank you. Thank you.

0:57:57
you




Transcribed with Cockatoo
