0:00:00
Hey everyone. All right. Good, good, good, good, good. You're all hanging in there. Nice. Sit through a meditation. It is difficult. You know, because we're doing things on, let's say, more than one level. If you were just hearing a lecture, it would just be information. Yeah, it's something to listen to something to say, well, that's interesting. Thoughts, provocative information. This is the opposite of that. Silence of thoughts. And there's a lot of there's a lot more energy involved here. This is an esoteric meeting. That means that there is the kundalini is involved. Kundalini is a very refined spiritual energy. And when you sit with me, I raise the kundalini. I bring the kundalini up. And that raises energy. It brings energy up. If you feel uncomfortable, you know, your muscles get tense, you know, or if you feel just a little bit antsy when you're sitting, it's because meditation with me is kind of a workout. You have to engage. It's not just information in terms of words. There's an actual transmission of spiritual energy and awareness. So it takes you bringing your earnest effort. You have to put your best foot forward and give it a shot. Why not, since you're here? Give it a shot. Get the most you can out of it. And then see if it works for you. See if it makes your life brighter and happier. And if it does, great. And if it doesn't, no worries. This is just a free, fun evening for you.

0:02:31
Good.

0:02:33
So, we were talking about looking at things in your life, and making them the spiritual path. and going into the deeper dimensions of life and seeing the greater power. One analogy I often use, because I'm a sensei in a fourth-degree black belt, I teach martial arts. And martial arts is do a physical activity that leads to personal power and awareness. So when somebody walks into a dojo for the first time, they're a white belt. They look all funky, they can't move right, and they don't know anything. They're untrained. And they look at the black belts, they look at the senseis, and the senseis have a kind of power. They look at the senseis and they say there's something about the way that gal moves. There's something about the way that person does their forms that is strong, that's powerful. You start to see something a little more deep, something that exists beneath the surface, frustration like break boards and then you say, wow, you know, that's impressive. You know, when they break boards, that is a demonstration of a greater power and that tells you that there is more to it than what meets the eye. It's not just, you know, a technique or a move. It is, there's some greater power that they get from doing that art. So the white belt comes in lacking the awareness and they go through a training, go through a structure of learning. And through that not only do they learn physical movements and stretching and a little bit of cardiovascular capabilities, but what they learn is they learn something about power. So going from a white belt to a black belt is very transformative in terms of power. So when you see yourself going from this white belt, who can't do nothing, who's unable to do the basic moves, basic stances, and then you see yourself being able to break the boards and you hold that attention and power that the black belts gain, you see that you're, you know, you not only learn movements, but you've gained a power and awareness. Black belts, when they're walking down the street, they have a greater awareness than your average person. A just gains that awareness from focusing on their martial arts technique. They look at life a little bit differently. When they see people walking down the street, they have an awareness and an understanding of if they're a threat. If they see someone that's a threat, they bring the proper attention to it so that it diffuses the problem. You know, if someone wants to mug you and you're afraid and you look away, very often they'll say that's an easy target and they'll want to mug you. However, if you're a black belt, you will have the right attention. You'll look back at them and they will sense that this is not going to be easy. So black belts avoid problems with their awareness and they gain that simply by kata, sparring, engaging in the discipline of martial arts. They gain a power. Almost all of my students are black belts. Well in America, but all of my students are working towards their black belts. But often, you know, the people that you're studying with are all black belts. And there's something that we can do, we can demonstrate that is very interesting. It shows an awareness beyond the surface. Very simple thing. Two people can stand in a fighting stance, you know, regular boxing stance in front of each other. And I can ask one of them, what is the other person going to do? And I say, get ready for a fight, get ready to spar. I can say to one person, what is the other going to do? What is their attack going to do? My student, or most of the time, all the time, once in a while they mess up, but nine times out of ten, they'll be able to know exactly what attack is coming at them. Punch, punch, kick, kick, they'll say, okay, there'll be a roundhouse kick off the front leg. How do they know that? How do they know that? Because they gain an awareness. If they're walking down the street and something's about to happen, they're going to be able to defend themselves. Not because they're Superman or whatever. They've just gained an awareness of something very important in the physical world, the ability to defend your life and the life of others. They've gained that through cultivating the power of martial arts. Now, from the surface, you put a white belt up against someone and you say, what's the other guy going to do? Who knows? There's endless possibilities of what they might do. But when someone goes through training, it develops this awareness. They learn capabilities of life. So if you have a black belt, you've looked at life in a different way. You've gained a greater awareness of life in a very useful way, especially if you live in a city. It's called being street smart. And you have a greater capability because of that awareness. Now it's the same way in spirituality. When you learn meditation, you sit there and you go through this process of focusing on your chakras. And if you've ever done martial arts, There's a lot of repetition, doing the forms over and over, the techniques over and over, but it's by going through these basic forms, basic techniques, over and over again, that you develop and cultivate this awareness. So meditation is the same way. You go through this practice of over and over again, when a thought comes up, drop the thought, bring the focus back to the chakra. It makes your mind strong. It purifies your attention. And it makes you capable of bringing the spiritual energy up. So you're able to do more, do better in life. You have a clearer mind and greater personal power in life. Now that is a power, an awareness that you cultivate in meditation. So when you first look at your meditation teacher, your meditation teacher can meditate perfectly, stop thought completely, go into extremely luminous states of consciousness where they're spiritually happy, balanced, where the disturbing emotions of life can't reach them, where the ego can't reach them, where the limitations of a small-minded view of things can't reach them. They have the ability to see the miracle of life when they stop thought. And you sense that when you sit with a teacher. You have some awareness of that. Maybe you see it in a big way, maybe you just have an inner feeling that it's something that's bright and powerful and beautiful. But you sense that when you sit with a teacher. And then what happens is you get power flips, where you go from someone who sits down and thinks, you're bombarded with your thoughts, you're terrorized by your emotions. And then after earnest effort over a long period of time, you gain a great spiritual power. You see much more deeply than you saw in the beginning. You see the inner light, you see subtle physical energy. Just because you can't at the moment doesn't mean that it's not real. Just like the two black belts facing off. How does he know, how does she know that the other person, what the other person's attack is going to be? You gain deeper awareness by cultivating the power through the art. So when you cultivate the awareness, the spiritual awareness in meditation, you start to see life in deeper dimensionality, in a more spiritual way. It's not that it's not real, just because you can't see it right now. It is real, but it is something that you cultivate. The practice of meditation takes time. You've got to sit there for 15 minutes. But mastering meditation takes a little longer. It's not something that you're going to master in 6 months or a year. If you're a very good practitioner, you will enjoy every moment of slowing down thought, every moment of luminous awareness. So if you're an earnest practitioner, every meditation gives you a greater degree of light, a mind that is more still. You gain, with every meditation, a greater view of the miracle of life. And that is worth it. When you're developing your martial arts, you're not the best jumping spinning hook kick in the world, but when you learn how to punch, when you learn how to do your stance, you learn how to block, you're becoming stronger, more aware, more capable, and you're happy feel good and strong from doing your daily discipline. So, you know, getting a black belt takes three to ten years depending on the school. And in meditation you have to put, you know, you have to think of it in the same way. Three to ten years in order to get that really strong capability of stopping thought and experiencing tremendous light directly. So it's not something that happens overnight, but every satsang, every meditation, every time you go and sit with your teacher in the introduction class, in the beginning class, every time you learn more from the Enlightenment workbook, you're gaining more insight into your mind, you're gaining a greater view of life. And it's happy, it's bright. And it is its own reward. In the beginning You have to be patient because you might not see, you might not understand. What do you like about it? What do you like about meditation? What do you like about the spiritual path? Some people just like dressing up and coming to the Ritz. It's weird. I know. Some people enjoy it. They have a superior sense of humor. Some people like our, we go on these trips to the desert and we go out into the middle of the desert and we meditate and we look into these beautiful magical realms. And some people like the trips to the ocean. We go out to Hawaii. We go swimming with the dolphins, things like that. It's just really fun, fun stuff, swimming with the whales. I saw a whale once. It winked at me. Just kidding. So yeah, it's kind of neat when you see dolphins music, dolphins. Yeah. But, you know, this comes down to, you know, I'm a fourth degree black belt, right? And I'm a very strong yogi. And this comes down to serious business, serious meditation, taking developing, taking the development of your mind seriously, developing your life in a powerful way, so that when you're in the older class, you're not looking back at your life and saying, my dreams were crushed, my life didn't work out the way I thought it would, my wife didn't work out the way I thought it would. This is what happens to people. You're so optimistic, life is so great, I have all the opportunities in the world. Ten years later, eh. So nice, beautiful, spiritual people, very often in the West, don't recognize that life changes. They don't develop themselves in a constructive way that their life is going to be difficult, you know, because they're enjoying the party. But the party comes to an end. It does, unfortunately. So an intelligent individual, a good student, will really look at life, look at older people and say, are they fulfilled? Because they had the same parties and the same dreams. They thought everything was going to work out. They thought they had every option in the universe. And then look what they're doing. Do you want fries with that? Just kidding. No, really, but this is the consciousness of the planet. It's a consciousness of, you know, you want everything to work out amazingly well, you know, and you and you see it and and you have all the energy in the world, but then it doesn't work out that way. I went to high school in San Francisco. This is, this is where I was, where I was born. And that's why I came back to teach here. I want to help out my countrymen. But I went to high school here and the senior class president, Maggie, and then two years later I ran into her working at KFC. And I was like, whoa, what happened to you? Got pregnant, didn't expect to, but life does stuff. So life definitely doesn't work out, most of the time, the way that you think it will. And it's good to realize the nature of change in life and to really look at life in a more intelligent way. A more intelligent way. It's very good. Thanks. You know, I enjoy teaching martial and computer science, because I like to see the transformations that people go through. There's a beautiful part of the miracle of life, and it is the transformation from limitation to eternity, the transformation from self to selflessness, the mind of darkness to the mind of opportunity, the mind of life, enlightenment. That transformation exists and it exists in learning these developmental arts. I have my students learn martial arts for a reason, because the world is not kind, and it's a terrible thing to be attacked and not know what to do about it. When you gain the ability, the awareness of street smarts and the capability to handle yourself, it just makes life so much happier, stronger. And meditation, when you engage in the practice of meditation, you really gain the inner light. You gain a greater balance and a greater happiness. So I love to see people transform from a condition of weakness to strength, from a condition of sadness to happiness. And really that's what we gain in the study of enlightenment and the spiritual path. We gain an ability to move from a condition of limitation to a condition of opportunity. And that is a fun thing for me to be engaged in. It's fun to see it. That is a miracle to see someone learn, to see someone change and transform and move beyond the obstacles to their happiness. And that's why I'm here. I hope that's why you're here too. Yeah, because you know it in your mind. You can look at things in a conceptual way and be very idealistic. But when you look at your ability to stop thought, you're looking at the true power of your spirit. You're looking at your awareness. You're caught up in karma. You're a leaf in the wind. But if you can stop thought, if you look at life and see opportunity, when you see problems, you see ways out, when you can experience that vast perspective of the miracle of life, you're always happy. There's happy, there's always opportunities, there's no dead ends, there's no barriers that will stop you. You're always able to grow, you're always able to become brighter and happier in life and there's no end to that. So that energy of transformation is a good place to be. Constantly refining your mind, constantly experiencing higher states of consciousness, greater amounts of personal power. This is a beautiful pathway. It's a pathway of professionals, it's a pathway of black belts. It's not a pathway of sniveling. It's for people who want to be victorious in life. Because we are victorious in our disciplines. We're victorious in our meditation, our spiritual disciplines. We're very victorious in work and we're also victorious in martial arts, which is just really a very good physical way for you to observe the shift of attention and gain a great awareness of the physical world. If you haven't been in a dojo, I recommend you go into a dojo. Look at the black belts, look at the sensei, look at you. Be humble. Get down off your high horse. Can you stop thought? Can you do what the black belt does? There is a power that is beyond your concepts and ideas. And it is power that makes your life happier, brighter, more opportunity. Humility is always good. Humility is the greatest spiritual quality. of meditation on our livelihood. Whatever you do, whatever job you have, or if you're going to school, we use that livelihood as spiritual practice. So if you have a career, your career becomes a kind of karma yoga, that's the yoga of consecrated action. You become mindful and aware. You try to do your work perfectly. And in bringing greater mindfulness, a greater attention to your work, you succeed in your work to a higher degree. If your work is school, then you succeed in your school to a higher degree. Because you're using it as not just getting by and doing whatever, you always are doing your best, you're always bringing your best to it. Try to do it and then you you tend to do better, but you also tend to be happier, more engaged and get more energy and power out of your work in school than just you know being bored. So if you're flipping burgers or serving KFC, you want to do it perfectly. You really want to bring your attention into it. You don't want to be brain dead. In this world, in the West, we have to work. We all have to get a job eventually. And it's best to bring your full attention into that work. You'll succeed more in work, you'll be happier in work. And so we practice this as a primary aspect of the study, bringing your attention into your work. That's right. So then that way you're not spacing out during the day. You're actually focusing. And we have a whole bunch of techniques to do that. One of the primary ways that we do it is through technology. So many of my students also work in technology and it is in technology that they practice this mindfulness. Technology is good because it's very mental. So they're sitting around all day long and it makes the mind strong. That's why we like technology. You know, because if you're out there, you know doing some physical labor or dealing with lots of people, it is very distracting to your mind and taxing on your physical body and then it gets you confused or wears down your attention. But if you can do technology, it's just a strong way to go. It's a positive way to go. So, but you know, irregardless, if you are doing anything, if you're doing anything, you want to bring your attention into it to a greater degree, and then you'll be stronger. You'll be developing personal power and focus. You can call it mindfulness, you can call it karma yoga. We call it job yoga. And job yoga is something that brings us to a very... it brings a spiritual path into your day. So your work is not separate from your spiritual study. Your work, your school is your spiritual study. And then that's a very pragmatic way to study in the West, and it makes you strong, and it makes you happy. So it's a good deal, since you have Now, we also do music. Well, we also do music as a part of yoga as well. And we're going to do something that I'll talk about a little bit more next time we meet. And that is, we're going to do another art project. We always do art. We're always engaging in artistic pursuits as an expression of our spirituality. And music is one aspect of it. We meditate to the music. But there's an upcoming project that's going to be willing to extend this project to you guys. For anyone who wants to, we're going to do these little happy videos. And they'll be, you know, not very big things. It's not this giant production, but it'll be fun. You know, 30 seconds, a minute, two minutes, you know, you don't need any longer than that. But they will be bringing the spirit of yoga into an artistic form. So if you'd like to learn something about yoga, especially if you're not taking the technology classes, it would be good for you to try the video project. And it'll just be a fun thing where people break up into teams and work on it, and it should be it should be fun. But I'll talk more about that in our, I'll give you the whole outline on it next time we meet. Now if you are going to the technology classes, then you're really getting into the intense yoga. So if you're in the technology classes, you're really serious about the study because you're learning the yoga. It's not something that you need to do in order, like if you already have a career plan that you're doing, you want to be a lawyer or something like that, you can also do the technology courses. What you learn in the technology courses is you learn how to do karma yoga, how to do job yoga. You learn how to pay attention. You learn the structures of mind that we gain from yoga. And you put it into use in anything that you do. So, you know, sometimes you're just doing chores around the house and you use the same structures of attention that you gain in the technology classes in doing your chores. In doing the tech classes you gain a great spirit. You get, you gain, yeah, a lot of luminosity in the considerations of structured programming, hierarchical object modeling, relational theory. You gain different ways of looking at life, ways of perceiving information, and it's always very detailed. It has a strong attention. So when you gain the ability to look at life in these different constructs of logic, you gain a stronger mind. And when you have that attention, you can bring that attention to any job or any So the tech classes are the primary place where we teach job yoga, where you learn yoga, you learn how to bring the spiritual path into your nine to five. And, you know, even if you resist a nine to five, it's gonna happen. It's gonna happen. Think about the hippie movement, right? Everyone was so optimistic, flower power, all this stuff. And then what? Changed, right? It changed, life changed. The people who are saying one thing one day, were then corporate leaders the next day. You know, so things change. And you, you got to go with, go with the flow. You gotta see the flow coming so that you can go up instead of go down. You're gonna have a nine to five. Is it gonna be a draining nine to five? Depends on how you develop your life. And if you even learn the techniques of job yoga, no matter what you do, you can bring these techniques of awareness and attention, of spiritual practice into your work, into your 9-5. And it will make your 9-5 a spiritual thing, whatever it is. It will increase your energy, increase your awareness, and make you more successful in whatever you do. So if you're doing the tech classes, that's great. And if you're not, that's fine as well. There's no have-tos. There's no rules. You just do whatever makes sense to you. If you think that you'll evolve, then do it. If you think that it will make you devolve, don't do it. I'd actually like to speak with the people who are currently in the tech class and people who are considering starting the next tech class, which will be in late March or early April. I'd like to speak with you for a moment after this meditation session. So we'll go into our final meditation of the evening, and we will again meditate on three chakras, navel, heart, third eye. One song each. Nice and easy. Still your mind, relax, focus. We'll go deeper into the brightness and beauty of the miracle.

0:36:18
Very nice.

0:36:42
When the Buddha sat under the Bodhi tree and attained enlightenment, he experienced a very high, beautiful bliss. And at the same time, he wanted to know if that amazing spiritual ecstasy was real. So what he did was he reached down and touched the ground with his left hand. And when he felt the ground, he became aware that enlightenment, the spiritual ecstasy of nirvana, is in complete balance with the physical. In Buddhism, to not only have beautiful meditations and a strong focus on meditation and beautiful spiritual things like spiritual music or trips to sacred places, but also to be very grounded why it's very important to pay attention to work, the job that you'll be spending many hours at over your lifetime. It's very important to be grounded in the physical world and to lead a life that is intelligent about the physical world. This is Buddhism. So thank you all very much. It's a pleasure meditating with you this evening. I know that some of you are probably very new to this, and so it's very hard to sit in a meditation with me. There's a lot of energy. Practice your meditation. Read the enlightenment workbook and your next meditation will be higher and stronger. You'll be more able to deal with the energy.

0:38:58
Now

0:39:00
everyone, when you go home tonight, it's a great idea to take a shower. Take a shower. There's a lot of energy that's pushing off like the toxicities in your aura, it's pushing it off and out, out of your aura. And a way to, you know, it kind of pushes out of the inside and then there might be a little bit of residual energy on the outside. Take a shower when you get home.

0:39:42
It'll help.

0:39:43
Everyone should do that. It'll help your aura. Good. And when you go home, be careful. When you come out of here, you might not realize it, but you've gone into higher states of attention, so you might not be that aware of the physical world. You might go outside and notice that the lights shine brighter, that the city looks brighter because you've gone into a higher state. But again, you have to be grounded, street smart, be careful. If you're driving home, make sure you get in your car before you drive home. I mean it. Be grounded and intelligent about it. A lot of people feel really high and bright and then they just kind of don't focus on the physical very much and then you trip and fall. So realize that you've just gone into some higher spiritual states and that it's important for you to bring your attention back into the physical. Excellent. So till we meet again. Thank you very much. For those of you who are in the tech classes or if you're interested in the next round of tech classes at the end of March, then I'd like you to stay for a moment. We will take a five-minute break. moment. We will take a five-minute break.

0:41:22
Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
