0:00:00
You guys are really great. When I used to go see my teacher, when he came back into the room, I would still go and hang out over at the coffee. I'd say, hold up, wait for me. When I'm done, you can done, you can start with the enlightenment thing. moment of enlightenment that all beings have Buddha nature and they just are ignorant of that fact. That's why he went out to teach. So you have Buddha nature in you and everyone has Buddha nature. Everyone. Even the guy in the movie theater who keeps answering his cell phone and talking on it during the movie he has Buddha nature yeah you know the belligerent drunk at the bar Buddha nature everyone's school, everyone you ever met, everyone out there has Buddha nature. Every single mother-in-law throughout the whole world has Buddha nature. There's not one person alive without Buddha nature. So that is one of the amazing truths of Buddha nature, that even someone who seems to be very far away from acting enlightened, they still have this enlightened essence. All of us. All of us are part of enlightenment. No one is disconnected from Buddha nature. to conduct ourselves differently in relating to other people. So, you know, the gas station cashier, or your waitress, everyone, the bus driver, everyone you come across has Buddha nature in people. It makes you happier in dealing with people. It opens up a whole new dimension to life when you treat people like they're enlightened. Treat people as you would the enlightened one, as you would the Buddha, because you respect that that being has in his or her essence the Buddha nature. So we're going to do a couple little exercises of seeing Buddha nature, experiencing Buddha nature. And these exercises are geared to allowing you to deal with people in your life, everyone you come across, in a completely new way, in a new way where you can appreciate their Buddha and not just what's at face value, what's happening at the moment at the surface. And then this will give you a whole new appreciation for everyone. To begin, we first recognize Buddha nature by looking at an advanced spiritual person, maybe a meditation teacher or an enlightened one. Or sometimes it might be an image of the Buddha nature. It's very easy. So what we'll do right now is we'll do a seeing exercise to see the Buddha nature. And what I'd like you to do is I'd We will have a meditation with eyes open. You can focus on your third eye with your eyes open, looking to me. And when you gaze toward me, you will see the Buddha nature. It's very easy to see the Buddha nature in yourself and also in others. So, let's begin. So, that was an experience, going beyond the surface view of life and seeing and seeing Buddha nature. It's very, very, very easy to see when you gaze at me in meditation, or if you look at, if you have a particularly pure picture of a Buddha, an enlightened person. the Buddha nature. And then when you see it, by looking to me, it actually inspires you. It opens up an inner door that helps you to see the Buddha nature within you and the Buddha nature within all others. So, this looks a little bit, you know, this practice, we look a little bit beneath the surface, so that we can see the enlightened aspect of all beings. Very good. So, I'd like to ask you, in this meditation? While you were sitting here, focusing on the third eye, with your eyes open, your experience of apprehending, of seeing the Buddha nature, what was your experience? Hands. Oh, so many hands on so many legs. Ah, yes?

0:08:54
For a moment I saw you as the Buddha,

0:08:56
and you were like floating, like levitating.

0:08:59
Awesome.

0:09:01
That's like Buddha nature. Anyone else?

0:09:05
Yes?

0:09:06
Your body and putting the chair disappeared.

0:09:09
Disappeared right in the Fairmont.

0:09:11
Okay. Yes. That's good. Yeah, not even a desert there. Not even the dark of night to cloak me. Yes, that's good. Anyone else? Yes. I saw a kind of light.

0:09:38
So it was, it kind of,

0:09:40
I saw the energy just kind of like shift. And it would come out a little bit and just get lighter. Both light in terms of feather light, but also light in terms of color light, or light light. Very good, yes. color light or white light.

0:09:57
Very good.

0:09:58
These are all correct scenes.

0:10:02
You're very brave to speak out. A lot of people will go through one of our seeing exercises, whether it's looking at me or when we go to the desert trips where we do Buddhist mysticism, we do many different seeing exercises or there are things to see, spiritual things to see when we do these events. A lot of people, they won't say anything because there's so many other people around, but they see things and then they will tell me later, they'll tell someone else later, wow, I saw all these amazing things. So it's good of you and brave of you to raise your hand and share your scenes. For the three of you, these are correct scenes. They are, you know, we often report scenes of life, of disappearing, and of floating. And this is good. You are able to see, these are things of Buddha nature. So, not only is Buddha nature in me and you and everyone else, but Buddha nature is actually in everything. It's in your shoes. It's what's for dinner. So, Buddha nature is everything. It's the chair you're sitting on. Buddha nature is everything. It doesn't have to be sentient to have Buddha nature. Carrots have Buddha nature. Everything has Buddha nature. I was sitting today in the woods and just looking at a tree. And the tree, you know, dissolved into life. And I saw endless, infinite dimensions of brightness, of spiritual brightness. And it was the Buddha nature of the tree. It was the enlightened aspect of the tree. And it's just because I took a moment to see it. and have a soft focus, instill my mind, and see the absolute Buddha nature of a tree. You can look at anything and see the Buddha nature of that thing. There was once a monk who went to his spiritual teacher, his Buddhist master, and said, does an oak tree have Buddha nature? And the Buddhist master said, yes. And then the monk said, okay, well, so then when is the oak tree going to become a Buddha? And the master said, when the sky falls to the earth. And then the monk asked the master, well, when will the sky fall to the earth? And the master answered, when the oak tree becomes a Buddha. Isn't that a great spiritual answer? But really what the master was pointing out that the tree definitely has Buddha nature, as do all things. However, a tree being not sentient doesn't have the opportunity to realize its Buddha nature. This is a very important recognition in Indo-Tibetan Buddhism, that a sentient being, such as yourself, can realize your Buddha nature while the chair you're sitting on, in its current manifestation, although it has Buddha nature, and if you look at it, it will shine, but it cannot realize its own Buddha nature. Now, this is precisely why in the Indo-Tibetan Buddhist tradition, we say, nobly born, you were born as a sentient being who has come to the pathway to enlightenment, and you were not born as a chair. Now this is a wonderful thing, and if you consider all of the chairs in the world, you're pretty lucky, because, you There's a lot of chairs out there. If you also consider all of the other things that are not sentient, things such as things such as the door squeaking, the squeaking doors in life, the rugs, the walls, the lights, you know, dirt. All of the things out there, pencils, pens, glasses, that are not sentient, this is all Buddha nature, but you just happened to incarnate as you, a sentient being, you are of a noble birth, because you can apprehend Buddha nature. So it's a rare thing to have your birth, and it's a wonderful thing. So that's why we started off the evening with, O nobly born. Very good. So we'll do another seeing exercise, and this is a seeing exercise of seeing a non-sentient thing and seeing its Buddha nature. to me, we will do a gazing exercise looking at something that is not sentient. It could be the chair in front of you, maybe a little dot on the chair in front of you. It could be the floor, as long as you don't lower your head, keep your head, your chin parallel to the ground. You can lower your eyes. You can look to the ceiling. You can look to a dot on the wall. You can hold a pen or anything in your hand, a wallet, and look to this, just gaze on the object, whether it's a dot or anything.

0:18:22
Anything.

0:18:23
It could be a light, one of those lights, they're bright, one of those lights over there. Look at something that is not sentient, and you will focus on the third eye, we'll do another gazing meditation, and we will look to the Buddha nature of a non-sentient Not of noble birth. Alrighty, let's see.

0:18:50
Okay. Alright. So take that thing, and let's begin.

0:18:51
Everything is luminous. Everything has Buddha nature. It's easiest to see first in the awakened one, and then to start recognizing it in your own spiritual practice.

0:19:11
You're able to see Buddha nature within you. You're able to see it on the ground, on a dot, on the wall, on a light. Buddha nature, everything has Buddha nature in everyone and everything. Look beneath the surface of the transient world and see the enlightened aspect of all things. Our experience in our gazing exercises this evening opens your mind to see and experience that in your life. And, you know, according to the Buddha, it's a Alright, so, if you might think, okay, so I am of noble birth, I am sentient, at least I think so, and I have a limit in terms of my awareness? Why don't I experience the unity of all things? The answer is because of desire, fear, and ignorance. These are really three primary aspects of ego cleaning. And these things will obscure our mirror of self-reflection, so that we cannot see the Buddha nature, we cannot apprehend the Buddha nature. So, with desire, we see something like, let's say, a rose. You see a beautiful rose. It's growing on a bush, and it's beautiful. So you say, I desire that. I want to have that beauty. So an ego will go out there and grab the rose and clip it off and bring it into its room and say, my rose! But then when you do that, you will enjoy that rose for a while because it will be beautiful and fragrant, but it will die very quickly. Now if you were, let's say, more enlightened and without that desire, you would go out and see the rose, you would walk over to it and smell it and enjoy it for a much longer period of time by respecting it, not killing it, not trying to control it, take it, and just which is alive on a bush. So the enlightened one would maybe not kill the rose. Sorry guys. And go out to the rose bush and smell the rose and enjoy it. So that's an analogy of desire. For fear, you might have the cookie jar in the kitchen, a kitchen with very high ceilings and very, very high cupboards, and the cookie jar is up on top. You say, my spirit would enjoy having a cookie. A cookie would advance me and make me happy.

0:24:06
But, because it's so far up,

0:24:08
you start climbing up on the counter to get up there, and you start to become afraid of the height, so then you go back down and say, oh, I'm too afraid to go up there and get that cookie. So, what you would do if you were the enlightened one, is you would learn through your disciplines of Buddhism how to make a ladder, how to construct a ladder. And then you would take the time to construct the ladder, learn how to do it properly, do it safely, and then climb up and get the cookie jar. Bring it down and give cookies to all sentient beings. And then also have one for yourself. So fear is something that often stops us and in the enlightened way, we might learn disciplines so that we can overcome our fears and still get the biscuit. All right, so then there's a third one, ignorance. So ignorance might be someone who just has, let's say, a raw diamond and they got a bunch of rocks and they got a raw diamond and they don't see the difference between the rocks and the raw diamond. It's uncut, it doesn't look like the stuff that comes on a wedding ring or an engagement ring. So they don't recognize, someone who's ignorant doesn't recognize that that stone is worth something. It's worth a great deal. In their ignorance, they will just throw that diamond away because they don't know that it can get them things in life. It can get them into... a person might be a beggar and throw that diamond away and it could have bought them a house. Someone might be hungry and not have any food and they'll throw that diamond away because they don't recognize the value. So someone who is wise, the enlightened one, would see the value in all things and would not be ignorant to the value of the diamond. And then they would go over and sell it to a jeweler. And then they would be able to buy their house and you know, desire, fear, and ignorance that really draw you out of the awareness of Buddha nature. It puts you into the karmas of self. And then your experience is of greater suffering because you're being pulled by your desires and pushed by your fears and oblivious to the things that could really, really help you. There's another story of a monk who goes over to his Buddhist master and he says, Master, does a dog have food in nature? And the master says, No. And then the student says, really? Because in the sutras, Buddha says that even a blade of grass has Buddha nature. Everything sentient and not sentient, they all have Buddha nature. So why doesn't a dog have Buddha nature? And then the Buddhist master says, the dog has karmic condition consciousness. It has the awareness of its karmic conditioning. And then the student thinks about that for a while. And then says, So you're saying that a dog does not have Buddha nature? And then the same master says, A dog has Buddha nature. And then he says, well, wait a minute. So if a dog has Buddha nature, then, you know, why, you know, why isn't the dog enlightened? And then the master says, a dog doesn't have Buddha nature. And then the master says, it has karmic conditioning consciousness. Then the master says, yeah, well really, it does have Buddha nature. And the student is like, how can this be? All roads lead to the capital city. So what the master means here is that a dog, while it has Buddha nature, if it doesn't do anything, it will never realize that Buddha nature. Just as all roads, you can be out in the countryside, all roads lead to the city, but you have to walk down the road in order to get to the city. So just because the road leads there, doesn't mean that you're experiencing the big city. You have to walk down, you have to do something to get there. Otherwise, you are stuck where you're at. The dog is stuck in its ego clinging, in its karmic conditioning consciousness. And then the dog also could walk to the capital city. But it takes doing something. So this is really the point of this conversation. A lot of Buddhist conversations are very paradoxical, or they just don't make any sense. But they actually make sense. It just takes proper interpretation. It's necessary to understand that while you have Buddha nature, you also have desire, fear and ignorance. The aspects of ego clinging that keep your experience of life in the transient awareness of things, where you have the ups and downs, the wins and the losses, you don't see your Buddha nature all the time. You see it maybe a glimpse here, a glimpse there, but it's not your condition of life. You don't live in that condition of enlightened awareness. Now, you will remain in this karmic condition of life until you do something, and that something is walk down that road to the capital city. Capital city being enlightenment. The road being the pathway to enlightenment. You have to follow the path to enlightenment and that's where you come into your awareness of your Buddha nature. So, the way that we walk the pathway to enlightenment is principally found in meditation. Meditation is the essence of all practice. In meditation we stop thoughts and that means that we stop the karmic conditioning consciousness. We stop, you know, everyone we know, everything we thought we were, how we see life, we stop what we did today, what we have to do tomorrow, our concerns, our worries, our fears, our angers. In meditation we focus on the chakra, we still our mind, we become quiet and balanced. As soon as all of your thoughts fall away, the karmic conditioning mind is gone. And what is revealed is Buddha nature. So meditation is the pathway to enlightenment. It is the pathway, the road that leads to the capital city. But it's necessary for you to realize that you have to do it. You have to practice meditation. You have to practice mindfulness. You have to engage in the matters of light. You have to follow the pathway, the structures of yoga, the structures of a spiritual school, the eternal structures of spiritual advancement. And this will bring you to the realization of your Buddha nature. And when you come to that realization, you transcend your suffering, you transcend your limitation, and you come to a condition of inner peace and spiritual illumination. So, meditation, mindfulness, all of the matters of the enlightened one, of the Sangha, of the Dharma, this is the pathway to enlightenment. In Tibetan Buddhism, we have a saying, a very high spiritual saying or mantra. It is, OM MANI PADME HAM. And this mantra is, OM MANI PADME HAM. And this translates to, the jewel is in the lotus. Now a lotus is an interesting thing, because it sits on the pond and its roots are all the way down at the bottom of the pond in the murky dirt. That's where it is born, in the dirt. And then the lily pads on top of the water, and then a beautiful flower. So we are the lotus. You are the lotus. Everyone is the lotus. We have this balance of humility coming from a simple place, and being able to soar above the waters of life, and sit as a beautiful flower in the sun. And we say, Omani Padme Hum, the jewel is in the lotus, enlightenment is in you. And this is what directs you to Buddha nature. Omani Padme Ham. The jewel is in the lotus. Buddha nature is within you. Enlightenment is within you. And that's why I refer to you as, O nobly born, O nobly born, the lotus with Buddha nature inside. Great. Great. So thank you all this evening.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
