0:00:00
Okay, we're going to start off with a meditation. We're going to meditate for one song on the third eye. Let's begin. People of Earth, I come in peace. I come in peace. I come in peace. Alright, very good. Alright, so last week I talked a little bit about myself and my background in coming to the study and though I study with several teachers of several different schools I'm a part of a particular esoteric lineage so I'd like to tell you a little bit about my teacher Ram Rimpoche and the lineage.

0:01:36
and the minions. So, this is always a good thing to do because it bothers some people. An enlightened teacher has this funny job. The job is to push your buttons. Right? If you have a button to push, it will be pushed. I will push it.

0:02:00
to push, it will be pushed. I will push it. Or I will create a circumstance for it to be pushed. That's magic. Buddhist magic. So we're talking about enlightenment here. Enlightenment is the eternal aspect of yourself without any limited conditions itself. All of life internal aspect of yourself without any limited conditions itself. All of life exists, we think things are good and things are bad, this is that and that is the other, but in reality all of life is perfect, all of life is within a perfect balance. So what we seek to do on the pathway to enlightenment is get rid of our filtration system of thinking about is get rid of our filtration system of seeing things as good or bad. Because we see that, we come to understand through meditation and spiritual study, that in our judging things as good or bad, we create our own suffering.

0:03:09
So we seek to get beyond this suffering by being open-minded, by being open-minded, by being at peace with life. So, I'd like to tell you a little bit about my teacher Rama, Ram Rinpoche, the chief. There are a few names that we call him, or his students call him. His first spiritual name came from his previous study. He was a swami. He went into the Indian traditions, I think the Nanda tradition, that came before Buddhism, where there was a study of yoga and meditation. And that's where he got his first spiritual name. Now before going into that tradition he was I think around 19 or 20 years old and he went to Nepal and there he met a Buddhist, an enlightened Buddhist master named Master Fwap. And Master Fwap gave him his teachings of enlightenment, initiations, gave him his teachings of enlightenment, initiations, and put him, you know, what we say, on the path to enlightenment. So he studied with Master Fwap for a little while. Master Fwap is the lineage of our school. And before Master Fwap, there was Rae Chorze Fwaz teacher, Fwaz Shasta Dup, and that was Master Fwap’s teacher.

0:04:55
And there may be a couple of them still out there in the Himalayan region. However, primarily, Master Fwap gave the teachings of enlightenment to Ram Ramse, so that he would bring it back here to the West, here to the west, a place where the teachings of enlightenment can grow and flourish, because they're quite dead in the far east. Ram Rimpoche's American name is Frederick Lenz, and he got those teachings in Nepal, got those teachings in Nepal, and then he came back to the States. And he was just meditating on his own, and he was practicing Masterclass teachings. Then he came across this other teacher, a guy named Sri Chimnoy. Probably some of you have heard of him. He was a well-known teacher.

0:06:00
He did. He was, you know, I think he did like, he was accepted by the UN as a spiritual ambassador or something like that. He would go there and hang out and say spiritual things. So he kind of networked and, you know, was well liked and accepted by a lot of people. And when, when young Frederick walked in there, on his first meditation, this, this, first meditation this this similar guy he saw him and he said ah you yes come here you shall be named Swami Atmananda and you are my spiritual son you are the most advanced student and so that got all the other Swamis and students angry because I was here for 20 years before I got to be a Swami other than this jerk Because I was here for 20 years before I got to be a Swami. And then this jerk walks in and gets it immediately.

0:06:56
I like that. That's what happens. So, but you know, Master Fwap had explained to young Frederick that he had been enlightened in many, many, many incarnations. in many, many, many incarnations and that he was going to become enlightened again in this lifetime. And that's why they met. That's why he had received the empowerment and initiations of this lineage. It's an enlightened lineage. In a very short time, while he was studying with Sri Ciminoy, he came to see that although Sri Chimnoy, he came to see that although Sri Chimnoy was powerful, he had some Siddha powers, miraculous powers that he had gained from training his mind. He was strong in meditation, that he wasn't enlightened. So he saw that Sri Chimnoy was abusive to his students in very abusive to his students in very subtle ways.

0:08:07
So seeing this, he decided that he should follow Master Fwap’s teachings and that he shouldn't continue with an abusive guru, which is important in the spiritual practice. spiritual practice, if you have an abusive teacher, it could be very damaging. So, after a very short time, he left the study with that teacher, and he started to just follow Master Fwap’s teachings. actually started teaching. He taught for about 25 years. At the age of 29 he attained his enlightenment. His enlightenment from so many past lives came back. And then it was a good he had trouble teaching in the West. And one of his troubles was that he was white. Another trouble, you know, because this is probably, you know, this is back in the, I guess, early 70s, where, you know, everyone saw, you know, a Tibetan mama come over or a Zen monk come over, and they had mama come over or a Zen monk come over and they had a very fixed picture in their mind of what enlightenment should be or what a spiritual person should be. So the chief or Ramana Buddha said, It was kind of lanky looking.

0:10:03
And so people didn't see him as the image that they wanted to learn things from. And so they had a problem with that. The other thing is, when he looked at the spiritual teachings for the West, doing spiritual teachings and spiritual study for the West, he saw that there was a big problem with people in the West, he saw that there was a big problem with people who were studying it here. And that is that they didn't really come to a balance of the eightfold path teaching of the Buddhas, of right livelihood. So he said, he saw that for Westerners, it's extremely important, he saw that for Westerners it's extremely important, it's one of the great focuses of the study to work on right livelihood. And he taught that if you couldn't do right livelihood, you wouldn't be practicing. Not the pathway to enlightenment. I mean, you could practice relaxation and meditation and taking naps. Those are good things for your body. They're Those are good things for your body, you know, they're healthy and stuff.

0:11:17
But meditation that brings you into enlightened states of mind, into Samadhi, and into ultimately the integrated enlightenment experience, those are things that come, that having right likelihood is very important because it gives you a foundation in our society. it's very important because it gives you a foundation in our society. And if you don't have the proper foundation in our society, it doesn't work. So he pointed that out as a big problem. And so then this is another reason he was very unpopular. People got upset with him because he did what I'm doing to you guys. I'm saying, try computers.

0:12:02
Or really, you have to make some money in this world. I'm saying, try computers, or really, you know, you have to make some money in this world, otherwise you're not, you're going to find yourself being very limited. So, just saying that really bothers people. Oh, but I wanted to be a clown. Oh, but I wanted to be a zookeeper. You know, I had my passion, my dream, my ego, my goal, right? And then someone says, well, you know, consider this. Just consider, someone says, well, you know, consider this. Just consider it. Because what you decide to do will affect your spiritual practice. If you're doing something that doesn't drain you very much and you make a lot of money, good. You know, if you're a rock star. But you know, you got to really think about that. This is one of the core things about this this study and I think that a number of Ramanu Pache students became liberated doing this study. I wanted to be an acupuncturist and a Kung Fu teacher and teach fourth grade to kids. I wanted to do those things with my life and I didn't think I could do computers and I did and it worked out pretty good. I can see now if I had done the things that And I could see now, if I had done the things that I thought were cool, they would have been traps for me, definitely.

0:13:19
And I couldn't even see that at the time, but later on it was obvious. So, you know, just teaching that about right livelihood, and that it's so important in the society, got people to get mad at him. And so, that was another reason. And so that was another reason. And I think the biggest reason that people got mad at him was because he had sex. Oh my god.

0:13:48
So this comes back to the image thing, really, of an enlightened person has to wear a robe has to wear a robe and be celibate, which is not entirely true. First of all, in Tibetan Buddhism alone, there are different sects, different groups. They practices. So if you're in the black hat sect, or these big black hats, if you're in that sect, you can't have sex. You have to be celibate. If you're a monk, if you're a lama, you're in that in that group, no sex. They follow these certain teachings, and you know, they'll meditate a certain way, they'll do certain practices, a little different than the other sects, and they say, They'll meditate a certain way, they'll do certain practices, a little different than the other sects, and they say, yeah, this is cool. And then, if you're in the yellow hat sect, they wear big yellow hats.

0:15:02
You can't have sex if you're a monk, but you can have sex once you become a llama. That's your reward. So, most of the Rinpoches in this area, in the northern California area, come from the Yellow Hat sect. And a lot of them have families, kids. Namco Rinpoche, who's a cool guy, Namka Rinpoche, who's a cool guy, he has three sons who are lamas, and they have families. So Namka Rinpoche had three sons. He had to have sex to have three sons. Everybody knows he's a real monk, a real Rinpoche. However, it's not a big deal when it's that culture it's not a big deal when it's that culture and that system.

0:16:07
But when some tall, lanky guy, who's not wearing the robe, comes over and says, oh, I'm from a little lineage you never heard of. Of course, there are many little lineages of small groups, even in enlightened schools from the Himalayas that aren't one of the major sects. the Himalayas that aren't one of the major sites. So, we're the Linneys without a website, until we make one. But this is why it's a secret school. The teachings come in terms of transmission. We don't have books per se. It all happens from me to you. It's transmission. per se. It all happens from me to you. It's transmission. And that's why it's the esoteric, inner teachings. So, yeah, so in different sects in Tibetan Buddhism alone, we have sex, no sex, sex, no sex. And if you're in one of them and you have sex, you broke a rule. But if you're in the other one and you have sex, well, that's normal. So you don't see them arguing about it. They got that's normal. So you don't see them arguing about it, they got it figured out.

0:17:17
And the thing with Ramana Peshek is that people got upset with him because he's a Westerner. He talks about a strong career, which most people are like, what? You're a job, I want to meditate, you know, and problems you can't. And then, and then he had sex, and he was quite open about it. He's like, you know, he would like, go to a meditation, meditate, and then walk out with his girlfriend. And people are like, Oh, terrible. He's abusing He's abusing her because he's in a position of power. She's one of his little groupies. That's what people said. So people got upset with him about that. And that's what people do. That's what people do. Now in our school, in terms of sex, there's no rule about sex. There's no rule that you have to have it or you can't have it. It is entirely up to you. If you get to a place where you feel balanced, that's where you want to be.

0:18:47
If it's having sex and you can feel balanced, good. having sex and you can feel balanced, good. If you feel like, if you're in a relationship, if you're having sex, and if your practice is going the way you want it to go, you feel good, you feel happy, that's good. Balance is what's important, your well-being. And if you find that you're in a relationship and that it drains you and it makes you unhappy, modify that situation so that you can come into balance. Because if you're in a bad relationship, then it can be very, very draining. But if you're in a good relationship and you're happy with it, then cool. So, you know, that's the rule. You know, the rule is there's no rule. You figure figure out what works for you. And then that's it. So, but this is something that people got really angry about. And sometimes it was people who were once students and then left. I know that when I had another friend who was in the Soka Gakkai, which is a Japanese Buddhism, and then he came over and went to a seminar with Ram Rinpoche, and he was like, whoa, this is totally what I'm looking for. So he did a number of years of this other Buddhism, but when, you know, so he liked So he liked the experience of meditation, but then he heard about, he said, why is he holding hands with that girl?

0:20:33
And then he heard about the fact that he had sex, and then my friend got so upset. And I was like, why? I was kind of, at first I was all, whatever. But my friend got really upset, he was just like, But my friend got really upset. He was just like, he just had an idea that you can't, you know. And then there were other students early on who had that same idea that it's wrong, that you can't. And some of them left. They got so upset about it, they left. it but then they decided okay whatever you know he seems to know what he's doing. So yeah so my friend my friend stayed and got over it and that was a good thing and yeah Ram Rinpoche after going from Swami Atmananda after leaving Atmananda after leaving that group he meditated for a long time started going through his advanced cycles and then he came up with another name he evolved his spiritual name which is Ram and Ram is a Sanskrit word that refers to an refers to an incarnation of Vishnu, a very, very high energy or divinity of being. And Rinpoche, you guys hear me say Rinpoche a lot, I mean Rinpoche literally. And what Rinpoche precious one. And when Rinpoche was first a term back in Tibet, it meant someone enlightened.

0:22:35
Someone who incarnated here for the benefit of others and that they had no karmic grasp, That means they chose to incarnate to help you or to help others. And they didn't incarnate out of karma. So they didn't have to incarnate. The rest of us were born and we don't know why. It's karma that draws us into birth. But for a Rinpoche, they don't have any karma. karma. They are actually liberated and they choose a birth for a dharmic reason and often it's to help us. So Ram is the energy of divinity that is represented in the sitting or enlightened the city or enlightened expression of my teacher. And Rinpoche is the precious one, the enlightened one who comes here to help us and doesn't have to. So it's not just that, oh, I'm in a bad situation here with you, so let me help you out a little bit. No, a team here to help to help specifically to create a Dharma. And that's what's so wonderful about a Rinpoche.

0:24:07
So they made a big deal. Rinpoches are really nice. Now, nowadays, it's like after you've been around for a while, you become a Lama, then a couple years later, they call you a Rinpoche. So there's a lot of Rinpoches out there. And now it's just kind of a title there. And now it's just kind of a title for someone who's been a llama for a while, you know, so the leader of a temple or a monastery or some guy who's been around for a while, who jumps through the right hoops. Okay, so we also call him We also call him Rama, which he went by frequently.

0:24:52
And that's kind of like, Ram, ah. And that's like saying Dan, Danny. So in the Indian, it's a verbal thing. The Sanskrit is Ram. But to soften it and to make it more enduring, they put an ah at the end. in your English, you can put an I if you want. So it's like, yeah, Rama. Now the thing that we called him the most is we called, we always referred to him as just the chief.

0:25:28
And the reason why is because he was very focused on the career paths of his students and he had a corporation where he did, And he had a corporation where he did, actually he had a couple of corporations, several corporations, where he worked with some students in their companies and with them. And he had a teaching corporation, teaching organization for all of us. So he was the CEO, the chief, chief officer, chief executive officer. the chief, chief officer, chief executive officer. So we called him chief because he was the CEO of these companies and he had such a big focus on right livelihood and companies and work.

0:26:16
So that's what all of his students called him, the chief. So if you hear me refer to him as those three, hear me refer to him as those three. We never called him Fred or Freddy. Hey, Freddy. That sounds weird. So yeah. Let's see. He taught for a long time, 25 years. And in his teachings, he had an emphasis In his teachings, he had an emphasis on pretty much in this order, meditation, work, your right livelihood, because that was important for this world.

0:27:12
music and certain other books, readings, and studies. But pretty much it's meditation, it's work, and it's martial arts or exercise. You have to be healthy. You have to keep your aura healthy to be able to receive the transmissions on an auric level. So those were the primary teaching set that we were focusing on and it was fun. It was really nice. Now, he died at the age of 48 and he had liver cancer at that point and it was getting to a stage where It was getting to a stage where he was going to be in bed and in a lot of suffering from the pain of liver cancer for the rest of his life. And it was going to be a short ride. So he ended up at the end taking his life in euthanasia. And I'm not talking about young Chinese people. So that's where he came from. Now, I'm going to play something for you. A little ditty. I have some teaching, about 24 minutes long, teaching from Ramana Buddha.

0:29:08
I'd like you guys to listen to it. Okay. This is one of his basic teachings, like the ones I gave at the seminar. Reincarnation is a dance. It's a movement of life to the rhythm of the universe. of life to the rhythm of the universe. The idea is simple. There's spirit, there's matter, and they join together. One is one dancing partner, and one is the other. The two together make a dance.

0:30:20
They're together for a time while they're on the dance floor, and then they separate And then they separate and go their individual ways for a while. And then they come together and dance again. It goes on forever. The spirit, the eternal part of our being is indescribable and limitless. We are eternal spirits. As spirits we have always existed in a generalized form. in a generalized form, since we are all part of the universe, the spirit of the universe. As individual spirits we have existed for a timeless time, and in that time we have participated in the dance of reincarnation. Reincarnation means simply that we have lived we have lived before, we live now and we'll live again, that there's no end to life, and that death is only a brief pause in our journey. It's a rest. When we've reached the end of a lifetime, we rest. The dancers take a break, and then off we go again, with a new partner, with a new partner, with a new body, with a new life.

0:31:43
Reincarnation is a cyclic process. The idea is that there are endless levels of creation, different universes you might say, or dimensions, and in each one something similar is taking place. Evolution. The evolution of spirit through matter. Evolution. The evolution of spirit through matter. Now, to say that matter and spirit are different is a way of talking. It's a way of trying to discuss something. They're not necessarily different in that they both come from the eternal light. And the samsara, the world of experience, temporal experience, and nirvana, the world of enlightenment, are experience, temporal experience, and nirvana, the world of enlightenment, are really one. That's an apprehension that you will have someday in the world of enlightened experience. But for discussion purposes it's certainly a lot So, reincarnation is a process that's going on in endless dimensions, but let's just look at our own, because while the forms differ, the process is the same.

0:33:02
If we can understand how one city works, while it won't tell us how all cities are, or all about them, it will give us this central understanding that's probably applicable in most situations. In this universe, meaning the world of the earth that we live on, people are at different levels of evolution. They may all have human bodies, but the souls are different. Some souls are more advanced, some souls are less advanced. advanced in the sense that they are more aware of their possibilities. Advanced souls seek enlightenment. Souls that are not as advanced seek happiness and pleasure and sensorial experience. The more advanced soul has learned that happiness, that fulfillment, doesn't really come from simply leading a physical life.

0:34:08
It can be enjoyable, it can be painful, it can be a combination of both. But real happiness comes from absorption in the world of spirit, in the world of light, in the worlds of enlightenment. So, the advanced soul is really the discussion point in our journey through reincarnation. Your interest in the subject would suggest that you are more advanced than most individuals, because most individuals on earth are not drawn to the higher life at this time. That doesn't in any way make you or anyone who's interested in such things superior to anyone else. If you're in 8th grade, you're not better than someone who's in 4th grade. You were in 4th grade, now you're in 8th. People in 4th will one day be in 8th.

0:35:08
It's a progression. But what's interesting about reincarnation, But what's interesting about reincarnation, from the point of view of the more advanced soul, let's say, is how the process works. That is, where am I? What are my possibilities? Is there some way that I can know this system better so that I can gain more out of it? That's the perspective of the more advanced soul. And our concerns are really two-fold. One is the experience of this life, and the other is the experience between lifetimes.

0:35:55
The experience of the next life is too far away to really be concerned with. And it will be an outgrowth of this incarnation and what happens between birth and death. There's not much we can do about past lives. They're done. There's not much we can do about our future life and that it hasn't occurred yet. But our knowledge and our experience, our wisdom, can assist us in gaining more from this life, which will correctly set up our next life. which will correctly set up our next life. And of course it can also assist us during the intermediate stage of the bardo plane, when we're between lives, between birth, death and rebirth, and between all things. So, if in this life you have a sense that you have It's a feeling, it's an understanding, a knowing, a silent knowing.

0:36:55
This is a very helpful thing because it enables you to deal happily with our day to day lives, with your day to day life. If you know that you've lived before, that you've had many many lives, countless lives, that what happens in this life is not quite as traumatic. If this is the only life that you lead, then everything assumes a great importance, perhaps too great an importance. We have to get everything out of life, and perhaps we overdo it. If today, you're alive, and you suspect you'll be alive tomorrow, we enjoy today, but there'll be a tomorrow.

0:37:36
today but there will be a tomorrow. And we don't have to fit everything into today. We don't have to have every experience today. We don't have to know every happiness or have every piece of knowledge today, because there's tomorrow. So when you know that there are future lives, it's not necessary for you to cram everything into this lifetime. You can You can enjoy this lifetime, follow your interests, go with the flow of your life, and know that it will lead you to a better life in your next incarnation. Reincarnation is the journey of hope. Because in each lifetime we move forward to a place that's better than our last lifetime, That's better than our last lifetime, a place inside of ourselves, an awareness. Think of reincarnation as school.

0:38:32
When you go to school, you're in first grade, and then there's a summer vacation, and then there's second grade, and then summer vacation. You don't go back to the previous grade, of course, unless you fail the course. And if you do, you take those courses again and then move on. And summer vacation is a rest, but it's a chance just to relax, to have fun, to do something Reincarnation is a rest, but it's a chance just to relax, to have fun, to do something different. Because you just can't keep learning all the time. You don't learn much after a while. You burn out.

0:39:00
So reincarnation works something like that. In this lifetime, you are at the level of your current awareness. That's your subject. The subject you're studying today is your life. day is your life and what can you do with the fabric of the life that you have to become happier, to become more knowledgeable, to become more balanced, to become more free. How can you use that fiber, that texture, how can you change it, how can you interact with it to get to a better place, a place you enjoy more inside your mind. If you do place you enjoy more, inside your mind. If you do well with this life, then that knowledge, that awareness will be held within you, within the causal structure, the part of us that lives from one lifetime to another. And it will be available to you in your next life and in future lives. Not necessarily at the moment of birth, but if you meditate, it will Earth, but if you meditate, it will come back to you. If in this lifetime you don't meet the challenge, you don't learn anything new, you just kind of edge out in this lifetime of reincarnation, then you'll be right back in the same place in your next life, and you can take another shot at it. Knowing about reincarnation helps us relax, in other words.

0:40:24
Knowing about reincarnation helps us relax, in other words, it helps us enjoy what we enjoy and it assists us with an understanding of death and dying. When we see someone that we love dying, it's not an ending, it's just another step, or maybe a new beginning. And while we're sad to see our friends go away for some vacation, there's a sense that we can be with them again if that's something we like to do. There's a sense that we can be with them again if that's something we like to do. And certainly there's no sense of loss, of death. Death is not an ending. Death is not the end.

0:41:01
Quite the contrary. Knowing this makes the journey through life, dealing with our own death and the deaths of those we love, much easier. We can be alive and overcome this fear of death that seems to haunt so many people, particularly older people. Also, there's something we can do. We can gain more knowledge and more power in this lifetime. Even if sometimes in an incarnation you get a feeling of frustration, just it's not turning the way you want to, want it to on a physical level, if you the way you want to, on a physical level, if you pull your power together, if you meditate deeply, if you learn from life, if you study it, then no matter what happens to you physically, if your situation is good or bad, you will have gained from this life. No lifetime is a loss if you learn something. Because that learning stays with you. And if you find yourself Because that learning stays with you.

0:42:02
And if you find yourself in very difficult or painful circumstances, if you can look on the bright side, and if you can learn from these things, then there's no sense of loss, there's no such thing as a wasted life, if you've learned. Reincarnation is the evolution of spirit through matter. is the evolution of spirit through matter. Over thousands and millions of lifetimes, the soul evolves, it comes into light. The growth is slow, the progression is steady. All souls however do not reach enlightenment. Enlightenment exists within all souls and all things. But some souls reach a plateau, a certain peak, and then they stay there.

0:43:01
Some souls actually decline at a certain point and go on to different cycles. In other words, some people have the idea that reincarnation means, or the theory of reincarnation is that or the theory of reincarnation is that the soul starts in a state of ignorance and eventually progresses to enlightenment, and that all beings eventually reach enlightenment. Sentient beings, living beings. That's not true. That's a simplistic way of looking at it. Life does not necessarily have a fixed purpose. It just is. It's an expression that's unknowable, It's an expression that's unknowable, beautifully unknowable. For us to superimpose human points of view and try to shape it and format it so that we're comfortable with it is interesting, but it's not necessarily accurate. Nor does that imply that the knowledge of life is an uncomfortable thing to have.

0:43:59
It's neither. So some souls in their progression through incarnations reach a plateau and that's a fine place to be. They stay there, you might say. They reach after many, many lifetimes a certain level of knowingness and they just continue through lifetimes that are on that level. Life after life is about the same, but they like it that way. Some beings do go down. That is to say, they forget the soul falls into an eclipse of itself. And there's a downward progression for a time. Some souls attain enlightenment. They actually up into the highest gradients of light. No one knows why. You could say it's individual inclination. I'm not convinced that that's the case. It's just how the universe works.

0:45:03
But if we get above the individualized view of light, if we get above the individualized soul's journey, you will see that we're all one. We're all one light. We're all one essentiality. You will see that we're all one. We're all one light. We're all one essentiality. We're all one beautiful perfect essence. And in that sense, we are all enlightened. We are all one. We are all perfect perception. And yet, in the outer manifestation of life, we take on different roles.

0:45:39
We perform different tasks. We take on different roles, we perform different tasks, souls have different journeys. So the best thing to know is not what everybody else does, but what you do. Self-discovery essentially is about finding your own dharma, your own rhythm, knowing that and pursuing it. And if you seek enlightenment, then what you need to know is there is a definite way to progress. then what you need to know is there is a definite way to progress. There is a definite way to store and amass power, to reawaken past life power, to continue your journey.

0:46:13
And there is also a way to use the moment of death and the experience of the after death plane to advance. big, you might say, on the after-death experience. If you've done a very good job in your current lifetime, if you've put your time in, then your next lifetime will be set up for you. Think of it like a school. At the university, if you study all semester and you do a good and you do a good job, finals, if you're a cumulative exam, are not a big deal. You just have to lightly review because you've studied all along. And when everybody else is stressing out, and studying countless hours, and getting mediocre grades, you'll get an A with a light review because you've been progressively on the case.

0:47:06
That's the best way to be. It is possible to cram for a final exam, certainly, if you just have not gotten around to studying. just have not gotten around to studying, you just might pull off a slightly better grade by doing a lot of work at the last minute. And that's essentially what the after-death experience is. That is to say, the yoga of the bardo-plant yoga, the after-death experience, is a way to try and slightly improve your grade, because you haven't done everything and done everything that you should have done. So the best thing to do is just to do a good job in the first place. If you meditate, if you lead a clean life, if in spite of the egotism, and vanity, and jealousy, and all the weird thoughts that pass through the mind and the personality, in spite of these things, you continue to have fun with yoga and with have fun with yoga and with Buddhism. If you continue to be bright and positive and hopeful and to continually, no matter how many times you wander away from it, follow the pathway to enlightenment, then you will learn a great deal, you will amass more knowledge, and you will move to a higher incarnation. That is to say, in your next lifetime you'll be much wiser than you were in this one, much happier, and you won't have to go through as much suffering.

0:48:24
much happier and you won't have to go through as much suffering. Or if you do go through suffering you will be able to use it to advance yourself even further. On the other hand, it's possible, as I said, if at the last moment you have not done perhaps you have not done perhaps all that you could have with your life, if you haven't really been on the case as much as you could be, it is possible at the last moment to make a tremendous transition, to go much higher, to experience eternity more directly and more completely completely by joining yourself in the bardo plane with the higher fields of enlightenment.

0:49:23
There is a book called the Tibetan book of the dead and that book is really an instruction guide, a triptych for the after death experience. hard to understand, in that it's written mainly on symbols. If you have advanced quite far in the practice of yoga, you might be able to understand those symbols. But essentially, it's an instruction guide to recognize and pass through, through a series of meditation practices, at the time of death and after death, the bardo plane, so that your next after death, the bardo plane, so that your next incarnation will be a higher incarnation. It's a difficult yoga to practice, to be honest with you, and it's something that only someone fairly adept in yoga practice to begin with can really pull off. So it's an interesting book to read, and I think actually a lot of knowledge of the Tibetan book of the dead is useful for the living, because the experience of the bardo plane of the dead is useful for the living, because the experience of the bardo plane is not something that you're limited to at the time of death. Life is the bardo. The experience of death is the experience of life in a certain sense. The planes of consciousness that are available at the time of death are also available to the living. And transmutations that can occur at the time of death can also occur while you're alive. So it's useful in that sense death can also occur while you're alive. So it's useful in that sense, both for the living and for the dead. But as I said before, the best thing to do is to do a good job with this life. If you have a sense of the timeliness of life, if you feel that yes, I will be in another incarnation, and yes, it does matter what I do in this incarnation, I think that's I think that's the best attitude.

0:51:15
If you feel that you're under some tremendous pressure to do everything perfectly in this lifetime so you won't have a horrible incarnation in your next life, I think that's a little much personally. I think that life is not that finicky. And I think that that type of fear is unnecessary. Some people don't enjoy their life because they feel they're working hard and assiduously working hard and assiduously, and weeping lots of good karma for their next lifetime. I don't think that's an accurate understanding of the reincarnation process. It seems to me that happiness is something that you don't postpone. And if you're postponing happiness, it's something that you'll probably never experience much of.

0:52:00
Happiness is something that comes from creating good karma and the monk or the individual who feels that Well, I'm working so hard for everybody else and for the salvation of everyone And that's going to give me a great life in my next lifetime And they have a sense that it's unpleasant to do what they're doing Is not really creating any good karma And will not really have a better lifetime than their current lifetime a not really have a better lifetime than their current lifetime. A better lifetime comes from not some karmic scale, but it comes from inner knowledge. And inner knowledge makes you happy. In other words, it's not as if someone is checking. There's a thought among many yogis or practitioners that there's some giant balance scale or record where someone that there is some giant balance scale or record where someone is keeping track like Santa Claus is supposed to do for Christmas.

0:52:55
It will determine the allotment of your presence according to how good or bad you were. That is absurd. That is a very esoteric understanding of reincarnation. The esoteric understanding is that what you will be in your next life is the sum total of the realizations that you have had in this lifetime. sum total of the realizations that you've had in this lifetime. And the realizations that you have in this lifetime are cumulative, in that they increase as you grow older if you keep practicing yoga. And if you're happier every day, that means you're practicing yoga, your yoga, your Buddhism is successful. And if you're not happier every day, if you don't feel better, if you don't see a progression of development from day to day, month to month, progression of development from day to day, month to month, year to year in your life, where you're certainly not practicing yoga or Buddhism, and therefore you can't be amassing any positive karma.

0:53:46
Positive karma is a better mental state. Self-honesty is absolutely necessary in the practice of Buddhism. And the main point of self-honesty that you need is to ask yourself, am I really practicing Buddhism? Am I really practicing yoga? Am I really happier? practicing Buddhism, am I really practicing yoga? Am I really happier? Do I feel better about my life? Do I feel more relaxed, even though the circumstances of life are sometimes pressured and chaotic? Aside from that, do I personally feel better? Have I reached a mental state this year that's vastly superior to the mental state I had last year? If the answer is no, then you've got to start your yoga and your Buddhism over. You're not doing no, and you've got to start your yoga and you booze them over. You're not doing it right.

0:54:29
And certainly, your practice will not lend to a better incarnation, or whatever you want to call it. In other words, I think all incarnations are this incarnation. And the primary purpose of reincarnation, the knowledge of it, is that it assures us that life is worth living, that all this is not vain and futile, and that the spiritual practice that we do in practice that we do in any given life is not a waste of time. Life is not a one-shot deal. It is forever and things do count. But to be so simplistic as to think that you can just go out and help a lot of people and somehow get a better life, I don't think that's not reincarnation. I know it. That's fantasy. A better life comes from being happy and from and from inner realizations. Now if helping others adds to that, well then it's great. But postponing happiness, suffering in other words, intentional suffering, and the postponement of happiness is not yoga or Buddhism. And it will not lead to a better incarnation.

0:55:34
If you'd like to have a better incarnation, then have one now. And if that's your attitude, then have one now. And if that's your attitude and you just let go and meditate, try and be as wise and compassionate and understanding as you can, learn patience and the higher virtues and if you enjoy them, if you have fun with it, that's yoga, that's Buddhism as I know it. And then the process simply gets more and more exciting and the ecstasy gets deeper and that's what will go into your next life. That's who you will be born and the ecstasy gets deeper. And that's what will go into your next life. That's who you will be born as, the person who is happy. Oh, and all the other babies are in the cribs in the delivery room, crying. You'll be smiling, I guess.

0:56:13
Well, I don't know about that, but something like that. I have a sense of humor. So, reincarnation is not what a lot of people think. Yes, we are eternal. No, everyone does not attain enlightenment. It's not necessary. Life is smarter than we are. necessary. Life is smarter than we are. Whatever is supposed to happen, happens. We are dealing with a cosmos and it has its own ways. To observe those ways and be in touch with them, that's wisdom. To try and make it fit into a neat mental package, that's very unwise because you'll be very surprised when you discover that it doesn't work out that way.

0:56:48
your illusions will be painful for you. The best use of reincarnation, the best knowledge of it, is the knowledge that gives us a better life today, now. A sense that death is not the end, so we're not afraid of it. A sense that it does make sense to do a good job with our life, because we have a happier life now, and we'll be happier in the next life. To be afraid of our next life, afraid of our next life because we haven't done a good job with this life is not wise.

0:57:20
It creates unhappiness now. Your next life is another opportunity to learn what you didn't learn in this lifetime. In other words, the knowledge of reincarnation should relax you a little bit. At the same time, it should tell you that it is worth pursuing inner knowledge should tell you that it is worth pursuing inner knowledge because that inner knowledge will make your next life more pleasant than this one was, certainly. But the knowledge of reincarnation is not a fearful thing. It's something that inspires you to be happy today, and it also, of course, shows you that through the practice of meditation and entering into the planes of life, you can pull all the past life realizations you've had into this life entering into the planes of life you can pull all the past life realizations you've had into this life, the ones that you need to make you strong and to give the insight to go even further into higher bliss, into higher ecstasy, into greater laughter That's the essence of reincarnation The essence of all reincarnation is to have the best lifetime now that you've ever had no matter what's going on on the earth or wherever you happen to be or wherever you happen to be.

0:58:26
And to not worry about your future life, to simply have a wonderful life now and be as happy as possible, and happiness of course will come through the practice of the old-age Buddhism, by stilling the mind in meditation, and by allowing the spirit to unfold. That happiness is not something you'll lose at the end of this lifetime. It will stay with you, and in your next lifetime you'll be that much further ahead.

0:58:48
and in your next lifetime you'll be that much further ahead. It will be easier to get back to that place than it was this time, and you'll go further ahead. Reincarnation is a hopeful understanding of life, it's an accurate understanding of life. In each lifetime we grow, develop, and evolve. And as long as you continue to practice meditation and yoga, you will eventually reach the world of enlightened mind, you will eventually reach the world of enlightened mind and be totally free and perfectly happy and knowledgeable.

0:59:26
So reincarnation is the happy news, the good news. Life is eternal and it's worth living. And what we do in this life is not futile. Death is not the end. And our Death is not the end, and our practice in this life will assist us in our next life. And if we don't come to a perfect understanding in this lifetime, it's not a problem. That's what the next life is for. And yes, you can cram for exams, you can read the Tibetan book, The Dead, and if you skipped it in this lifetime, if you didn't do a job, you can try and pick it up at the end. But that's not our discussion point today. So I wanted you to hear some of Brahma Rinpoche's teachings so that you can have a direct impression my direct impressions of his teachings.

1:00:31
Good. So I have some of these, I have a few of these talks that he did on basic subjects that are applicable for you to learn from. And they're very good. Now, I'm going to I'm going to point out a difference between me as a teacher and the Chief as a teacher. He was more enlightened than me. You could say that there, let's put it in the martial arts view, there are different degrees of black belt of enlightenment. there are different degrees of black belt of enlightenment. So, you might say that I'm a third degree black belt.

1:01:20
And that means that I can teach effectively and properly and I have mastered my skills. But the chief is like a tenth degree black belt. So, it was cool. It was cool. Laughter Um, the um, the things I saw in my study with him were quite amazing. And one of the things that I, a couple of very physical things that I saw early on, um, made me really believe. Because, you know, you talk about someone's enlightened, and you go, okay, you know, I don't know what that really means.

1:02:00
talk about someone's enlightened, you know, I don't know what that really means. They seem to smile a lot. Okay, so, but about a year into my study, the meditation teacher that I originally had, like your meditation teacher, I was still going to her meditation classes, she got cancer and she was young and classes, she got cancer. And she was young and all of a sudden she had some pain. She went to the doctor, they scanned her, they found a big tumor. And they said, you can't operate on it, you got about four to six months to live. And I was like, oh man, that's terrible. You know, and she looked a little rattled too, but then she looked a little rattled too, but then she said, well, you know, the chief is a healer. So, she's like, if it's my karma to be healed, then I'll be healed. But if it's the dharma, if it's the dharma for me to be healed, I'll be healed. And I was like, really? No way!

1:03:05
You're going to die! seminar. We had a little break and then the chief came up to her and I was with her and then he said, how are you doing? Are you feeling ill? And she said, yes, I just found out I have cancer and I have these symptoms and this kind of pain and he listened and he said And he said, well, tomorrow you'll notice that this symptom goes away and that the pain goes away over two more weeks. And then after about six months, the tumor will be gone. And that's what he said to her. And I was like, oh my God. You know, the doctors say they can't do anything. They can't operate. And oh, they did say she could do some chemotherapy. And he said, don't do that. and he said don't do that. And so then the next day I got together with her and she told me that you know that one of the symptoms had gone away and then over two weeks the pain had gone away and then over the next six months the doctors were quite shocked to see the tumor damage. So I was like okay that's So I was like, okay, that's pretty real. I see some bright lights and stuff like that.

1:04:32
When I went to the desert, the chief had a lot more power. It was pretty cool. It was pretty magical. But still, he's sitting there like, alright, so someone turns invisible I don't know. It might have been. It was neat, I was there. I was like, how does that relate to my life? But then when I saw my meditation teacher, my mentor, be healed, I was like, wow, that's a big deal. But it was very, very, very common in the group. Any student that got sick, he would heal.

1:05:12
group, any student that got sick, he would heal. And everybody knew it. And I was like, wow, that's cool. And sometimes if you had a family member that you wanted to, you cared about, you can bring them to him as well. And the other thing that I noticed, myself being a martial artist, was that he had martial arts powers. And those were the powers to, you know, basically knock somebody down really easily. And he could knock you down, you know, if you're standing against him and trying to stand up and up and be strong, he could knock you down with one finger. He could also do funny things. Like one time he took one of the black belts and he put his finger on the guy's forehead and he brought him down like this all the way to the ground, but the guy remained on his feet. So he just kind of like did a limbo all the way back. And then he touched his head to the ground and then And then he touched his head to the ground and then brought him back up. That was pretty neat.

1:06:28
And what else would he do? He would play with the, if anyone in his school had black belt, he would play some martial arts with us or he would teach us martial arts. And it was really fun because he would do that stuff to us. And one of the cool ones was he demonstrated this And one of the cool ones was he demonstrated this in front of everybody. He had 12 black belts line up on one side of the room and he said, okay, I want you guys to run over here and get me. And he's all the first one to grab me is going to get a special prize if you can do it. So he's So he's like, yeah, I really want you guys to try it. I'm like, okay. So then we start, so he goes, go! And we start running in, and I'm really fast.

1:07:19
So I was ahead, until he went, HOOAH! And I was about 15 feet from him. He made that sound, he did his hands like that, and then I was on the ground. And I said, how did that happen? And then there was 12 other, 11 other black belts on the ground next to me. And then there was 11 other black belts on the ground next to me.

1:07:41
So these are things that I really believed in from my martial arts study. And there are other martial arts teachers around the world that have these sita powers in martial arts. So I thought it was cool. So those things to me were really solid proof that this was a magical thing. were really solid proof that this was a magical thing. Now unfortunately I don't heal. I don't practice healing. I was told not to by my teacher. I know things about healing. I was an acupuncturist and I've done healing in past lives, but I don't practice it. So the the Dharma that I focus on in teaching is I focus on doing focus on in teaching is I focus on doing the best you can. Yeah, find a healer if you can.

1:08:31
Western medicine, Eastern medicine, whatever works, right? You want to get, you take your health seriously. And you try to get better if you're sick. You also keep yourself in good shape so that you don't get sick. You have strong intentions so you stay out of accidents and problems. But once you get to that point where you got sick, whether it's a headache or a broken foot or the cancer that's going to take your life or whatever, when you get sick or hurt or injured, you observe that as a lesson. You observe that and you observe the karma.

1:09:12
reflect deeply on illness and by reflecting on illness we understand something, we learn something. Every illness, every injury is something that processes karma. It lets something go where there was something wrong or something not wrong, something difficult that caused an illness and we learn about that. So I'm very good at diagnosis and I'm very good at helping you to So I'm very good at diagnosis and I'm very good at helping you to learn about illness in a spiritual way. But I don't heal. And for martial arts, I can knock all of you down. Unfortunately it will hurt. most likely. I have a capability to do a couple attacks that will knock...

1:10:10
anytime I've ever used it, I've knocked people down. So I could knock someone down, sometimes it hurts. I don't tend to do it unless I'm working with a black when we were trained in martial arts or something. So, yeah. So, Robin Renfroche was a far better Siddha master and he also was more enlightened. He had a great degree of black belts of enlightenment. and I'm competent and capable and so you can learn from me, but he was a very unique being. So when I studied with him, he taught me and the other students in a very traditional way for a Buddha to teach, teach and that is where he said I will take responsibility for you. I will take spiritual responsibility for you and I'll work you crazy, you know, I'm going to teach you, I'm going to push all your buttons, you know, but there is something very, very, very powerful and unique in a teacher who is able to take spiritual responsibility responsibility for you. You might not know what this means, but I need to tell you. There's something inward in this that you need to understand. Because I do not take spiritual responsibility for you. I teach you how to do things properly, but I leave the responsibility It's very important. You can enter this school and make a lot of trouble for yourself. You can make a lot of bad karma for yourself if you don't have the proper etiquette. So I don't take responsibility. I teach properly and I teach you to do the right thing and if you choose to then enlighten me. But if you have the wrong etiquette I feel like you to then enlighten me. But if you have the wrong etiquette, if you don't take responsibility for your actions, for your words, for your thoughts, then you can get into trouble. This isn't a completely safe study. It's perfectly safe if you keep a positive mental attitude.

1:12:48
mental attitude. But if you fall into a lot of negative thoughts, then you'll suffer the karma of negative thoughts. I do do certain processing of certain karmas at certain times. But by and large, the responsibility for your learning, the responsibility for your improvement The responsibility for your learning, the responsibility for your enlightenment, for your spiritual balance is up to you. It's very important. Good. Now, something happened a couple of weeks ago. A couple of guys who were here a couple of weeks ago are no longer here. were here a couple weeks ago are no longer here. The reason why is one of them went to Wikipedia and typed in cult and said oh my god this describes what I'm doing exactly or something. So he decided that this is a cult and then he went over to somebody else in the group, a friend of his, and he said and he went over to somebody else in the group, a friend of his, and he said, and he shared what he found. And then he, and then both of them got really mad and said, you're a cult, I don't like you. You know, I love the meditation. It's fantastic. The enlightenment workbook is so cool. I learned so much, but you're a cult. You're bad. So I'm going. So bad, so I'm going." So we say, say bye.

1:14:28
So, you know, definitely, if you ever have a problem, please not, you don't have to come back. If you're, if you get to that point where you just like, this is bad, you know, then there's a go, right?

1:14:48
So, that's fine. We don't give them a hard time, we say bye. So, that's fine. We don't give them a hard time. We say, bye. If you don't want to be here, this is so hard to meditate, to sit in here, to pay attention, mindfulness, yoga, technology classes. The spiritual path is hard work. So if someone's got a problem with it, I'm not going to keep you here. I want you to go if you have a problem with it. problem with it because you're not going to do the work. You're going to sit around and complain. But there's a lot of work here. It takes a lot of attention. This is a discipline. So two things happen. One guy decided this is a cult. Then he told another guy and both off the path. So here's This is not a cult. This is Buddhism. Unless you want to call any Buddhism a cult.

1:15:45
You could look up cult in Wikipedia or Britannica or whatever, and it will say things. Like, there's a charismatic leader, right? And people say I'm charismatic. My teacher, he wasn't that charismatic. He was kind of weird. But Master Fwap, I think he was really charismatic. So, you know, it's like, okay, and then Master Fwap chastened up. This is a lineage, right? There are dozens of students of Rama Rinpoche who are teaching across the country. of Rama Rinpoche who are teaching across the country. It's not the fourth generation of a cult. It's Buddhism. And I don't know what else they say. But, whatever.

1:16:40
If you're struggling with this concept of a cult, I think it might be natural. Because when I went to my first event with the chief, When I went to my first event with the chief, I wondered that. I was all dressed up nice and we're in this fancy hotel in Los Angeles. I was like, is it a cult? Everything that my meditation teacher Sue told me sounded, it was wonderful, right?

1:17:08
It was cool, it was solid, it made sense, it was positive. But then I got into that one situation, I was like, wait a minute. And then the peach pity came. But then I got into that one situation, I was like, wait a minute. And then the peach pity came. I was like, wow. So, yeah, so I wondered that for a little while. And then I listened to the teachings, and I met the chief, and then that was gone for me.

1:17:36
But for others in the study, they wondered it too, because it's kind of weird. But for others in the study, they wondered it too, because it's kind of weird. You know? It's not what you would see in the Hallmark version of the Enlightenment. There's no robes, right? You know, I have the bald head. I don't wear the robes. And there's all these problems.

1:18:00
to wonder about that. But in my 10 years of study with the chief, all the teachings were like this this talk that he gave. They were teachings about Buddhist concepts, there were the magical transmissions, you guys have sat through a number of these, you know what it's like. It doesn't get number of these, you know what it's like. It doesn't get any weirder than that, unless you get me computers is weird enough. That's about it. So, you know, in all of my experience, it's been very solid. I haven't seen a lot of weird stuff. Everything was powerful, beneficial, and healthy that I learned in Buddhism. and you know I was not a spacey new-age person to start with. I was a solid martial artist, you know, guarding angel who wanted to help people. That was my background. So I wasn't coming into the study to fool around. I practiced hours, minimum of four hours of martial art today. I was a disciplined person. So I teach like a sensei, like a martial arts sensei. That's how I teach Buddhism. If you're wondering about the cult thing, I would say go to a martial arts class. If you did a martial arts class, like Faguta sensei or something, right? She's a very high-ranked, top-ranked Judo female in the top-ranked judo female in the world.

1:19:41
So you go to a high-ranked teacher, someone who's a master, you walk into their dojo, and you will see that this person has some power that most people don't. This person knows something that other people don't. They have a level of capability that other people don't. And the people who want to learn that, don't. And the people who want to learn that, who see a benefit in that, respect it, and they have a proper etiquette. They don't fool around, they don't say, yeah but, yeah but, yeah but, you're gonna say that in a martial arts class? It's as ridiculous as saying it in an enlightened school. Oh, you know, punch this way? Oh yeah, Yeah, but how about this way?

1:20:26
So when I was six, I got into a fight and I did it, and it worked. So, you know, go and look at an advanced sensei, and you will see that this person is powerful, maybe even charismatic. And you'll see that the students hold the proper etiquette for the inner arts. And, you know, sometimes that's seen as, you know, culty. But it's not. I'm all, it's not. But very often people are like, oh, you know, they just really get into what they're, the study that's coming through that being. So they say that being is awesome, that being is used to do these wonderful things that being. So they say that being is awesome, that being is wonderful, that being is wonderful things that I love to learn, it's so great. And that's good. If you're excited about it, then you're going to do better at it. When you admire something, then that opens the inner doors for you to learn it. Versus if you are jealous of something or negative towards your mind to be able to learn. So look at a martial arts school. I teach Buddhism the way I teach martial arts and I've been teaching martial arts for 15 years.

1:21:50
And so I would say I'm a sensei. I teach you how to punch and kick, right? And I tell you this is the time to punch and kick, but if you're in this situation This is the time to punch and kick, but if you're in this situation, don't do it. And it's up to you to do it in the proper, you know, to master the techniques and to use them in the proper situation. That's your responsibility. So you know, this is an intense school. I agree. a fantastic wealth of inner information. Just like in a very good advanced karate dojo. So it's a good idea, if you have any confusion on this subject, to go to a martial arts school Go to a Catholic church.

1:22:50
With your Wikipedia printout. Yeah. So, the fact that these guys got so upset is because of our culture. Cult-ure. In our society, we see cults as being evil, because they are. Well, if there's a person because they are. Well, if there's a person who is, you know, being harmful or taking advantage of other people, then yeah, that's that. That's negative. And in our society, we're really afraid of that. And we actually have lots of news media against it.

1:23:36
like some cult leaders and stuff like that. And so, you know, it's a bad thing. It's not a good thing. However, the fact, you know, however, there are things that people can call a cult and point to all sorts of reasons why there aren't cults. It is an intense dojo. It is an intense dojo. It's a place where you are learning something, where you see that things are beneficial and healthy to your physical life and inner spirit. People, egos, limited selves, right? They have a problem with enlightenment. Because enlightenment is the undoing of limitation.

1:24:36
And people just get upset around it. So a lot of people got upset around my teacher. Because he would push their buttons, they would get mad, they would leave, they would get mad, they would leave, they would write terrible things about him. And he would just say, you know, for every allegation out there, he said, come on, we're in America. If I did that, I'd be arrested or sued. And he was never arrested, and never brought into a court to be sued for anything. of stuff are, I've seen it first hand, are lies. I've seen people who were in the group who heard this information about sex or about work and then got angry for whatever, because their buttons got pushed, they got upset, they left, and then all of a sudden, you know, Times, an article, or something like that. And, you know, it's, they're lies. And, you know, the chief would just be like, oh, whatever, you know, if, you know, this is a school of enlightenment. If you in the room want enlightenment, you're not So, that was my attitude for a long time too.

1:26:07
Alright, if you can't see past what's false and what's true, then whatever, that's you. But if you're into the pathway to enlightenment, listen past those things. So, that's why I didn't stop. So that's why they didn't stop. But people have been upset with enlightened beings for a long time. Going back to the time of the Buddha, we all like the Buddha. Buddha was supposed to be this wise man who sat around saying beautiful words. And everyone's going, oh Buddha, where's this guitar music? And in actuality, there were three assassination attempts on Buddha's life, because people didn't like him. They disagreed. And people within his own group, in fact, he had a cousin who was in the Sangha, and his cousin went around in the Sangha, And his cousin went around in the sangha, telling other monks, Hey, guess what? Buddha's bad, and I'm good.

1:27:20
Actually, Buddha's really bad, and I'm really good. And his cousin got 500 Buddhist monks to leave the Buddha and study with him. And they all moved out. And Buddha's all, Hey, you shouldn't do that. This is bad karma. This is bad karma. And his cousin's all like, You're bad! And so, um... So, even within the Sangha, you know, of Buddhist students, this one guy was able to convince these people of the bad stuff.

1:27:56
And this is the Buddha. Don't you already know? And, uh... What else happened to the Buddha? And what else happened to the Buddha? Buddha had two top students who were both liberated, and one of them was murdered because they said, So we think of those times of being all spiritual and great, which they were, but there were also tough times because people thought that he was wrong. People thought that Buddha was bad, even to the point where they tried to kill him. It was terrible. So, oh, the terrible his own cousin leaves and takes 500 monks away. Ah, it's terrible.

1:28:54
So they were very, very, very upset with Buddha. Many different groups and factions. But somehow, now we look back and go, Buddha was good. Now it's all good. Now that he's gone, it's all good. We all like Buddha. Or, let's take for example, Or, let's take for example, someone that we know in our culture, Jesus. Jesus, right? So, Jesus was teaching, right? And we read what he was teaching in the Bible, and it was good stuff.

1:29:36
This is the Dharma. I mean, yeah, so, you know, turn the other cheek. Bob and weave. So, yeah, so he taught these wonderful, beautiful teachings of enlightenment, and he was enlightened. And somebody had a problem with him, obviously, because they got him killed. obviously because they got him killed. Somebody didn't agree with him and then they got enough people to disagree so they will somehow get him killed. Now a long time later he's all good. And unfortunately this is how people react to enlightenment very very commonly. They have a hard time with very, very commonly. They have a hard time with it. That was long ago. Now even today, some of the great spiritual leaders, even of the East, have people who don't like them.

1:30:44
In this world, how can you not like them? For example, the Dalai Lama. Everyone likes llama, right? Everyone likes a Dalai Lama, right? Yeah, why not? He's an underdog, he's nice, he always talks about good things, right? He's a good guy, probably. However, there are other groups of Tibetan Buddhist monks who think he is evil. They think he is bad. evil. They think he is bad. And there's even been a talk of his security for those other monks who want to kill him. And they also cast spells on him with their evil Buddhist techniques. They do. They do. The Tibetan Buddhists not only do Buddhism, but they also mix in a little of the old do Buddhism, but they also mix in a little of the old Tibetan art, pagan arts, which is called the Bon sorcery. And then so there are techniques to harm people. So they do that against him, because they don't like it. So, you know, the Dalai Lama's got his sorcerers and the other And I'm like, oh yeah, it's normal. I'm comfortable with that.

1:32:07
Or, there's this great, well-known teacher in India, Sai Baba. Sai Baba's got this great hairdo. I think he had a lot of great hairdo. and he has a great big following of people who give money to him and he does karma yoga and that means that he does spiritual work and he takes the money that he gets and he makes orphanages, feeds people, he makes hospitals and he does all these great things and he's also very, and he's also very, very, very spiritually advanced. And he's a good guy. But you know what people say about him? Terrible things.

1:32:58
Not everybody says it, but some people say it. They say terrible things. They say he rapes young boys. Terrible things. So, if you were to go see this person, if you went and saw him, If you went and saw him, he's enlightened and he's just an amazing good guy. You see him and you'd be like, wow, this is great. But if you read on the internet about him raping young boys and you see him, guess what happens to the light? It's not there.

1:33:36
but what if he rapes young boys? You go see the Dalai Lama, what if he's evil? Should I cast a spell on him too? Or whatever, right? So, once you start to believe, or actually, even when you connect with this information that is negative about a spiritual person, with this information that is negative about a spiritual person, you will enter into a very dark field of attention. Because the negative information is information from a very strong ego reaction. The ego wants to shut down enlightenment. And when you interface with And when you interface with that information, you catch it. It poisons your mind. And then you enter into those dimensions of somebody else's darkness. And then it becomes your darkness. in terms of the judgments of a spiritual teacher. Because it can give you, it could cut you off from experiencing the light and purity of the teacher, if it's a lie. If it's true, then whatever. But people said bad stuff about Jesus, got them killed.

1:35:12
got him killed. So some things that people say are not true. It's people having their own personal trip and then they go and try to spread it. So the one guy who said this is a cult, he said this is bad and he went into that whole He went into that whole darkness reaction against enlightenment. I don't want it. It's bad. Then he went over and he spread the information to his friend. And then his friend also felt the same way and was infected. So, let me give you a very colorful metaphor. Here's a great analogy. this guy read this stuff and processed it with his ego reaction and became a shithead. And then he went over to this other guy and he listened to it, so the shit came in and he became a shithead.

1:36:24
It's weird. But that's what happens. And that's what happens. And that's why I would highly recommend practicing right speech. And what I mean by that is in terms of the listening aspect of right speech. And that is to listen with an open mind and not make judgments. and not make judgments. It's a very good idea to judge this study, judge your experience with me, or if you have to deal with the Dalai Lama, judge your experience with him, not by what you might read on the internet that's negative, because if you start to go into that, I mean, I don't think that, I have nothing on the internet, I'm nobody, unless those guys who left go out I have nothing on the internet. I'm nobody.

1:37:14
Unless those guys who left go out there and start making webpages. And that's what people do. And so if they make two webpages, then someone will say, Google Sambara, and then all they'll get is bad information. They've been through exactly what you guys have been through. And somehow, they went in a very dark state of mind, very big reaction, and aren't even here anymore. very big reaction and aren't even here anymore. They went, ah, you're bad, and they left. But they've experienced exactly what you've experienced and they had a hard time with it, which I agree it's hard, but they had improper etiquette or they might, and it creates a very bad karma, very bad reaction, dark states of mind. but they can go out there on the internet and put up a web page for, you know, post it for $7.95 on GoDaddy, and then whenever anyone Googles Shambhara, then they'll hear all these terrible things about it.

1:38:14
They'll be all... they'll just copy and paste from Wikipedia. Put Shambhara on top of their page. So, you know, and this is exactly, people do this to the chief as well. You know, people tripped out and went out and did stuff and isn't founded. All the imaginations of the ego's reaction, I don't think so, but people do that. So, when you're working with a teacher, a Dalai Lama, a Sai Baba, a me, or whatever, Baba, a me, or whatever. You should really look at your experience and see if what you're engaging in is right, powerful, healthy, that it makes your physical life better and your Because to me, that's what Buddhism is about. And if you find that these things, even when there's challenges, when I push their buttons, if you find that they help you to get over things, to pass things, and become stronger and brighter, then good.

1:39:33
But if you find that your life is going down the pits, then you might say, is going down the pits, then you might say, hmm, this isn't working for me. If the teachings don't expose truth, then I wouldn't engage in them. I wouldn't do something that doesn't point to truth. But if something points to truth, even though I might have my own point of view, would put my point of view aside and I would follow the greater truth. So judge your experience by your experience not by what someone else might tell you. You can listen, you know, someone comes over to you and says something, you know, hear the words and then, you know, you just can't be attached, you can't let that poison you and then you got to just look at it and say, okay, so maybe there's And then you gotta just look at it and say, okay, so maybe there's these three factors. Are those there in my experience?

1:40:32
No, or yes, or what? Look at your experience. I had a student who was, you know, coming, having a great time, and then went on the internet and found stuff about the chief. and found stuff about the chief, and it was negative information. And then this person went really crazy and found every single website that he could, and then he printed it all out. And he made special packages for other students in the school. Then he snuck around and he got the nastiest stuff he could find, which is like people tripping out. And he like people tripping out.

1:41:14
And he went around, snuck around, and gave it to other people in the school, trying to get them to quit. Because he entered a bad state of mind, and what does the eagle love to do? Spread it. Spread it around. So, you know, I'm a little psychic, so I knew what was going on. But at that point, I didn't really care. At that point, I didn't really care. I was like, if you really want the benefits of the enlightened teachings, you're going to see past it.

1:41:48
Now, a number of those students quit with him. And a couple who had gotten the little booklet saw beyond it, and they stayed in the study. and they stayed in the study, had a great time with the others, ran off in dark states of mind and into their own karmas. Now, the interesting thing is that that student who did that ended up coming back into the study and was just like, you know, I've been out of the study and I see the difference between the light and the dark now. And I'm like, oh good, well you're welcome back. well you're welcome back of course and anytime when someone you know changes from being dark to bright if they even if they've you know done some really negative things if there's a if they want to learn I teach them if they want to learn properly the bright etiquette they want to really want to learn I'll So I don't make any judgments and I don't hold any grudges.

1:42:52
But it's just kind of fun. A person who had the biggest reaction ended up coming back, which is fine, but it just goes to show you, reactions are transient. Reactions, swords and lightning, they're transient. A lot of times it brings people into bad karma, and they go kind of a bad way, kind of bad way, bad states of mind and stuff. But it also is a lesson. So when I look at the long-term ramifications of someone who comes in here and has a bad time and says, ah, I got called, and then leaves, I see that they go through some bad states of mind. I see that they have some suffering from those dark reactions, but they also figure something out. And they figure out what this guy figured out, figure something out and they figure out what this guy figured out that there really is a spiritual life here and even though you fought against it and you tried to kill it and you ran away from it you realize that there is a spiritual life here and it's real and then if you go out there you know it's different and you know, it's different. And the inner opportunities are not there. So, you know, these people who, you know, even if they get really mad at me and make a webpage or something like that, they learn something spiritually. I consider it a tough lesson because they have because they have an incarnation or a number of incarnations of going through this karma.

1:44:30
But eventually they'll come back to the very true spiritual teachings and they won't have that reaction. They will have figured out what this student who came back figured out, which is very good. They figured out that, no, no, there is spiritual life spiritual life and I better not act like a like a crazy ego against it again because it's real I've been on both sides of the fence yeah good stuff so besides going to a dojo where you can of fifth degree black belts or higher, you should do it just to see. Lay your mind at ease. So you know that I'm a sensei of meditation, of Buddhism, and I'm also a sensei of martial arts. And the etiquette in here is dojo etiquette. So take a martial arts class or just go and So take a martial arts class or just go and watch a martial arts class where you have a fifth degree black belt or higher, and you will see, you will see this etiquette. And this is how people learn and this is how people develop.

1:45:53
It's the etiquette of spiritual practice, it's the etiquette of any inner art. But also, I'd like you to see a movie, a film, it's called Phenomenon, starring John Travolta. And it's kind of neat, kind of cute, interesting, but there's an interesting part. He is gaining these magical powers and he went from being normal to magical. And then the people around him start to become afraid of him and react to him. And then they start to become negative to him. And then there's another guy, Frenetus, who's like, wait a minute, you guys are having an ego reaction. And he basically points that out to them. having an ego reaction and he basically points that out to them and that is the reaction that people have when they get when they when their awareness is stretched beyond beyond their description of themselves. So watch phenomenon just to illustrate that point.

1:47:12
good. All right, very good. See, I push your buttons. Sometimes you don't even notice until later. You're all like, wow, that was neat. Then you go home and you're like, hey. Yes. Alright. We shall meditate. Again, just for one song, and focus on the third eye. Let's begin. Alright, thank you all very much. I will see you next week.



