0:00:00
I will be coming here some weekend after your tech class to talk with you about the study, the study of enlightenment and this particular form, this path. The path is a way, a study, a vehicle of enlightenment. Study is a way to enlightenment. So it has a certain energy, a certain form, a certain feeling, a certain etiquette. And there's different ways to the same goal. this way has a particular energy and it's a very beautiful one it's a very fast moving energy and ethic ways of the spiritual path are not dissimilar than ways of different different martial arts schools. So the point in martial arts is to be able to defend your life and if need be take someone else's life. That's what martial arts is about. That's how it was founded. That's what they teach. And there's a lot of other things about it but that's what it essentially boils down to. Enlightenment, the path of enlightenment Enlightenment, the path of enlightenment is about, is a process where you dissolve the limited self, the limited mind, and you move from a condition of suffering and limited awareness to a condition of spiritual happiness, peace, and complete awareness of life.

0:02:00
awareness of life. So the point whether you're in a Zen school or a Tibetan Buddhist school, the point of the spiritual path is enlightenment. The point of a martial arts school is the In Judo there is a certain way, wrestling. In Karate there is a different way, maybe punching and kicking. And then you might look at Tai Chi, and that is very soft and slow. So different martial arts schools look differently, but they all lead to the same goal. and it's the same with spiritual paths, spiritual schools. Different schools have different ways, different forms, different practices. However, they all lead to the same and ultimate goal, which is enlightenment. Now, if you were going to go to an inner city public school go to an inner city public school and you were taking Tai Chi, you would be on your way to having the capabilities of a martial artist. But it takes a while, you know, it takes maybe 10 or 12 years before you can actually use it as self-defense. And so it builds and develops slowly, but powerful and it builds and develops slowly, but powerful and beautiful. Karate is something where you can learn how to defend yourself after a few classes. You learn how to do a certain technique, a punch or a block, and it's pretty basic, and you might not have mastered it, but it as self-defense after a few classes. So there are different things that people get out of their different vehicles or different schools. Some people like the dance-like movements of Tai Chi, in which case they say, oh, I'll do that, and they enjoy that, and they live a low-risk life. But if you're going to an inner-city high school and you're taking Tai But if you're going to an inner city high school and you're taking Tai Chi, you're not going to be able to defend yourself.

0:04:32
And you might find yourself in a fight and your Tai Chi does not help you very much in the beginning. And the karate is a faster path for self-defense. So if you're in a situation where you have a higher risk, then you would do karate because then you would do karate because it would be more effective to deal with the circumstances of your life. But it's all up to the individual, what they're interested in, what they want to experience on the path, and what their circumstances are. spiritual traditions there are generally two types of paths or two types of methods for enlightenment. There's the slow path and then there's the fast path. So the slow path is Theravada Buddhism, Hinayana Buddhism, and with this type of this type of Buddhism, the goal, yes, is enlightenment, but very often teachers and students will say that the goal is to increase their good karma so that they can be enlightened in another lifetime, so that they can find an enlightened teacher maybe next time, and then get the and then give you the next teachings in the next life.

0:06:04
So in the slow path there is the consideration that yeah, I'm going to get to enlightenment, I'm an infinite eternal being, so what's the rush? And then there's the fast path. are considered more magical or mystical and they are the teachings that are beyond words. The fast path is a path that has the awareness and recognition that you can become enlightened this lifetime. You can become enlightened in this lifetime. If you follow the teachings, you follow the inner teachings, and you can do it. So, why wait? Why try to set up your next life if you can do it in this life? So, the slow path would be considered something would be considered something like Tai Chi. And the fast path is like karate. It's something that has a greater momentum and effectiveness in a shorter amount of time.

0:07:36
the past path. This is the esoteric teachings, the inner teachings. Involved in the inner teachings, there's a way, there's an etiquette, there's an energy, and there are just beautiful and amazing practices and states of consciousness that we exist in, in this path. Every other path that exists that we exist in, in this path. Every other path that exists, every other spiritual path, even if it's a religious path but not as spiritual, everything where there is a concern for God or a concern for others, is a beautiful thing. This just happens to be a very fast and direct a very fast and direct way where enlightenment is the issue, enlightenment is the goal, and everything that we do in this study is here to lead to enlightenment. to a need of the self. Because it means undoing a lot of things that the self gets used to, that the self clings to, that the self creates as a definition of the self and of life. Essentially on the pathway to enlightenment, you'll let go of everything you cling to in an unhealthy in an unhealthy way. But as soon as you stop clinging to it, it's still there. It's that clinging that creates your limitation and suffering. So on the pathway to enlightenment you let go of everything in life. You open yourself and you experience something beyond experience something beyond yourself. And that is the point of the study. You have to be willing to be open. You have to be willing to face the difficulties of your mind, your thoughts, your definitions, your ideas, your concepts. Because that's what you will face.

0:10:00
your ideas and concepts. Because that's what you will face. That's what will appear as hardships in your life. When you're on the pathway to enlightenment, you realize that the troubles in your life are your outlook and your thoughts. And so we start to improve improve our lives by following the practices of meditation and mindfulness and yoga which direct our outlook, our awareness of life and our thoughts to brighter places, to brighter conditions. And then the karma that follows that makes our life brighter and better in a physical way. So this is So this is the fast path, the fast path to enlightenment where we're not really joking around, we're focused on enlightenment. Enlightenment is possible and we deal with our life and our mind in an intelligent and progress in becoming humble and open and experiencing greater amounts of enlightenment.

0:11:23
Today I would like to tell you, I guess to start with, about my background and how I got into Buddhism and a little bit about our Buddhist school and lineage and my personal study. This will be, you know, kind of brief. I've talked about it for a long time. I've learned a lot of stuff. And we'll talk about things more as we go on. But it's a good thing to know who you might be learning from. who you might be learning from. So, in this lifetime, I was born in San Francisco, in the Sunnydale projects, and had a tough time growing up. I definitely knew that there was danger and peril, even as a little kid, watching fights and things like that watching fights and things like that in the neighborhood and experiencing fights in the neighborhood.

0:12:34
My experience of being bullied brought me to learn Kung Fu and Tai Chi at a young age. I took the study of Kung Fu up because I wanted to learn self-defense. So I started learning punching kick and it was really fun. I enjoyed it. And then I didn't get into too many fights after that because I started to learn about control. and one of the reasons you get in fights is when you're out of control. So I started having more peace by learning self-defense. I was in high school and just a normal kid. Just had a passion for martial arts. And one day I was walking home from my high school and a friend of mine, his name was Joel, was walking down the street in front of me.

0:14:01
And he was about half a block ahead of me. and he was about half a block ahead of me. We caught the same bus, we lived in the same neighborhood. And then, three guys, three really good guys, who were older than us, and bigger and stronger, they just kind of were hiding, you know, like around the corner or something, and then they jumped out and they attacked Joel, my friend. I had Joel, my friend, and I played soccer with Joel. He was like a good buddy in the neighborhood and stuff. And I saw him get a tag and I saw him robbing him. And when he did, when they did, I just watched. I didn't know what to do. I said, well, obviously, there's no way I'm going to be able to help him because his tag was bigger than me. because these guys were bigger than me.

0:14:51
And even though I had 10 years of kung fu training, there was no way I was gonna be able to beat these guys. I just couldn't do it, I knew it. And you know, when you train martial arts, you know who you can beat and who you can't. So I was like, oh yeah, no chance. So I just sat there and watched. And I was all, ooh, oh, oh. I was like, oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh.

0:15:13
Oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh.

0:15:23
Oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh.

0:15:33
Oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh. And he was like, you know, a couple black guys and he looked too good.

0:15:41
And he said, oh yeah, I got beat up. And I said, yeah, that was bad, man. And he's like, yeah, you guys just came out of nowhere and jumped me. I said, yeah, that first hit totally like me, you're like this. Then he's like, what, what do you mean? And I said, I was. And then he's all, what? What do you mean? And I said, I was right down the street. And then Joel said, what? And he didn't help me? And I said, come on, man. I'm going to help you fight those guys. Those guys are big. And Joel didn't even know I was like that and become full of martial arts. So he didn't even know I knew martial arts. He just was He didn't even know I knew martial arts.

0:16:26
He just was like, what's the deal? Why wouldn't you help? And I thought about it and went, hmm, I don't know. Because I'd get hurt, because I'd put myself at risk. And then he was like, well, maybe you could have called the police or got the teachers or something. But we were pretty far from school. And I was like, I don't know. school and I was like, I don't know, if I went, even if I ran back by the time I got to teachers or the police or something, it would have been over. It took like a minute and a half for them to finish the report.

0:17:01
And then Joel, he was like, he was pissed off. He was like, why didn't you try? didn't you try? I had no answer. I don't know why. Because it would have put me in a bad situation or it would have been useless. And then, so Joel was mad and then I thought about it and I started thinking, hmm, I have been doing Kung Fu a lot. I could have tried. I could have tried, I just started thinking about it. Basically it was the first time I ever thought about somebody else. Because I was always thinking about myself. And then I realized that I should have done something. I could have yelled at the guys, I could have gone to the school, I could have done something. I could have done something. I'm a fast runner too, so I could have yelled at them in the van.

0:18:06
I could have run through. I started thinking of options. And then I came to the point where I said, gosh, you know, it's ridiculous not to do anything. do anything. I just realized there that it didn't make sense not to do anything. So then, I trained martial arts a lot. I was capable to some degree of doing something. So I said, alright. I pledged. I said, if I see something, I'm going to do something about it. And then And then one day, I was, my mother was driving downtown, I was in the car, and I was driving, we were driving through a bad neighborhood, the Tenderloin, and I looked out the window, and I saw the guarding men, they're a group of people who are a safety patrol. They're citizens who go into a bad neighborhood, and then if someone's getting mugged, citizens who go into a bad neighborhood and then if someone's getting mugged, they stop the person and detain the thief.

0:19:21
So I saw them and they were breaking up someone from fighting or mugging someone else. And I asked, we just drove by and said, hey, that, what is that? So I asked my mother, my mother's from New York, so she called, oh yeah, the Guardian Angels, we know all about that. And my mom told me about the Guardian Angels, and I was 15, and I said, alright, take me over to their office, I want to do that. My mom was terrified. But then, somehow, she got me to the office there, Somehow she got me to the office there. And then I walked in and I was like, you know, oh, I'm so relieved.

0:20:06
I was like, you guys stop people from getting in fights and stop people from getting loved, right? And they're like, uh-huh, that's what we do. I said, that's what I want to do. And then she said, okay. Here's a red beret. So from the age of 16 to 19 I was a guardian angel. And in the guardian angels, I trained a lot of martial arts during the day and I did a guardian angel patrol a few nights a week. And in the guardian angels, I definitely stopped a lot of people in the Guardian Angels I definitely stopped a lot of people from getting mugged. Many, many people.

0:20:57
And the other good thing is I got some experience of how to use my martial arts in real situations. So I thought that was really cool that I had trained so much martial arts and that I could so much martial arts that I could actually use it for good. And I said, cool, this is what I want to do. So I loved it. I moved up in the organization to become the assistant chapter leader. And I also became the martial arts trainer, because I had a lot of martial arts training. And then when I was 19, this lady shows up. And we've had a couple, a few gals in the organization, but they're all We've had a couple, a few gals in the organization, but they're all tough.

0:21:43
And then this dainty young lady appears, and she also drives in a Mercedes. And we're all, whoa, you sure you wanna park that on the street? And she also had a second-degree black belt, And she also had a second degree black belt. So, well, okay. She's a martial artist. She wants to get some experience. We had a lot of people who are martial artists who came in because they thought their martial arts was good or something.

0:22:17
And then... And then, so she showed up and we're like, Whoa, who's she? Very clean and we're like dirty. very clean and we're like dirty. And so, you know, we went to our, she came in on a Friday, Friday's when we had our training. And in our training we did a lot of exercise, but we also did sparring so that we were ready for a fight on the street. Sometimes we would get attacked by the local gangs and we had to be able to fight. and we had to be able to fight. So at this training I noticed that she was looking at me all the time. And then on patrol she was looking at me all the time. And then for about a week she was always looking at me.

0:23:05
And she had a weird way of looking at me. So I figured she liked me. On Saturday nights I would go up to Sacramento, I would actually take a bus up to Sacramento and I would train the Sacramento chapter in martial arts. And then she said, hey can I give you a ride up? And I said, in your Mercedes? And she said, yeah. And I said, okay. So I hopped in her car and we were driving up there and then she told me, my enlightened teacher told me in a dream to join the guardian angels and to find you. I was like, oh, cool. And then I thought, yeah, she's kind of stacy. Maybe she's like one of those new age people.

0:24:09
And then she started talking. I remember she said yoga and karma. I don't remember anything else. about the Dharma and things. It was information that was just so hard for me to follow, but I was kind of entranced. I was like, wow, this is neat. I had no idea what he was talking about. I've heard the word karma before. I've heard the word enlightenment before. But I had no idea what he was talking about. And it was very interesting. And then we went up to Sacramento. And then we went up to Sacramento, we did the training, and we came back and she said, Cat's Hop? At this time I was in my first year of college. I was 19 and I was doing college in order of time, martial arts, college, and guarding. Those were the three things in my life.

0:25:12
college and gardening. And on the way back she said, Hey, you know, do you meditate? And I said, Yeah, in my in my kung fu system, we did this thing called meditation, where you focus on the navel chakra. And then I focused and then I would I would do it lying You're supposed to sit there, quiet and everything, but I modified the technique a little bit. So I actually never really meditated on my table for more than a minute. I would just kind of watch TV and focus. So I'm all, yeah, sure, I meditate every night. She's like, oh, that's great. Are you sure? sure? I explained my meditation to her and then we pulled over at the side of the highway and walked out into a field and she taught me to meditate chakra meditation for the first time. And I said cool. I said so can I meet your enlightened teacher? And then she said no. And then I was like well then why did he tell you to find me?

0:26:24
Well, then why did he tell you to find me? I don't know. And I'm like, okay. So then she invited me to go out the next day up to Mount Kamakai. And I was like, okay. And so then I just started like, you know, hanging out with her and learning the stuff she had to tell me. And it was weird and interesting and fun. and it was weird and interesting and fun. I thought it was really strange, but it was neat. And she gave me this book to read. It was like the Bhagavad Gita or something. And I took a look at it and I was like, oh, I was like, thanks for the book, but I already have one.

0:27:05
I was like, I don't really read. Yeah. What I read was, I read acupuncture books because I was an acupuncturist. Learned that through my martial arts as well. So I was like, oh yeah, I read my acupuncture books, but I don't read for fun. And she's like, well this is spiritual. And I'm like, oh yeah, I'm not there yet. So I just kind of hung on to the book for a while. But I enjoyed everything she had to say. It was interesting. But I enjoyed everything she had to say. It was interesting. And she was a very different person.

0:27:44
And I just felt something bright about it. And I didn't know what bright was at that point. I had no idea of what bright was. I had all my definitions of what I wanted in life. And then all of a sudden there was this different feeling. a different feeling and it felt more expansive. So I was like, I don't know, you know, I kind of like it. So I just kept hanging out with her and learning more. Then after a few months, she said, my enlightened teacher says that you can come visit him. Come to a meditation I said, oh, OK. And I was like, cool. So we went down to LA and that's where I met my teacher for the first time. And he's an American, or he was an American, he's passed away now.

0:28:48
His name is Ron Roozenshahir. And he, when I first saw him, you know, I was like, oh, he's a white cat. You know, how's that? Isn't he supposed to be Indian or something like that? And then also, the place where we met, we met at the Four Seasons in Denver Hills. And I had to dress up. And that was very uncomfortable for me. and I had to dress up.

0:29:13
And that was very uncomfortable for me. I was like, dressing? Uh, uh, uh, uh. It was weird. And also, I was like, what is the deal with this place? And I was like, you know, so when I got there, they had a garden in front of the room where we all were sitting. And I saw all of the students. And they were all around 30 to 40 years old.

0:29:36
around 30 to 40 years old and they were all dressed extremely well and I got the impression that they were all as wealthy as this lady Sue who brought me that. And I was like, does I thought it was very strange. And then they came around with these cocktails, these Disney peach drinks, non-alcoholic, but they brought them over and they were giving them to everyone. And I said, this is a cult. And they said, they're going to put something in it. And I was like, hey, yeah, this is great. And when when no one was looking, I dumped it out and started potting plants. Great, great. And then I went into the meditation and, you know, I, the first thing I did when I saw was I looked at him as I would in terms of a martial artist. So I sized him up. How easy is he to beat?

0:30:58
Now in my Kung Fu system, we had to stand around in horse stance, keep it up stance, which is like standing like this. We had to stand with our knees bent for an hour a day. And by doing that, you gain a certain kind of power And by doing that, you gain a certain kind of power in the dan tian and the navel chakra. So I was really focused on, you can't be a good martial artist unless you can sink your power, unless you have this dan tian awareness. And I saw him and I said, ah, he doesn't. So how can he be enlightened if he doesn't even practice horse stance? practice for a stance. And then the other thing I looked at him and I said, you know, I looked at him as an acupuncturist and I said, ah, look, his liver has too much yang.

0:31:47
So, you know, how can you be enlightened and have your aura, your subtle physical body be a little bit, you know, out of balance. So I said, okay, he doesn't have a stance and he doesn't, and he's got too much yang in his liver. and he doesn't, and he's got so much yang in his liver, and I'm all like, so, you know, if you're enlightened, you're perfect, right? And then, then he started the meditation, and he started talking, and then I saw something I had never seen before, and it looked like a big ball of gold light around his head, and I was like, wow, that's interesting. And I was like, wow, that's interesting. And then Sue, who brought me there, she was like, do you see it?

0:32:34
And I was like, yeah, but it's weird. I was like, what's going on? And then I said, I didn't drink that tea straight, though. And then I started to perceive a lot of life and subtle physical energy. I started to perceive a lot of light and subtle physical energy. And I knew something about auras and seeing subtle physical energy from my active practice. But this was incredible. And not only did I see a lot of light, it was a gold light. I'd never seen a gold light before.

0:33:11
And it made me feel good. And I was like, wow, this is really neat. made me feel good. And I was like, wow, this is really neat. So by the end of the evening, you know, as soon as, actually as soon as I just let go of my judging and thoughts and ideas of what's good and what's enlightening, then I was really happy. And I just felt that that this would light for me. And you know, I went from thinking, wait a minute, I'm expecting a cold beer, to a feeling of this is powerful, this is strong, this is good, and you know, this man is a master, he's an enlightened being. I just felt it. to be a beautiful and rare thing. I just automatically thought that. And I was right. But it was a very powerful experience. It was beautiful. And then I kept on going back, seeing him more and more, and then after about six months I became a student. And that was amazing.

0:34:24
students. And that was amazing. When I became a student, he was only working with very, very serious people like me. He was taking people in to be Buddhist monks. He wasn't with lay students. So after a period of time of consideration, then I was able to become a student. And becoming a student was becoming a Buddhist monk. For you guys, there's a possibility There are three other initiations. The first student's initiation is what we're going to do this time. And that is putting you on the pathway to enlightenment. And it's a very powerful and beautiful thing. world, a team life in very beautiful and profound ways that you haven't seen before, that afford you the ability to transcend a lot of the limitations of the self and experience great degrees of brightness.

0:35:55
When you become a student of an enlightened teacher, you have a connection, and it is connection and it is a connection you might say of the heart, but it's a very powerful connection. And through this connection, through this power, the brilli, associated with the heart, there are the secret teachings, the inner teachings, the teachings that can't words and through this transmission we look at structures of empowerment, initiation, we gain some of the beautiful gifts of Buddhism. happens by grace when you are on the path of enlightenment and it happens through this heart connection. After I became a Buddhist monk, I was 19, then I started struggling started struggling with my yoga. So one of the things that was very difficult for me in the school was that everybody was wealthy and I had never expected myself to get near a point of wealth. I wanted to be an acupuncturist and a school teacher. I had a scholarship I had a scholarship from the San Francisco School District.

0:37:41
I was pretty much helped through college, so I had to get a scholarship. And I was going to be a teacher. My scholarship allowed me to, you know, they paid for my tuition so that I would then be a school teacher when I graduated. I hadn't given up. And then, you know, teachers don't make that much money. And then, you know, teachers don't make that much money. And Ram Ravichand taught his students to do computers and technology. And just said, hey, you know, let's be realistic about life. If you have more money, you can push off the difficult things in life and you can focus on, you know, your spiritual practice.

0:38:24
So we want to live a happy, bright, beautiful life and not have to deal with a lot of things like struggling with paying the bills and things like that. And then we can have more of our focus on our medication and yoga practice. So it made sense to me. I had never wanted to have money, to have very much money in my life. wanted to have money, to have very much money in my life. But I understood the logic and I said, okay, you know, I'll give it a shot. So I then decided to quit college and I went to the Computer Learning Center in San Francisco which was a six month certificate course that taught COBOL programming.

0:39:12
which was a six month certificate course that taught COBOL programming. And I flunked out. I made it almost all the way through before I flunked out. I didn't do so well. And I didn't think I would because I was terrible at mathematics. And I wasn't a very good student about technical things. So I was really, really confused and having a hard time. really really like confused and having a hard time because I was struggling with the concept of having a lot of money, didn't really see myself having it, I didn't think I could do technology enough that everybody else did and they all said it was great and so I was just like oh I'm so confused with what I do. And after I flunked out, my mentor Sue, she mentor Sue, she said, okay, now get a job. I said great, I just flunked out of technology school, now I'm going to go get a job in technology. And that's exactly what I did. And one of the things that we learn if you do technology is that you technology is that you learn everything on the job.

0:40:28
You just, you have to learn how to learn. You have to get in, you know, get out on the playing field, but you know, nothing happens until the game starts. So I really learned on the job. My first job was actually as a land manager for the school district. I had to have a way to pay them back my tuitions. I had to have a way to pay them back my tuition. And then I moved to New York City. And Ron Rumpus, they started teaching only in New York.

0:41:04
And told all the students from San Francisco and Los Angeles to move out there if we wanted to continue. And we all did. So I moved out to New York. And then in New York I So I moved out to New York. And then in New York, I got another computer programming job. And then I really became very good at computers. And I became a very successful computer consultant. I had my own computer consulting company. And I made way more money than I thought I ever would. I made way more money than I thought I ever would.

0:41:40
And at the same time I was very detached from it. Because when we learn to make money and have some wealth, we also learn about detachment at the same time. So that we're not just focused on buying a whole bunch of stuff and we're not out there going crazy with stocks or investments going crazy with stocks or investments because that's worrying about the future too much. Stuff in moderation is fine, but basically it's just some very simple things like don't spend too much, save it, that kind of thing. Buddha actually talks about how to gain wealth gain wealth and what to do with it. And he talks about gaining wealth slowly and pragmatically and he says you save half of your money, it would be hard to do with paychecks and food days unless you have to make a lot of money, but he would say save half of your money and and use it and 25% of it is what you spend on your cost of living. So those were Buddhist teachings and basically that's the kind of thing that we followed.

0:43:00
Was, you know, be moderate in your spending and be smart and safe. So, yeah, I ended up being a very successful computer being a very successful computer programmer and I gained so much from that that transformation and that practice of yoga. It made my mind stronger to do computer science and it was fun. Now it's not necessary to do computer science. You don't have to do it. It's computer science. You don't have to do it. It's just very helpful. It's good to make a lot of money because if you make a lot of money then you'll have a greater balance in the physical world. Computer science is a lucrative field. And a lot of you are taking the tech classes whether you want a job in it or not and that's great because taking the tech classes, whether you want a job in it or not, and that's great because that develops your mind and makes your mind strong and it helps your meditation.

0:44:10
If you go into computer science, it's great. In our school, we know a lot of inner teachings for your development and success in computer science. But if you choose your own career path that you're passionate about or you're doing, or path that you're passionate about or you're doing or you're already doing, that's fine. No problem. And we've been doing this for a while. There were the students, the original students of my teacher, and they did it and they were successful at it, so I saw some proof that it's possible. at it. So I saw some proof that it's possible and then you know now my students did it and they're successful at it. And so you know it's a it's a repeatable thing. We teach each other and we teach each other not only the technology but also how to be successful with a technology career and there's a lot of inner teaching, spiritual teaching of yoga when you do computer science and technology.

0:45:20
So that is something for you to choose, but any way you want to go, that's good. And you have plenty of time. There's no rush on anything. Just wanted to let you know that. In fact, in this study, there's no rules, really. So it's not like a rule like you have to do this, you have to do that. There actually are no rules. If you're not interested in the study, then you wouldn't be here. And if you are interested, you'll see some value in the teachings, you are interested you'll see some value in the teachings and you'll do the things that are valuable to you and then you'll be happy with it. So there are no rules, there's just etiquette, there's a way to be when you go into the karate class, a way to be when you're a student at a university, a way to be when you go into the job, and there's a way to into the job and there's a way to be on the spiritual path with an enlightened teacher.

0:46:33
And the way is basically being interested in enlightenment and being pleasant to be around. If you're interested in the teachings, then I'm happy to have you here, but you have to be pleasant to be around. Because if you're harmful towards other people, then you're causing problems. You're showing a lack of interest in that you're being harmful. So it's real simple to be a student. You just have to be interested in studying. And you have to take some responsibility to be a nice person. To be pleasant to be around.

0:47:12
person to be pleasant to be around. This is what we call etiquette. And then it's a nice situation. So I studied with Ramana Peshe from the age of 19 to about 28 and then he passed away. After that I had received the teaching empowerments and advanced teaching the teaching empowerments and advanced teaching. And then I went to Asia for a while. And then I met some teachers there. And a couple teachers up here. And I was looking basically initially for another enlightened teacher. Because I was just like, oh yeah, I met an enlightened teacher. I was challenged and I had all these amazing experiences and I learned all this stuff.

0:48:00
and I had all these amazing experiences and I learned all this stuff but are there any more? Since my teacher died, are there any others out there? And so I first went to the Far East. I went to Indonesia, all, as I know as I can, and I was on a spiritual mission to find enlightened teachers. And I really went around asking. I went to many, many, many spiritual hotspots where there's many monasteries. And I went there and I requested an audience with a lama or a Rinpoche around, and I asked with a llama or a Rinpoche around and I asked everybody, I said, is there any enlightened teachers that you know of? And they all said no. And I said, okay, well, what about someone who is going to Samadhi? And 95% of the time they said no. But I did meet a couple meditation master, one was in Thailand, and he basically was a hermitage in a cave near the ocean, and the monks were bringing him food, and he was just sitting there meditating. And so I went and had a hermitage with him. And he went into Samadhi a couple of times, and I could see it because I was so used to it. I myself at that point was, I was doing the advanced teaching for non-Enlightened and that's kind of why I was looking for a little more guidance. But, you know, so it was cool. And then a couple guys in the in the Himalayas in a Buddhist monastery. I did a little bit of the monastery life.

0:50:10
And I had a good time. It was fun. It was cold. And they sit on the floor, the stone floor, Oh, gee. Thank you. It works for me. This is what we call a Dallas style. I met a really great Dallas master actually in China. And I also got to study with a tantric master in the Himalayas.

0:50:48
And he only teaches heads of schools. and he only teaches heads of schools and the reason I got to study with him was that he, oh when I was checking around in the Himalayas going to different monasteries, I came across a monastery that looked really familiar to me. I don't know why. It wasn't like Deja Vu, it was I said, oh, this looks familiar, but a little smaller. And got taller. And then the monks came out. I was at a certain spot meditating. And I was meditating and I was in samadhi.

0:51:31
And then the monks came out and they saw me. And then they said, oh, you're Dorje Tang. you know, you're Dorje Chang, you're the master of the temple who reincarnated far away and said he's going to come back. And I said, oh, yeah, maybe that's me, because this place is familiar. And then I got the Dorje Chang thing, and then I went around and got to meet a lot of the Buddhist, Buddhist heads and mamas. meet a lot of the Buddhist Rinpoches and Lamas. And that's how I got into the opportunity at the Tantric school. And this was just with four other Rinpoches who were the students. And I liked it because they actually meditated. They wanted me to stay for my Talks with Training in Nepal, in Nepal, that I was like, well, could we at least meditate? And they were like, no, you don't have to meditate so much, just do kudos and chanting and stuff. And I said, I think I've gone beyond this karma now. I might be a tolku or whatever, but I don't think I have to go through this pattern of training. I think I've already kind of gone this pattern of training, I think I've already gone through that. So I left.

0:52:55
And one thing that I noticed whenever I found a very good teacher in the Far East, is that they recognized that I was an advanced practitioner immediately. advanced practitioner immediately. And they were just like, whoa, okay, yeah, you're really blessed, you're at a really high point. And the ones that attempted to help me, attempted to help me with the most advanced teachings that they knew. So, I did learn some of the of the classic tantras when I was in Nepal. And I also learned some of the esoteric teachings in the Golden Booth Monastery in Xi'an, China. And it was kind of interesting. I liked it. I spent a little time in the Zen Monastery as well, in Kyoto.

0:54:02
And that was really nice. well in Kyoto. And that was really nice. I probably liked that the best. I liked the Japanese Zen. So I learned, you know, I learned not only Tibetan Buddhism, but also learned about Gallagher and I learned about Zen Buddhism. And I've also learned about, you know, the Vedanta and Yoga. I've also learned about a lot of the Eastern spiritual practices. So not only do I do a specific type of Indo-Satan Buddhism, but it adds a lot of Americana, because my teacher was an American, and he was very intelligent about how to do Buddhism about how to do Buddhism in this world, in this world that we live in. And he pointed out that one of the most important things for a Westerner is what the Buddha calls right livelihood. And that most Westerners who practice Buddhism don't have balance with that.

0:55:09
Most of the Eastern practitioners do, especially monks. because they are monks. Practicing Buddhists in the Far East are primarily monks and they practice right livelihood as a monk because the structure and institution of the monastery provides for right livelihood. And then Westerners are always struggling with that. Oh should I like be a masseuse Should I like do masseuse or should I volunteer my time to feed the homeless? They just don't get what right livelihood is. And what I learned from Ramanan Pache is right livelihood. And right livelihood is, one way for it is computer science and making a lot of money. money. When you read what the Buddha says, he had students who had great wealth and he taught them to give their money to the spiritual community and also to increase their money.

0:56:19
He taught that all of the lay students should increase their money. So he was very positive very positive about making a lot of money, Buddha, in his teachings to his lay community. And he said for the monk, it's easier just to be in the monastic structure. So the Buddha was kind of pro-money, but people lose that. They don't read about what the Buddha said about right livelihood, except for the very basic things. The very basic things about right livelihood are don't work in a job that will hurt people, don't work in a job where you're selling drugs, don't work in a job that uses sex, things like that. very very simple observations of right livelihood and that's what people focus on. And then a lot of spiritual people because in past lives have been maybe in a monastic order who say, oh money's bad and then we miss the point of what the Buddha says about money. So I learned right livelihood and So I learned to write live with it and I was able to bring that into balance in my life.

0:57:43
And my teacher, Ram Manpuche, said that's what would work for an American, is to come into balance with writing live with it. Because if you can have a strong career and meditate, it works for our society. it works for our society. Now that's why we don't live in a monastery. We have a spiritual retreat that we call Bodhi Woods, but we don't live the Buddhist monk lifestyle, which is just kind of meditating and cleaning up, and growing vegetables. up and maybe growing vegetables. I mean we might do that but we also engage in the Western society and having a job and coming into a financial balance with our lives. So that's one of the important aspects of the study is coming into a financial balance with your balance of your life. If you're unbalanced in your finances, then you're really unbalanced and you're not going to be able to meditate very well. And so many people who are on the spiritual path in the West struggle with this. And they don't have that balance and they're spending a lot of energy worrying about paying bills and stuff. So this is something that know them. So this is something that we'll talk about is right livelihood because you know if you don't come to a balance with right livelihood then your practice is never going to take off. You'll find that you don't really meditate. You'll find that you can't break out of thinking all the time because you're spending so much energy out of balance with so much energy out of balance with your physical life.

0:59:40
You don't have to worry about bills. Your job is to dream. And you don't have the ability to bring enough focus and energy to stop thought. So that's one of the big things that Ramana Prasad taught us is problem in the West is that everyone looks at it like the West should be the East. We think the only way that we're really going to do spiritual practice is if we're in a monastery, in other words we're goofing around. But it is the balance of right livelihood that brings you into a strong position so that you can practice voice in the West. All right, so that is an introduction to me and this school I'm learning in. And I guess I just would add that when I came back from Asia, that's when I started teaching.

1:00:48
in 1898 when I came back and started teaching. And I never since then yeah, that's when a lot of these guys showed up. A lot of these tech teachers. I also teach in Europe, in Budapest. I have students there as well. And that's basically it. So, we'll talk more about this lineage more about this lineage and the teachings. I just want to tell you where it came from, I'll tell you more about it, it's really interesting, as we go on. It's been a pleasure sharing with you information about my past and this school. Yeah, so we'll keep on talking. There's more to say.

1:01:55
But for tonight, thank you very much.

