0:00:00
Hello everyone. Let's begin with meditation. Go ahead and sit up nice and straight. We'll do three songs. The first song on the navel chakra, second on the heart, third on the third eye. Okay, let's begin. How wonderful, wonderful that you all showed up tonight for meditation. Darshan for some of you, first meeting, and satsang, being together, in the consideration of the Dharma.

0:01:08
This is excellent.

0:01:09
I'm so glad you made it. I'm Samvara, for some of you who are new, and you've come to our final public meditation. of public meditations, whereby you have met one of my students who's been studying with me for several years, up to ten years, and they were your meditation teacher. You met had what it took to learn more, to meet their teacher, me, Sam Barlow. So here you are. This is our last public meditation. And we're going to go out with a bang. Yes. So, for a period of time, you had the ability to come here and check this out, see if it's interesting to you. And you're here now, even if it's your first class, well, hang in there. If it's your first class, or your second class, second meditation seminar with me, you might be a little bit new to this stuff, but the people who come in towards the end have a lot of momentum from the Dharma of the whole group. So in the beginning, the first people come in and they're like, oh, what's this stuff about? But then they say, oh, I like it. They get into it. They start meditating. They start practicing mindfulness, doing the Enlightenment workbook. And then they build up a momentum and it makes it possible and easier for new students to come in and see that other new students are succeeding, that it's working for them, it's giving them brightness, happiness, personal power. So if you're coming in kind of new, it's not a bad thing. There's a lot of momentum for you to succeed. And the teaching tonight is a very powerful one for success on the spiritual path. Good. So tonight I'm going to... Well, before I go into that, I should talk to you about your little M&M bags. So it's not a Buddhist trick-or-treating kind of thing. It's something that in Sanskrit they call prasad. Prasad is kind of a blessed food, preferably something sweet. And prasad is something that you take and it has a blessing to your body. It's something that adds to you, changes you, makes you happy and bright. We're going to use the prasad in our meditations later. You'll see. So just hold on to your little M&M bags. It's very important.

0:05:22
You know, I guess kind of like in Christianity,

0:05:23
how they have the little wafer and the grape juice. Depending on what church you went to. In my church, we had really good bread. It was like a fresh loaf of bread, really nice. And they used to break it open and give me some. And I was like, can I have some more? And then as I got a little older, I was like, can I have some more of that wine? I like that. So that's kind of a blessed food. It's a prasad. And we have M&M's. And we got rid of the whole, like, you know, association to somebody's body and blood, because that's kind of freaky. So we just have M&M's. They're just magic M&M's. And that's why I gave you individual closed packages, because when we get into our special meditation later, and you're going to use your M&Ms by eating them, you're going to be amazed at what happens. You're going to say, did they put something in my M&Ms? No, we didn't. You've got a closed package. We bought it at CVS. I've got the receipt. All right, so magical M&Ms, Prasad. We'll get into it later. And yeah, just hang on to them. Don't eat them. Sometimes when you're in the middle of a meditation seminar and I'm talking on and on about enlightenment and the dharma you'll just kind of want to chew on something. So you might open it up and just be kind of, you're like popcorn in a movie. Yeah, don't do that. Because when it comes around to use the magic of the M&Ms, you'll have already eaten. All right. Very good. Very good. So tonight we're going to becoming a Buddhist yogi. And a yogi is someone who practices yoga, not necessarily Hatha yoga, not stretching and talismanic exercises, but the spiritual practices and reflections that lead one to an awareness of unity. Yoga is that transcendence from the physical world, physical attention, to a union of your physical attention with eternal awareness. So, a yogi is one who exists in that energy field, exists on that path, that pathway to union. A yogi, every day, with every meditation, with every mindful action, a yogi gets closer to a condition of complete unity. They get brighter and happier. A yogi is not a beginner. A yogi is a committed and capable spiritual practitioner. So, a yogi isn't just trying something out. A yogi is doing something with impeccability and selflessness. And a yogi experiences a great joy, a great luminosity, with every aspect of their lives, because yoga covers everything that you do. Everything that you do is yoga, when you're a yogi. So tonight I'd like to talk about becoming a yogi. And this is one of those things that your high school counselor might have missed. Your college counselor, your career counselor. You might try being a nurse or a doctor. Well, maybe if you went to high school on Santa Cruz, they might say, you might try being a yogi. I mean, San Francisco is pretty liberal too. My career counselor just said, I don't know. To me, that's fine. What do you want to do? I'm like, I don't know. Teach Kung Fu? Okay. Go for it. Well, yeah. Yogi. Being a yogi. Now, being a yogi is a pretty intense thing. It's like a full-time commitment to your spiritual path. And to a Westerner, it can seem kind of odd and strange. Our ideas might come up and say, oh, I'm very different than that. But I don't think so. I don't think we're so different than one of those little guys with the turbans sitting there, you know, doing some kind of strange meditative reflective exercises. Not so different at all. So tonight I'm going to talk about how these two things come together. This total commitment to spiritual practice, meditation and impeccability, and you, and your life, doing what you do, how you can incorporate the spiritual advancement of the committed and impeccable yogi. How you can incorporate those spiritual qualities and attributes into your life. That's what we'll be talking about tonight. And most importantly, tonight is going to be a special transmission. It is the Karma Yoga Empowerment. And this is the first time I've done an empowerment with this group. And tonight, it's coming. Now, empowerment is something that only a teacher of enlightenment can do. It's a transference of power and attention. And it's something that is in the unseen world, in the spiritual world, in the second attention. It's something that is beyond words that can be transferred. It's an energy and awareness, a bandwidth of attention that the receiver can then utilize. So an empowerment you could say is like money. So if there's, you know, the bank has a lot of money, and then, or you might know someone with a lot of money, a little angel investor, and you want to start a company. And you might go to that angel investor and say, hey, you know, I want to start a company, and I, you know, I really want to do it, and I think I can do it, I'm willing to try my hardest, but I need some startup capital. I need some money so that I can get things going. And then the angel investor says, okay, well, what do you got to get going? Well, I have to buy some equipment, I have to hire a few people. I know what I'm going to do with my money. I'm going to put it into getting ahead in my business. And then the angel investor says, okay, I'll do it, I will give you some money. And then that money is then something that helps you to move your business forward. So an empowerment is kind of the same. It gives you spiritual energy. It gives you a kind of power. It transfers from teacher to student. And it's a very luminous power. It's a bright spiritual power. And it's a power that helps you to succeed in becoming a yogi. There's many different types of empowerment. They're very specific. And this one is one that is broad and tremendously powerful. It's transformative for new students, because it dramatically changes their awareness and capabilities of practice. So we will be practicing, or we will be tonight engaging in this empowerment, where we are receiving this power, the power of karma yoga. And the great thing about it, on your side, is that there's not much you have to do, except for keep an open mind. With a lot of negativity, you could close yourself off a bit from it, but even with some negativity, it's coming. And you will be able to take this energy into your body, really into the navel chakra, and you'll be able to start using it. So it's a rare opportunity to receive a spiritual empowerment. And it is one of the things that's very important and necessary to move along the pathway of enlightenment quickly. That's what an enlightened teacher can do for you, these empowerments. So tonight is a very special empowerment. get into the actual empowerment, let's talk about Buddhist yoga. Since you're going to become a yogi, it's good to understand how you're going to go about it and what a Buddhist Now, Buddha, when he was teaching, he kind of like changed it. He looked at it, he said, this is a little dry, it's written a long time ago, it's kind of hard for people to understand these days, 2500 years ago. He's like, I have to make it, I have to bring a yoga out that people can really do something with. I have to give them a way to access this spiritual truth. And so he came up with the Four Noble Truths and the Eightfold Path tells you how to do things, tells you what to do and how to do them in order to be enlightened, in order to advance yourself spiritually, to come into balance, to get yourself out of suffering. So, the Eightfold Path is just Buddha's prescription for yoga. And it's essential that a Buddhist yogi practices the considerations of the Eightfold Path. So the Eightfold Path begins with meditation. So the first of the folds of the path is meditation. And meditation is really the foundation of practice. It's necessary to practice meditation a couple times a day, in the morning and the evening. You know really the way that you can learn to still your mind Learn to see the truth Really to recognize the thoughts that you have Recognize the images and emotions attachments desires and fears In your mind they all appear in meditation you get to really put your spirit under the microscope of meditation and then scope of meditation. And then you have a chance to clear your mind, to open your attention to a greater truth, and it makes you clear, bright, and capable of doing the next aspects If you don't meditate, then you won't see your mind. You won't go into a consideration of awareness, where you have enough personal power and seeing of your condition of life, seeing of life. You won't have that capability, so you won't be able to really practice yoga. So meditation is really the essential practice. After meditation, the next part of the Eightfold Path is mindfulness. So mindfulness is what the Buddha called watching, watching the mind, watching your thoughts. You have to watch what's going on in your head. Most people walk around not observing their mind. They go around thinking thoughts, like a loose cannon, and they just are thinking, something happens, they react, they're following karmas. Something good happens, they're happy. Something bad happens, they're unhappy. They're always dissatisfied, they never really examine their life. They don't look at the condition of what's going on, they're just looking at, you know, how do I feel in this moment? And they have a very transient perspective because they're not observing what's going on. Now, when you can... Hey Morgan! Hi!

0:21:39
He's starting to learn to be amazed. He's all, doesn't he sit there with his eyes closed?

0:21:44
I open them sometimes. Welcome.

0:21:48
So when you examine your thoughts,

0:21:51
then you start to see really funny things. Like that you think the same stupid thoughts over and over and over and over. And that it's kind of hard to make course corrections in negative thoughts. And you say, wow, why is that? You start to understand the way that you direct your mind and what you do with your mind by watching your mind. If you don't watch, you have no opportunity. But if you watch, if you watch your mind, then you can start to use your willpower to do things that are more evolving, things that get you higher. And you can also start to use your willpower to push yourself away from thinking things that make you unhappy, that disempower you. So mindfulness is the second step in the Eightfold Path. And then there's intention. So right intention is important. So in order to be a yogi, in order to really practice any spiritual art, or really any art, it's very important for you to intend to do it well. You have to intend earnest practice. If you don't have that intention, then everything that you'll do will be sloppy. It'll be a mess. So it's really important for someone to sit down and say, yeah, I'm kind of interested in this spiritual stuff. I like it. And then to really say, you know, I really intend to learn to meditate. I really intend to be mindful and I intend to become a yogi. When you have the intention, then thoughts will follow and the thoughts will lead you to powerful experiences and the thoughts will lead you to words, words on the Dharma, like this. The thoughts will lead you to actions, and you'll start to take action in yoga. And this is how you become a yogi. You think, you speak, and you do things that bring you into a condition of unity. So intention is a great power that you have to direct your spirit to enlightenment. So when you intend to succeed, then you're going to follow the path correctly. If you don't set that intention, then you're like, I intend to just kind of like hang out and see what happens. So it's important to examine your intention. And then we have the next thing, the next part of the Eightfold Path, is effort. Effort. So you have to have the right effort. Now the right effort's great because usually when we hear effort we're like, whoa, effort means, ah, this is going to be hard, right? First thing we think. Do you want me to put effort into something? But the great thing is there's a special Buddhist secret called right effort, spiritual effort. And that is, it doesn't really seem like a so fun. You know, and you know, you could look at a time where, you know, someone asked you to do something that you really didn't want to do, and you did it anyway. And even if it only took five minutes or ten minutes, every aspect of it was so unhappy and boring and difficult. And you're like, oh, God, this is like pulling teeth. It's like herding cats. You're doing something that is just so difficult. You don't really want to do it, and it's hard to do, and it's such a bother, and that unhappy way of doing things. The Buddhist way of doing things, the yogi way of doing things, is the way of right effort. Now you might think of a time where there was something you wanted to do, something you were really excited about, something really positive, constructive for your life, and even if it took hours and hours and hours to do it, it was something that was really happy and bright for you. So it took lots of effort, you know, but it just kind of flowed because you wanted it. And the effort was fun. And there was just like an energy that pushed you along because you wanted to do it. And it was something happy and bright. So in Buddhist effort, your effort is directed toward enlightened activity, toward yoga. And that effort flows. When you're doing a yoga task, even though there's a lot you have to do, when you have right effort, that's the effort to engage in yoga, the pathway to union, the pathway to enlightenment, there's a power, there's a secret Buddhist trick in there. You open yourself up to something so constructive and so luminous, so empowering, that even though there's so much to do and it's impossible in the beginning, it just happens. It flows through you. Energy, life flows through you. And you find yourself doing amazing things that you never thought you could do before. So, it's important to see yourself aligned with enlightenment, the pathway to enlightenment. The pathway to enlightenment could seem impossible. It is impossible to the ego. However, when you align your spirit with right effort, then you go from impossibility to possibility. You move from a place where it can't happen, there's so much stuff to do that it seems impossible, why even start and try anyway, to every day, every thought, everything you do brings you into a brighter condition. A brighter and shinier condition of awareness and happiness. So right effort is very important. You have to, you know, when you're a yogi, some of you are practicing yoga now, you have to observe right effort, because right effort makes it fun, makes it bright. That's when you're aligned with the pathway of enlightenment. If you find yourself frustrated and having a hard time, then relax. Put a smile on your face and remember, right efforts in there somewhere. Find it. That's Buddhist yoga, is to really seek that right effort. Buddhists always get these crazy tasks. You know, it might be the Zen master who gives you a crazy koan or something. Or you might have like the Lama who says, oh, go do something crazy. You know, they just, they come up with all sorts of fantastic, wonderful things for you to do. And at first it seems impossible. And that's why it's worth doing. And then when you do it, you see yourself overcome impossibility. But the Buddhist yogi's attitude towards doing things is, wow, that seems impossible, I don't know how there's so much to it, but you got to smile and laugh. Somehow, somehow I'm going to do this anyway. And my teacher told me that when I was a beginning student. And I was like, okay. And then he told me to learn to meditate. And I tried meditation. And it seemed impossible to stop thought. It seemed like I would never stop thought.

0:31:05
For a long time, it seemed that way.

0:31:07
But I just kept on laughing and saying, okay, well, I'm gonna figure it out anyway, and I eventually figured it out I'm living proof You can achieve your goals, okay All right And then we have the next of the steps in the eightfold path

0:31:22
write speech

0:31:24
steps in the Eightfold Path. Write speech. Write speech. This is very important. Don't say bad things, even to yourself. Very good Chinese etiquette. Don't say bad things, not even to yourself. Never disparage another person. Never break things apart. Always use your speech to bring things together. Always talk about solutions, not about problems. Don't gossip about negative things. Always talk about a way for things to get better and brighter. It's really important, you know? Because you sit there talking with people about, oh yeah, you know, life is terrible. I went to a coffee shop once, and then these people come in, you know, they were like friends, and then they all sat down at the table next to me, and then they're just sitting there going, you know, it's so bad, you know, the mailman, and then this guy at work, and then they're just going on and on and on. And then they got into politics. So they just sat there for an hour and a half talking about bad things, talk about their bad health, or their bad family members, all sorts of bad things. And that's what they talk about and that's what they perceive. If you have to talk about a difficult subject, something that's bad, talk about it in a way where you're looking for a solution. Even if there seems like no solution, say, wow, this is so bad, I'm just going to have to meditate to see beyond all of this, to see the solution somewhere up in an enlightened state of mind. Because in some enlightened state of mind, this terrible thing is perfect. There we go. If I were the Buddha right now, I wouldn't think this is so bad. It's a good thing to say. What would Jesus do? All right, you know, those are positive ways of looking at difficult things, right? Yeah, that's good. So, right speech. Say good things. And then the next step in Buddhist yoga is one of my favorites, right livelihood. Right livelihood. So, this has to do with, I like to call it right job. Because, you know, if you start saying livelihood, you start to forget that it's a job. People don't like jobs. People don't like jobs, they like livelihood. My life's work is to be a communicator. To be an artist.

0:35:11
I'm an artist.

0:35:12
I'm not making fun of anyone. Okay, I'm a bad artist. But I like it anyway. Okay, good. So, job, right? Right job. So, this is a very important one for the West because in the Far East, the majority of practicing Buddhists are Buddhist monks. In Thailand, there's more practicing Buddhists who are not monks, only because they become monks for a while and then they leave. Like a large amount of the population goes into the monastery for about a year. But in the Far East in general, for serious practicing Buddhists, they're mostly monks. There are lay practitioners, but there are fewer of them than the Buddhist monks. Now in the West, we have a lot of people who practice Buddhism, but almost none of them are Buddhist monks. So a Buddhist monk's livelihood, living in the ashram or the monastery, and going through the routine of a Buddhist monk's day, the Buddhist monk's work, is right livelihood. And the enlightened teachers, Buddha, Bodhidharma, they have set up these monasteries and ashram structures so that a person could engage in right livelihood. What's your occupation? Buddhist monk. What's your job?

0:36:56
Monk.

0:36:56
Have that on your business card.

0:36:59
That's your title. Work for some software company. You're like, can I make up my own title, though? You can negotiate that when you're getting your job. I want my own title, monk. And then when you're going through your day working as a monk in an ashram, what you're doing is the right work, it's the right job, it's the right livelihood. But in America, in the West, we don't have a lot of Buddhist monasteries. And if we do, it's just kind of strange for our culture. It's not like our culture does that naturally. There's many fewer monasteries in America than in the Far East, and it's kind of a throwback to a different culture. It could work, it's just different. You know, it's just different for an American. So, for Westerners, it's very important to focus on right livelihood, right job, because we don't culturally have an institution of right livelihood. Therefore, we have to engage in the job market, our world, our Western world. We have to engage in it in a way that brings us to balance with this In the West, many, many, many practicing, actually the majority of practicing Buddhists are out of balance, completely out of balance. Not only Buddhists, spiritual practitioners are out of balance with this part of the pathway to enlightenment. And it's something that throws them off so tremendously that they usually don't succeed very much in meditation or spiritual practice because they're sitting there out of balance, let's say. This means that they haven't figured it out. Objectively, when someone looks at Right Livelihood, they'll say, oh, okay, what's the most noble idea, I'll be a volunteer, or a nurse, or a babysitter, or a dog walker. You try to think of things that are selfless and helpful, and that's good. However, very often it draws someone into a condition where they don't have a lot of power in their job. So they might think, oh yeah, I should be a farmer, work with the land, that could be right livelihood. But then that's kind of something that draws them into a condition that's not very powerful. Very often when people consider right livelihood and actually follow it, they end up not making very much money. And then they miss the point of Right Livelihood. So to do Right Livelihood in America, it's important to make a lot of money. It's essential to make a lot of money. Because you need to be able to provide for your practice. You need to be able to afford a proper place to live. You have to have a car or be able to afford your transportation. You have to be able to provide the clothing and food that you need. You have to... America America is an expensive place, and it takes a lot of focus and attention to have a career, to have a job. And you have to really focus on it so that you can provide for yourself, so that you can practice properly. If you're kind of, you know, working at a health food store and just getting by, what tends to happen, you know, with this kind of, oh, I think this is a positive thing, it's right livelihood, I feel good and mellow about it, because it's like farming or something like that, is when they don't make enough money, then they're worrying about money. And when they're worried about money, their whole practice is unbalanced. It's hard to meditate when you're in debt. You know why? Get out of debt and you'll see. No, it's true. You know, when you're in debt, it's like this weight on your back. And if you get out of debt, then you'll say, wow, I feel much better. When you can't pay bills, it's a stress. When you have bill collectors calling you, it's a stress. When you're stressed out about money, it is an intense stress for Americans, for Westerners. And it's so heavy that it actually holds your spirit down. It really does. And when people are stressed out about money, then they don't really meditate very well. They don't practice very well. They haven't come into balance with this aspect of yoga. You know, very often spiritual people look at their work as being something they just got to do to get by, and then they go, yeah, I really want to do my spiritual practice now. They see it as separate from their spiritual path. But it is, especially in the West, work is one of the most essential aspects of your path because it's something that you spend a lot of time doing. You have to spend you know eight hours a day working and when you are spending time working and you see it as not your practice, not your yoga, but just something you got to do to get by to pay your bills so that you can go home and do your chanting or whatever, then you fall into a condition where you have a huge separation of what you're doing and what your spiritual practice is. But Buddha suggested that your an essential part of practice. So that way, when you work, you are practicing yoga. It's essential. Everything that you do during those 8 hours a day, maybe 12 hours a day, 14, 16 you're doing yoga. It's your spiritual practice, work. And then you are practicing all the time. You're coming into balance. But you have to make sure that you're not being unbalanced financially. Because financial imbalance, where you're not making enough money. It just weighs you down. So this is a hard one for a lot of Westerners to get because it takes tremendous attention to work. And a lot of spiritual people have an aversion to work. They have an aversion to money. They don't want to work because they'd rather be meditating, or hiking out in a desert, or doing fantastically wonderful spiritual things. However, it's necessary to work. It's part of your spiritual path. Now, if we were in the Far East, you can go into the monastery and then boom, you have this great structure of work. But here in the West, you have to think about it more. You have to put more energy into it. You have to put more attention into it. The structure is not just laid out for you. You have to make changes. You have to look at things differently. You have to say, oh, OK, so a monk in the East, they don't have any money. But since I'm in the West, in order to practice yoga, I have to make a lot of money so that I can provide for my practice. No one's buying you the monastery to sit in. If there's going to be a monastery, you're going to have to buy it yourself. And when a monk goes into a monastery, they get a place to sleep, they get food to eat. And when you're practicing, you have to provide for those things. And that requires work. Westerners very often don't understand this. It's different. Right livelihood over there and right livelihood over here. It's different. But it's essential in the practice to focus on right livelihood. Okay. So in Buddhism, when something's important, we repeat it many times. It's true.

0:47:46
It is, it's important.

0:47:48
So I gotta keep saying it. Because the first time I say it, you're all, he said something. The second time I say it, then you say, I don't like what he said. And then the third time you say, alright, I get it. And then I say it again. Alright, did we do all our rights? No, right view. The last one, the last step of the Eightfold Path is the view. Oh, I guess there's two more. You have to have the view of the eighth step. So right view. Right view is viewing things properly. You have to see things right. Because you could have a very negative outlook and see enlightenment and think it's a problem. You can think it's bad. You know, you can say, ah, I don't want to meditate. That's weird. I don't like it. You could look at an enlightened teacher and say, ew, I don't like him.

0:49:00
That would be a view that's a good opinion,

0:49:03
but it's a view that's limiting to you. That was one of the wonderful things when the Buddha became enlightened, there was a beautiful cultural awareness of enlightenment, because there had been enlightened teachers previous to Buddha, and people knew about them. So in their culture, in their social understanding, they knew that from time to time an enlightened When Buddha met some of the noble people, the kings, they would say, Oh, I'm so glad that I met an enlightened person. I had this opportunity. And I'm glad that I had the view to see that this person is enlightened. And I'm glad that I had the opportunity. So, if an enlightened person walks up to you on the street, you might be rude to them. Because Buddha walks over and you don't know what Buddha looks like. You're like, oh, this is a weird guy. You might have the view that this is just some weird person. You might think negative thoughts or say something mean to them because of your view, your outlook. So it's important to have a positive view. It's important to see enlightenment in everyone and in everything. You have to have the proper awareness of life. And it has to happen through how you apprehend life, how you see things, what you view. So we always look at things in a positive way. I didn't bring my rose-colored glasses today, did I? But you want to look at things in a positive light, because everything is enlightenment. Everything is enlightenment. So when someone comes over and bugs you, some stranger, instead of seeing them in a negative way, to practice right view, we see them in a positive way. And then we act intelligently. But we look at everything in a positive light. It's a choice that you make. It's a practice. It's a practice of yoga. To do things, to see things in a positive way. You can look at everything in a negative way if you want to. You can be all, I don't like this, meh. About everything, right? You can pull that part of yourself out and make a mess out of everything. Or you can practice looking at things in a positive way. This is right for you. Looking at things in a positive way. People in a positive way. Everyone's a Buddha. Everyone's a Buddha inside. And then act intelligently. And that brings us to the eighth step of yoga, of Buddhist yoga. That's right action. And as if you're not acting. Right action is perfect action, natural action. It is action that is unobscured by personal preference, by mental modification. It is selfless action, direct action, efficient action. It's action with no thought. Perfect action. So when we are doing our work, when we are doing our meditation, when we are talking with friends, when we are walking on the beach, eating dinner, everything that we do, we seek to find right action. And that is the perfection of the moment, the perfection of what you're doing. When you're at work, you do it impeccably, efficiently. When you're walking on the beach, you take in that whole experience. You don't sit there. Some people go walking on the beach, it's a beautiful sunset, and they're sitting there thinking about a problem that they had earlier in the day. And then they miss the action of walking on the beach. They miss the beach. They miss walking. They might as well be having the problem, engaging with the person that they had the problem with, because they're separating themselves. There's thought, there's mental modification that is holding them back and away from the action of walking and being aware of the beach. So it's important to act with efficiency and selflessness, to focus on your action, to do it impeccably and also without any thoughts of, oh this is good or this is bad, you just do your best. And you stay focused in the moment and do what you're doing. This is very important. Otherwise, you know, you're thinking, that's how people are cooking, chopping some onions or something like that. And then they go, ow, my finger! They're not paying attention. If they're focused on right action, you're cutting those carrots or whatever, and you do it impeccably. When your mind wanders is where you nick yourself. Be mindful in every activity. Right action martial arts, in actions like dancing. So some of you remember dancing. When you dance and you practice right action, you go away. You're moving. You're moving with the music, but you go away in a lot of motion, right? You're dancing, you know, your legs and arms are waving around, going to the rhythm and stuff. And then all of a sudden, you become the dance. You're no longer there, a person separate doing something. When you are dancing, when you do right action, you go away and become the dance. And then that's an excellent meditation. We also practice this form of right action in martial arts. In martial arts, you learn how to first stand and block and kick and punch. And you're learning these different weird things. But after a while, when you're doing your kata, your forms, you go away and you become the power of martial arts. You become the expression of that energy. And you're no longer you learning karate. You are the movement, the power of karate. So right action is exciting, it's fun, and it's something that you should practice. Do some martial arts, do some dancing. It's good stuff. Now the eightfold path, the eight steps of Buddhist yoga, they are all combined. You practice every step all the time. You have a period of meditation where you sit and meditate. Sometimes you're very focused on a specific action. Sometimes you're speaking. But you always are practicing all eight steps of yoga. Because when you're speaking, you want to have the right view. You want to have the right intent. It's important for you to focus on everything. And as you improve your meditation, the experience of meditation goes not only in your sitting period of time, but it transcends that. And every moment becomes meditation. And at all times you want to be mindful. When you're speaking with someone, I'm going to be mindful of what I'm thinking, what my intention is, oh, that's right, intent, while you're talking to someone, and the thoughts that are going in your head and the feelings that you're allowing to run through your body. So the Eightfold Path is distinct steps of yogic observation that you go through again and again as considerations of awareness, of spiritual attention. But you are always practicing these eight steps in everything, in every moment. And that's what a Buddhist yogi does. This is Buddhist yoga.

0:58:43
Very good.

0:58:45
So that's what you're going to go to. You're going to go to all this perfection in meditation, perfection in mindfulness, pure intention, perfect action, positive speech, and a view of seeing life in a beautiful way. And most importantly for the West, a very powerful, strong and balanced job. Very good. Now, we have to recognize a yogi for all of us here is not the way that someone normally goes about it in the Far East. So you might read a book and say, okay, so this guy wanted to learn about yoga, so then he went to the Buddhist monastery, shaved his head, became a monk, right? And that's something you can do in the Far East. But for you, being an American, having a job or going to school, doing something or heading towards a job or something, for you, the way to become a yogi is to do yoga in work. Unless you're independently wealthy. In which case, see me later. But yeah, you gotta work. That's what we do in our culture. In our culture, we gotta do some work. So the way to become a yogi is to come into balance with the yogic step of right livelihood. And to focus on it, because it takes a lot of focus to get into that balance. of the pathway of yoga as the main practice of yoga. So there might be, you know, in different schools, there might be a little bit of a different focus. They might have a little bit more focus on action sometimes for different aspects of the study. Sometimes a little bit more focused on mindfulness. So different types of Buddhist study, different types of structures, of classes, structures of schools, might focus on things a little differently. So I met a Zen master, and this Zen master, he meditated, but his main thing was diet. So he was like, his school, and usually in Zen, they don't focus on diet all that much. When I was in the Zen monastery in Kyoto, they ate as fast as possible, got food out of the way. It was really funny, it's like the food comes by, you're sitting at the table, and they pass the food down. And you have an opportunity to put some in your bowl as the bowl of food goes down. Then you get to eat it. It goes way down to the other side, and then the monks start sending it back. And then while it comes by again, you can get some more food. And then it gets to the other side of the table, and then dinner's So they just, it's like five minute dinners. It's really funny. So, but then this other Zen master that I met, he's like, Oh, no, it's all about food. So it was very, you know, very exciting and interesting to observe that even in Zen, one Zen master might focus on something very different than another Zen master. And it might not be all that traditional, but it's something that works for that teacher and that teacher's students. So even in Zen, there's differentiation. they'll be Buddhists who focus on something, like there were Buddhists who were focusing on sword martial arts. And through that, they practiced a lot of focus on right action, right? And there's some monks who practice a lot of meditation, and they are monks who do right meditation. There's Jnana Yoga monks who ponder their existence and they do a lot of investigation of the mind, right mindfulness. And what we focus on being in the West, in order to come back into balance with Buddhist practice, we focus on right job a little bit more. I mean, we definitely do everything. Gotta meditate, gotta be mindful. Have to do everything, as they do. They have a little bit more meditation or something like that, but they do the whole eightfold path. And we focus on getting into balance with right job, and we work really hard on that, and that's the main thing that we do besides our morning meditation. And this becomes the way that we're able to progress, to be balanced, and to actually and really do Buddhist yoga. Because we have 8 to 12 hours a day to do it. So that means you can turn your 8 hours a day, your job or your school, you can turn it from being something that you do for whatever personal reason, and you like it or you don't, and you get whatever you get out of it, you can turn it from that, which is how most people experience job, you can turn it into yoga. And you can turn it into yoga by seeing it as a spiritual practice where you are mindful, selfless, impeccable. And when you take this disposition of yoga, when you take this feeling, understanding, this really unseen direction, it's an invisible direction, it's a direction of the mind, it takes spiritual intention. You jump right into the Eightfold Path. You start to have right view. You start to see this job in a new way. You see your work in a new way. And then all of a sudden you find yourself on the pathway to enlightenment doing Buddhist yoga. And then the mindfulness comes in, the right action comes in, the right livelihood, which is critical for the West. So for you to succeed on the path, you've got to get your right job working. So since that is the thing that is most weak in Western practice, we make it the thing that we take on the most. We make it my spiritual practice, then you go to a point where you are practicing yoga eight hours a day. So you've just gone from a part-time meditator to a full-time yogi. I told you there's a way for Westerners. And it works perfectly with our lives, our society. It's completely in balance with the Western lifestyle. Often when we think about spirituality, we think, oh, if I want to be really spiritual, I have to go to India. Or I've got to go climb the top of a Himalayan peak and sit there. You know, I've done that, and it's cold. You can't sit up there very long. And, you know, we have these funny ideas, you know, and they're out of balance with the reality of our lives. So that way you start to see your concept of what the real enlightened practice is. You're like, oh yeah, yeah, it's something different, something far away, something for someone else, not really for me. I really wouldn't do it. I mean, I might try, but then that's not going to work with my life. So you start to put a big gap between yourself and enlightened practice with these concepts of, oh, I would have to join a monastery and sleep on a hard, cold, stone floor, and wake up at four in the morning and drink tea, and then chant. You start to think about the... You saw a national... Let's say the Discovery Channel. I like that better. National Geographic's pretty good, but the Discovery Channel. And little Buddhist monks walking around in the jungle. You're like, yeah, that's what I would have to do to be spiritual. I'd have to walk around in the jungle or climb a mountain and sit in snow. You get these ideas and those ideas just separate you from being able to practice. But you can look at the essence of the practice and you can do it whether you're in the Far East or if you're in the West. You just have to do it appropriately. And our focus on the eightfold path, just like every other Buddhist, and especially coming into balance, because our culture is in balance with right livelihood, that's our yoga. That's where we focus. That's where we come into balance. That's where we're successful, and that's where we're full-time Buddhists. Just like a Buddhist monk has a certain amount of time that they practice during the day, you have a tremendous period of time where you can practice. You can practice Right Livelihood. You can practice yoga during that time. And that gives you personal power. That gives you spiritual insight. That really because you have decided to go down that path. Fantastic. When we see these visions of Buddhist monks, we don't really get the idea of what they really do. If you've ever stayed in a monastery, you start to see that Buddhist monks don't just sit around.

1:11:03
They walk around.

1:11:04
But Buddhist monks actually work. We get the idea that they sit in on a silk pillow or something and just sit there meditating. And they do spend some time doing that. Some spend a little more time than others. But almost all Buddhist monks work. And they work hard. When you're a Buddhist monk, you've got to wake up really early in the morning and do your morning meditation. That might be a four-hour meditation. Very often it's chanting and meditating and reading sutras. So they'll do their spiritual practice really early in the morning. But then after they finish their big meditation thing, then they start working. So there's a lot of things that you gotta do when you have a monastery. You have to repair things that are broken, mend fences. And a lot of monasteries have their own farm, so they have to farm. And if you know anything about farming, it's a lot of work to farm. So they gotta do their farming, their landscaping, they have to move furniture around and clean things. Every day they spend a lot of time just cleaning, keeping everything impeccable. Because if everything's clean and immaculate, your practice is stronger. And all Buddhist monasteries are clean because you got to keep everything clean. It takes time and attention to keep things clean. So they're always cleaning. And they have to do repairs, painting, cleaning. They're doing all this manual labor. I know what that's like. And it's something that takes a lot of time and attention. Buddhist monasteries are beautiful because they're clean and they're maintained well. And to clean and maintain a monastery, the Buddhist monks all work on it. They also have to prepare food. There's a whole kitchen thing going on. And in some monasteries, they don't have a farm. And what they do is they actually go off, they leave the monastery, and they go out and they ask for food from people. Which I don't like that practice so much. I mean Buddha did it, but I think that the people who meditate and if they practice right livelihood they can help other people out instead of taking their crusts of bread. So, they go out and they spend two to three hours walking down to the village and looking around for food and then asking someone for it. And then they eat. So they actually do... They have a lot of activities that keep them busy. So they'll work with the community. So they confer blessings to the community. They bless businesses, all sorts of stuff. They get into marriages sometimes, depending on the Buddhist community relationship. But they help with businesses, with relationships, they do personal counseling with lay people. And for all the things that they do for the community, they also receive things. So it's not that they're... they do it selflessly, of course, but they get things back. Often they're given land money because that's what will keep the spiritual organization healthy. If they have the land to build the library and the money to build the Buddhist library, then they're able to continue and do well. So Buddhist monks will have a full day. And the other great thing is they have a lot of things to do, and then they stay completely active. And it's just like, keep going. Wake up, do your meditation, four hours, and then you're working, working, working, working. And then you have a period of time where you can study. And then you're back to working, working, working, cleaning, eating, working. And then you get back to your evening meditation. And then you have some time to study. And then it's go to sleep and wake up again by four. So in the Buddhist monastery, there's a great tempo. They have got a schedule and they stick to it. And that's one way that they get a lot of power. But although they have a good chunk of time, a few hours in the morning where they're really focused on meditation, they work a lot. When I was in the Zen monastery, I was always sitting there at the rake, making a little stone garden, which was so fun. There's so much to do, and so much of an attention on work. That is part of their right livelihood. And fortunately, they have a structure of a monastery that they live in and a community that supports them so that they can have right livelihood. Now in the West, we do it a little bit differently. No one gives us nothing. We work for it. We do our work right and strong. We use it as a key to our spiritual practice. And then we live a bright, strong, powerful life because of that. It's fantastic. All right. Okay, okay, okay. We're going to take a break for about 10, 15 minutes. We'll come back, we'll meditate again, and we'll move on in our conversation of Buddhist We'll come back, we'll meditate again, and we'll move on in our conversation of Buddhist Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
