0:00:00
Enlightenment is a timeless state. Sometimes I will drone on, forgetting about people's bladders. All right, but we're not going to go too late tonight. It's a Sunday night. I won't overburden you. We will have just a couple other considerations. We'll move to the higher chakras and then we'll end for this evening. However, if you have any questions afterwards and you'd like to hang around and ask me, I will remain talking about the esoteric teacher. The esoteric teacher and how an esoteric teacher can affect your power. This is very important for understanding higher levels of awareness. Levels of awareness of the heart, and a third eye. So this is how we practice navel meditation, heart meditation, third eye. And this is the inner pathway to structure of balance. We have, we develop wisdom through the third eye. And through power, love, and wisdom, we make our way to enlightenment. There are very constructive dimensions to develop. That's why we focus on these chakras. Now, what can you say about the heart? Not very much. What can you say about wisdom? Not very much. When you get above the levels of power, then we get into what I call the realms of spirit, where there's plenty of people who write books or will talk for hours about the heart and the third eye. And I can too. in truth when you get to the study of love there's not a lot to say but there is an experience there has to be the direct awareness power is more visceral we can talk about it more there can be a transfer transference of this power transmission of power but when you get to higher than the levels of power love and wisdom those come from such profound spiritual experience that there's no real words for it it's so so far beyond what you can say. I mean, if you start talking about love, the words that you talk, you know, the words of love, don't equal what love is. We talk about love forever and not ever experience love. Love is a power, a spiritual power. It's above what we talk about in terms of power. It's spiritual unity, truth. And wisdom, there's no way to transfer wisdom or transfer love. Wisdom comes to you when you stop thought, when you merge your mind with enlightenment, nirvana, when you go into samadhi. When you stop all limits of self, then you're filled with the wisdom of life. So, you know, if you just talk about love, talk about wisdom, of love and wisdom. But an esoteric teacher teaches beyond words. And an esoteric teacher can open the spiritual doorway to awareness of love. It can open the spiritual doorway It opens your mind to the stillness of life, so that you can learn the deep wisdom of life, of being. raising his or her Kundalini. Raising the awareness from an awareness of power to an awareness of love. So when I raise my Kundalini to a higher chakra, that is how I perceive. So if I want to focus on power, I can focus on power. Bring my attention completely to power. If I want to bring it to the heart, I can focus and everything I perceive is beyond the physical world. It's a direct experience of love. And when I bring my mind to that place, then it has a great effect to you because it's so powerful that you psychically to it. You have an ability to go through the doorway. When my energy moves up, your energy moves up. So an esoteric teacher is able to be so tremendously powerful in their spiritual you gain a light by being next to them, by paying attention, by keeping an open mind, you can go with that current of enlightenment. So when I bring my kundalini up, you'll go exactly to the level state of consciousness that I go to, which is a profound spiritual teacher opens the doorways to spirit not just in terms of opening you to new concepts and ideas but in actuality. So we will bring our focus to the heart and have an experience of the heart for a song, a heart song. And just still your thoughts Let's do this with eyes open. Okay. The mind cleans for a while. After practicing meditation for a while, you get more fluid. the sixth sense of meditation, which is a sense of humor. We're going to go into another meditation on the third eye. So you have a little bit longer to not stress out. Relax. So we're going to focus on the third eye. I'd like you to keep your eyes open again. Keep your eyes open. Just don't focus on stopping thoughts Alright, this song is a little longer, about 8 minutes.

0:11:45
So just relax. Focus on the third eye.

0:11:50
Keep your eyes open. Very good.

0:12:04
Good. Well, you all did very well tonight. Thank you.

0:12:20
It's important to understand that there's a certain etiquette to the spiritual path we make changes we draw back because of people who act angrily or violently towards others unfortunately otherwise people will get hurt by them so we unfortunately need to make these changes It's not so unfortunate, but it creates a little bit more, a little bit more, I don't know, you might call it difficulty. It makes a change. Now we will be having meditation seminars here in Fairmont and also in Stanford. I will definitely let you know when they're scheduled for.

0:14:06
And, you know, this constitutes a change that we have to make

0:14:12
because of coming across angry people. What's more, angry at least. It's unfortunate. Every time that someone acts in a negative way, that forces us to build a wall or shift or change, it's a sad thing. It's a thing that draws enlightenment back a little bit. But there's always a way. There's always a way. If you seek enlightenment, there is always a way. Guaranteed. Guaranteed by in London. So there's a story of a young man who comes to the temple and sits outside, knocks on the door, says, hey, I want to be a Buddhist monk. and say, no, no, no, go away. We're full. And then the young man says, no, I really, really, really, really want to be a Buddhist monk. The Lama says, no, no, no, I don't need any more students. Go away. But the monk or the young man stays seated right in front of the door and won't move. Then the monks look at him and say, well, he really wants to get in. Should we let him in? The lama says, no, no, no, no. We have our thing going on and this guy is an outsider and he's still there. And then, you know, the monks and the Lama keep looking out, seeing him there. And he says, I want to be a monk. I want to be on the pathway to enlightenment. So he just stayed there. And then after a little while, the Lama opens the door, because he had the persistence to deal with the wall. So unfortunately Fortunately there's a wall because not everybody who comes to the monastery wants enlightenment. A lot of them come with their own agendas, their own outlooks, they come and cause problems. So then the wall has to go up, unfortunately. But if you want enlightenment, you will deal with the wall. So the wall is the paramount. There's more wall, you know, with registration. You've got to give your name to get in there. But this represents a little bit of a change. So I think all of you did very, very well tonight. I appreciate that very much. You have to realize that on the pathway to enlightenment, you can overcome your limitations, you can overcome your difficulties. By following the path, the Dharma, the pathway to truth, empowers you to overcome your difficulties, to overcome the obstacles to your happiness, to your power, to your spiritual development. So, if that's what you're seeking, you're in the right place. And this study, meditation, develops your personal power, makes you stronger, more capable, brighter, so that you can deal with the physical world, you can deal with life in a beautiful, powerful way, and you can succeed. You don't have to run away and be afraid and shrink down because of opposition. The teachings, these teachings, the Pathway to Enlightenment, leads you to be victorious victorious spiritually and also in your physical life, because the two are related. So we put up the wall and things get better for the people within the wall. That's why we have to put up the wall. So you've got to determine if you want to do this practice. If it means something to you. Consider that. I mean, think about it. You know, not right now, but later when you're thinking. Think about, think about this study. Think about the pathway to enlightenment as I speak about it and as you experience it through the enlightenment workbook, through these meditation seminars, your meditation classes with my students, and determine if it's meaningful to you. It's important to know for yourself what you think about it. Because if there's a wall, you might just say, eh, it's getting kind of cold and kind of late. If I go away, I can do other things. So, you know, reflect. It's always important to look at yourself, your mind, your life. Look at the pathway to enlightenment and what it offers, and determine if it makes sense to you, if it makes sense for your life.

0:20:54
We do that from time to time. Good. So, thank you all very much. Very nice. Meeting adjourned. But there's one announcement that I'd like to make. Last month I

0:20:59
talked about a little project that you can work on if you'd like to. We're going to put on our website. So that when someone comes to our website, they can see a little ad about meditation. We want it to have a spirit that reflects what our courses are like but we also want it to be funny you don't have to make it fun but I like to laugh so it doesn't have to be fun to be just cool but but somehow try to reflect an aspect of the teachings here. And you know they could be anywhere from 30 seconds long to a few minutes long, whatever makes sense to you. And we're going to make these little videos. And if you do a good job with the video, you know, I'll have a little committee of my students saying, this one's good, that one's good, but if you do a good job, if you get an A on the video project, then you'll have a special event with me. We'll probably go out to nature, to one of my favorite local places of power and have a beautiful meditation and spiritual experience together, which is nice. It would be a beautiful thing to do. So if you feel so moved to engage in this Dharma project, because we do these artistic projects from time to time, give it a shot. Even if you have no experience, no problem. This is just supposed to be fun and high and learn something new, a way to express your enthusiasm for the path. It's just a fun thing to do, if you feel like it, and if you have time. You might feel like it and not have time, in which case I'd say meditate better. Stay in your mind, be more efficient in your time and thoughts. Meditation makes you efficient so that you can do your work better. When you do your work better, you're not drained by your work as much. So you have more energy to do new projects. And then when you do new projects, actually doing new projects give you so much more energy because they're so powerful and fun because there's a dharma to doing it. So we have a little outline of ideas of what to do and how to do it and we'll email that out so that you can read about it and see if you feel like it. You can do it as an individual or you can do it as a team and if you do it as a team, keep it to a team of, you know, four. Not larger than that. A small team. Teams of one, two, or four are very good. Teams of three aren't as good. Try to do one, two, or four. If you're in one team, you can also be in another. So if you have a video camera and the time you might help out a couple teams or something. We have an extra video camera, so if you don't have one, I'm sure we can schedule your time to use the camera. All right, so we'll do this over the next couple months until May 2nd which is when our next round of yoga starts the tech classes so it gives you something to do if you're not already doing the tech class if you're doing the tech classes you can still do this you have enough time It doesn't take that much time. Dream it up. Spend a little while just being open to it. See if any inspiration comes to you. Because a project like this can come to you after a few weeks, and then you can implement it quite quickly. One day on the weekend, you know? You plan it out. So this will be a fun thing. And then what we'll do is, in our May seminar, I'll bring a projector and we'll watch all the videos and have fun talking about it. It would be a bright thing for you to engage with, and if you do a good job, it will be a very, very, very bright, wonderful thing. All right. Well, so we'll email that out. Enjoy. Thank you. So I'll be right back. So I'll be right back.

0:27:37
I'll be right back.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
