0:00:00
Hello everyone. I guess that's an inside joke.

0:00:19
Okay.

0:00:21
So, welcome everyone. How nice of you to join us today on this beautiful sunny day. You might not notice, or you might. It always rains the day before our events. Or it has. It rains the day before, but not the day of. One of those peculiar things. You can read about it in Diving into Enlightenment. All right, but we're going to start with meditation. We'll start with kind of an energetic meditation, and then we'll go from there. All right, so three songs. One song on the navel, one song on the heart, one song on the third eye. Let's begin.

0:01:20
Excellent. I'm glad you've all made it. You found your way to Stanford. And the way to

0:01:34
the room. A little bit of shift because we've been meeting in San Francisco. So we'll be changing it up a little bit. We'll be meeting. We'll be meeting here sometimes and we'll be meeting there sometimes in the Fairmont Hotel. Both places are beautiful places, beautiful energy lines. So I'm glad you all made it. Congratulations on making it. It takes some effort. You have to have it together to get here, and at least you've done that. It's a wonderful day, a wonderful day for meditation, a wonderful day for lessons of the spiritual path. Also today, as you've seen on your seat, hopefully instead of sitting on it, there's a book, Diving into Enlightenment, which is a gift for you. Hopefully it's an inspirational spiritual story that you enjoy. It's written by Savitri and it is a story of one of her spiritual Excellent. Good. So today we are going to be speaking about spiritual power. In meditation, the navel chakra, the heart and the third eye. The navel chakra is the chakra of power. It's a spiritual power, spiritual kind of willpower. And then there's the heart for love and the third eye for wisdom. This is our primary methodology to take the steps toward enlightenment. Power, love and wisdom. It is in the foundation of our practice and it is not only in our meditation practice, but it is also in all of the observances of the spiritual path. So, since we start by bringing the focus to the navel center, we start our spiritual study by learning about power, spiritual power. And the reason that we do it is because it is necessary. It's necessary to come into a great strength of spiritual power so that it will enable you to go into the higher lessons, the higher teachings. Just as in meditation, we first draw the kundalini, the spiritual energy, up to the navel center. We take that first step of focus and then we bring the Kundalini to the heart and then to the third eye. We're going through steps of focus, steps of consideration in our meditation practice and we do the same in our practice of Yoga, the path to unity, Karma Yoga. So the first level of practice is getting your power together, getting your power into balance. Now spiritual power is really an energy. It's an energy of, let's say, will and it's an energy of awareness. And it is the spiritual power, the will and awareness to get your life into balance. And by getting your life into balance we mean your balance with the physical world, balance with your work, balance with your relationships. Everything in your life comes into a kind of balance when you focus on the yoga of mysticism. It is spiritual power that comes into balance through this attention. So we begin our journey into spiritual balance with with meditation and then we start to do things outside of meditation that will aid our balance. And that is the Enlightenment Workbook. So the Enlightenment Workbook is your first step. You see, in Buddhist mysticism, you are aided in your personal power. You're aided in gaining this spiritual power. It is the the first level of teachings, Buddhist mysticism. That's why in the Enlightenment workbook, not only do you get a background and understanding of Buddhism, but you also start learning the techniques of Buddhist mysticism. you could say, the yoga of power. It is the set of practices that enable you to become spiritually powerful, to become balanced in your life, in the physical world. It's necessary to be very good at Buddhist mysticism so that you can then learn the teachings of the heart and the teachings of wisdom. If you try to learn the teachings of heart and wisdom without establishing your personal power, without establishing a tremendous amount of spiritual power as a foundation, then it doesn't work so well. It ends up being conceptual spirituality. Even in systems of spirituality where they focus only on the heart or only on the third eye, the bhakti yoga, the yoga of devotion, or jnana yoga, the yoga of wisdom, even in those schools, good students, students who are actually doing, you know, walking the path, they get their power back. They just do it because they are a sophisticated being. They know that they have to get their personal power in balance before they can really access the dimensions of heart and mind and wisdom. So it is always a necessity. You can see it right in the structure of our meditation, the navel chakra. The kundalini, the spiritual energy resides at the base of the spine in the first chakra. So raising it to the third chakra, to the navel center, is the first step. And then raising it to the heart is the second step. Raising it to the third eye is the third step. It is the same way in the spiritual consideration of life. If you focus too much on the heart or too much on the dimensions of the third eye, but you have not established your personal power, your spiritual power as a foundation, then you will find that you live in concept, in ideation, that it's unbalanced with the physical world and that it doesn't do anything for you. It's just like having nice dreams or playing video games or watching a movie. It's something that's not integrated with your being. We work on power to begin with because power gives you a foundation. Power puts your life into balance, puts it into order. Power is also bright, beautiful and fun. Spiritual power. But it is also the foundation for the higher teachings. Buddhist mysticism is the yoga of power. It is the way to establish this power. Now, my students, who are your meditation teachers, have been practicing this system for a long time. And they have gained spiritual power. And that's why they are effective teachers. You know, in this world, you can say that people have a very low level of spiritual power. The level of spiritual power that one can access is the level that their Kundalini naturally resides in. So Kundalini in your day-to-day life moves, your spiritual energy and awareness will move up and down depending on your state of focus. So, you know, most people on this planet are very focused on the second chakra. Their energy, when they move it up, they move it to the second chakra. And the second chakra has most, it most has to do with sex. So you can look at our planet, we have a great growing population. And that's a good sign of a planet that has a focus on second chakra. The other level of energy that some people access, maybe 10% of the planet's population, even less actually, mostly in the Western worlds, is they bring their Kundalini up to the navel center. So very few people do this. They will be the people that we consider very successful or very powerful. And this is raising their energy beyond the second chakra to the third chakra, the chakra of power. So they will use their willpower and their awareness to make things happen. But they don't access the more enlightened aspects of power most of the time because they approach this energy in an unenlightened way. They don't seek enlightenment, they don't seek spiritual understanding, they just seek pure, get what I want, pure power. military as expressed in money. And the two things that pretty much rule our planet are war and wars alarms, you know, territory based on military strength and also money. Those are the primary power structures that define the capabilities of our lives. And that's the level of spirituality on our planet. It is the second chakra and the third chakra. So when people move their energy, that's pretty much where they can move it to. And as you can see, the third chakra really trumps the second chakra. The higher you can move your energy up, the more that is your experience and it's more powerful than the chakra below it. So if you can move your Kundalini to the heart, you will operate in an experience of love all the time. And that experience of love is refined and beautiful and more vast than the awareness of power. Even spiritual power. Spiritual power is wonderful. Spiritual power is the power to be happy. It's the power to deal with the energies of war and the difficulties and violence that people have. It's the energy to deal with a world where finance really defines the happiness of your life, really. The access that you have to medicine or entertainment or the insulation that you have from the world. rise above, get into balance with all with with the primary negative limitations that people have set up and using power on this planet. Now my students since they have been practicing for a number of years and they have been you know doing their practice earnestly and diligently. They have moved their energy, their Kundalini energy, to between the third and the fourth chakra. That's where they exist. When the most powerful people on this planet usually bring their energy up to the navel, there's a whole enlightened way of looking at life that has nothing to do with the definition of the world that we see before us, that people have given us. And it is an expression of life that is more beautiful and more free, more bright where there's more options for happiness, for awareness. So my students, from their practice, have brought their attention generally to a place of spiritual power where they're able to deal with the world in a very powerful way. They're able to be happy dealing with the world around us. And also they are able to bring their energy up to the heart and operate from a place of love. And in that dimension, in that state consciousness, they're much happier. As someone liberated like myself and Shananda, we have the ability to bring the Kundalini all the way up to the crown chakra and once you get beyond the throat chakra to the third eye, the crown chakra, there really are no words to describe those states of consciousness. There's just direct perception of reality and truth. And when you can bring your awareness up to the third eye, into the crown chakra, there's a tremendously beautiful and ultimate view of life. Back to Buddhist mysticism. You must start with Buddhist mysticism, with power. You've got to develop the foundation of your practice in getting your life together, getting your life in balance. When you go through the Enlightenment workbook, you see that it is addressing you, your mind, your life, yourself, all of your experiences, and it's directing you to gain power. In Buddhist mysticism, there's really four steps that we go through. Some of you have been coming here for a while. Some of you have made a lot of progress in the Enlightenment workbook and some of you have completed the Enlightenment workbook. You are learning in the Enlightenment workbook how to gain power. You become aware of how to gain power by looking at your life and seeing the places where you gain it, by engaging in activities where you gain power. A great focus in the yoga of mysticism is what not to do, how to stop yourself from losing energy, losing attention, losing power. So today we'll talk a little bit more about storing power since the Enlightenment workbook is very good at teaching you the first two steps. You just need a little bit more direction for storing power. Then the fourth step comes later. The fourth step comes when you have some mastery of power. You can't do the fourth step until you have mastery. Otherwise, you don't maintain a level of balance of your power. steps. If the house is cold, the first thing you do is turn on the energy, turn on the heat, so that you can be warm. The second thing that you do is you start to find out where the house is losing heat. So you might, you know, close the window. Whoops! Turn the heater on and then you say, oh all the windows are open, let's close them. Then the next thing that you do is you start to refine the energy of the house. So this is where you might add, you know, solar panels. This is where you might add insulation. And then you make the house efficient and capable. And then the final step is in sharing. So since your house is properly insulated, the windows are closed, and it's warm enough for you, and yet you have the solar panels, you gain more energy than you need for yourself, you can then plug that solar energy into the grid and share it with So this is a process of getting balance with your power and then gaining so much power that you have enough for yourself and that you can help others. That's always a beautiful aspect of Buddhism, is sharing the way. we find that we go through a kind of a recapitulation of our lives, through our experiences, identifying the truths that Buddha pointed out and the actual experiences that are good and bad in our lives. Now, what you're doing is you're not only identifying where you gain power and where you lose power, but you start to engage in the third step, which is called storing power. So storing power is identifying and compressing information so that you can kind of go back to it. You might say that it is kind of like a bank. Storing power is like finding banks of power that are really in different dimensions. They are in dimensions that are very high and bright and powerful. They are storing power in different places and then there's different means of access to those places. So we can say that storing power in general is taking attention and compressing it, different plane of consciousness that is very high and bright and powerful. There's only so much energy that you can hold in your mind and attention without doing this. But what I'm finding with the current students is that without storing enough power, you're losing world is kind of crazy out there. It's very upside down, very backwards, very physical. People are filled with desire and aversion. And when you're out there experiencing the world, you'll experience a lot of energy loss unless you store power. So storing power through the Enlightenment workbook is the first step. When you're writing down the things that give you power and the things that take away power, you're starting to store power. You take this whole experience, let's say a negative experience, something terrible happened to you where you lost a tremendous amount of energy in the past. And when you store power by writing it down, you're really placing it in a level of attention where you're able to confine it. Because if you don't do that, you will lose energy from that experience. You continuously lose energy that you are, if you're attached to negative experiences that had happened to you in the past. So when you write it and you label it in your power plan, you are putting it in a box, let's say, so that it doesn't, you're containing it. And that's one way of storing power from the power that you're losing. When you come up with something where you've gained a lot of energy, you write that down. And by going through the process of writing, you're compressing that information, you're compressing attention, bringing it out of the non-physical, out of your mind, out of your feelings, and you bring it into a very physical structure, bring it into the syntax of language, and by doing that you are compressing attention. Then you're able to label it, put it in your power plan, and you are able to gain and access tremendous attention from just that one label. So you see what I mean by a bank. You can take this whole big story, you draw it out of intangibility, and then you put it into your enlightenment workbook, you label it in your power plan, and then that brings it into a certain kind of access for you. access for you. Then all you need to do is look at that label and for things that have given you power, you look at that label and it gives you this ability to access that power. Now this is all happening, let's say in the mind, but it's really happening in a higher plane of awareness. And that's why it's Buddhist mysticism, because the book and the nature of the study directs you to the higher plane. When you are labeling something that is negative for you, you're also putting it in a higher plane. It's a plane of protection, you might say, where that energy cannot drain you anymore. And then by labeling it, by storing that power in a higher plane, you're able to gain energy from a bad experience. You're able to transform the bad experience into power. So writing, the fact that you are writing your enlightenment journal, the fact that you are labeling and following the lesson in the proper spirit is storing power. And that's the first step of storing power. And it's stored power with a certain accessibility in mind. So if someone reads this book is kind of, let's say, an enlightenment journal of Savitri's. But she didn't write it in a way that is personal. She wrote it in a selfless way with accessibility for other people. So therefore when you read this book you can see the lessons and access the power. This is stored power. This is power from very enlightening experiences. So there's a great deal of truth in this book. In fact even though 90% of it all really happened. That's why it's so interesting. We had to change the beginning to make it an interesting story. But all of the experiences of meditation are true experiences of enlightenment and it has created a stored power so that for Savitri it is very powerful to do it. She can read back into these experiences and she is like there again. But she has created it in a way that it is accessible for others. So when you read it, you have a chance to experience it. You have a chance to go into those dimensions of light and enlightenment that are real experiences and very powerful and beautiful. So writing is a way to compress attention, to store power. If someone reads your enlightenment journal, they might not be able to gain the kind of energy because you're writing it for yourself. But as you've seen in your classes, when you share your stories, the way you describe to share is opening up that experience of life so that others can access it. But when you write it yourself, you are writing it to your mind, you're writing it to your spirit so that you have in the past. So writing is a powerful and wonderful way to store power. I recommend that you write in your enlightenment journal. If you don't have an enlightenment journal, pick up a piece of paper and start writing. I recommend that after every spiritual experience you write down some notes about it. I like to write it in story form similar to the enlightenment. It tells a story of, I sat down to meditate, I experienced this, went on a hike, saw the sunset. You know, just tell the story as it happened. Explain your feelings, explain your awarenesses, your subtle awarenesses. And when you do that, you are compressing a spiritual experience, you're drawing it out of the unfathomable, untouchable world, and you're putting it down on paper. When you come back to these experiences, these bright experiences, you're able to access that light from that time. It's very important to write it down very close to the time that it happened. So if you sit out on Mount Tamil Pias for meditation with your meditation teacher and you have a beautiful time, then it's good to, before you drive down the hill, to have your enlightenment journal and to just write down a short entry of that wonderful experience. And then that could become a new addition to your wonderful column in your power plan. You can tell I really want you to do the Enlightenment workbook. I'm talking about some aspects of it that some of you don't know about yet. But it's a very useful book and it's very important. So, writing is a fantastic way to store beautiful enlightening experiences. I also suggest that after our meditation this evening, that you write down an entry into your enlightenment journal about your experiences. If you wait too long, you know, you do it the next day or a couple days later, you start to forget. There's magic in the words when you write it, when that awareness is still with you. If you say, yes, if tomorrow you write down, I was in a meditation class with Sambara and I felt happy. It would be very different than if you walk out of a door after meditation and explain that happiness. There will be magic in those words. And even if you said, I'm happy, after you walk out of here, you write down, I meditated and I felt happy. There will be magic in there. If you write the same thing, the exact same words tomorrow, there's not as much magic in it. So write your entries into your enlightenment journal. Very powerful. So a lot of you who have been coming for a while have identified how to gain energy and you've also identified how to stop losing energy. But the third step is so important, to store power. If you can't store power, then your level of energy goes up and down, up and down. And if you focus on it, it starts going up a little higher. But when you start to store power, it's kind of like investing. You get some power and you store it when you're up. You might go down again, but then you can access it and go higher, and then you store more. It is kind of like investing, but you invest it in following the teachings of enlightenment, and following the dimensions of Buddhist mysticism. You invest your power in very constructive and enlightening places. You do not invest it in places that you'll lose energy. The inner teachings bring you to very powerful and helpful dimensions. So for those of you who have been here a while, because you haven't been able to store power, you've found that you just get stuck. You have more awareness, you know that you're practicing, things are brighter and better in some ways, but you're up and down, up and down. You need to store power more. And take these recommendations put them to use, but also be patient with yourself. Developing a greater amount of enlightened power takes time. Learning to meditate takes time. Meditation is the greatest way to develop spiritual power. And in meditation, you learn the whole pathway eventually. You learn how to gain power through your meditation, you learn how to stop losing power by letting go of thoughts, you learn to store power. And in meditation you automatically give power, especially when you're good at it. When you reach a level of mastery in your meditation, then you will be giving an enlightened power to the whole world. When I meditate, and I'm sitting here with you, I'm focusing on giving a certain constructive level of light for your spiritual evolution. When I meditate by myself, I will just be giving off a very specific teacher. I work with people in very specific ways. I follow specific structures that will allow people to make rapid transformations of attention. So the pathway of meditation brings you the whole way. The reason that we focus on these other tasks, Buddhist mysticism, is because it helps you do it much faster. If you don't have enough personal power, if you weren't almost fairly enlightened in a past life, it's very difficult to be able to get your power into a level of attention, of limitation by the world's definitions of power. And when you hit that limitation you just won't go any farther. You'll just be stuck. following the lessons of Buddhist mysticism, you are able to break through the limitations, you are able to come into balance with the power of the world and you are able to lift yourself up to awarenesses of love and wisdom beyond the world's limitations. power. Alright, we'll do another meditation, then we'll take a break, and then we'll come back and talk more about storing power. Okay. Three sounds.

0:41:04
Very nice. Good. Alright, so we'll take a break for just about 10 minutes, and then we will come back and talk about storing power and the pathway to enlightenment.

0:41:27
So, what's the matter? Thank you. the

0:42:02
Oh, I'm sorry. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. I'm sorry I'm late, but I saw Vanessa and I wondered if that's you. That is just someone who wants to have you. I'm going to go ahead and get started. the So, I'm going to go to the next one. It's a very good question. Yes. th Ok.

0:46:39
You are a great person.

0:46:46
No. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. It should be. It should be. It should be. It should be. It should be. It should be. It should be. It should be. It should be. It should be. It should be. It should be. It should be. It should be. It should be. It should be. It should be. It should be. It should be. It should be. It should be. It should be. It should be. It should be. It should be. It should be. It should be. It should be. It should be. I'm going to go back. But I'm going to go back. I'm going to go back. I'm going to go back. I hope you like the new hair. It's good. It's good. It's good. It's good. It's good. It's good. It's good. It's good. It's good. I just kind of laughed, that was all. So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. Oh the Oh yeah. I'm going to have to get a new one. I'm going to have to get a new one. I'm going to have to get a new one. I'm going to have to get a new one. I'm going to have to get a new one. I'm going to have to get a new one.

0:48:42
I'm going to have to get a new one.

0:48:43
I'm going to have to get a new one. I'm going to have to get a new one. I'm going to have to get a new one. I'm going to have to get a new one. I'm going to have to get a new one. I'm going to have to get a new one. I'm going to have to get a new one.

0:48:50
I'm going to have to get a new one.

0:48:51
I'm going to have to get a new one. I'm going to have to get a new one. I'm going to have to get a new one.

0:48:54
I'm going to have to get a new one. I'm going to have to get a new one.

0:48:56
I'm going to have to get a new one. I'm going to have to get a new one. I'm going to have to get a new one. I'm going to have to get a new one. I'm going to have to get a new one. I'm going to have to get a new one. I'm going to have to get a new one. I'm going to go ahead and get started. the May God bless you. It's a very popular restaurant. Yes, sir. Q. Sir, I have a question. I'm going to tell you a story about my life. I'm going to tell you a story about my life. I'm going to tell you a story about my life. I'm going to tell you a story about my life. I'm going to tell you a story about my life. I'm going to tell you a story about my life. I'm going to tell you a story about my life. I'm going to tell you a story about my life. I'm going to tell you a story about my life. I'm going to tell you a story about my life. I'm going to tell you a story about my life. I'm going to tell you a story about my life. I'm going to tell you a story about my life. It's a good thing. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. the the Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
