0:00:00
You made it. You found this place, not the same place. That's an achievement. We're going Natal, heart, third eye. Very nice. Monasteries have these big walls around them in the far east. And the walls are there not to keep the monks in, but to keep others out. So, Buddhist monks are not prisoners by any means. The walls are there to keep others out. Now, in the beginning, the Buddhist monasteries had no walls. They simply had domiciles, temples, libraries, and kitchens, so that people could get together and study the pathway to enlightenment. But then, things happened, and then it became common practice to put a big wall around the monastery. And the reason is because the world is the way it is. People are angry. People are depressed, people want to go and be territorial, you know, on the Buddhist. Territorial means that one person's view of the world, the way that they see things, to the point of pushing others, giving other people a hard time, interfering with another's life because of your outlook, your personal view, judging something as good or bad, deciding to take action on that. That's territorialism. Egotism. So, the Buddhists simply built walls. That's the first thing you learn in security. The first thing you do in security is you limit access. So that you can keep people who are harmful away from getting to a position where they can cause harm. So it's important to understand that this is the way the Buddhists have defended themselves in the past, limiting access. It's important to understand. Because there's people out there who just want to cause trouble. People who are upset. People who are depressed. But here in California, people aren't depressed, they're just paralyzed by happiness. So depressed that... no, so happy that you're depressed. Yes. This is a spiritual study. study of the essence of your being. It's very bright, very powerful. But you have to realize not everybody loved him. There were three assassination attempts on Buddha during his lifetime because other spiritual groups didn't like him. They were territorial. They decided to get rid of him.

0:06:02
Luckily they failed,

0:06:04
and in the end, he got taken out by pork. Food poisoning.

0:06:10
That's why it's good to be a vegetarian.

0:06:12
Unless you like hamburgers.

0:06:14
But it's good to...

0:06:16
So... So, even in the time of the Buddha, there was a need for security. People didn't like him. The funny thing is, it's the spiritual people who don't like him. is to, while you are practicing, create a definition of what is spiritual and what is not. And then to just judge everything. So, a lot of people do this when they start a new practice. They're enthusiastic about it. They go into it. They're practicing.

0:06:57
And they look at, you know, the monks.

0:06:59
They look at the school. They look at the sutras, they look at the way of the school and then they say, this is spiritual. And then they get angry when they see other things that are not what their definition of spiritual is. So for the Buddha, there or the other schools, spiritual schools, where people got angry at him because he was saying things that were different. Therefore, what does an ego do? It tries to destroy. The ego is territorial. When you start to say something or do something that is outside of the description of spiritual, then the ego has to react, push back, and take over. Thus, the monastery walls. We created these Seems reasonable. So, this has to do with one of the reasons why we are here tonight instead of the Ritz. The Ritz-Carlton is where we have been meeting, and it's a nice place. I like meeting there. I like it here, too. However, I don't make a change unless there's a necessity to make a change. And in our last class, I told you earlier class, but I didn't mention it to the later class. I dealt with it a little bit later. There were some people who attended who were just looking for problems, just looking for trouble. They were angry and had spiritual concepts and were very frustrated with a teacher who wears a suit and a tie. It's not within their description of what is spiritual. So they were upset. And it's okay to get upset. And if you don't like it, then by all means, no one's making you come here. No one's making you stay. You can walk out in the middle. It's okay. That's what you want. But the place where you look for trouble and try to cause trouble for others, not just me, but you start to interfere with the spiritual progress of others, that's where I have a problem. If someone's just upset with me, that's okay. But if you start to bother other people around you, then that's not okay. That's where I need to intervene to help you stop making that bad karma. Don't bother other people. Deal with your own mind. If you're upset about something, then it's your responsibility to come to balance. And if you don't like something, if it really doesn't work for you, then you don't have to be involved in it. But when you start bothering other people, giving other people a hard time, interfering with their spiritual path, that's where a spiritual teacher will correct you. Now, on the spiritual path, you're always dealing with darkness and light. You're always dealing with the darkness of your mind. You're dealing with your negative thoughts, your limited concepts of the world, all of these ideas that are dark, that are unhappy, that are limited, that are angry, that are depressed. You know, anything that doesn't make you happy, these things appear in the mind. When we come to the spiritual path, they appear in the mind. They are self-reflection of your spiritual state. So, on the spiritual path, you're always confronted with self, with the limited self, with egotism. And you're always seeking a greater understanding, a greater awareness of life. You're always seeking to be free, free of that darkness. You seek light where the mind is dark. You seek happiness where there is suffering. So there is this constant practice of being aware of the darkness of the mind and seeking that which is brighter, which is more noble. Seeking the light. This is the path. A teacher will point out the self by their mere presence, if they are an esoteric teacher. So this is, you know, these meditation seminars, they're not easy. The spiritual path is not necessarily an easy thing. It's better to look at it as very challenging, but to understand We are responsible for our mind. You can't point to someone else and say, they're the reason I have trouble. They're the reason I suffer. On the pathway to enlightenment, we realize, we recognize, that we create our own suffering, and we are responsible for the light in our mind, we're responsible for the darkness in our mind, we're responsible for our happiness, we're responsible for our enlightenment. So, when we are challenged with darkness in the mind, we seek light. life. It's a feeling that starts off as a feeling. A feeling of a brighter condition. Feeling of happiness. Feeling of freedom. When we're confronted with the karmas of thought, feelings, the confusions, we have to seek a brighter condition. Otherwise we're trapped in sorrow. So when we follow the pathway to enlightenment, we understand that these forms of suffering, emotional disturbances, thoughts, ideas, that come up in our mind, while we might see that they're related to something outside of ourself, we practice mindfulness and enlightened awareness to set ourselves into a condition of greater balance in dealing with the darkness of our own mind. And it's especially important when you're seeing a teacher, to recognize that the teacher's presence is pointing you to your mind. You know, this is a famous Zen saying said by Bodhidharma, who's the founder of Zen, he said that Zen is directly pointing to your own mind, seeing the truth and becoming enlightened. So there is something to do, this is what we call directly pointing to your own mind. The verb pointing. We bring a new attention, a new way of seeing life, to our own lives. We're raising our awareness of our life. And when we cast the light of the spiritual path on our lives, we're able to see more clearly what is there. When you're in the dark and you look at your life, you don't see very much. You'll see what's around you, you'll see limitation, you'll see only what you can see. But the magic of the spiritual path is that it brings the transcendental light to your mind. And there is something to do when your awareness grows. When your awareness grows and you see more, there is greater dimensionality to your life, in your mind. There's something to do. To know enlightenment, to see the truth, you have to focus on the light. You have to focus on bringing difficult awarenesses, difficult thoughts, difficult feelings, to a greater knowledge of truth so that you can become free, become enlightened. You have a responsibility to yourself, to your own enlightenment, to deal with the darkness in your mind. You see, we have to understand as spiritual seekers that we are responsible for the light and dark in our mind. We are responsible for our enlightenment. So that is the spiritual path. When you are aware, you practice the Dharma. You practice the pathway to truth. We don't just react in a selfish way. When we react in negative ways to the darkness we see in our mind, then we're following the path of karma, the path of suffering. It's very important. So we have moved here to a different location simply because we had some trouble in our last location. You know, everyone just sits there quietly while I talk. However, I have some awareness of what's going on. And I talked to the teacher of the students who were having difficult... the teachers of students who were having angry reactions. And I asked them not to kick the people out, but I asked them to teach them extra classes. And I pointed out to the teachers and to them what it was that they were doing, what they were thinking, and where it would lead. I don't like to just kick people out. It's very crushing to someone. I like to give a Dharma talk. And then the Buddha doesn't show up, because the Buddha doesn't want to deal with certain people who are there who are angry. Also, there were times where some of Buddha's monks got unbalanced and upset. So, you know, the Buddha would show up, you know, the Buddha would be in the meditation hall, and all the monks would come in and sit there, and then the Buddha wouldn't talk, the Buddha would just sit there. And then, you know, one of Buddha's top students would say, Buddha, why don't you begin your Dharma talk now? And Buddha says, no, no, no, because, you know, the group, the Sangha, is not pure.

0:22:04
Sangha is not pure.

0:22:05
And then the top student would go around and look at people and try to find out who's upset, who's angry. And because they were advanced, they could read people's minds, they would easily find the people who were angry and then take those monks and push them out. And then the Buddha would start this beautiful dharma talk about enlightenment. You see, the reason that Buddha didn't show up or that Buddha wouldn't talk, wouldn't start the teachings is because it's improper to teach certain truths of life to people who are in certain states of mind. If someone is angry, it doesn't really help them very much if you are talking about enlightenment, unless it helps them. But if... see the point is that there has to be open minded. You can't look at things in the same ways. You can't look at things in fixed ways. If you read a book about spirituality in a Zen monastery and then you look at a Tibetan school, you'll think it's all wrong. Or if you look at me, you'll say, this is impossible. Although he has a bald head, he's not wearing a rose. So this is therefore bad. That's a very fixed view of things. And it's one that is just limiting. But if you're open minded, if you you know, look beyond the surface, you'll see that there's endless opportunities for awareness, for enlightenment. If you're not open-minded, if you're in a spiritual disposition of closed-minded and reactive, then the teachings of enlightenment are almost useless for you. the truth. You're closing your mind off to truth. You're closing your being off to the opportunity of enlightenment. So, you know, Jesus Christ could be heading up towards the words of truth that would go on deaf ears of the enemies who lied and got him chastised and put to death. They are not in a disposition to close off and destroy, following limited views, holding very small concepts of right and wrong and enforcing it with their will. So, you know, Jesus gets killed, people try to kill the Buddha. You might get the idea that there are people out there that really don't like enlightenment. They want to hold a way of seeing the world and if that's threatened, they want to fight back. They want to break it down. When someone is in that spiritual disposition, then there is almost nothing I can do to help

0:26:42
them.

0:26:43
Yet, you know, I think of those stories where some monk is really angry for some reason, whatever reason, everyone's got all these reasons, but some poor monk is angry and gets kicked out of the meditation hall with the Buddha. Oh boy, I just feel compassion for that monk. But because the monk isn't being responsible for their mind, for their life, for their practice, they fall into a downward spiral. So I have compassion for that poor monk. So Buddha would kick them out. I won't kick people out like that, unless they're being extremely violent, outrageously crazy. But what I will do is I will talk to them directly about what they're doing. And when I talk to someone directly about their mind, it could be very scary. People get embarrassed and more reactive. It can either help or they'll figure out that they don't want to deal with it at that point. Because when people can just sit in a crowd and be invisible and do whatever they want with their mind and words are something I notice, then they'll do it. They seem to think that's invisible to me. But when I start to talk to them about what they're doing, then they feel confronted with their territorialism. And that's where I will confront someone, because they're hurting someone else. If you're just trying to figure out your own mind, good, you're on the path. You're working on it. If you have a bad day, where you're struggling, that's acceptable. You stay on the path, you keep on applying the Dharma, you keep on searching for light, meditate, practice mindfulness, read the Enlightenment workbook, you focus on the light, and it'll come around. That means that you're open-minded. But when someone's not, then, you know, eventually they'll just not want to be around anymore. And that's okay. That's good. You figured out what you needed to figure out. And if somebody who is having, you know, anger issues starts to bother someone else. That's a time where I will talk to them. So, there were some, you know, bad vibes last time, in our last seminar. And, you know, it happens. And the reason we moved to this location is because I move away from bad vibrations. When you bring good etiquette, then the light and the teachings flow. When people start to have bad etiquette, when people become harmful and violent, then enlightenment disappears, goes away. So it starts off with me talking to you, trying to help you, then it turns into me pulling back. Because if you are in a disposition, or if the group is in a disposition of negativity, then they need not so much direct association with enlightenment. and he wasn't well received. People were very rude, very rude and very negative toward him. That's basically the way it goes. If people are negative, violent, unreceptive to the teachings, the teachings need not be there for those people. For others, they love it. It is powerful and wonderful. Bodhidharma, founder of Zen, went to China from India and he was invited to become the head of Chinese Buddhism. He was already the head of Indian Buddhism, but China was a growing Buddhist country, so there was an emperor who invited him over and said, hey, you can be number one out here. Come on over. So, he saw powerful Dharma and going to the East and he went out there and met with the emperor in the South and the emperor asked him some questions. Who are you? He said, I'm no one. Anyway, what's my karmic merit? How good is my karmic merit? Because I've built so many temples and ordained, had so many monks ordained here in China. you know the Emperor just doesn't get it and this guy I don't know he just doesn't understand I thought I was getting some Buddhist master over here instead of knowing I guess he's not a Buddhist master and Bodhidharma sees that this Emperor just does not understand you know the spiritual that he's living in ideas and concepts of what spirituality is. So he just leaves. He was not well received, so he just went away. So he went to the north. Since in the south they just thought he was kind of an idiot. He didn't understand the teachings. He goes to the north you know that's where he founded that it worked out better for him so it's very important that that a group of students have etiquette have some awareness that the pathway to enlightenment is something more powerful than you will realize in your concepts. It's something that goes deeper than any ideas that you've heard, you've taken all that information and created an outlook, created ideas about what the spiritual path is. And I guarantee you that the spiritual path is more than that. And we should respect the spiritual path. If you respect the spiritual path, you will come to any teacher with the proper etiquette, whether they meet your concepts, your storybook definitions or not. They look the way that you think they should look or not. You will bring tremendous etiquette to them. It's kind of like the way I do tipping in restaurants. And this is good advice for everyone as well. You know, you tip people because they serve you. That's our custom and that's a good custom. I like it. However, some people say, I did not like the service, therefore I'm tipping less. And then, oh, I And what I say is that tipping people is... says more about you than them, more about your outlook than their service. So I recommend that you tip well, regardless of whether you like their service or not. It has better karma. Then you don't need to judge them. You go out for a meal, the meal is nourishing, the meal keeps its sustenance for your life. and then our custom is to tip for it, so then you tip for that. And the body is sustained, you live, that's the dharma, that's the truth of it. And then when we get down to, I don't know, that waitress looked at me funny, things like that. That's where we get into useless judgments. So there's a better way, a better etiquette, is to just tip well. Tip well, because someone served you food that changed your life. When you come to a spiritual teacher, to have a regard for the fact that there are things that you can learn that will make your condition of life brighter. That will show you ways out of falling. That will show you ways out of suffering. We come with that inner etiquette to all teachers. And you got to also realize that a teacher might have a greater awareness than you're aware of. They might be able to, you know, they might be authentic when you don't know. You can't judge a book by its cover, you know. So, we moved from the Reds to the Fairmont because it is our aesthetic in this school to meditate in nice places. in the monasteries in the Far East, I found them to be beautiful, wonderful. When I would visit the palaces in Thailand or China or Japan, I found that the temples equally beautiful. There's just a wonderful way of Buddhism. Buddhists love beautiful places. Buddhists in the far east have created wonderful, beautiful temples that are as beautiful as the houses of the kings. So that's why I like to meditate with students in nice places, because this is the western way that is congruent with the eastern way. We just don't have beautiful or kings who will give us the money to build them. So a beautiful place like the Fairmont is suitable. It's the right vibration, the right aesthetic. It's a nice place to meditate, a nice place to come together. And this is why we dress well as well. We dress well to these events because we are bringing a sharper attention to our meditation. Buddhist monks have a way of wearing robes. They have a way to put them on, to tie them right. And if you do it wrong, you can fix it. And robes are nice. It's a nice aesthetic to hang out with monks and wear robes. If you're over there. But if you're over here, it's just, you know, there are those little meditation schools, little temples here and there, where they're reflecting the East directly. They like transplant eastern stuff directly here. That's great. However, I was born here. And although I have studied in the far east, I find that that's just a little weird for Americans. This is nice for me. Of course, if there was a beautiful Asian temple that I could rent, I'd probably go there. But let me know if you find one. But it's good to dress well. Dress as well as you can. Because when you focus on looking good, dressing well, more formal, you have a stronger intention. It helps your meditation. This is one way that we bring respect to the pathway to enlightenment. By focusing on our dress. So, next time, dress better, some of you, and you'll have a stronger meditation. I'm very particular about places, the energy of places. I find that particularly the Ritz Carlton, Mark Hopkins Hotel, and the Fairmont, these Nob Hill hotels are on a very good energy line. This is a place that is bright. These hotels are where the presidents come, or the Queen of England, they come to these places that have a high tone out a high attention a high splendor and in these places you know it's nice to conduct business it's nice to it's place where people rest it's nice to have functions here that's why that's But also, when I come to a place and receive a bad reaction, I will move away from it. So I received a bad reaction last month at the Ritz Carlton, so I moved away from these kinds of reactions. So it's important for the group to have etiquette, to recognize that this is an opportunity. And so it's a rare opportunity. And if the group doesn't have the proper etiquette, if you have closed-minded views that you hang on to, if you react too much, if your disposition is closed and angry and reactive, then this will change. Enlightenment will move on. We have to take responsibility for our mind here. So I don't like it when there is trouble, but I definitely deal with it in the proper way. So for those who were angry and reactive, I offered them more classes to teach them directly how to get out of the suffering they were in, how to see beyond their outlook. However, they were in a disposition of closed-mindedness and reaction, So they refused and they decided to not return, which is fine. This is a completely optional thing, always. It's always fine to say, OK, not for me. But if this is for you, then good. If you like it, then it's fantastic. But even if you don't like it so much, you should have a great deal of respect and etiquette for the pathway to enlightenment itself. Buddhists put up walls. They have to restrict access. So now we're starting to have our list of attendees, because some of the people last time snuck people in and stuff. This is something that, this satsang is something that is not common and special. I mean, you know, this is not something that is just open to the public, anyone who wants to come. We don't charge for this. This is a special thing. If you're drawn to their class and you end up in this room, a lesson of Dharma for you. So, we have to keep a little bit of control on access so that we have the right people attending for the right reasons. This is special for a spiritual seeker. It's not even common in our school. I only do this once every six or seven years, where I'll allow other people to come in and learn something. Otherwise, we are an inaccessible school. And I train my students to be proficient in meditation and yoga. So this is an opportunity. that's very good to take it seriously. So we've moved to the Fairmont here, and the Fairmont is a lovely place for meditation. But we will also be having classes now maybe once a quarter, one time every three months, down in Stanford. Stanford is a university, right, in Silicon Valley, but it is a really wonderful place. It's a place where there's a beautiful energy of learning. It's a place where the aura is very clean. It's a very fast vibration of energy there. It's a beautiful place to learn certain skills. We are also teaching our yoga, technology yoga classes. And they will be going there probably what we'll do is we'll have the classes there during the day and then directly after we'll have a meditation class with me. So we'll do that once every three months because it's good for the people who are practicing, who are taking the yoga seriously, who are working on it, energy line, so that vibration, because it's a very, very, very powerful aid to yoga. It's also a wonderful place to meditate. So once in a while, we will be scheduling the meditation seminars to occur down there. And it's very interesting to see the differences in energy and meditation when you're learning here and there. This is one of the things that we do in mysticism. We observe different energy lines. We observe different places, their power, their energy, and how it affects us, how it affects our mind. When we go to places that have an energy that is enlightenment, expansive, places that make us feel good and happy, give us a greater perspective, those are conducive to spiritual

0:53:35
practice.

0:53:37
Sometimes we go to places that don't feel so good. Places where the energy is detracting of attention, where you feel spaced out or tired. We observe these differences so that we can learn where to shop, where to meditate, where to have meditation seminars, computer classes, in the places that are conducive to learning, where the energy is proper for learning, and then we stay away from places that drain our attention, places like IKEA, the DMV. It's just interesting to observe those circumstances. Traffic. So funny. You ever notice you're driving along, everything's fine, and you hit traffic, and then you're tired and angry? Boom. All of a sudden. It's like you walked into Ikea, only the city's in your car. And no one, you know, it's like, well, if you practice mindfulness, you'll observe that change, and then it gives you the opportunity to do something about it. If you observe that change and say, OK, I'm going to strengthen my attention and my focus. I'm going to focus on brighter things so that I can, you know, jump out of this field of energy as a mask on the highway otherwise you fall into complete and utter despair people start honking their horns sitting in like rush hour traffic traffic is moving along and it's going to help or you shoot over to a lane next to you because you see a spot open it's going to help and then the lane that you just moved out of moves ahead faster then you get angry about that yeah it's just good in that way so people are just hilarious when they get into traffic. You know, when did this road rage begin? Was it the late 80s? I think it was. We didn't have this concept of road rage before. And then all of a sudden, people got angry driving. Got angrier driving. And, you know, you get angry when you feel you have no choices, no possibilities. You get angry when you're stuck. And people find themselves really stuck in traffic. So that's where it's good to practice mindfulness and break out of that. Because getting angry, feeling bad, being tired, falling into a low attention and beeping your horn just don't help. They don't make you happier and they don't help traffic move along any faster so you know what you got to do is you got to deal with your mind. Traffic is the way traffic is but you can sit in traffic and be energized and happy if you address your mind in the proper way.

0:57:35
Very important. Good.

0:57:38
So, tonight we'll be taking a little journey. A little journey in spirit, along the spiritual path. We talked a little bit about etiquette. It's important. Once someone has the proper outlook, an open mind, and someone's got the foundation of etiquette, then following the spiritual path is beautiful, very enlightening. But without that, it was just calamity after calamity. It doesn't work out so well. So that's why it's very, very important. In looking at the spiritual path, we focus on chakras, or nadis. They're kind of dimensional, inter-dimensional vortexes that are within the aura. They're doorways to states of mind, spiritual states of mind. So when we observe our body, when we observe who we are, we look deeply into ourselves, we see that there, within our own mind, within the deepest structure of our subtle physical body, there is the access to enlightenment. In some systems of meditation, they don't deal with chakras. They'll just focus on something. In general, meditation is focusing on a certain point, something. It could be a mantra, it could be visualization, it could be a chakra, it could be breathing. There's something that you focus on. Bring all of your thoughts into one single focus and then by focusing completely on one thing you go beyond thought. So your mind is the doorway to enlightenment. The reason we focus on chakras is because they structural path to spiritual achievement, to self-discovery and awareness. So in our aura, we have these energy centers, the chakras. We focus first on center. The navel center is the chakra of power. So when we meditate, bring our focus completely to the navel center, we come into an awareness of power. We cultivate spiritual power through that meditation. So not only are we stopping thought, or on the pathway to stopping thought, slowing down thought, and entering into nirvana by stopping thought, but we are at the same time cultivating spiritual energy that we can use to make our lives better, stronger, so that we can be happier because we have the energy to do the things we need to do to succeed in our yoga, to be happy in a crazy world. We have a greater personal power to be mindful when we're in traffic. If you don't have enough power, then it's hard to be mindful. It's hard to have the presence of mind to do anything new, to have different ways of looking at things. So we focus on the naval center to gain that power. It's kind of a willpower. And we apply it to be more mindful, to be more aware. When you have more power, more personal power, you have more light. It's a light that moves, a light that has energy, that can help you succeed in your work. Succeed in your mindfulness. It's a power that helps you do your meditation better. Succeed in anything. The power that we gain from focusing on the Navel Center is a power that helps us to be happy. It's a spiritual energy that allows us to do the things that we need to do to be more spiritually advanced. It's hard to be spiritually happy, spiritually powerful in this world. This is a very, very, very strong physical focus. Their awareness of the world is relegated to the physical, and they don't see very much more deeply than that. So when you cultivate a greater spiritual power, You are able to lift yourself up from just the regular physical aspect of the world to a greater spiritual awareness of the world. It makes all of the difference. It makes the difference of driving into traffic and getting stuck, tired, angry, feeling bad, and finally getting to where you were going, and following the karma of those feelings and that awareness. Or, if you have greater personal power, greater spiritual power from your meditation, you can go into traffic and be strong. See what's going on, focus your mind, pull up and out of the gravity of that attention. And when you arrive to your destination, you're awake, you're stronger. And you follow the karma of being awake. You follow the karma of having been stronger by facing difficulty and applying your mind. Every time you face the darkness of your mind, you use your personal power to be more aware and practice enlightened action to elevate yourself from the darkness. Every time you do that, you end up stronger, with more spiritual power, because you exercise your will. So, in meditation, you develop this energy, and then outside of your meditation, you use it, but the way that you use it, it's even stronger. So we meditate, focus on the navel, so that we can connect to this aspect, you might say dimension of yourself. Sometimes you perceive the dimension as a dimension of light. And when you perceive that light, it is an infinite light. You might see it as being, you might think of it somewhere else, another place. This inner infinite dimension. But when you focus on that, on the navel center, focus on that energy, you experience a tremendous uplifting light. And that light gives you spiritual energy to do what you need to do in life. I'll give you an example. In the way I'll give you an example through a meditation and an experience. We will meditate for a moment to the Naval Center and when we meditate there, I will help you see it. We'll take a look at some chakras. Just to look at the energy and the access and the spiritual power that's available from the chakras at the meditator. It's very This satsang is not just a meeting that gives you knowledge, information about stuff and things. This is an experience. It's an experience of enlightenment. It's a spiritual experience. powerful and unique and helpful and useful about having a meeting with me. It's that I am an esoteric teacher, that I teach you not only in physical words, not only do I create physical structures for you to engage in and practices, you know, books and things for you to understand, But I also open up the spiritual door. And that is a very rare thing. A very rare thing. And I'll show you what I mean. We're going to meditate on the navel, I think. We'll listen to some music. As you know, to meditate to music.

1:09:43
I find it useful and helpful.

1:09:45
Alright, so we will meditate for one song. Let's bring the focus to the navel center.

1:09:58
So we usually meditate to music that we write. Yoga. But this was Tangerine Dream. They make some magical music.

1:10:22
So it's nice to listen to that once in a while. So the experience of meditation is the experience of bringing your energy up. And this is what all spiritual practice does, essentially. Even if you're in a yana yoga school where you don't talk about chakras, and you just talk about silencing the mind, or just experiencing, if it's a real spiritual practice, it will be meditation. It will be stopping thought. All spiritual practice leads to a condition where you go beyond thought, go beyond the ego's grasp and awareness of the world to an infinite awareness. In that process, what happens is a spiritual energy in you will rise. This spiritual energy. It is the power of awareness. And this power will rise from your regular condition of seeing life. And it will rise higher and higher and higher. from the awareness of the physical world and the awareness of even spiritual power, it will go higher to an awareness of love, and higher than that to an awareness of pure wisdom, and then higher than that to enlightenment itself. The spiritual process involves raising your kundalini, this essential power. Kundalini is awareness. The level of your kundalini, your spiritual energy, determines how you see life. It determines your experience of life. So if your kundalini is locked in the first chakra, as it is for almost everybody on this planet, then your awareness of life is very physical. There are some people who you know have the ability to do things you know gain you know position or accomplishment because they have a greater power but most people have an energy locked in the first chakra somewhere maybe somewhere between the first and second chakra. So they look at life in a very physical way. And this is your conditioning. This is basically what you start off with, being a product of this world and this society. Maybe sometimes where the light goes higher, the Kundalini goes higher, and you have a greater spiritual experience. But the general perception, the general awareness of most people is a very physical awareness. And then when you meditate, you bring the Kundalini higher. So when we focus on the navel center, we're bringing the Kundalini to the navel. And this is what we call the spiritual power. And it's very liberating because we are bringing our Kundalini higher than the general position of our awareness. So life becomes brighter in that experience. Life becomes more vast. There's a greater luminosity in that experience. We focus on the navel center, we connect to these infinite dimensions of spiritual life and we become happier. There's more possibility for happiness. There's more possibility for life in that experience. And that is the spiritual experience, raising your awareness, raising your kundalini to a higher level. It's a real thing. I mean, at first it starts off being kind of conceptual or a little bit fuzzy. If meditation is a discipline and you create good habits and practice, then it moves from a place of being obscure and subtle to a very distinct and clear awareness. greater ability to see the dimensions of the Naval Center, the dimensions of life, the spiritual possibilities within that power makes you quite happy. And you're able to take on life and its IKEAs and traffic jams with a greater balance. So it's very powerful. Every experience like meditation, every experience of life, is very powerful, very tough. Sometimes you don't notice it while you're going into it. But it's very, very enlightening. But you definitely come around to noticing. You might sit there and meditate hard on your navel center. And while you're doing it, you're just focused. You're struggling with concentration. When thoughts come up, you just push them away, let them go, bring the focus back. And even though it's hard work and while you're doing it, you don't notice very much, you're developing yourself, you're making your mind stronger, making your mind more luminous. Kind of like let's say lifting weights. While you're lifting weights, you might not notice that you're stronger because all you're doing is pushing against a barbell. When you're doing it, it's just kind of hard work and you're saying, I don't know if I'm getting stronger. This is hard for me to do. I'm just pushing this barbell up and down. But a little while later, you know, you pick it up and say, oh this is lighter. It's easier for me to deal with this hardship, something that was a strain for me before, I'm able to handle much more easily now because I've So, meditation on the navel is very similar. And I like to look at it like lifting weights. You should really focus, really bring your concentration and focus to the navel very closely. Hold your mind there. When thoughts come, immediately let them go and refocus, you'll be developing a tremendous amount of personal power that way, a tremendous amount of life. And then you'll see that in traffic jams, you're able to bring up this spiritual power and not be taken down from it. You'll be able to deal with all sorts of situations, dealing with people, dealing with places, dealing with different activities, where at one time it's difficult for you, at one time it would take you out, it would take your energy away, you would lose awareness, you would get tired, you would get angry, bent out of shape, sad, and because of meditating, your meditation practice, your discipline of meditating on the navel center, you're able to bring that Kundalini higher. That means that your spiritual power, your spiritual awareness is higher than a normal person who's stuck to the karmas of this world. You're able to pull yourself higher, see more options for happiness, more options for success. You're able to go into your traffic jams of life and deal with it with a smile on your face without getting taken out by it. That's spiritual power. And that's what you get from this practice because we do in this practice real meditation. All right, before we take a break, I'll mention a couple of other things about the Naval Center. places such as the Fairmont, where we are now, activities and teachers. So places, activities and those rare esoteric teachers have a tremendous effect on your navel center, on your personal power, on your spiritual power. So places like Fairmont are places of power, we call it. Just flat out it has a higher vibration than most places. So if we were sitting in Daly City in the Marriott and we were meditating, you would find it more difficult to meditate because the energy of the place has a slower vibration. But this place has a faster vibration. And so when you're here, it speeds you up a little bit. It's conducive to meditation practice. My students also sometimes take you guys to is to places in nature for meditation on the weekend. And the places that they take you to are places of power. They are out in nature, so it's very nice to meditate in nature. Beautiful places in nature that we go to. But there are also tremendous places of power. And the tremendous places of power are places where we go on spiritual pilgrimages a couple times a year. And that's in the winter and the summer, the solstices. Those are times that are very beautiful. They're really times of power where you're shifting right into winter, shifting right into summer. They're times when there's great energy. And we go to these places of tremendous power, which are in the mountains or in the deserts. Also in the Hawaiian Islands, there are sacred places. And we go on pilgrimages to these places because one trip to a place of power during a solstice in a meditation with an esoteric teacher, tremendously shifts your life in an enlightened trajectory. When you're meditating with an enlightened teacher in a place of power, the whole physical world is gone. It dissolves, and then you're game, you might be able to come as well. We'll go to a desert in the southwest and we'll have just a meditation out in the desert. When we go out to these desert trips, that's where there's a tremendous shift. You have to be ready for these things. You have to have your meditation practice strong. You have to have your life together so that you can take advantage of this trip. Otherwise, it will be too uncomfortable for you. But if you have your life together and your practice going strong, then it's a time and a place for a tremendous spiritual shift. This is where people make very, very big leaps in their spiritual development and their meditation practice. So we go to these places, these sacred places in the deserts and in Hawaii. My students and I have just returned last month. We went to Hawaii for one of these trips. It's just a very, very, very magical experience. A wonderful spiritual experience to go to these places of power as spiritual pilgrims. They are life-changing. So when you go to a place, a spiritual place of power, there is just a tremendous amount of light. There are, you might say, chakras in the earth. They are energy centers in the earth that lead to very enlightening dimensions. So when we go to a place that is associated, let's say, to the naval center, where it is a doorway to spiritual power. And we go there and focus on the navel center, our own navel center, and there is a tremendous lift to that spiritual power, to that spiritual quality. Sometimes we'll go to places of heart, places of the throat chakra, places of the third eye, the We regularly go on these pilgrimages. It's an important part of this study. So places of power, spiritual places of power, are places to make tremendous shifts in your practice. However, when you're in the city, it's good to go to places that have a higher vibration where we can meditate better. There's a nicer energy here, you know, versus going somewhere else where it doesn't feel as good. And you can tell by how you feel. You can a store or walk into a hotel or walk into a park and open your eyes and see what is there. How does it make you feel? What's your reaction to it? This is one of the exercises in the Enlightenment workbook, is to observe your mind and your thoughts, you'll probably notice that there's some dark thoughts, that you don't feel so good. And then if you go out to nature, especially if you go to one of the places where my students might take you, these are places of power, local places of power. And when you go to those places, you will feel that your mind is expansive, you will feel bright, you will feel happy, strong. You will see a lot more opportunities for happiness than you saw in Ikea. So this is why we do this practice in the Enlightenment workbook. All the things in the Enlightenment workbook show you your mind. They show you the truth of how to follow the pathway to enlightenment. This is the truth of energy fields of places. There are some that don't feel so good and there are some that feel quite wonderful. I'm very, very specific about what places I will teach class, where I will teach certain lessons, because I see the energy of places and I see the energy of the minds that I'm teaching and when I see that there's something that one can learn in one place, I'll teach it there. So that's one of the mystical methods of practicing, one of my methods of teaching. It's very fun. And then after places of power, those are just kind of rules of thumb when we're going around the city, going somewhere on the weekend. and they're also very powerful events a couple times a year for your spiritual practice. But there's something that is even more powerful to your spiritual practice, and that is yoga. Yoga means union. It is the pathway to enlightenment. It is a subset of all of Buddhism. You could say that Buddhism in itself is yoga, but yoga is... Yoga in the way that I mean it, the way that we practice it, is a specific study. So some of us, some of my students and another student of my teacher's, practice yoga through music. So they're musicians and they practice the pathway to enlightenment, the pathway to spiritual union, spiritual knowledge through music. And when they engage in music, they are creating something, but they're also refining their mind. They're seeing their mind in the music and they're bringing all these beautiful dimensions of music from these higher dimensions of life that we experience in meditation. And through that process, seeing the self, seeing states of mind, seeing thoughts, feelings, outlooks, and refining them, yielding them, so that they can do their yoga perfectly. That's why we meditate to this music very often, because it has a very clean and spiritual vibration. They practice through music. And that's because in our school we have a facility to do that. It's one of the magical disciplines in the school. However, that is a secondary yoga. There's a primary yoga, and that is the technology courses. We practice computer science as yoga. The reason that we do this is because computer science is very good for your mind. When you engage in computer science, it is a completely mental activity. It is all about structure, all about logic. It also develops your, let's say, logical intuition. You start to be able to fill in logical gaps with your mental awareness. It makes your mind stronger. When you engage in learning technology, you learn things that are very similar to what they practice in the Tibetan monasteries. You learn things like I should let you guys go. You'll learn things about relational theory, you'll learn hierarchical methodologies for perceiving. You'll also do structured programming, which structures the way you see life, structures the way you engage in life. So that means that you can process information in life in a clearer way, be less spaced out, be more focused. So when you engage in technology, you gain an ability to strengthen your mind. This is the primary yoga that we practice. And when you engage in this yoga, it increases your power tremendously. state to your spiritual practice. And this is not something that you must do, but it's something that's very, very helpful. Everyone who practices it, regardless of whether they want to do it as a career or not, when they engage in this, they see over a little time that it makes their minds stronger, that it increases their personal power, and that they're happier. Learning technology is a really kind of funny and out there thing, but it is a really good way of developing your mind. So that is something that we engage in in this school. I have a number of students in Europe who also are taking the technology courses. And I think maybe one of them works in technology. But all the rest of them don't. They just are learning it because it developed their mind. And they've been doing it a little bit longer than you guys have. And they all see that there's a powerful benefit from engaging in that. So yoga, certain activities, that develop your spiritual attributes, your capacities, is a very helpful thing to your personal power. And lastly, there's the teacher, which is me. But before I go into talking about the teacher and power, we're going to take a break. we're going to take a break. I'll give you guys a break for about 10 minutes, quick break, and then we will resume.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
