0:00:00
Alright, hello everyone. Yeah, yeah. Oh, I can just plug into this and it speaks to the... Oh yeah, that's the sound.

0:00:27
Alright, we're going to begin with meditation.

0:00:34
And we're going to meditate for a little longer than we usually sit together for. We're going to sit for six songs, two songs each chakra

0:00:50
So sit up nice and straight

0:00:52
Let's begin

0:00:54
very nice

0:00:56
so So, just as Buddha was entering into nirvana, he had a nagging concern. And that was, is integrated experience? Am I just daydreaming? Is this real? Is this that complete experience of liberation from suffering that I seek? So, at that moment, he reached down to the ground and he touched the ground. So in this very high spiritual luminous consciousness, he also was able to touch the ground and know that he was on the earth, grounded in the physical world, and yet experiencing a beautiful, bright condition of spirit. And in touching the ground, in that test, he came to transcend both the physical and the spiritual by bringing them into union. And then enlightenment is that unity, the unity of the finite and the infinite, the physical world and the spiritual world. And this is a very, very important principle balance of spirit and your physical life. So we observe in yoga this same balance. We observe it in the beginning, in the middle, and in the end. Ultimately, this is observed at the moment of liberation. there must be a balance, otherwise there is imbalance. And enlightenment is ultimately your balance with life, inward and outward, being ultimately balanced. So we seek in our balance. Yoga is focused on action, activity. And your spiritual practice meditation,

0:04:03
mindfulness, there's a focus on

0:04:05
spiritual development, the second attention, the unseen world. Something you can't speak about, but you can experience. Now a lot of practitioners of spirituality, they will daydream, space out, and go into strange astral dimensions. And because they're experiencing something that's different, they think it's good. They say, oh, my daydreams are beautiful and exciting and interesting. And they like them. Yet at the same time, for many spiritual seekers, while they might have fantastic, colorful adventures in astral dimensions or daydreams, their physical lives tend to go in a bad way. They might have a lot of stress from jobs and work and bosses and co-workers. They might be in a very powerless situation in terms of their livelihood, but at the same time they think that their spiritual experiences are amazing or strong or interesting. They grow attached to the experiences and the label of spiritual. Now in yoga, we would observe the balance of the physical life and the spiritual life. So if your physical life is in bad shape, if you're experiencing stress and imbalance in your finances, then there's a problem with your right livelihood.

0:06:31
It's not right.

0:06:32
It's wrong. There's a problem. And if you experience, you know, a stronger meditation, a brighter meditation, then it will bring your physical life into a greater balance. If your meditation is strong, that will always be a byproduct. So if there's someone who says, oh yeah, I have great, amazing, wonderful meditations, I see colors and goddesses and monkeys and everything, and yet you look at their physical lives and their life is a mess and it's filled with problems, then they're basically spacing out, or going into dissociated states of consciousness, although they might be colorful. It's not the pathway to enlightenment. So it's important to observe this in your life. And we observe it directly through the practice of yoga because we actually focus on action, on right livelihood. We focus on it as a discipline. And by doing that, you can observe that you're doing actions, you're doing things, you're learning things, you're getting better, that your physical life is getting stronger, that your financial life is getting stronger, and you also notice at the same time that your spiritual practice is getting stronger, your meditation is getting stronger, more powerful, brighter. And this is the way it should be. This is balance, balance, balance of the physical world, your physical world, and the spiritual world, your meditation. So we focus not only on meditation. Meditation is the foundation of our study. However, we're able to see and observe this balance. And you see when your meditation gets stronger, that it helps you in your yoga. And when you are excelling in your yoga, learning new technologies, getting a new job, or even if you're not doing technology, making your career stronger. You'll see that your meditation becomes stronger. So this balance is very important. That's why the two primary aspects of the study are meditation and mindfulness through right livelihood. And we do this as job yoga. Yoga is kind of a dialogue. When you start to do yoga, you open up a dialogue between you and enlightenment. And it's a chance for you to start to see enlightenment in yourself and see what is blocking you from enlightenment. When you don't do yoga, then you don't bring the proper attention and focus. You're not mindful, so then, therefore, you don't see. Yoga is really an unseen spiritual structure that is very, very helpful for spiritual practitioners to advance rapidly. So, you might say that yoga is like a magnifying glass for the self. Through action, through mindfulness, through right livelihood, you're able to observe yourself, see how you're doing, see what you're doing, and see the light in it, the enlightenment in it, and also see what's holding you back. So when you start to do yoga, it brings you into an amazing opportunity to see yourself, to see your life, and to see enlightenment This kind of yoga, karma yoga, is something that is done in almost all Buddhist monasteries. And it might be done with something very simple, like cleaning. So, the Buddhist monks, Buddhist nuns, from time to time during the day, have to sweep, clean out the meditation hall, and they have to tend to the grounds and tend to the monastery. And then there's cooking. So there's always And that's where they learn to do them perfectly, efficiently. And they use those chores as a meditation in mindfulness of action. And in that way, they strengthen their mind. They clarify their mind by cleaning. And this is a very simple exercise, but it's a way that they're able to increase their personal power, clarity, and engage in activities that are necessary in their physical lives, but it also adds to their spiritual development. And then the Rinpoche or the Zen master will walk around and observe and say, oh, you missed a spot. And that's where they say, oh. Now, if they're a good yogi, they'll look at that and they'll say, ah, I missed a spot, and it was because I was being sloppy. Yes, yes, I remember. I was being too sloppy. I didn't focus my attention enough. I started thinking about how cold it was last night. Or something. I brought my mind out of the moment. Or you're cooking. The monks are cooking. And then while they're chopping their vegetables, they actually accidentally cut their fingers. And then they say, ah. And then they say to themselves, OK, well, there was something wrong in my attention. I was focusing on how cold it was last night. I don't know if you've ever seen it in a Buddhist monastery. They don't have central heating. So that's one of the things that they think about a lot.

0:13:51
Simple times.

0:13:51
Yeah, it's much more complex here in the West. So yeah, so they'll, you know, they might cut their finger and then say, ah, there's something about my attention that was wrong. And then they think about it, and then they are able to strengthen their focus, see how their mind deviated from the focus in the moment. And it strengthens their practice, their spiritual practice, and it also helps them to do the things they need to do in their physical lives to be more successful. Yes, so we do this at Bodie Woods as well. Bodie Woods is a spiritual retreat we're developing in the Santa Cruz Mountains, and we have to build things, like we have to build places for people to stay when they come to visit, and we have to build places to meditate and things like that. So there's been a lot of building going on for the past year in Bodhi Woods. you'll be invited to come and have meditation seminars there when it's ready. And it's a fantastic and beautiful place, and it's also a fantastic and beautiful yoga to do building. So in building, you can observe, you can look at and see your mind. And it's fantastic. I did have a couple of the guys come to Bodhi Woods. I saw that they were in a certain level of awareness where the teaching of Karma Yoga through work would help them. So I invited them over, two of the guys, and when they got there I said, get here really early in the morning. So they got there really early, and then I gave them an impossible task to do. I think I gave them like 500 planks of wood and said, paint them all. Or maybe it was more than 500, I think it was 750. I said, okay, paint this wood. It was stacked up the hill and they had to carry it down and then paint it. It was great. So I gave them the instructions and then they started painting. I came back a little while later and they were going very slow. So I showed them how to paint it faster. And then they started painting faster. And then, after a few hours, you get tired and it's hard, and you start asking yourself, why am I doing this? And then you have to rest, and then you get tired more, and then you have to rest more. But I think they at least almost completed the And it was an excellent effort. And in that experience, 12 hours of hauling wood and painting it, they learned something. They learned something. One of them was more accustomed to physical labor, so he was a little stronger. The other one had never done anything like that before, so it was very shocking to him. Like, whoa. However, both of them learned something in a spiritual nature beyond their personal history and what they knew, because they did something that had a different vibration. It had the vibration of yoga, because I know yoga. I know the vibration of yoga, so I introduced them to it. Now, these guys were the first two in the whole group who learned technology and got computer programming jobs. So in the tech classes, you guys have learned some things, and these two guys were able to get computer programming jobs, good ones. And so now they're professional programmers. So when you engage in these tech classes and in the yoga projects, they really will result in right livelihood, a significant benefit to your life in a financial way. So it's very positive. Now, one of the great boosts for them that directed them to this early success was not only that they did an excellent job in learning, but that they had this one day of power coming to Bodie Woods and doing this physical labor. There was something magical about it. They didn't know. They were just all, okay, yeah, I want to help out and be nice, and I got invited to come do some manual labor, so sure, I'll do it. But they didn't realize that doing that wasn't for me. It wasn't to help me as much as it was to help them. And that's the way selflessness works. You have to do it for someone else, and then it helps you. But there was something, a spiritual lesson, there's a spiritual tone and energy, spiritual pace that comes from engaging in the structure of yoga that they gained. with their excellent studies and to succeed faster than anyone else because they did a very special yogic task. And that's what yoga does. It puts a greater momentum into your And you don't see it, you don't get it, most likely. You just have to do the work. You just have to say, Okay, I've got to paint 700 boards. Or, Okay, I have to learn how to program the computer. Or, I have to make a screen. Or whatever you have to do. Whatever your task is. You just have to do that task. Just do the action. And in doing the action, when you're within the structure of yoga, there's magic. Magic that you're doing to help your yoga teacher. You're doing yoga really for your enlightenment. And it's important to recognize that it's something very special, even though it breaks down to maybe mundane or challenging physical tasks. It's something magical that you can't see immediately. Maybe a year from now, when we look back on it, then you'll be able to say, wow, that was powerful. Wow, that was amazing. But while you're going through it, you probably won't see it, but you might. You've got a very good attitude. Yes, now when you're doing yoga it becomes challenging, very often challenging to the self because the self has obscurations. There's things that There are things where you perceive in a certain way, certain things are good and bad to you, and so you have a partial view of life. You lean in a certain direction. I'm leaning towards this because I like it, staying away from that because I don't like But through doing yoga, you're able to come into a greater balance. You're able to learn to bend without breaking. You learn to be more humble. You learn to do things that are hard that you wouldn't normally do. And that is a practice in using your impeccability in a selfless manner. And that's something that really moves you along in terms of spiritual awareness in a balanced way. That's balanced with the physical world. So yoga is a place where you will most likely find inner challenges. Now, we are moving from here to the solstice. We're making a transition, a change, in the structure of this organization. You all came here, you met your meditation teachers at their meditation classes, and then you've met me and become a student or started doing yoga. And after the solstice, we're no longer going to have introduction and beginning meditation classes. We're going to have yoga and meditation classes with me. And I teach advanced Buddhism. Even if you're a beginner, I teach advanced Buddhism. So, it's not the energy of the intro class. It's not the energy of the beginning class. It's enlightened energy of advanced Buddhism. And it's something that will really address the concerns that you have for your suffering and enlightened experiences. really moving beyond the intro and beginning energy. The energy of those classes, they can start you off, and that's great. But then after a while, if you want to really develop and become strong in your spiritual practice, those classes don't really help you that much. They just kind of keep you in the same pattern of, oh, I like to go to class and we talk about these certain things, and that's good. But the majority of you need more, and more comes in the form of yoga. So for the majority of this group, what will address your spirit is yoga. What will better address your condition of awareness and condition of suffering is yoga. It will help you move along the spiritual path faster. The energy of the intro and beginning classes are limited in this regard. So now you have the opportunity to take on the lesson that is appropriate for you, the lesson that will work for you. This is yoga. Now there's some of you who are a little bit more new, and the beginning classes were still supportive for you. And what you should do, it's important for you to keep meditating, to work on your yoga, and to go with the change. It's faster, but it's stronger. So, even if the beginning classes were fun and supportive, you can do the yoga. You just have to say, OK, wow, I'm up for the challenge. It's a little bit of a challenge, but I'm ready for it. I can do it. It's not impossible even for a beginner. They just have to be humble and open. So my intermediate students, your meditation teachers, they are capable of teaching yoga. That's why they are your yoga teachers now. So that is the shift that we're making from introduction and beginning to yoga. So you'll still be able to work with them, maybe different ones. And that's good because you get to meet some new people, you get to work with maybe a different teacher, maybe the same one, but in a different form. And this is the form that will help you to succeed the best now. That's why we're making this change. But as far as teaching, once you're engaged in yoga, then the beginning teachings are not necessary. There's not as much aid from the beginning teachings. You need yoga. Yoga in itself is your dialogue with enlightenment. And you have a yoga teacher who will be aiding you and directing you. And then you will have me as the, you know, the really originator of the yoga. This yoga essentially comes from me. Because if you walked out and said, I'm going to make up my own yoga, you probably wouldn't. You'd find yourself in egotism, unchallenged by any discrimination. You would just walk out and do your own thing, and find yourself in your own mind, in your own karma. And this yoga is an unseen structure that comes from me. So in its most spiritual nature, the yoga that you're engaged in is an enlightened structure that I am administering. students know, my intermediate students know how to work with it exceptionally well. And that's why they're able to be your yoga leaders. But essentially when we are engaged in yoga, you have both the first attention of yoga, in the form of my intermediate students telling you what to study, what tasks to do, and the second attention, the unseen aspect, the most spiritual aspect of yoga, and that is coming from enlightenment. My intermediate students are unable to help you in terms of meditation and spiritual practice beyond that. So the beginning questions that you had for them, they wouldn't be able to help you with to the intermediate, where you're engaged in yoga. So it's necessary for you to figure some things out for yourself. It's important. Sometimes the questions get more advanced than the beginning class will answer. There's an energy of the beginning class. And I'm telling you that through yoga, you can figure things out. You can figure it out for yourself. And then if you need to, if you have spiritual questions, you can ask me, and I can give you the answer. One of the good things is you don't see me too often So it gives you a chance to reflect You can't just get on the phone and say oh, hey, you know Dharma or Parvati I have this dream and what's it mean, you know or something It's good It makes you stronger to have the structure of yoga and to have questions that are answered by yourself through your experience and your reflection. Or if they're necessary, then you can ask me, but it gives you some time to reflect on them. It's the proper etiquette as you move from the beginning steady. So this is important. Now as you go into yoga, there's something very important to recognize. When you do yoga, you see enlightenment in your actions, in your work, eventually. In the beginning, you usually see that which obscures enlightenment, that which blocks you from enlightened awareness. And that which blocks you is yourself. And you can see it in your actions. It doesn't matter what we do. As long as the spiritual structure is there, we can be doing anything. Like, you know, Miloroco was building towers, and Arjuna was fighting in a war. You could build pyramids, you can do anything. Actually, you could actually take a pile of sticks and try to make a little log cabin out of them. You can do anything. And in the actions, there are those tell-tale signs of self, where there's imperfection, where there's a lack of impeccability, where you find yourself getting frustrated, where you find yourself not doing it, where you find yourself getting mad at somebody on your team. All the things that get in the way of just doing the action as perfectly as possible, everything that gets in the way is self. And when you get under that magnifying glass of yoga, you start to see a lot of self, a lot of poor focus, a lot of questioning, like why am I doing this? And just a lot of problems, a lot of difficulties. That often comes up in the beginning. Now it's important to recognize that the study of yoga is the study of seeing that which obscures you from direct awareness of enlightenment, which is the self. So the negative thoughts and feelings that arise. It's very natural and normal for them too in the beginning. But what you should know is that your work in yoga is to recognize those thoughts and feelings as things that block you from enlightenment. That's the way to see it. You say, oh, that's a thing that's blocking me. The problem is that those thoughts and feelings end up being quite compelling to you. You're quite attached to them. So you start to believe them. So you might have a thought, oh, I could never learn this. And you should say, you should be very dispassionate and say, I have something that's popping up and it's totally covering the light of this yoga. I need to mindfully put that aside and keep working on my actions. That's yoga. However, that thought might really hook you and then you'll sit there and say, oh yeah, I can't do it. It's terrible. I'll never learn this. So it's really important for you to practice mindfulness, to recognize that any thought and feeling, anything that will slow you down or take you out of your practice of yoga, is directly the teaching of yoga. It is showing you directly what is blocking you from the success and enlightened happiness that you want. So when you engage in yoga, these things come up, and this is where you get into real spiritual practice. You know, beginning practice is just talking about it, getting an idea that you're going to have to do something, and just starting off. But when you get into yoga, this is where it becomes very, very real. You're actually doing yoga. You're doing it. is that which obscures enlightenment until there is nothing that obscures enlightenment. And then you'll just perceive enlightenment in every action. So when you see problems, and they might be very physical, you might say, oh, my car broke down, I can't get to the yoga meeting. So what you have to do is you have to say, okay, how can I get past this problem and get to my yoga meeting? So little physical things pop up, but you just have to work your best, see it all as something that is obscuring blocking your success on the path of yoga, and just say, okay, if it's blocking yoga, if it's stopping yoga, if it's stopping me from doing the activities that are my yoga, it is something that's blocking my path. It's blocking my enlightenment. It's a manifestation of self that's getting in the way. Bad feelings, miscommunications, missing your train, whatever it is. You have to observe these things as something that has an origin of self that has obscured your path. So observe, observe your thoughts. Observe how well and easily you're able to do your yoga. When things get in the way, people places things, thoughts, feelings, then say, oh, this is something that's stopping me. This is something that's getting in my way and how do I get past this thought or this feeling or this situation so that I can focus on my yoga. See I'm repeating this many times because it's very important. You have to recognize, you know, you have to recognize it and don't don't believe those thoughts. Don't become attached to them because they'll take you out of yoga. If you believe them, as soon as you are exposed to them and you follow them, they'll lead you into great unhappiness, into definite self-karma, and then ultimately out of yoga. So in yoga, you come to the awareness of that which blocks you from perceiving enlightenment. And that which blocks you from perceiving enlightenment is yourself, your negative thoughts, your bad feelings, your concepts of this or that. It's funny, I like the yoga of action because when people are considering an action, you know, considering doing it, they'll come up with a thought that bothers them. They'll say, okay, yeah, I don't have a problem with the yoga, but this thing that I'm thinking bothers me, or this feeling that I have bothers me. And for some reason, I just can't take an action because of this thought. I can't take the action because of the feeling. And even if they look at it and say, yeah, I know that this idea will stop me, yet it does. So, you have to become detached from any thought, any feeling that is going to stop you. And just do the action. You have an assignment, do it. If you want to see yourself progress, just sit down and do your work. It's amazing, it's tremendously powerful. Thoughts and feelings will stop you from sitting down and doing your work. But if you just sit down and do your work, whatever your assignment is, just do it. Just do it, and you will see karmas burn away. You'll see thoughts come up and go away. You'll see different types of beliefs that really bothered you. You'll just see them go away. And you'll be a more fluid and luminous person because you're practicing karma yoga. So it's very important to recognize that the actions themselves, that's where there's the magic, that's where there's the brightness. And whenever negativity of thoughts and feelings and people, places and things start to stop you from doing yoga. That's where you should recognize. You should be mindful, you should recognize, you should write this down, and whenever it comes up you should say, that's something that is stopping my enlightenment. Because it's true. Excellent. Okay, so I think you've heard the words. It's important to hear the words, but it's also important to observe it in your actions. Because when you do the yoga of action, you're moving out of just thinking about the spiritual path and just talking about the spiritual path. And you actually start doing it. It's really interesting, it's a very different experience, you know, talking about it and doing it, it's very different. A lot of people just talk and that means nothing in yoga. Therefore, you have to see yourself do, just Just do it. Yeah. All right. That is... That is it for yoga. We're going to take a short break, and we'll come back and we'll have further discussions. further discussions. Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
