0:00:00
Hello everyone. Let's start with meditation. Is it a bigger room? Is it a bigger room? I think it's just lacking space. Alright, let's start with meditation. We're just going to meditate for one song on the navel chakra. So in addition to the basic the basic Buddhist concepts, philosophies, disciplines, with a focus on right livelihood In our school, in the study, we also have a great focus on the enlightenment of women.

0:01:36
become aware of the reason why there's an emphasis on the enlightenment of women and that there is something to it. We come to learn about this through the beginning teachings sex. So today we are going to talk about Tantric sex. Our favorite subject. So to begin with And that's really where contrite sex lies between that difference yin and yang. Essentially, all beings, whether they are male or female in the physical, have an eternal essence that is neither male or female. neither male or female. At our deepest level we are beings of light that have no differentiation of sexuality. So at the spiritual level, at the essential level, you are enlightened. Enlightenment. Not man enlightenment, not woman enlightenment, just enlightenment. When we're born, we come into the world and the first forms of conditioning, social conditioning the forms of our sexuality, male and female. It's a boy. And there's many, many, many, many, many thousands and tens of thousands of impressions and thoughts that people have developed and associated over the years that is our social view of boy and girl.

0:04:12
So that is the first level of imprint in our awareness field when we're born. It is the imprint of one or the other, boy or girl, yin or yang. one or the other, boy or girl, yin or yang. And that also creates a very deep divide in our awareness field, and that's one of the key areas where people start to split reality into good and bad, yin and yang. Their awareness of unity starts to split along the awareness of sexuality. sexuality. When you're very young, your aura is very impressionable. Your consciousness is very impressionable. When you're born, you don't know anything about this world. You don't have any judgments. You don't think this is good, this is bad. You don't think anything. You're just perceiving.

0:05:24
You haven't developed models for perceiving this world. So you're like a blank slate. You're also, you're psychically impressionable. All beings are. All humans are very susceptible to the way that other humans think and perceive. you know, zero to three, once you're born, you start to become, what I say, formatted. Your aura and attention starts to take a format. The world around you imprints a view of life into your consciousness. And it's a view so that you can start dealing with the world you can start dealing with the world in a constructive way. So, you know, it's like a computer, right? Or maybe this is the old computers. You had the PCs and the Macs. And if you had a Mac, you had a file that you were working on on the Macintosh, when you went over to the PC, the PC wouldn't understand.

0:06:48
It wouldn't work. It wouldn't work. You'd have to have a proper format for the PC. You know, so, or you might have to have a, you have to have the software to run the file. There's a certain format that will work under certain conditions. Our world is a condition. Our world is a piece of software. Our world is a computer. computer. And if you have a format for perceiving the world like everyone else does, then you're able to work with the world in a constructive way. And if you don't develop that, what we call tonal or machine world training, then you can't function well in this world. So So it's very natural and normal for your mother and father, for the society around you to hold this format and to impress it upon you because they desire you to be functional and successful in the world and society.

0:08:00
Now, they don't do it mindfully, let's say. It's just that they see the world a certain way. They've been given a format. So when they see you and you have a very soft and supple aura, clean slate, And the first format that you get in developing your model of the world is the format of boy or girl. And then a lot of things grow out of that. So when girls are very young, you put a truck in front of them and a little doll and they pick up the dolly. and they pick up the dolly. And we say, oh, isn't that biologically beautiful? There is a biological component that supports all of these things, but there's a very, very strong social conditioning component.

0:09:06
And the social conditioning component has a greater effect on our emotional disposition and mental awareness. disposition and mental awareness. So it's more societal than biological. And there are thousands upon thousands of impressions of what a boy is and what a girl is that we just at a very, very young age. And we start to interface with the world through this model, through this way, through this format, through this way of understanding life. So then the boy starts doing boy things and the girl starts doing girl things. And then they start to in life. So it's important to understand that there's a difference between boys and girls. That it starts at a very, very young age, primarily social conditioning. Now there's also besides the physical difference in boys and girls, there's a subtle physical difference.

0:10:24
physical difference in boys and girls. There is a subtle physical difference. A woman's aura is much more porous and open than a man's aura. A man's aura is very dense, very fixed. the study of enlightenment, a woman has an advantage in studying with an enlightened teacher because one of the things that an enlightened teacher does is a transmission, a transmission of Kundalini energy, enlightened energy, and this is on a very deep, subtle energy. And this is on a very deep, subtle physical level. This is one of the benefits of having an enlightened teacher. It's not just what they say. It's the enlightened power accept this light in a more open way. They're able to bring the energy in to their aura, into their chakras, into their awareness field, more quickly.

0:11:54
For a man it takes more time. The man's aura is more closely knit. closely knit, the subtle physical lines are closed. So it takes more time for that energy to enter the man's aura. But once the energy enters into the man's aura, it won't go out. this enlightened energy within his aura for a much longer time. Because it just doesn't go away. Once it gets in there, that's great. It takes a while. Now, for women there's a danger. Because if your aura is porous and open, and the energy comes in, and the energy comes in, it can also go out very quickly. And there are certain ways to hold your mind to keep the aura, to keep the enlightened aura within you. And there are certain things to watch out for, such as getting your aura damaged, because if your aura becomes your aura damaged, because if your aura becomes damaged, it's easy to lose the light.

0:13:19
So there are subtle physical differences. A woman's aura is also of a different, let's say, makeup, a different structure than a man's aura. Although the physical body, we all have arms and legs, both men and women, and then the subtle physical body has a very similar structure. A woman's aura has some meridians that are in different dimensions than a man's aura. This means that a woman can utilize different energy fields within her aura and attention, different than a man. So a man is able to utilize certain energy fields, but a woman has, let's say, a few more that they can utilize. that they can utilize. A good analogy would be to talk about the difference between a gas burning engine and an electric engine. So gas car, guys.

0:14:42
Electric car, guys. They run on different energy and the different energy. And the knowledge and use of different energy helps them to transport themselves properly along the spiritual path. Now, most of the teachings, most of the teachings books are geared toward men. They were teachings to men from men and they were teachings that focus on the men's dimensional capabilities. But there are additional teachings for women. These teachings are, there are physical considerations, but many of the teachings are at the level of the aura and at the level of the unseen, the spirit. are learning something from the great traditions, it may not address a woman's subtle physical and spiritual makeup. It might be pouring gasoline into an electric engine. Now a lot of the spiritual teachings are universal to men and women, but there has just been a kind of slant toward men in the history of kind of slant toward men in the history of spirituality for the past 4, 5, 6 thousand years.

0:16:33
So that is to say there have been very few enlightened women and there have been slightly more enlightened men. So you've heard stories of Buddha, Lao Tzu, Bodhidharma, Krishna, Brahma, Ramakrishna. So there's these stories of these enlightened gods, these Buddha people, Guru Rinpoche. books about them, read them, but there's not a lot of stories of enlightened women. And the ones that are, the stories that you might find about enlightened women are much more obscure. They might not be fully enlightened women. When there was, you know, there was the Buddha and then there was some gal who came to some level of realization, gal who came to some level of realization but not fully enlightened. So in this cycle, spiritual practice has been primarily a men's club. The teachings were for men, the successful people were generally men. It's not to say that there were no spiritually advanced women were generally men. It's not to say that there were no spiritually advanced women, it's to say that there were far fewer. And we're going to examine some of the reasons why.

0:18:18
You know, at the time that Buddha died, he had as many female students as male students. as many female students as male students. And then Buddhism changed radically in that time, since then. Because now Buddhism is, for practitioners, primarily male. So what What happened over the years is men. Something happened, social conditioning. And it changed things, even for the most enlightened teachers like Buddha. If they had followed, if his students or followers of the Buddha had followed his teachings, there would still be an equal amount of men and women who practice Buddhism. But there aren't. There are not. If you're a woman and you visit with a Buddhist monk or a Buddhist priest, monk, or a Buddhist priest, a Lama, or a Rinpoche, they generally will, if they're in the West, they'll probably, in some respect, have an open mind, because they see the Western culture as different. And so they go, okay, things are weird in the West. So they have a little So they have a little bit more of an open mind. They let women come to classes.

0:20:06
However, if you speak with one of them about your enlightenment, you'll probably find that deep down inside, they don't believe in your enlightenment. Generally, in Buddhism, in the Asian traditions, they are heavily conditioned, the teachers are heavily conditioned by the society, and they believe that if you are a good practitioner, if you're a woman and you are a good practitioner in this life, that in your next life you'll a good practitioner in this life that in your next life you'll be born a man. That's what they believe. And you can look them in the eyes and know it's true because if you're talking to them about your enlightenment, they don't see it that way. And yet, they of Buddhism. So this school is a little different because this school is a school that teaches women about enlightenment, such as men do, but it's a little different than most schools women. There are awarenesses, considerations, and there are subtle physical and spiritual aspects of this study that address a woman's pathway to enlightenment more directly.

0:22:00
I'm a man, however I have learned from my teacher, who is also a man, how to teach women about enlightenment. It's not necessary to have a woman who is an enlightened teacher in order to become enlightened. to be an enlightened teacher who is open to the idea. In our system we actually have teachings and considerations for women. There are women from my school, from my lineage, who have attained liberation. So it has been successful. So it has been successful. And I think there's probably a couple of them who are teaching. One in New York and another one well, one of them only teaches other students from my school, not new students.

0:23:12
So they're out there. So there have been So, they're out there. So there have been women who learned from this school, this lineage, and have attained liberation. There are many, many more who are working on getting to liberation, but are very advanced. So this is a school that has a focus on the enlightenment for women. There are women who are successful in it. And in my training as a teacher, I have learned the teachings for women. So I am capable of teaching women about enlightenment. I'm also open-minded. about enlightenment, I'm also open-minded. So, let's talk about why. What is this social conditioning thing, and why more women haven't attained liberation in the tradition of spirituality and liberation in the tradition of spirituality in the past few thousand years. So, it starts off with men. We're in an age where physical strength has defined your condition in life. your condition in life. And this was a thousand years ago or so, when if I can push you over, I can beat you down, then I'm on top. So it comes from very much, the power in the world came from a man's attitude of physical strength. And the world has developed along these lines.

0:25:12
physical strength. And the world has developed along these lines. This is a man's world. Men are in charge. Men call the shots. So it's important for a woman to recognize that learn how to work within that framework. So men being stronger have said to women, I am stronger than you, I can push you down and therefore I am on top. And men came to a place a place where they feared women, they feared the power of women. When someone is facing life and they see life as a certain way, yin or yang, and then they come face to face with the other gang and then they come face to face with the opposite. There's funny things that happen. First of all you want to merge with the opposite so that there's a union. But then at the same time going into that union merging with the opposite is scary. So, men were attracted to women, they desired this union so that they could be spiritually in balance, but at the same time they were afraid of women, they came into having a great fear.

0:27:12
Because of this fear and because of having the superiority of being stronger in a physical world, they have taken the advantage and they have used their strength to create a condition of submissiveness for women. This is something that's gone on for thousands of years and has become part of the global identity of women through social conditioning. And every society is a little different. Every society is a little different, but there is a really primarily a global condition where condition where men have pushed women down and they have created certain powerless roles for women and women have been just kind of playing out those roles. This is something that has been very disempowering for women, being given a role and being held down from what they would probably choose for themselves, being in a man's world where the men are primarily in charge and just being able to work within that framework.

0:28:48
just being able to work within that framework. So this has been something that has been a great limitation for women. And it is not only a physical limitation, but it is a spiritual limitation. It is one of the primary factors for women not succeeding on the spiritual path. It is societal conditioning that has been devised by men over thousands of years. And it is this conditioning that women have been imprinted with at a very young age, printed with at a very young age where they had no discernment, just acceptance of the format. So women have been given a model for understanding life. And most women just play along with the model. They go along with what they're given. They play the role out that roll out that they can give without questioning it, just dealing with it.

0:30:07
Now this is perfectly fine and normal until you're talking about enlightenment. And then in the case of enlightenment, it's necessary to break out of this social conditioning and looking at life in different terms, breaking that model, changing that format. in different terms, breaking that model, changing that format. This is one of the important aspects of this study for women, is to break out of that definition and to take on a new definition, the definition of the pathway to enlightenment. For men, it's also important on the pathway to enlightenment to change your conditioning, your social conditioning. Because you have to realize that you've been given the male playing cards and you've been playing with those cards. All men have this social conditioning. All women. Maybe you're not a jock or something. Maybe you're an artist. You've built upon that model of male a certain way that you are.

0:31:36
you still have that male conditioning. So it's very important for a man on the pathway to enlightenment to realize that he has very harmful ways of thinking about women and that and that on the pathway to enlightenment he has to be open minded and controlled. And in no way should he ever be negative or limiting to the women, especially in the study. So So in this study, as long as you're interested in enlightenment and you're pleasant and nice to be around, you're very welcome to be in this school. for men in this study to not be harmful to women. If a man is too harmful to a woman in this study, he'll be asked to leave because we're addressing his harmful social condition. It's up to the man to really look at his mind, look at and to really look at his mind, look at his reactions, look at his beliefs, and to make them softer, control his violence.

0:33:36
the model of social conditioning that you have and to really take on a new description of the world as a person on the pathway to enlightenment. who are my students, your meditation teachers and your technology teachers, have worked on these lessons and they have become more powerful than they would have themselves without these considerations of social conditioning. Do things like, you know, stop being so self-effacing and, you know, stop trying to be nice all the time. Stop trying to make sure everybody's okay. That's conditioning. I mean, it's nice to help people out. It's nice to be nice. But at the same time, not that holds you back. Take enough time and energy to get yourself ahead and on the way, you know, be nice. and energy to get yourself ahead and on the way. Be nice, but don't hold yourself back with all of these thoughts of, oh I should let other people go first. No, you have to be assertive. You have to be a winner. So there are many, many lessons that you learn So there are many, many lessons that you learn in this study of how to break out of your social conditioning, whether you're a man or whether you're a woman.

0:35:26
But this is something that we address early on in the study. Man has to be less harmful and a woman has to break out of the limitations of her social break out of the limitations of her social condition. Now, another aspect of understanding this context of sex is sex. So as I said before, a woman's aura is very open, porous, very open, coarse, and the man's aura is very dense. So, a couple of things happen when a man and a woman get together. When a man and a woman have sex, what generally happens the more coarse dense aura interfacing with a softer porous aura, the porous aura, the open aura, becomes damaged. So if you are a woman and you have sex, you have to be concerned about the health of your aura. Your aura, if it becomes too health of your aura. Your aura, if it becomes too damaged, it cannot hold the light from the transmissions. In which case, I won't be a very good teacher to you. Because a lot of the way I teach is not only psychically, but through transmission of attention blocks.

0:37:12
energy from chakras to chakras. And if your aura is damaged and you cannot hold that energy, if you focus on a chakra and the light comes to you and you can't hold it, then your meditation practice and sitting in satsang with me won't be very useful for you. Therefore, if you're in enlightenment you have to be concerned with the health of your aura. If you do have sex you have to, as a woman, not have sex too much, that could damage it, or with too pretty quickly. So you have to be conservative about your aura. You can do things to heal your aura. Meditation is healing of a certain dimension. Exercise is very healing, especially especially cardio exercise. So if you do, you know, if you have a good cardiovascular training program, you know, training four or five, six days a week, you know, running a couple miles, exercising for 45 minutes to an hour, that would be the minimum the minimum if you're sexually active. Otherwise your aura is going to become too damaged.

0:38:59
Now women don't notice the damage until it's too late generally. You feel fine, your energy seems strong and you feel like you have a lot of energy, but the aura becomes damaged more and more and more and then you just get to this place where you know it's extremely hard to heal and you can't hold energy anymore. So it does happen over time, but you can fool yourself into feeling like you're okay until it's pretty close to too late. So it's necessary to work on this and pay So it's necessary to work on this and pay attention to this immediately. Immediately. There's another aspect of damage to women in a sexual relationship. And that is a man's conditioning.

0:40:00
and that is a man's conditioning. So men have the conditioning of violence. So they're primarily afraid of a woman's power and their reaction is to squash it. And that reaction pushes it down and hurts it. it down and hurts it. So when a man is having sex with a woman, the man will be feeling fine, will be thinking all sorts of thoughts, that at a very, very deep level, these first impressions of the world, these first models of the world that he's gotten as conditioning he's gotten as conditioning start to act. So while the man might be thinking all these great positive thoughts, at the same time, deep down inside he's not at peace. And when he has sex with a woman, he could be loving her and causing violence upon her aura at violence upon her aura at the same time. It happens in virtually every sexual relationship between a man and a woman. Because men don't meditate and men don't pay attention, even men who meditate generally don't pay attention to this aspect of conditioning, this aspect Therefore, they will cause damage to the woman. And this is a very bad damage. This is violence.

0:41:47
So not only is it a subtle physical problem, a very kind of coarse, dense aura, an open aura, causing some damage to the woman, sex with a woman and pushes in this violence. This creates damage in a woman's aura that could take years to clear up if the woman even clears it up. If you do the work, pay attention, meditate and exercise, it would take years to purify this damage from your by this damage from your aura. So it's something to take very seriously if you're a woman, because if you get this violence imprinted into you, eventually it is a greater factor your aura to become unusable. Unusable in terms of spiritual practice. Advanced spiritual practice. You could always meditate. No problem. It's just that in order to make rapid progress you need to have a strong aura, you need to have a clean, pure aura, you need to have your energy body together without a lot of other people's energy, violent energy acting upon you. Additionally, in a sexual relationship between a man and a woman, there is a connection, even when they are apart.

0:43:36
there's a connection, even when they're apart. You know, so you know how it is, if you're going out with someone and you like them, you think about them, and you feel a closeness. So those are what we call lines of attention. You have these lines of attention into each other, into each other's aura, and into each other's awareness. awareness. And another problem is with men, that they might be happy sometimes, but sometimes their conditioning reacts. And through that line of attention, that connection, they press that violent energy again. So it doesn't only happen during sex. During sex is pretty intense, During sex is pretty intense, pretty devastating, but even not during sex, these damaging impressions can come through and do come through.

0:44:38
So this is again something very common in sexual relationships between men and women. Very, very common. So therefore, the primary problem is the man's violence. That's it. If the man was able to meditate, look at his social conditioning, and gain control to stop the violence, and be at peace and balance at this very deep level of his being, and to be at peace and balance at this very deep level of this being, then he would not push that violence on a woman. But it takes a lot of meditation and awareness to be able to understand that deep level of conditioning, especially because it's of man and woman. You have to come to that balance. You have to come to that balance. There's a great fear there for men and the man's reaction to violence. Therefore, it takes deep meditation. When a man comes to understand his fear toward It is a great revelation and it is extremely liberating and bright and wonderful.

0:46:09
But it's a very, very deep thing. It doesn't happen in a short period of time for a man. It takes, most likely, if you focus on it, It takes many years of meditation to come to understand this, to come to complete harmlessness towards women. So we'll take it step by step, guys. There's a certain level of control that you are expected to have as of now. and you will learn more and more. A man can work on his conditioning through selflessness, through selfless giving. Selfless giving again and again and again and again, not just to just to women, but to anyone. Selfless giving, where a man gives of himself to another. And through selfless giving, you're able to erase a lot of male conditioning and egotism.

0:47:34
So in terms of ways to do this, to undo your harmfulness, I think that's a good question. ways to do this, to undo your harmfulness that you've just been programmed with. You didn't choose it, it was your inheritance being born on the planet Earth. as a man and really look at it, you'll see some nasty things just by looking at it, just by being aware of it. I remember hanging out in the locker room with the guys and if a guy was weak we would call him a pussy. That's a bad thing. So there's a lot of negativity So there's a lot of negativity toward women just ingrained in men. Look at your experience, look at what you think, look at how you grew up and how you've acted, and you'll come to see what's going on. And the more you see, the more you can do something about it. toward the women in this group must be of self-effacement. If you start squashing women, you won't be here. Listen closely. It's very important. We have to be harmless to each An aspect of conditioning that women pick up is that they think that their position in life comes from what man they can get.

0:49:36
that if you get a powerful man your life will be good. If you can't get a powerful man, your life won't be so good. If you don't get a man, then your life is bad. Now, things have changed a little bit over the past hundred years. Most of you, in your last incarnation, was about a hundred years ago. was about 100 years ago. And 100 years ago was pretty much the same as 1000 years ago, and 1000 years before that, for a woman's plight in life. But now here in America, we have a lot more opportunities for women, things have changed. So, I think that's a good thing. for when things have changed. So there is, you're not in a social condition where you were even in your last incarnation. You have the capability to really address this karma, address these conditions head on and overcome them head on and overcome them and it would be very enlightening to do so.

0:50:57
If we were in China, India, Tibet a hundred years ago, these things that I'm telling you wouldn't make any sense. It's not practical for a woman to look at her husband in this way or look at her husband in this way or to look at them this way because it's a man's world and it's impossible to have any position, any relative position in society without playing the role that we're given to. But in this time, in this age, in this incarnation, now, you can do things differently. You can take a look at it head on, and you can change it. You can change your karma, you can change your life. You're not stuck in the old ways.

0:51:59
You have the opportunity in this lifetime to be different. in this lifetime to be different, to not be as limited as you were in past lives. So this is a very fortunate incarnation for women in the West. But you got all the bad, but So while some things have changed, the conditioning from a thousand years ago is almost practically still there in the same way. One of the negative things that women pick up from their conditioning is seeing that a man is their power in life. their power in life. The man that they get is the biggest determinant of their well-being. So they therefore see other women as competition. Men from their conditioning have a capability help. They just naturally do it. Women because of their conditioning, they have a lot of trouble working together. They always try to sabotage each other, stab each other in the back and generally make a mess. Because they don't work together. It's because of they don't work together. It's because of their condition. However, one of the wonderful things that you can practice in this Buddhist school is how to have camaraderie with other women. Now this was one of the manipulative tricks of men in squashing women was to make in squashing women was to make them not be able to work together. That was one of the plans that men got in there. That women can't work together. When women work together, it's very, very powerful. Very powerful for the women. And men were afraid of that. So, I And men were afraid of that.

0:54:29
So if you keep people separate, they can't become strong together. But there's tremendous enlightened power when women can work together. And that's why we do focus on women working together, on women working together. Not stabbing each other in the back. Not competing against each other. Not at all. In fact, a woman, as they go into this practice, has to observe this activity when she's working with other women, dealing with other women. Has to be mindful has to be mindful of this and has to undo it. Because this is how a woman becomes harmful. A woman is harmful to other women. See, women have it tough.

0:55:27
You've got the guys, you know, violent and squashing them down into limited conditions and then this situation has them fighting against each other. situation has them fighting against each other. So you can't trust anybody. You're out there on your own trying to get a guy so that you can have some kind of life. Well, that's not necessary. Here you can learn that there's much greater power in working with women. Now, life is kind of backwards. Life is kind of backwards. Because we observe the transient things as being powerful and useful, and we observe things that are more inner as being more inner as being weak. So men often see women as weak and men see themselves as powerful. And women see that the same way because they're going along with the game that the men have set up.

0:56:48
Generally women are powerful, powerful auras and they work with power in a much more beneficial way and men are emotional, men are weaker generally. So our world that we interact with is kind of backwards and that's why there's a lot world that we interact with is kind of backwards and that's why there's a lot of wars and problems. That's why there's a lot of injustice and imbalance in our world because we're kind of screwed up. of power, the mystical practices, you know, the kind that we talk about in the Enlightenment workbook with mindfulness and doing activities that help you gain greater personal power. Now these are things for everyone, for men and women, but generally speaking, women in study excel in the mystical practices of personal power. That's what gets them enlightened faster. And for men it's selfless giving. That's what helps them the most. It establishes them on the spiritual path. So it's necessary to understand your mind and understand the Understand your mind and understand the things that will help.

0:58:31
Selfless giving for guys and personal power, personal power, personal power for women. Focus on the things that get your personal power up. So, the Enlightenment workbook. Penny for your thoughts, right? That is, if you see any place, if you're a woman and you see places, especially in relationships where you're losing energy, if you're serious about the pathway to enlightenment, you should modify that situation so you don't lose energy. You can gain a lot of energy from your meditation practice, through satsang with me, with me and if you're in a relationship with a violent guy, you can take it away like that. You can take away the light, you can take away your personal power. And that's because you have a connection to him. Now this isn't to say that you shouldn't have a relationship, But you need to, in your mind, you need to settle things so that you don't lose energy.

0:59:45
It's called detachment. You have to get to a level of detachment, otherwise you'll lose a lot of energy. conditioning in seeing that her greatest power in life is to get a man, is to think that it should be clinging towards that man. Cling. And through that attachment, when man's violence comes, when his disfavor comes your way, then it devastates your personal power. Therefore, a woman must be detached if she's in a sexual relationship with a man. It's very necessary. Otherwise, you'll just be like a roller coaster, up and down, up and down. So, if you are in a sexual relationship with a man, and you're a woman, then it's necessary for you to work on detachment. then it's necessary for you to work on detachment. There can be love at the same time as detachment. The problem is clingy attachment that has been given to you from social conditioning makes you powerless.

1:01:06
Therefore, it's important to work on detachment. So the Enlightenment Workbook, Penny for Your Thoughts, The Enlightenment workbook, Penny for your thoughts, a woman in order to become strong and established in the spiritual path should become very very very strong in this mystical harmless, self-effacing, and gentle. Always give where you can. It might just be, you know, not giving people a hard time. That could be your selfless giving. Or wearing a smile on your face. That is a kind of selfless giving. Or if someone gives you a ride to Or if someone gives you a ride to a tech class, give them a little money for the gas. Anywhere that you can, give. And that is a wonderful way to establish yourself as a harmless practitioner on the spiritual path.

1:02:24
So it's important for men and women to understand their goals on the spiritual path, to look at their mind and the model, the description of the world that is given to them and to relationships and their thoughts about men and women, to observe it and to make a choice to be mindful and change their thinking, their speech and their actions into more enlightened ways. For women, it's important to realize that an aspect of their life is not just a It's important to realize that an aspect of your conditioning is teaching you to compete with other women for men, which is pretty ridiculous. almost all women, as part of their conditioning, they have developed stronger second attention, stronger spiritual and self-physical capability, a greater awareness. And this is a greater awareness associated to the second chakra. It is an awareness of attraction.

1:04:00
Attraction. So women, through their conditioning, use energy constantly. It is sexual energy. And they do it in various ways, but they are constantly putting sexual energy out for guys to look at them, energy out for guys to look at them or to pay attention to them. So one of the ways that women get drained in terms of subtle physical energy and attention is by constantly saying look at me, look at me, look at me, look at me, aren't I pretty, aren't I pretty. And this is what your energy body is doing because you are just conditioned to do it. because you are just conditioned to do it. And then what happens is something pretty gnarly. Men look at you. And then men throw sexual things at you.

1:05:01
And, you know, some women like attention because they're very, very confused by their social conditioning. Their social conditioning says it's a good thing, and then you get that attention, so it reinforces that concept and that model. that attention so it reinforces that concept and that model. Then at the same time, if you really look at how you feel, you don't feel so good. Therefore, it's necessary for a woman to hold her energy in so that she's not pushing out sexual energy. Because if energy. Because if you are walking down the street and you're getting a lot of sexual energy from guys, or they're throwing their sexual energy back at you because you're saying check this out, right? Then it damages your aura. It damages your aura. So figure out how to walk down the street without being noticed by guys. You don't want to draw that without being noticed by gods. You don't want to draw that kind of attention, it will trash your aura.

1:06:09
This is a teaching in tone, so how to hold your energy so that you don't become damaged and you do these pieces properly. So observe that when you are walking down the street. For guys, same thing, just on the other side. Don't throw sexual energy at women. Do not that is not cool. Even if a woman is not mindful and she puts out a lot of sexual energy, do not throw sexual energy at her. What she does is harmless. What you do is harmful. So guys are dogs.

1:07:12
And guys, because of their social conditioning, and one other amazing fact that I'll talk about in a moment, guys go around throwing sexual energy all over the place. Generally speaking. And it's kind of like in, there's a movie Wayne's World, they go to a nightclub, There's a movie, Wayne's World, they go to a nightclub and Garth is going, he's doing these pelvic thrusts and saying swing every time a woman walks by. And you know what? Guys do that. They might not say swing, but they are sitting there going, naval energy at women constantly. There's a pretty girl, boom.

1:08:02
There's a pretty girl, boom. There's a pretty girl, boom. constantly. There's a pretty girl, boom. There's a pretty girl, boom. There's a pretty girl, boom. Right? And guys get really specific. They've got a whole model of what they want, what they're interested in, right? And they, you know, they will throw this energy, you know, and it will hit certain spots of your body. And they just go right through your aura. They go, they check your body out, go right they check your body out, go right through your aura, they try to feel the energy, they're putting feelers into your aura and it comes in from the navel chakra in a violent way and it doesn't help a woman's aura at all, it damages it.

1:08:43
So to a guy, you know, it doesn't damage your aura and what you're doing every time you're swinging a girl is you're feeling her aura, you're feeling her energy, swinging a girl, you are feeling her aura, you are feeling her energy, you are shoving your power into her aura and you are taking energy essentially. And guys, don't do that. You're focusing on a very low chakra and you're using energy that way. You also get situated in a state of mind when you start to exercise energy that way. dimension of pursuing life. If you can hold your energy in, then you will have more energy for other things, like learning computers, or getting a job, or meditating, or practicing mindfulness. you see, use in a gentle manner. Because you can become more gentle with your sexual energy by not just thinking swing, swing, swing. When you start to pay attention to this gentleman, gentle-man, you become gentle. And even though you have sexual energy, you don't go over sexual energy, you don't go over to the girl and blast her with it.

1:10:29
You can use your sexual energy properly, in proper etiquette, knowing and being aware of your energy harming her aura. And then you can say, okay, I like you, and let's get together, but I'm going to hold my energy in. together but I'm going to hold my energy in. I'm going to interface with you in a way that's not damaging. I'm going through this process of observing my attention, my model of how I've treated women in the past, the programming that I've done. less harmful. And if you don't go into the practice of swinging, because when you do that, then you're not going to be able to hold your energy in, and you're not going to become gentle. You're exercising the lack of control. I know it's hard, but you know what? It doesn't kill you. It doesn't kill you to not look at certain parts of girls when you're walking down the street It doesn't kill you to not look at certain parts of girls when you're walking down the street or walking through the mall or whatever. It doesn't kill you. You can just not look at those things and it won't take your energy away. So guys, you need to conserve energy so that you can get to higher states of consciousness.

1:11:53
And also, if you do want to use your sexual energy by getting your energy up and not in that lower chakra state of mind, getting your energy up and not in that lower chakra state of mind, you're able to engage from a higher chakra. So we want to be harmless. Men should be harmless. Women should be very careful. Women can definitely engage in a relationship, but you have to be very careful of maintaining your subtle physical body. And being with nice guys, hopefully guys who meditate, and therefore they have some mental control. mental control and not many guys because the more guys, the more it will hurt your aura. You might be able to deal with one energy, but if you add a second one, it could really start trashing your aura. So you have to be very careful with that. And the greatest things that you can do for your aura to be healthy are meditation and exercise. So, exercise.

1:13:26
Good. Now there's another condition that is prevalent in this consideration of tantric sex. this consideration of contract sex. And that is the reaction of women from this suppression through social conditioning over the years. Now, women, because they were suppressed, develop a power of manipulation through sexual energy. And that's what they use primarily to get their position in life. Not just looking pretty, but snaring the guy who's going to get you the best position in life. And that is a function of the second and sometimes third chakra. and sometimes third chakra. But this is sexual energy. They have used this energy to get their position in life. Men use their energy to get their position in life, not through a woman's role. They don't go, get the things I wanted. Guys don't think that way. It's not part of their conditioning.

1:14:55
But what guys do is they take their power and they go out there and say I'm going to go and become president of this company and make a million dollars. I'm going to do these things. And they push their power in ways where they are more constructive for them more constructive for them and the feeling with the world. So women didn't have that option because of the roles they were given through social conditioning. So they just tried to snare a man on his way up. And because of these conditions they used more magical energy, more magical energy, a deeper more magical energy to manipulate, to get, to wrap a god. And this energy is magical. And all women have had the condition to get this energy, this awareness.

1:16:00
women are more intuitive because they've developed a greater amount of inner attention because they were forced to. And this energy is of the second chakra primarily. So women have It had been their way of getting their life into a pleasant place, using this energy to get a nap. So what this energy is, is an energy, a sexual energy that affects and manipulates a nap. thing is that for males, sex isn't a very big thing. If you took a guy, if you didn't give him his social conditioning, you just put him on an island somewhere, sex wouldn't but if you put a gal who's been socially conditioned on that island, sex, he'll be thinking about sex every eight seconds. So the reason why guys are so out of balance with sex is because of, after their suppressive conditioning, a woman's come in with a manipulative second chakra, unbalanced the guys and got the guys in a weak spot.

1:17:44
Guys can be powerful, but then many of them have this spot that they don't guard against, such as Bill Clinton. Bill Clinton, a powerful man. And then Monica, ruthlessly raptured. So it's just that, you know, that's, you know, classic, classic way of looking at it. Classic example. But yeah, guys don't generally guard against this because they got got women have manipulated them to. women have manipulated them. In their plans to squash women down, they didn't see this as being a problem, so it was exploited over the years. Therefore, men are unbalanced tremendously by women, because a man normally wouldn't think about sex so much.

1:18:48
think about sex so much. A man normally would be like, you know, for men, sex is a very kind of physical thing. They generally don't, it's not too deep for them, it's just, oh yeah, make a baby, have some fun sometimes. It's pretty shallow and short. Women, on the other hand, have a much bigger sexual capacity and they have a lot more perception of deeper dimensions. And so to women, sex is a big deal. Even if a woman is confused about sex, and isn't having sex, or is having sex and is much more confused about it, they're processing more dimensions sexually.

1:19:36
more dimensions sexually and that's one of the reasons why they can trick guys into thinking sex is the most important thing in the world. They can get guys this way because guys don't perceive all those dimensions, but when a woman operates through those dimensions, she can use different dimensions to address a guy and get him when he's not even looking. sometimes that they're sex crazy and they are crazy because of sex. But it's not their natural way. Their natural way is to not think of it very often and then when you think of it and you do it and then you're done and then you're like, okay, cool, now I'm going to not think about it again. But because of the conditioning of women, guys think about it all the time. women, guys think about it all the time.

1:20:27
All the time. Swing, swing, swing, swing, swing. And then they follow that conditioning. They follow that manipulation, and then they're playing right into the trap of a woman who wants to get to a guy. So it's a big mess. Whether you're a guy or a girl. The problem is, if you're a guy, you need to realize that there's been this you need to realize that there's been this intense manipulative energy that has unbalanced your mind where you start to think about sex like crazy. And so you need to chill out and stop focusing on it so much. Come to a natural state, a natural condition. You don't have And that you'll learn that through meditation and also through looking at this factor of conditioning.

1:21:22
And for women, the men have a lot more violence and oppression toward you. get a line, a wrap on a guy is not good. Because as soon as you get that rope around him and got him, you realize what you've got is a shark on a leash. You're like, whoa, I wanted to get that, and now it's hurting me? It's biting me. So it doesn't make any sense. So it doesn't make any sense. But this is a factor for men and women, where there's an imbalance.

1:22:10
Men think about sex because they're manipulated. Women push the sexual energy because they've been squashed down and that's the only way they can see to get up. So guys need to chill out, and gals need to defend themselves against violence need to defend themselves against violence and focus on more positive ways to become powerful in this world. Thus is the first teaching on contract sex. And the great thing about contract sex is that it really makes you look at sex in a really makes you look at sex in a different way. A lot of people when they think of tantric sex are like, okay, let's talk about positions.

1:23:00
And they're, that's ridiculous. You know, it's just very new age stupid. It's just ridiculous. It's a total lack of awareness of what tantric sex is really about. The first teaching of tantric sex is really, The first teaching of tantric sex is really, maybe you shouldn't have sex. Really, you know. So, most Buddhist monks in my school, men and women, we call the women monks, most monks in my school are celibate. are celibate because if you are celibate you get to avoid a lot of problems.

1:23:44
But if you like problems, then just take into consideration, be very very mindful. It's actually silly to not have sex if you really want to because then you're a hypocrite because then you're a hypocrite and you're just going to give yourself a whole bunch of confusion in your mind. So you should do what comes natural to you. If you hear these teachings and you realize, maybe this is a time for me to focus on these imbalances and not go into a sexual relationship with man, into a sexual relationship with a man, then that makes sense. If you're a guy, let me get to be harmless, let me hold my energy in so I can get higher faster. That might make sense.

1:24:38
If you have sex, it's harder to progress. You have a lot more things to worry about, a lot more blocks that will hold you down. It's harder, but it's not impossible. more blocks that will hold you down. It's harder, but it's not impossible. So if you find that it's something that you're really drawn to, it's okay. But there's a lot more considerations to consider. And, you know, ultimately, you know, if you are progressing to your level of satisfaction along the path, to your level of satisfaction along the path. You're happier, you're brighter, you see physical things in your life going in a positive way. Then, whether you're having sex or not, you're in a balance where you're happy. And that's what you should look for. If you are in a sexual relationship and your life is not in a good state, your job isn't working out, your life is not in a good state, your job isn't working out, your meditation isn't as strong as you want it to be, then you should really consider tightening up your attention.

1:25:48
Because sex can stop you, especially if you're a woman. Women lose tremendous amounts of energy. You could meditate with me for a year, have sex and lose 99% of it because of that. Meditate with me for a year, have sex and lose 99% of it because of that. It's possible to lose it all. So it is something to take very seriously. If you're serious about the spiritual path, at the same time you have to find a balance that works for you. So you have to be mindful, you have to be aware. But don't be stupid, because if you're stupid you won't be as happy as you can be. It's important, I'm telling you about this because this is a very important aspect of the study, enlightenment for women and contract sex.

1:26:48
The considerations for women are vital because most women will lose a tremendous amount of energy through a sexual relationship with a man. or you have another coarse aura touching yours. Not one that has violent conditioning, and not one that is very dense and coarse. So that would be the most benign kind of sexual relationship. And if you're a guy, yeah, the Dalai Lama maybe doesn't like, he doesn't think that gay people can become enlightened, but he's not enlightened. So, how does he know?

1:27:36
but he's not enlightened. So how does he know? Gay people can become enlightened just fine. So yeah, so if you're a guy, the other guy's aura is also very dense, so you guys don't hurt each other with your auras. and the violence that you might kick through to each other is different because it's not a woman. Guys are always violent a little bit, but guys or can take it. So, yeah, gay relationships are actually a little bit more benign. Then you're just dealing with ego, the regular ego problems in relationships. male and female sexual relationship, there's a lot more going on. So, these are things that you should take very, very seriously. If you're a woman, you have to be very, very, very careful.

1:28:39
Observe your conditioning, observe your situation, and be careful. Because you can lose tremendous amounts of energy so that you wouldn't be able to learn meditation, practice meditation, amounts of energy so that you wouldn't be able to learn meditation, practice meditation, or even have the personal power to continue in the study of enlightenment. If you're a man it's very important for you to learn not to harm women, especially in this group. If are a person who let their fidder's thing go, if you don't learn to hold your energy in, you'll probably not be in this group much longer, because we are bringing it up a notch of awareness to where we can properly practice the Pathway to Enlightenment, and that means that men must be harmless to the women in the group.

1:29:36
that men must be harmless to the women in the group. It would be ridiculous to have a group of men and women where men are constantly pushing women down. That would be harmful and it's not spiritual, it's not good. In the way of the world it might be interesting and everything but in the matter of spirit it's wrong. So men take this to heart. I've it's wrong. So men take this to heart. I've seen a lot of people get kicked out of the study because of not taking this to heart. So become harmless to women and practice especially, practice harmlessness especially on the women in in this study because if you're harmful, you're hurting somebody else, that's the fastest way to get kicked out of here. Alright. Very good.

1:30:42
We're going to conclude with another medication. I'd like you to just focus on your navel center. We're going to sit just for a few minutes. Sit in silence. Let's begin. Alright, well what do you know? Enjoy your week. There will be important meditation for the meditation with some new people next week. So next week we're at the Fairmont and we'll be talking with everybody about one of the beginning and introduction Buddhist teachings and then afterwards I'll be speaking with all of you. We'll have an important consideration together. Thank you very much.

1:32:00
we'll have an important consideration together. Thank you very much.

