0:00:00
So we go on the ferry right here. You guys have to learn to be punctual now that we have a locking door. I'm always on time. It's good to be punctual. It's good etiquette. Okay. As you do yoga, you become strong spiritually. our karma, we think we're strong. We are like, yeah, I like the things I do. Yeah, I like who I am. You like many things about yourself. That's good. However, when you're unable to break free from the attachment to self to do something that's powerful, that's elevating,

0:01:36
that's enlightening, then you are spiritually weak, even though you can come up with many

0:01:46
good qualities of your goodness. Yoga is where you become a spiritual warrior. The path of self, attachment to self, egotism, Now, this reflects back to the first story of yoga. The first story of Arjuna and the enlightened a warrior as an occupation and Arjuna was a kind of a civil war in the Mahabharata, the great battle of India. There was a time where all of a sudden, there was one side that had to fight another side, and you basically have this dynastic war that's going to happen. And Krishna, this great warrior, Arjuna, the great warrior, has Krishna as an advisor and charioteer. And they're coming into the battle and the two sides are lining up to face each other and Arjuna says to Krishna, bring me out. I want to see these people who I will kill today. And they ride out in the chariot and he sees on the other side many friends and even some cousins and some you know fathers-in-law and he sees family and he sees friends teachers and well-wishers on the other side he's like whoa I don't want to go into battle with these people. I know them. I like them. We're friends. Some of us are family. Some of them are teachers. We have very positive experiences together in the past. For some reason, just because of the way that the dividing line in the dynasty went down, they're on the other side and I'm on this side. I don't want to fight these people because I know them. I love them. They're friends. They're family. And he says, OK, so I can't fight this battle. It doesn't make any sense. There's no victory in killing someone who is a friend. So he says, OK, so Krishna, I I will not fight. And then Krishna takes that opportunity where he is very upset to teach him yoga. Arjuna, being a great warrior of renown, he has a duty to fight. He serves a cause, a Lord, and it's his duty, it's his honor to fight. And Krishna says that it is his dharma to fight. And when he doesn't want to fight, it's a a problem because he had sworn allegiance to his side and now he's saying I can't, I can't fulfill my allegiance even though I've given an oath of fealty I'm unable to carry out my duty. And he's very confused, very upset. He wants to fulfill his duty, but he can't go out and kill people who he knows. So Krishna teaches him about yoga. And Krishna says, first of all, Krishna has a great sense of humor. If you've ever read the Bhagavad Gita, it doesn't come across very well. But the first thing Krishna does is he starts making fun of Arjuna. He's all like, oh, come on. Don't you believe in reincarnation? And Arjuna says, yeah, I do. He's like, well, then what's the problem? Either you're going to see the ultimate aspect of being, which is the higher self, the Atman, the enlightened aspect of the spirit. And this Atman is indestructible. You can't kill it. So, therefore, this is really a game that we play. And the idea is to play it perfectly. It is your dharma to be a warrior and you have your battle before you. Regardless of who you have to fight and kill, perform your duty perfectly. And then Arjuna doesn't get it. He's like, okay, so there's this enlightened aspect of spirit, but I'm seeing people I know. I remember our stories together. I remember the things that we've done. I can't just go out there and kill them. And Krishna says, well, you're attached to the view of impermanence. So you're looking at them and you're only seeing the transient side, but you're not seeing the big picture. You're not seeing the eternal aspect. know if you have cookie dough or play-doh or any kind of dough and you know you got your little play-doh and then you have those little you know shapes those little cookie cutter shape things right so you take your play-doh and you make a star and oh cool I have a star a half moon oh I have a half moon, a lucky clover, oh four-leaf clover, right? And then you got those things and you're like, these are fantastic, I really like them, this star is so great. And you start to create this history, the story of the star and the clover and the moon, and you become attached to the transient shapes. But what Krishna teaches is that all of these things at the end of the day are going to be put back into you know the Play-Doh can. You're going to mush them all together, put them back into the can, and then the next day you're going to come and make more shapes out of them, because that's the thing to do. So every day you're going to play with your Play-Doh, you're going to create new shapes, you know, you're going to get new little cookie cutters and you're going to have these wonderful little stars or moons or different things every day. But the stuff that makes up the shape is the same. It comes from the same place, the Play-Doh can. And it all comes together at the end of the day. So this is Krishna's analogy, essentially, of life, of our physical lives. We are those Plato stars. We are those Plato lucky clovers. We are in a form and a shape. We have a story together. We have an actual kind of, you know, we have details, we have an actual form, and we have a way to interface, and we're separate from all the Play-Doh, and we're not in the can, right? So that's us. The Atman is that essential stuff that makes up life. It is indestructible, it constantly changes, at least from lifetime to lifetime. And when it is destroyed, it is not destroyed. It simply goes back into the whole before it is created in a new form. So the Plato, that's us in a specific shape right now. But when you see the eternal aspect of the spirit, of the Atman, then you know that all of this is transient, that the spirit, your spirit, and the spirit of others is indestructible, it's all one together already, and it goes through different shapes every time, every incarnation, or sometimes in every moment, things are able to change in this physical dimension, in this transient dimension, again and again and again and again. Yet the nature of being is indestructible. So he tells them this. So don't worry about killing those guys. Because this is just a game. This is the game of yoga. Where it's your job to be selfless and impeccable. Now get out there and kill those guys. Now when we when we start to understand that Krishna, a highly revered enlightened teacher is telling a student to kill people, you could say, wow, that doesn't sound very spiritual, right? But that's just because we're looking at things in a transient way, the same way that Arjuna looked at things. He'd say, I wouldn't want to kill anybody. my friends. And now this great spiritual teacher is saying, get out there and kill people. So isn't that the opposite of spirituality? No, not at all. Not at all. When you look at spiritual practice, it's very different than your concept of good and bad. You kind of have the Hollywood or Hallmark card view of spiritual practice. And it's like good, goody, goody, right? But it's very interesting to look at the story of Krishna and Arjuna because it goes right against concepts. And it, at the same time is the pathway to enlightenment. So Krishna is telling his student to fight. That the circumstances that make him unhappy, killing his friends are just transitory and that we are all in a great unity and that the spirit is indestructible. So Arjuna is still struggling with that. He's like, ah, this is difficult. I don't know if I can do this. And then Krishna goes in and talks about He says, I'm going to tell you these confidential secrets of spiritual practice, the way to liberation, the way beyond dissatisfaction. And he says, okay, so you got your yoga, right? You got your bhakti yoga, devotional yoga, you got your mysticism, asceticism in there too, and you have your karma yoga. He stresses the yoga of action. And in teaching the yoga of action, he teaches the, he has one very strong principle that is one of the principles that we focus on, and that is selflessness. He says to Arjuna. You must not be attached to the fruits of your labor. So that means. Don't expect. Anything on return from your action. He says Krishna says to to do all work as sacrifice to divinity. Everything that you do, you don't do for yourself. You're not seeking what you're going to get out of it. You're not seeking any result. You just do every action. You do your work as a sacrifice. And that is exceptionally helpful in Karma Yoga. So if you can get yourself into, okay, my selflessness is sacrifice to God, to enlightenment, to the universe, to the highest divinity that comes to mind. If you work with every action and intention to sacrifice, as sacrifice, that divinity, then you're doing karma yoga. It's completely selfless and it's focused on giving that action to enlightenment. So this is what he taught, Krishna said, you know, don't look out for what the return is going to be. The detached from that he said that our June was suffering because he was he was attached to the transient form. He was attached to something and he's like I can't let go of worrying about my that I'm going to kill them. That's a bad thing. It's good to do this, bad to do that. And Krishna said, no, no, that's attachment to the transience. It's a sacrifice in your action. Do your work impeccably, go out there and fight, but do it as sacrifice. And when He said you wouldn't have it and that means that you get higher and brighter. You're not held down by any karma. Good karma or bad karma. You could say, you know, if you do something good, then you're going to have good karma and that will hold you into the next step of self process. However, when you do it as sacrifice, it elevates you beyond any karma. So he really pointed out to Arjuna that he should be selfless, not expect any fruit from his labor, and to be unattached to the transient form. Now this brings us into a very important aspect of yoga, this selflessness and detachment. Buddhist detachment is very important. You cannot start yoga if you are attached to the transient world and to all of your thoughts and all of your reactions. You won't be able to start yoga. Yoga moves you away from self. You'll notice that any thoughts that hold you down or limit you, they follow the self karma. But yoga brings you out of the self. That's why it's so alien to you when you start it. You're like, this is weird, why am I doing this? Because it's yoga. And when you do yoga, you will do things that you might not have thought of yourself. You might learn new ways to do things. And you will see that there's a great brightness to yoga. Yoga is not only doing action, it's doing action in an unseen structure that elevates you to enlightenment. So what I'm talking to you about is the unseen structure. And I'm saying the words that get your mind to yoga. So detachment is very important. If you're attached to anything, then you are limited by that thing that you're attached to. So you know the analogy is you want to go up in your hot air balloon, but you're holding on to all these ropes that have heavy weights at the ground. I want to go up but I'm holding myself down. But as you let go of the lines, then you can start to go up. Or if you let go of enough lines, then you can go up. Because the balloon of yoga is powerful. So you have to let go of enough, you have to be detached enough so that you can start. If you're holding on to everything in your life and you're, you know, like just digging in, then you can't... you will see that you don't do yoga. And the wonderful thing about Karma Yoga is you will see yourself do it. You're like, oh I took an action. If you take an action, there you go, there's a step. I picked up a stone and placed it on another stone. There's an action. Every step that you take, every action that you take is yoga. When you find yourself not taking action, that's where you find yourself going up. There's a self. Now you've come face to face with what is limiting you, your ego. So what you need to do is be selfless and then impeccable. Take the next step. You do an action. So it's important to be detached. Now there's this funny thing. The more detached someone is, the more fluid they are spiritually. The more energy they have. The more their balloon goes high into the skies of enlightenment. And it's not a mean thing to be detached. Someone who's detached is a fun person to be around because they're fluid and they're happy. They're very friendly. They just are a free being. You could be a completely unattached free being and sit next to someone, talk with them, work with them. You can love the person and it doesn't mean that there's any lack of love or work functionality. It means that you're free. You're stronger to do it. It's better to be in working relationships or loving relationships and be detached because attachment is the thing that always brings you suffering. It's the thing that will always bring you down. So it's always better to be detached. And you don't lose anything when you're detached. You actually gain greater awareness. You gain greater momentum. And you gain greater happiness. But it's important to observe the things that hold you back. The people, the things, the associations or events, actions, activities that you engage in. Those things will hold you in a place that will deter you from rising. You can't do yoga. You'll just see yourself come up with all sorts of roadblocks in your mind that prevent you from doing even one simple action. I had a student, a wonderful fellow, who had been doing martial arts for many years. And he was meditating with me, he enjoyed the meditation. And he said, yeah, I would really like to learn about yoga. I was not in San Francisco at the time, so he said, what can I do from San Francisco? And I said, you can teach martial arts as yoga. I said, why don't you teach martial arts to kids? Maybe go down to the rec center and offer free classes or something like that. And he said, that's a great idea because I've got the impeccability in my martial arts and I will be selfless and teach kids. Fantastic. So it would have been a great thing to do, but he couldn't do it. He couldn't go and talk to someone at the rec center. And when he did go to the rec center he's all, oh I teach karate. And they're like, what? He's all, I'll leave now. I'll come. All right, bye. So he didn't make a lot of sense, even when he did get to the rec center, He was attached to states of mind, outlooks of self. He didn't see that he could do it, even though he knew he could do it. He just couldn't do it. And so, later on, he tried it, he tried and I kept talking to him. And then later on, he's like, okay, I'm just not gonna do it. I said, okay, but why? He said, because I can't do it. And I'm like, you can't do it? And he's like, well, I guess I could, but it's not working out. And I'm like, okay, but why? And then he finally came to see that he was just holding himself back in doubt, in just being lethargic in terms of doing something. And I said, really, the thing here for you to ponder is why you won't do it, why you can't do it. You know, he made up, when he had hardships, he started to make up things like, oh yeah, this isn't for me because, you know, video games, yeah, so that's for me. Or, you know, he started creating reasons why he shouldn't do it. But when he really looked at why he wasn't doing it, I told him to look at those reasons and see through them. It's just so funny how something that's so possible gets stopped by the self. If you hear those reasons that say no, I can't, or A, B, C, D, E, F, G, I would say see through Look at Milarepa. He did something harder. He had a harder situation. He did. So detachment is very, very important. You have to be able to overcome your egotistical inertia. You've got to break through the way that you see life because then you'll break through the locked attention of self. Now, I had another student who was very interested in doing yoga. And right when she was about to begin, she came to me and said, Okay, well, I'm going to stop meditation and this whole practice. I said, okay, why? And she said, well my boyfriend doesn't want me to do it anymore. I'm like, okay, why? She says, well, you know, I'm spending a lot of time doing this and and then when I told her I'm gonna do yoga, she said, oh no, no, no, you're gonna spend way too much time on this. And you doing tango lessons together. So I'm going to do tango with my boyfriend. It seems practical. And all this stuff is just like, you know, wishy-washy. And then I said, okay, but one thing, consider your experiences in meditation, your experiences on the path so far and ask yourself this, are they empowering? Are they happy? Do you see them leading you to a place of inner satisfaction? And she said, oh yeah, definitely. And I said, okay, now ask yourself the same question for Tango. She's all, well, you know, and you know, in looking at, and I told her to write it down. Write down your experiences in meditation and the opportunities that you feel in spiritual practice, and then write down boyfriend tango, and write down, list it out, you know, empowerment, happiness. What's empowering and happy about that? And when she listed it out, her experiences in just beginning meditation were very bright, very happy, really fantastic. And then with the boyfriend in tango, it was like, yeah, you know, I'm with this guy. Yeah, I like him. And then I said, okay, well, there you go. There's a choice. It's just good to know your choices clearly instead of becoming, you know, just following the karmas of the mind. So write it out and you see it, and then it makes a lot of sense. So to be detached enough to follow the spiritual path takes a tremendous amount of courage. It's hard to do it. It's tricky because your conventional mind of habitual karma and egotism will tell you, don't do it. Don't build that tower. Don't do it. It doesn't make any sense. It's not reasonable. But if you listen to that, then you'll stop yourself. But if you detach yourself from thinking of any outcome for building that tower, this is where Milarepa got to. He just got to the point where he's like, Martha just told me to build a tower. I'm just going to do it. He became detached from the results. He just said, all right, you tell me to do it, I gotta do it. And that's where you gotta get to. You gotta get to the point where you say, all right, there's a task to do, I'm gonna do it to the best of my ability. If you're very good, you will do it with a intention of sacrifice to enlightenment or divinity. And if you are just okay, just do it. Just do it. It's a Karma Yoga motto. But it takes a lot of courage to let go of your clinging to attachments. The attachment to what result you're going to get from something. And also the attachment from all of the things, people and events and places, situations in your life, that hold you in the pattern of self. So sometimes people get stuck. It's like the girl where her boyfriend said no, and then she's all, okay, no. And if she had followed yoga, she might have been powerful and enlightened and happy. If she looked at the facts of her experience and followed that, she would have been happier. But when you start to say, oh no, you know, ever since I was four I decided I wanted to be a doctor and therefore I'm going to do that, you know, it's like, you know, you start to trap yourself. You start to limit yourself in those definitions. So it actually takes courage to say, you know what, I don't have to be a doctor. I might be a doctor, but I don't have to be. I can do whatever. I'm going to do my yoga. And it takes a lot of courage to break out of those situations where you have the tango boyfriend and say, look here, I'm not going to do tango because I'm going to do yoga and that's good. It's good. It makes me happy. Tango will make me okay, but yoga will make me happy. So it takes a lot of courage to be able to say no or pull back and set things in a way of balance so that you can follow the spiritual path beyond self. That's detachment. Oh, there's a, there's one of my students, it's a wonderful story. She was in a situation where her physical life was, and the way, you know, work, society, people, places, things. It had her in a place where she was really trapped. She couldn't do yoga. There were people who had demands on her time and energy and she just couldn't do yoga. So she had to get herself out of that situation. So what she did was she just left, left those people. And that's hard to do, leaving the people in your life, even if they're holding you back, it's hard to leave the people who you've been around, those stars, clovers, and moons. You get used to them, right? So it's difficult to do that. And then she did that. She left and she got herself into yoga. And she got contacted by one of her family members. And her family member said, you're a coward to just leave your life, your physical life and all the people and your work and all that whole situation. You're a coward to do that. And that's a perfectly normal view for someone in society. But she said, if I stayed, if I stayed in that situation, I would be a coward. Which is totally true. It takes courage to practice detachment. And that's why they say that the Buddhist monks and the yogis are courageous. It takes courage to be detached. So when you find something that's holding you back, a situation, a person, you have to summon your courage to be detached. And you might have to pull yourself out of the situation, or you might just be able to moderate it. Say, oh, I can't do this, but we can still do that. And then that way you come into balance so that you can do yoga. And Krishna said, Oh, yoga is so wonderful. Yoga is everything. Yoga is everything. Yoga everything, the greatest and the best of everything, the essential living brightness of everything. It brings it into one's awareness. So he starts saying things like, you know, he goes on this wonderful talk of the wonderfulness of yoga and Arjuna gets really excited by it. He's all like, yeah, I like all the stuff you're saying. And he says, can you show me? I want to see it, you know, everything you're saying is so fantastic. He's like, can you show me yoga? So then Krishna says, yeah, you want to see yoga? I'll show you yoga. So tonight we're here to see yoga. So we're going to do a meditative seeing exercise. And what I'd you do is I like you to just sit up straight and look up here towards me and we will meditate for one song. Just still your thoughts, eyes open, don't worry too much. You can focus on your third eye if you'd like.

0:40:55
Alright, this was a seeing exercise, seeing yoga.

0:41:22
When you fill your mind, when you look to me when I'm meditating in Satsang, you are seeing yoga, the unity of the finite and infinite. Now what I'd like to do is I'd like to see if anyone had a seeing that they would like to share with the group.

0:42:11
Yes? And it changed a lot. Changed a lot. OK. Who's the guy? You saw the face changing into a different man.

0:42:27
Who?

0:42:28
Well, there were a few faces. Someone like what one of my kids was here, and then my mom started. Yes, that's good. So beard, mustache, viking.

0:43:00
Viking. Good.

0:43:02
That's a very good scene. Very accurate. Okay.

0:43:05
Anyone else? Yes.

0:43:07
I saw your face change from a really, really young person to a really old person.

0:43:08
And I saw your face change to a really, really chubby person.

0:43:09
I'm not sure if that's a good way to put it. I'm not sure if that's a good way to put it.

0:43:11
I'm not sure if that's a good way to put it.

0:43:12
I'm not sure if that's a good way to put it.

0:43:13
I'm not sure if that's a good way to put it.

0:43:14
I'm not sure if that's a good way to put it.

0:43:15
I'm not sure if that's a good way to put it.

0:43:16
I'm not sure if that's a good way to put it. I'm not sure if that's a good way to put it. I'm not sure if that's a good way to put it. I'm not sure if that's a good way to put it. I'm not sure if that's a good way to put it. I'm not sure if that's a good way to put it. I'm not sure if that's a good way to put it. I'm not sure if that's a good way to put it.

0:43:24
I'm not sure if that's a good way to put it. I'm not sure if that's a good way to put it. I'm not sure if that's a good way to put it.

0:43:27
I'm not sure if that's a good way to put it.

0:43:28
I'm not sure if that's a good way to put it.

0:43:29
How can this be? We're sitting here in the physical world, right? That's how much I can. And in this meditation, you saw lots of different people appear where I'm sitting. Okay, good. Nice. Good. Those scenes were very good, and a lot of other people saw the same thing. If you didn't see anything, don't worry. We learned to see little by little, but come to the desert trip, very, very powerful. And that's where we do a lot of seeing exercises through Buddhist mysticism. So as Krishna said to Arjuna, when Arjuna asked to see yoga, the wonderfulness of yoga, my spiritual opulence. And that's when all of a sudden Krishna was sitting there with Arjuna and things started to change. He saw Krishna, Krishna also became a really divine entity. And Arjuna started to see a procession of faces. Some of them were young, some of them were old, but they were these faces that had just a very powerful spiritual quality. And then he started to see these wrathful faces that had powers, and he saw these just beautiful, benevolent faces that had kindness and love. And he saw this procession of infinite faces. And then he saw many arms on Krishna. He saw all of these beautiful celestial ornaments. And then he saw the whole universe. He saw gods and demons and people and animals and everything was going on and they were all like happening around Krishna. And then all of a sudden Krishna started looking scary and he saw that all the people that were in the battle were being destroyed by Krishna. And this amazing gigantic 10,000 sun view of yoga was overwhelming and scary and too powerful for Arjuna. So that's Krishna. When I do this scene of yoga through my Siddha, it's a little bit more mellow. But Krishna was a fully enlightened teacher. He was called an avatar, a very, very, very enlightened being, a tenth-degree black belt of enlightenment. So his Siddhi, his expression of enlightenment was intensely powerful. And after a while, Arjuna begged, please, please come back to the regular Krishna with two arms and a smile on his face, because this gigantic infinite view is starting to scare me. So then Krishna says, before he goes back to his normal form, he says, now that you've seen all this, do your work with no attachment. And then he comes back into his form of the happy regular Krishna. And then Arjuna says, Oh, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And then he asks him some more But that's the main part. Good. So tonight, you have seen yoga. And I entreat you to do yoga. It is something that would be very beneficial for you. Good. Thank you very much. for you. Thank you very much. Now, we're gonna take a short break and I'd like to talk to my students and those people who are doing yoga after the break. We're gonna take a break for just seven or eight minutes, then I'd like to talk to my students and all of you who started doing yoga. Okay, very good. Also, Parvati let me know that a few people came in late to the seminar and that she recognized your face but she didn't get your name for attendance. So please check in with her body before you leave. Actually at this break, if you have not gone through attendance, it's very important that we know that you were here.

0:49:50
For you. For you.

0:49:50
Okay, thank you very much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
