0:00:00
Well, thank you all very much for hurrying along on the break because we have a little bit more to cover in the first part of the evening tonight and then I'll be meeting with the students who are going to be here for probably two to three hours. So yoga program. So it's more the past life scene. Now we're going to bring our attention to another place in time, to China. In China it opened up to the whole Orient, Japan, Southeast Asia. There was a beautiful tradition of Buddhism in China. A Indian, an enlightened Indian teacher went from India to China and brought the teaching. His name was Bodhidharma and he's the one who started Zen Buddhism and also found, well he didn't found, but he was one of the principal influences in the Shaolin temple. So it's quite interesting. We will do a past life scene on China. Many of you have had some wonderful past lives in China. Also, many of you have had past lives as Taoists, which is an indigenous spiritual study of China, which is extremely similar to Buddhism in its essence. It's really an esoteric pathway to enlightenment. So in both the Buddhist in China. We're going to meditate to not one of our songs, but a song that I like about China. It's an evangelist song on their album, China. I think they knew what they were aiming for. Alright, so sit up nice and straight. Bring the focus to the third eye. And again, see out, intend to see out to the third eye and up and to the left. Soft focus, just be open to your seeing and feeling.

0:03:43
Now again, I'd like a couple people to share their seeing with the rest of the group.

0:03:51
The reason we do this is because it helps people to realize what they're seeing. When you are first looking at your past lives, you might see information that you can't, you don't have a mental model for, so it's just information you can't place. But when a couple people share their feeling and their seeing, it helps to give you a structure in which to hold that information. So like when this young man over here said, I saw the river, the Ganges, a lot of you saw this sacred river in your seeing, but when he said it, it became more solid to you. You were able to integrate the information more because he was able to articulate in words the seeing that many of you experienced. It's something that makes it more solid. So that's why we do this. Just a couple seeings that people have. Yes? I saw myself striking gold. Gold mine. Striking gold. Striking spiritual gold. Dwarvish yoga. Anyone else? Yeah, in the back. I saw a temple. Ah, temple. What did it look like? Chinese temple. I just had the vision, but I lost the vision.

0:05:58
Uh-huh. But I saw a kid draw a temple. Hmm.

0:06:06
Cool. And yes. Water. Ocean.

0:06:12
Ocean. Ocean. But that... Like the South China Sea. trying to see. All right, yep? I saw dancers.

0:06:23
Oh, we've got a lot. Yeah.

0:06:25
I hate when the lights go out. I'm probably like, conscious of everything, so I don't know if I'm in a real personal space.

0:06:28
I have to make sure I'm where I'm going. I'm not sure if I'm in a real personal space.

0:06:30
I'm not sure if I'm in a real personal space. I'm not sure if I'm in a real personal space.

0:06:32
I'm not sure if I'm in a real personal space.

0:06:33
I'm not sure if I'm in a real personal space. I'm not sure if I'm in a real personal space.

0:06:35
I'm not sure if I'm in a real personal space.

0:06:36
I'm not sure if I'm in a real personal space. I'm not sure if I'm in a real personal space. I'm not sure if I'm in a real personal space.

0:06:39
I'm not sure if I'm in a real personal space. I'm not sure if I'm in a real personal space.

0:06:41
I'm not sure if I'm in a real personal space. I'm not sure if I'm in a real personal space.

0:06:43
I'm not sure if I'm in a real personal space.

0:06:44
I'm not sure if I'm in a real personal space.

0:06:45
I'm not sure if I'm in a real personal space.

0:06:46
I'm not sure if I'm in a real personal space. I'm not sure if I'm in a real personal space.

0:06:48
I'm not sure if I'm in a real personal space.

0:06:49
you were looking at the last incarnation in the Chinese cultural you ever watch those Chinese movies right you know the modern ones where everything goes bad like oh China's wonderful. Yes yes yes yes yes China had its bad times too. Like now. All right we're gonna move on. I have a lot to cover. Let's see.

0:07:37
Oh, okay.

0:07:42
So our next one is going to be Japan. Now, Japan was a beautiful place to study. In fact, to this day, the Japanese temples, Buddhist temples are that kind of the magic and the light is not there anymore. It was there once and it's not anymore. But in Japan they preserve it, they have an attention, especially in the Kyoto region, to preserving the light. So it's quite nice. I enjoy meditating in Japan in the Japanese Buddhist temples. Both the Zen temples are really wonderful, and the Pure Land temple, which is from a school of the Amitabha Buddha. It's a wonderful place. Now Buddhism moved over to Japan with Zen Buddhism by the sixth successor of Bodhidharma from China, who went over to Japan and started Buddhism

0:09:21
there and became very, very popular. So we will have a meditation scene on Japan. Alright. All right, a couple of Japan's past life stories, past life visions. I think cranes back. I'm not sure.

0:10:25
Japanese cedar trees, very beautiful. Yes? I had a feeling of cutting practice. Cutting class or cutting with a sword? Cutting with a sword. Cutting class. You have a Buddhist scripture class. Let's cut class. Training. Training. Good. Yeah.

0:10:57
Yes. Traditional customs. the aesthetic of Japan very beautiful and yes

0:11:09
Yes, the life of a samurai was very spiritual actually. Not every samurai, but many. Good,

0:11:29
wearing black armor.

0:11:31
Ah, see. Good, good. Yes, Japan. Sushi. All right. We're going to move on.

0:11:43
We're going to move on.

0:11:45
But, no, these are very good. These are very good. Good scene.

0:11:51
We're going to do one more. Only.

0:11:55
We can do a lot more, but we don't have time, so we're only going to do one. And the one we're going to do goes further back, predates the farthest back, predates the Indian incarnations. It is the time of Egypt. Early, early on in the Egyptian history, there were Egyptian mystery schools. And the Egyptian mystery school had a beautiful tradition of enlightenment, and they focused highly on yoga. So many of us met for the first time during those early mystery schools of Egypt. So it's a wonderful past life reflection.

0:14:10
Very nice. You've all done very well this evening. It was wonderful for you all to come. It was very nice sitting with you, meditating with you, having a chance to talk about the Dharma

0:14:31
and Buddhist mysticism techniques of seeing past lives. Now, all of you are invited to some homework. What I'd like each So, consider and reflect on the highest seeing, that means the highest feeling that you've had this evening in seeing your past lives. Reflect on it tonight, tomorrow, the next day. You can see into it a little more now that you have a connection to it. You can feel more, understand more, now that it's part of you. Make or get a Halloween costume that is representative of your past life costumes, and we have a wonderful, enjoyable dance party. is part of the magic. Just as when you say the words, when you reflect, when you tell of your seeing, it helps you to solidify it. It helps everybody to have a greater connection to the dimensions of those very high half-lives in that area. When you make your costume or you buy your costume and you put that costume on, going through that process of attention helps you to integrate the awareness of that lifetime. It's magic, Buddhist magic. So get your costume. And then come to the party and when we've all done that, we all bring that attention, it's a very high thing. We're bringing those spiritual gold pieces from our past lives and we're all coming together in a higher, more integrated spiritual place. And it's very beautiful just to walk into the room with everybody in that attention. Additionally, we have a dance party for his students, I was afraid, because I was a very introverted, non-dancing, Buddhist monk. And I was like, I didn't know monks danced. But oh yes, the first party was scary. But then after fourth or fifth, I got started to learn to dance. Which is very liberating. That's why it's one of the exercises in the Enlightenment workbook. So I know a lot of spiritual people are introverted and funky and don't like dancing or expressing themselves. But this is a wonderful and magical experience. So, you know, you could practice that exercise all week. Dance, you know, put on some music, and just start moving. Get used to it, you know. And also, you know, you got to figure most people who are into Buddhism probably can't dance anyway, so if you're a bad dancer, it doesn't matter. But we will, you know there's there's a rule dance it's not one of those dance parties where you're sitting around watching a couple people jumping around dancing we all dance we all get up and we all dance and you can take a breather if you really need to if you're taking a breather, that means you need to get into shape because we do six hours of dancing. And it's best to dance, take a break, drink, hydrate, go to the bathroom if you have to, eat a snack if you need some energy, and then dance. It's a very beautiful experience. So, that is Halloween, the 31st, Saturday. Party will be in Mountain View. We're having it in Mountain View so that it's easily accessible by both the Santa Cruz groups and the San Francisco Bay groups. So, it's kind of the middle point. We are going to have a wonderful time. It's gonna be from 7 till midnight or 1, something like that. So you're all invited, but do your homework. Do a costume, and it's best to do the best costume that you can. I remember one St. Patrick's Day. I had green pants, a green shirt, green jacket, and green hat, and green shoes, and I'm like, wow, no one's gonna pinch me. And then I came across a friend of mine and she was wearing no green, so I pinched her and she said, oh I have green and she drew with a green marker a little line on her hand. I'll see I'm wearing green and I was like, hey, compared to me it's not green. So, you know, do the best you can. If you just bring a prop of your top hat, that's fine, but it's most fun to do a nice costume, the best you can.

0:22:11
Excellent.

0:22:12
So, thank you all very much. You did very well tonight. so that we can organize for those who are participating in the yoga program. And we'll have, yeah, just maybe a five-minute break and then we're going to get right into it because we have a lot to cover. it because we have a lot to cover. Thanks so much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
