0:00:00
Hello everyone.

0:00:02
Welcome. We've all made it on a very warm day. That's an accomplishment. Getting through the meditation is going to be an accomplishment too. Good.

0:00:19
Alright. Alright, we're just going to start with meditation. I'm just going to do a three-song meditation. We're going to be listening to some new music this time. This is music from the new album. And it's very nice, very beautiful. So as you know, some of you, he meditates to music. And we have a group called Bayou. And Bayou is a number of my students who practice, and also a fellow student, my teacher, who practice yoga through music. So we listen to this yogic music in our meditation. And it is created with the feeling and the trajectory of the dimensions of meditation. So it's a very beautiful way to meditate. We have a new album. So we'll go ahead and start with a three-song meditation. First song on the navel, second song on the heart, and third song on the third eye.

0:02:12
We meditate to uncover the unlimited life within our own mind.

0:02:24
As we meditate we move from a condition of thought and awareness of the spiritual life. In Buddhist mysticism, we start to turn our awareness also to locations, to places. We start to look at the places in our lives, the places we go, and we start to look at the light and energy of places. There are many different types of places. Places have energy. Places have auras. Just like people groups, people have an energy body, but they also have a physical body. And the energy body is more subtle. You feel it more than see it, unless you have spiritual seeing. Places have energy as well, they have auras. And at first you're just aware of the physicality of places, but then in the practices of Buddhist mysticism, you start to learn about the energies of places. Now, from time to time, usually on the summer solstice and the winter solstice, we go to sacred places. We call them places of power, places that have a tremendous spiritual life, a very fast vibration, where the energy is very beautiful and very helpful for meditation practice. We go on these pilgrimages and we meditate there. These are called spiritual places of power. And we study these places of power. We meditate in these places of power. And we study other places of power as well. There's many types of auras, many types of energies that places have. And we learn about them. But the first and most transformative and empowered activity is to go to a spiritual place of power. This is where a student's life transforms in a powerful, beautiful way, to go on a magical journey into a place of power, a sacred place. It could be a desert, an ocean, a mountain. These places that have very high, beautiful light are all over the place. But there's a lot of them in the southwest of the United States. It's a very magical area. So from time to time, we go on these Nations of power. And during these times, we learn about places of power. This is where we really open our eyes to the vibration of these sacred places. And we meditate there. We learn how to meditate better. The place of power, because it has such a bright vibration, such a luminous aura, it's a sacred quality of attention. When we meditate there, it's easy to be still. It's easy to meditate better, to take the next step in our spiritual practice when we go there. So the vibration of these sacred places is a vibration that is powerful and spiritual and still and bright. When we go into these places of power, we experience the power and luminosity of the place. It has an effect on our voice. It's vibration, it's energy, it's pulses. And we sit in that, we experience it. We open our minds in that place, we still our minds, and we have a relationship with the place, we have a union with the place. And in these powerful moments of meditation, we make rapid transformations from suffering, from our fixed concepts of self and our lives, to very beautiful enlightened states of consciousness. So the places of power that we go to in our pilgrimages are very transformative, And it is one of the key aspects of the study of Buddhist mysticism, is to use places, especially the sacred places of power, in our practice. They are places where your practice makes a giant leap. When you go on a trip to a place of power, it can change your life forever. It's something that, you know, when you walk in to sit there in the meditation, you come in one way and you come out of it much more enlightened, brighter, more aware, give more possibilities and options in your mind for success and happiness in life. So this is something, places are something to respect. They are a very important part of the study. And this is the first time that we have an invitation to you our power trip pilgrimages to a desert of power. And this will be, for those of you who are attending, your first lesson of Buddhist mysticism. Besides the kind of outer form that you could learn about in the second half of the Enlightenment workbook. By going to this desert trip, by meditating there, there is an experience of the unseen world. The esoteric teachings are available there. And it's very, very powerful. So this is where we do amazing things, wonderful things, we have beautiful meditations, and a good time. But at the same time, places of power are places that we bring a lot of respect to. In Buddhism, this is when you have arrived. So if you see litter, you pick it up. That's one of the ways that we respect places. We bring a sense of honor and gratitude to the place. When we go to places of power, we don't attend them with our regular state of consciousness, we reflect the light and brightness of the place, and then we're able to access the power and light of the place. Places of power, you know, in the desert, in the Southwest, might not look all that interesting in its physical aspect. It might just be, you know, a patch of dirt, a sand dune, a rock, a rocky foot barrier. However, when you attend this place with the proper attention, you bring an attitude of awareness that opens your third eye to see the deeper dimensions of the place, to see the actual energy and life of the place. And when you go with that awareness and that disposition, then you have a spiritual experience, a profound spiritual experience. Now, if one would attend with a conventional state of mind, then they wouldn't get much out of it. So some people might go to the Grand Canyon, which is a very tremendous place of power, and go there and look at it and say, wow, gosh, neat, and think it's pretty. But when I take students to the Grand Canyon, we have profound meditations. Just the experience, amazing, beautiful states of mind sitting on the edge of, on the rim of the canyon. And it's very, very, very different than the awareness of a regular tourist. So we bring a proper attention, respect, honor, gratitude when we attend these places. And then we are able to learn about the place. We're able to have these magical experiences in these beautiful places of power. I'm a student of Buddhist mysticism and a teacher of Buddhist mysticism and I've learned about fantastic places in the ocean. And I've learned how to approach these places to see their many dimensions and how to access the light and share it with others. And I also teach people how to do the same thing I do, how to see the light, how to access it, how to follow the light, go to a higher, brighter, more beautiful place. So, this is what we engage in, in this practice. It's an important aspect. It is one of the most magical aspects of the practice, and it's one not to be overlooked or dismissed, you'll see that if you engage in the awareness of places of power, the meditations on places of power, and you integrate the teachings of places of power into your life, that your life will accelerate, your awareness will expand, you will be free from many limitations of awareness lead you into. And it's a way to tremendously and quickly move forward on the spiritual path. Now we're going to be going to Joshua Tree, which is a desert just outside of Los Angeles. So it's not too far away. It's a rivalable distance. And it's a beautiful place, a powerful place. Now, this is a national park. And just like Grand Canyon, many people go there. And many people experience the wonder and beauty of Joshua Tree, there are places that we go, that I know about, that I've learned about, that are places that your average tourist wouldn't go to. And then I'm able to show you how to access the light and brightness of the aura of the place. And it's just a beautiful and powerful experience. Wow, it's quiet. Ah, stillness is setting in. Good. So, places of power. There's many types of places of power. And when we go to places of power, we always work with them in the proper way. If it's a place of spiritual power, we bring a great attention of spirit. It's proper to go there with purity and humility, with openness and just seeking a bright meditation. Just go there to meditate, to just go to the next level and you will take your meditation up into beautiful, bright new places. We also do a bit of what we call Buddhist magic out in the desert. Buddhist magic is fantastic, it's beautiful. Buddhist magic brings you into an awareness of life that and you'll see when you're out there. At the same time, it's important to respect the place properly. When we go to places of power, we don't tread upon them in the same way we might otherwise, some other place. We respect the place as sacred. We work with the place in a certain regard as if it's a spiritual place, which it is. And we are careful because in places of power there's also a little bit of danger, really. It's dangerous if you don't watch your mind and come with a very positive outlook. So, we have a saying, wherever the light shines bright, there are also shadows. So, in these places of power, I go to very specific places and we hold ourselves in specific conduct. And we don't start going around by ourselves, on hikes in the desert by ourselves. It's a matter of respecting it properly, and it's also a matter of not getting yourself into trouble. You might have been to the Grand Canyon before yourself as a tourist. Maybe you've had some meditation experiences there, too. But as you go to the places of power that I take you to, there are definitely shadows there, dangers, that need to be respected. And that's part of the way that we honor the place, by respecting that it's also very dangerous. And when we do that, then we're working with energy properly. We have the proper etiquette, the proper outlook. Otherwise, you can get into trouble. I've seen before, people go to deserts and decide to, you know, hike around by themselves and get lost. Get lost overnight, which is very dangerous in a desert, because although it might be warm during the day, it could go below freezing at night. And it's just a very dangerous thing to do. There's a different consideration when you're on the spiritual path, when you're going on a pilgrimage, and it opens up new doorways of attention and awareness. You might... you're filled with that power of just being in the place of power, being there in this consideration, you start to have a whole new way of looking at things. You can go to the Grand Canyon and see it in a completely different way, but you have to have reserve. You have to have the proper etiquette towards the place of power. Just because you're excited and all of a sudden you see new ways of looking at life and you're just bright and filled with light and love, you might say, oh, I'm going to hike over here, fall off the rim into the canyon. Yeah, so it's a new world. It's a new awareness field that you enter into on a pilgrimage to a place of power. And when you go into it, you'll see things all in bright, beautiful, different ways. And you have to at the same time, reserve yourself and follow the proper etiquette. Just continually be positive. Don't try to take, just try to be still, hold your energy in. Don't go wandering around by yourself. Don't put yourself in a place where you can get lost or get hurt. If you have that attention, you're going to be okay. But a lot of people just get, you know, they have more energy, more awareness, and they get curious and wander around. And you don't want to do that. You just want to go there in the evenings, we will have meditations together. In the daytime, make sure you're safe. It's a power trip to a place of power with me as a spiritual pilgrimage. It's a magical event. And it's very important that you enter these mystical fields of energy properly. Because I open them up for you. I open it up. We get there and there's more light and power than you're used to. Even if you've been to Joshua Tree before, you'll see it in a completely different way. Because the consideration, the teachings that you're going there for are very different. So it's a magnificent and fun adventure. Now, there are other kinds of places of power. Common places of power are plentiful in California. This is such a wonderful state, a wonderful place. It's a place that is a place of nature. It's a place that just feels good. It's a place that has a nice energy, a nice balance, it's helpful to you. It's maybe calming, it's recuperative, it's a happy, right place to be. But it's not necessarily spiritual. It's not something where you're totally transformed. It's a place that is just helpful. You can have nice meditations there. It's a good place to go. It's a good place to be. And there are many places like that. Many places. It could be Golden Gate Park. There's a wonderful place. And, you know, there's also beaches in San Francisco. It's just a wonderful place. You know, out here, the Santa Cruz Mountains, beautiful place, commonplace of power. When you go into the Santa Cruz Mountains, into the Redwoods, the energy of the trees takes over. You could be down here in Silicon Valley on El Camino Real and you know, the world, it's busy, a little tiring, everything's going on, but if you drive up into the Redwoods, then everything is bright because the trees have an energy field. You're in the forest and it just kind of has a stronger energy. It pushes off the heaviness of people in the valley. So if you're amongst the trees in the Santa Cruz mountains, it's beautiful. You just feel good. It just feels like a place of nature. It's easier to meditate there. So that is a common place of power. Common means that it's good for people. It's beneficial. The spiritual places of power are too strong to stay in for a long time. You just can't live there. The place is so strong that it actually will push you out. You can't live in these places of power. The energy is too intense, it wouldn't work. It wouldn't be helpful. It wouldn't be helpful at all. It would actually, after a period of time, it would make you feel uncomfortable. So, you can think of it as being like a healing spa, something that makes you stronger, something that takes you up, makes you brighter. But at the same time, we would continue doing it. So, you know, a good analogy is a massage, right? So, you go in for an hour of massage, and it can be very, very, very helpful, and very wonderful, and it makes you feel great. But if the massage keeps going on, keeps going on, keeps going on, after a while it just hurts. And then eventually it damages you. This is like one of my favorite places in power, Hawaii. Amazing place of power. And if you go to Hawaii to visit, it's amazing, beautiful, and powerful. You can have beautiful transformations there. And if you go to Hawaii to live, you will experience other things. You'll have a massage that just keeps going on. So I actually lived in Hawaii with my students for a while. And I taught them how to deal with that energy. The energy that's just so good. There's some places there that have, that are common places of power. so it's more helpful to live and work in those areas. But in general, there's a lot of spiritual places of power out there where your attention just slowly declines. At first it's great, but then after a while, the massage went on too long. You can take someone, like an uptight New Yorker, and put them in Hawaii for six months, and then they'll just be totally chilling. They used to be on top of everything, scheduling things, halfling the details, and then no scheduling. Oh, details, whatever.

0:29:07
Yeah, that's right.

0:29:08
So, places of power, you don't want to stay in them too long. You need to work with them in a proper way, in a way that has balance. So that's why we only do this a couple times a year when we go to these places of power, because you don't need more than that. These are punctuations in your practice. These are places where you've worked so hard on your yoga, on your meditation, on your tech classes, on your life, getting it strong, that when you go to these places of power, you're able to make a giant transition in attention and awareness. And it's amazing. But you don't want to do it too often. Because if you did it too often, it wouldn't work out so well. So there's a balance. And this is part of the thing that we do to respect power. Respect the places of power. We don't try to suck up as much energy as we can. We're not there to fulfill our desires. We're there just for enlightenment. We're there to get higher, to meditate. And we don't try to draw all of the energy out of the place. In fact, that's why we reflect the energy of the place. We come with that gratitude and honoring the place. So we enrich the place with our meditation. That's why places of power like us, versus people who come over, you know, trying to fulfill their desires. They see something and they're happy, and they start thinking about fulfilling their desires. It's just a toxic energy that most people bring to places. But when we go to places, we reflect the light of the place. We enrich the light of the place, and the place is bright and happy. And that's the right way to work with it. So, there's... So common places of power are places that are not so intense. You can live, work in common places of power. You can go there for a long time. You can be in them where they're nice and balanced and happy. And you can be comfortable and enriched there. So common places of power are good. I had a common place of power that I used to live in. It was Tiburon. Tiburon, across the Golden Gate Bridge, and we're in. just walk around, maybe not on Main Street where everybody's dining and shopping, but a little bit away from the crowds. Tiburon is a place of common power. Sausalito is a place of common power up in the hills. These are places where if you're there, it's very beautiful. It's a beautiful place to have a meditation practice. It makes your life happy. Versus if you are walking around on 7th and Market, it's bad energy. It doesn't make you feel good. If you were going to meditate there you might be concerned that someone's going to rob you. You don't want to close your eyes when you're there. Places of common power like in Diving to Enlightenment you Vanessa's Cove. And Vanessa's Cove is a place that she enjoyed to swim. She would like to just hang out there, reflect, watch the sun rise. And that is a place of common power. It's a place that feels good. It's a nice place. So everybody knows, because California is so wonderful, there's many places of common power here. But there's other types of places of power. There are places of personal power. And places of personal power are places where they may not intrinsically be spiritual or sacred in terms of their energy and vibration. in terms of their energy and vibration. They might not be a Salsolito or a Tiburon. They in fact could be seventh and market. It could be a place where it doesn't feel so great, but it's a place where you have had powerful experiences, bright experiences. Now, let's say somebody is in a bad place, a bad neighborhood, but at the same time there's a little park in the bad neighborhood that they go to and they somehow survive the neighborhood. Well, you know, this was me growing up actually. When I was, I don't know, 12 or 13, I lived in a place called Glen Ridge in Diamond Heights. And it was, you know, like not the best neighborhood. We had a couple little gangs and stuff like that. We'd have lots of little street fights amongst the children on the block. Right next to that is Glen Park Canyon. And I would never play around the neighborhood with kids because they were always fighting and they were talking about weird things to me. And it was no fun. It was scary, in fact. So I would always run away a few blocks and go play in the canyon. And I would go there every day, every weekend. On the weekends, I'd hang out there all the time. And for me, I would just, you know, it's not really a common place of power. It's just a little bit of nature. And you know I would just play around there, dig in dirt and you know there's a little creek there, play in the creek, look for little salamanders and things like that. And so you know from time to time when I'm going through San Francisco down Ashanti or something I'll stop and I'll look into the canyon. And for me, it's a place of personal power because it was for me a little bit of a refuge from a difficult childhood, inner city childhood. That was good too because I grew up in Sunnydale, which is worse. No park. Well, no park. No, actually we did have Crocker Amazon, but that was a terrible park. I learned to run really fast in that park. See? This is places of power. So everyone has personal places of power. They are not only places that you're familiar with, but places where you've had bright experiences, helpful experiences. I might be attached to my old apartment in Sunnydale. Because I remember it, I spent a number of years there, I had experiences there. People get attached to places, but it doesn't mean that it was powerful or helpful for them. You have to look to the places that are powerful and helpful. For a lot of people it's maybe a university. That's a place that was, you know, if you've gone to the university, there's a place where you shifted. It was a place where you gained a lot of education. And, you know, certain places on campus might be, you know, the library or something like that. It might be a place of personal power for you. So everyone's got a place, hopefully. It's good to know what your personal places of power are. Not that you still use them, but to acknowledge where they were as you were growing up, or know where they are now. It's good to know. We're the places that have been helpful, that got you higher. Because even though I don't go to the Glen Park Canyon anymore, I still recognize the power there. And I don't have to go back there and hang out there physically. Just bringing it to mind and say, ah, yeah, there's refuge from difficulty in some places. And that's a power. That's a personal place of power. Now, there's also another kind of place of power. It's what we call practical places of power. And they're very practical. Like, if you were hurt, you would go to a hospital, because that's practical. If you're sick, you want to go to the hospital. That's a place, and that's a place where you can be healed. If you wanted to get a book, you might go to a library. That's a place that has the things you're looking for. So practical places of power are similar to that. In fact, they might be a hospital or a library, but we're looking beyond the physical access to something that's inherent in the place, maybe the energy of the place, or maybe the things that grow there or happen there. A hospital is a practical place of power for healing, you could say. Some hospitals have an energy of the place. So, there's different things available in different places. There's a couple places where they have the little fruit stands at the side of the road. They're growing all sorts of wonderful fruits and vegetables out there. There's a couple places that have the best strawberries. That means there's something practical about that place of power. Things grow there and it has something unique. If you go to Safeway and buy strawberries, they won't taste as good as those ones by the side of the road there. Those ones are special. They're unique. So if you're a connoisseur of strawberries, you will go to the place where they are. And, you know, there's a joke about that. There's two strawberries sitting in a field on a day much like today. And one strawberry says to the other, Boy, it's hot today. The other strawberry says, Oh my gosh, a talking strawberry. Or, if you're in Gilroy, right, there's a certain thing about it. What is it? Garlic. So if you go to Gilroy, people will have their mouths while they're talking and they'll stand far away from each other. Yeah, so you know, things that grow naturally. why is there garlic in Gilroy? Because for garlic, if you want garlic, practical place of power. So you got to have a sense of humor in Buddhism, in mysticism especially, because this is all about places, right? So if you don't know if that's true. The Germans are not all sunshine They're pretty funny. So one thing that a Buddhist mystic will do is they will go to a place that has an inherent energy of success for what they're looking for. And they will work there. They will get there. They will be in that energy field so that they can be successful there. So for example, if you were interested in finance, even though it's not a popular subject more successful on Wall Street than anywhere else. Yeah, anywhere else in the world. If you were trying, if you were in, you know, let's say even San Francisco, and you wanted to go into finance, you would be much more enriched and empowered if you went to Wall Street. If you go to Wall Street, I don't know if any of you have worked in New York, there is an energy there. It's just like a very strong financial success energy. And if you work on Wall Street, you just absorb it. It becomes the way you think. It's just an energy in your mind of success, growth. The problem with the economy is that people took that power and became very greedy. And then, of course, they did unscrupulous things to feather their own nest. And it hurt everybody. So, it's like if your interest is finance, it's a place of power. Even now, even though it's a depressed economy, if you were interested in that, that's a place to go. It's a place to work on. Also, I like that vibration. It's so powerful. It's such a big company. And she was just like, I want to, my goal is to get into IBM and to be successful there, to be an IBM executive. And IBM is in Armonk, New York. It's in a suburb of New York, and it's a place that is, you know, it's like a beautiful, nice office park. The IBM headquarters has pyramids on it. It's got an X3 pyramid. And it's kind of cool. But it's in a suburb, and there's nothing else around it. It's just IBM. And she didn't have any, or she had very little tech skills, about the same as some of you guys who are starting technology right now. And yet, she wanted her job yoga. She wanted to make that her power play. So what she did was, first she went there. She drove in. And she just walked in, went to the main desk and requested a meeting with the HR department. And then met with them on the first day that she went in and asked about job opportunities. And just being there in this beautiful, you know, office campus, it's so nice there, she started to see the place, to make a connection with the place. And she started looking into ways to access the place. And she found out that she didn't have any skills that they wanted. But then what she did is she started to find the local temp agencies that were in Westchester that served IBM. And she called a dozen of them and said, do you serve IBM? They said, and the ones that said yes, she signed up with those temp agencies and she just told them I want to get into IBM. And then they said okay, when a requirement comes up, your typing skills are good enough, okay. So eventually an opportunity came in and she became a temp at IBM and then she was in that energy field and she was working there in the office part of it and then she she worked really hard and she just being a Buddhist mystic she took in the energy and she worked with the energy she thrived on it and then she was able to You know Prove herself to be a good resource so that her boss said, you know what, I want to keep you on. And she converted over to not only the attempt but become a full-time employee of IBM, but doing secretarial work. But at the same time, she was taking her technology courses. And she then was able to switch over to become an IBM technologist because she was in there and her skills improved and then she was able to, you know, being inside, reach the right people and voila, she became a technologist and she attained her goal, which was a good career in the place that she wanted and she got a lot of personal power and happiness from it. a really great way to use a practical place of power. A wonderful way. So, you know, if you're into software, Silicon Valley is a fantastic place for someone to have a software career, someone who's interested in becoming a programmer. You're in a place of power for programmers. There are many opportunities, many, many opportunities. If you were in another place, let's say, I don't know, somewhere in the Midwest, Minneapolis, even Chicago, there's just not as much, there's not as many requirements for programmers, and it's just not an energy line for it. In Locked, by Unlocked, there are some things like Orbits is in Chicago. In the Loop in Chicago, since it's a big city, it does have a specified job market for technologists. about technology is that every major city really can use a good programmer. But it's a great place to start in Silicon Valley because there are so many tech companies and there are so many requirements and needs for good programmers. So if you're in Silicon Valley, you are gaining an energy or an awareness of the energy. Silicon Valley is called Silicon Valley because it's all about technology. It's a practical place of power for technology. It's one of the reasons that we are here, because a lot of us do programming. It's an excellent way to develop your mind and it's also if you're interested in having a good career, a career that is non-toxic that pays you some good money and is fun coding and solving all these riddles and puzzles all day long, it's a good thing. So you know that's why that's one of the reasons why we're here and even if you're not interested in a career in technology, practicing, you know, learning technology is good for your mind. Some of my students in Europe, you know, it's like I have some students who are retired and have never touched a computer in their lives and yet they're learning technology not to get a job in it, because this is one of the ways that they learn to meditate better. And they do. They've been doing it for a while and they see that it improves their meditation. And for all of you who are taking the technology class, already your auras are brighter. The So the classes that you're taking in technology have just such a beautiful, bright momentum that it moves you along the spiritual path just faster, and it's just brighter and more fun. So that's why we engage in any of the things that, outside of just meditation, we go to places of power. We work with places of power. We learn certain things. Computers, technology might be one of them. Because the things that we do help us meditate better. They help us to be happier, brighter. That's why we do it. That's why we learn to work with practical places of power is a university, a college, a place of higher learning. Now, not all places of higher learning are practical places of power. Not all. Like UC Berkeley used to be, but it changed. Unfortunate. However, Stanford University is a very strong place of practical power. That is why we are here right now, because this is a place of practical power. And this is a great place to learn technology, and it's a great place for me to talk to you about places of power. When you're in a place of power, the field of energy lets you, or it aids you to understand things, to look at things in a certain way. Now, if you were, some of you have been in the tech classes when we were in City College. And you notice that it's harder to concentrate there. It's more difficult to learn technology there. And when you're here, there's a feeling, right? There's a feeling. You feel better here. And you're able to concentrate more. You're able to learn in a more expedient manner. Your mind is more clear. You're able to take in the concepts more easily because you're aided by the clear power of this place. And a lot of people capitalize on this place of power. The students who go here, right? They're some of the top business people in the country. There's tremendous innovation that comes out of Stanford. And when you engage in learning here, you gain this special Stanford power. That's why we do our tech classes here. And that's why we're meeting here this time, because there's something special about this energy, where your mind can be clear so that you can learn these new concepts of places of power today. So you're experiencing a practical place of power right now. And it's nice. On this very hot, hot, hot day, your mind is clear. Very good. So you're doing well. That's good. You can walk around campus and just feel this place. It's a place of power. It's fantastic. And you can look at the people who are going here. A lot of them are a bit stressed out. You know, there's a big workload here, right? And then they have to be perfect because they go here. This is a place where there's a lot of competition. So people are a little bit stressed out that they're gaining so much power from going to school in this place. This place has a clear energy. It helps, it aids concentration. It has an energy that aids awareness in a very practical way, practical place of power. And that's why it produces so much In 2007, I remember hearing that the alumni donated a billion dollars that year to the campus, or to the university. They're just like, hey, I got some extra money, and I love my school, I love this place of power. And they just say, I want to enrich it. But see, that's the right attitude. That's the right way to treat a place of power, an institution that helps, not only the institution, it's a place, the whole relationship of Stanford, the whole relationship called Stanford. So this is a beautiful, practical place of power.

0:58:41
Practical places of power. Da-da-da-da-da-da-da.

0:58:44
Right? Fantastic. All right, we're going to take a short break and we will come back, we'll meditate again,

0:58:45
we'll talk about places of power a little bit more. It's not going to be a long session today, just covering very important things for the upcoming trip to the desert. All right, so let's just take maybe a 10 minute break. Restroom that way, coffee that way. Thank you very much.

0:59:22
I'm going to have to open it. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay.

0:59:42
Okay.

0:59:43
Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
