0:00:00
Wonderful. And welcome. So, today is our celebration, sort of. It's kind of a celebration. It's a Buddhist holiday for our school. This is the day where we have recognition.

0:00:30
Yes.

0:00:31
Today is the day where we have the recognition for my teacher Ram Rinpoche's Maha Samadhi, which happened sometime around this time of year. And so that's a reason to get together and to meditate. That's how we have Buddhist celebrations, just get together and meditate. We celebrate every day. That's why this is a mandatory practice. It's mandatory to celebrate. We'll celebrate in true Ram Rinpoche fashion. So, which is good meditation and a good spiritual lesson. But first, I would like to thank some people. I'd like to thank the group that came to do the last Bodie Woods work day. The group of people who came were in an exceptional state of mind. Exceptionally selfless. There was a lot of opposition during that weekend. A lot of opposition. And interpersonal opposition. Opposition as a reaction to the Equinox teachings. And you know the teachings about be happy and don't take your desires so seriously. And that bothered people. So the ones who made it to Bodhi Woods workday were able to put some things aside, some difficulties aside, and then they came over and helped out. That was nice. They came over and did yoga, and that was nice. And they were in a good state of mind. You know, they had to overcome some inertia to get there, and then they got there, and then they did their yoga, and they ended up in a really bright state of mind. It was very nice. That's why we do Bodhiwood's Workday. Because it's fun to dig in dirt. Yeah. Or whatever we do there. We meditate together. We do a digging in dirt meditation, karma yoga. So it is a form of karma yoga. And when you do it, you just work, you don't have to think or worry, you just have to dig something or clean something or build something, then it's very bright for you. The people who live at Bodhi Woods, we work on. We did a work day, actually, yesterday, just for the people who live there. And we enjoy it. It's a meditation for us. It's something that gets us bright. And the good thing about Bodhi Woods is that there's always stuff to do. There's so much to do about. In fact, yesterday we were digging something that we've already, we were digging up trenches we've already dug up before. Okay, let's trench here. We already did that. Let's do it again. Wonderful. Yeah, because one day we were, we were out digging, doing the thing we like to do. And, and then somebody with their shovel cut the internet wire. Then we didn't have the internet. And then, and the internet was a wire, you know, to all So we had to dig up all the trenches to rewire it. It was fun. So that's, you know, we have this thing at Bowie Woods, it's Mila Ropple work. Because we keep doing things over and over. It's fantastic. See? The universe is a great teacher.

0:05:34
Yes. Yes, yes, yes.

0:05:38
So, the people who came were in a very, very good state of mind. It was very, very helpful, very pleasant, very good. So I wanted to say thank you to them. And also, as part of our celebration today, after your yoga meetings, for those of you who attended the Bodhi Woods Workday, I'm going to take you to dinner and a movie. We're going to go to my favorite Chinese restaurant, and then we're going to see how to train my So, as a thank you for helping me, helping Bodhiwood, helping the spiritual community, for being in such a pleasant and selfless state of mind. Also, there's a few people on the Enlightened Media team who are being invited as well, because they have done something. Yeah, that's it. They've done their enlightened media assignments. And in working on enlightened media, you get a... you start to develop... you start working on something at a different level with me directly. You're doing a particular project for the sangha, but you're working with me directly because I want the websites to look a certain way, or graphics to be a certain way. And when you start to create a website for me, you start to have an internal dialogue with me. And it's something where you start to be psychic, you use your psychic capabilities in a deeper way, and you start to access and learn more information, a very subtle but bright information. It's a yoga that is something that is unseen, but very, very powerful. So the ones who have completed their assignments, they have broken through some inertia of self. They pushed through not knowing, and they were sensitive and aware of what I was looking for. So as they start to make progress with their assignments, They increase their psychic facilities and they are able to gain a greater awareness of light and attention by this inner dialogue with me. So they're doing well. That's good. Some of them didn't complete their assignments. And, you know, the self gets in the way and everything. Yeah, I understand. Take your time. But work on it. Because it's a good thing. So, yes. So that's really excellent, the nim-lai-tsum-bi-ni. Good. So that's part of the celebration for some of you who have done extraordinary things. Now we're reaching the end of the beginning. We've been around for a while. And, you know, you know what this school's about. You've got your yoga, your meditation, mindfulness. There's a spirit of energy. Yeah, there's an energy of life. So you know what it's about. I wanted to give you guys all some time. I wanted to give you enough time so that you understand your choice to be here. You know, because at first you go to your intro class, and then you come and see me. Hmm, interesting, Buddhism. You learn some basic subjects. What is karma? What is enlightenment? And then you learn about yoga. And you see the direction and the discipline of the school. It takes some time to look at it, to be aware of it, to evaluate it for yourself if it's something you want to do. And then eventually we participate and we get rolling with it. So, I wanted to give you enough time so that you were definitely aware of this choice. The choice to participate, the choice to meditate, the choice to be a part of this association, lake over lake. Now that I've given you enough time, we get into the teachings. At first, I was giving you introduction teachings. High level, you know, Buddhist concepts are very important. But just kind of telling you about things. Telling you about yoga, seeing if you want to participate, things like that. But now as we go forward, what I do more is I address your mind more. I'm not just talking about reincarnation. I'm not just talking about the foundation of Buddhist concepts. I will talk about Buddhist concepts, and I will teach all of the aspects of Buddhism, but now we start to undergo the spiritual process of transformation from self to enlightenment. I address your mind more directly, it is pointing out places that you have, let's say, blocks, where you have a problem. We call it pushing your buttons. It's like, oh look, you have a button. Let's push it. See? That kind of thing. And then what you do is you say, oh yeah, there is a button. And then you say, okay, so practicing mindfulness and being aware of that, how can I, in a balanced way, overcome that irritation, overcome that depression, that sadness, that laziness. Whatever the thing is that I point out in the teachings, when you're a student of enlightenment, you work on your balance. You work on the brightness of your mind. You focus on getting higher and brighter, and and not being miserable and blaming other people. So, during the next phase of teaching, this is where I start to direct you to see your own mind in an honest way,

0:14:46
so that you can see what's going on.

0:14:48
So if you're sitting in a dark room, and you can only see a few things around you, you don't know what's going on in the rest of the room. So you might be looking there and saying, yeah, my room is nice and clean, because I don't see any dirt around me. I have nicely folded clothes here, a stack of papers nicely sorted. And then I turn on the light in the room and then you see a bunch of garbage everywhere at the far corner. So that's what I do. I shed light on your mind and then you start to see problems probably, unless you're problem-free and then you won't see it. Then there won't be so much of a problem. But when we go through this process, it's very often that I will point out things through the teachings that are uncomfortable for you, that are difficult, that are hard. And it's important for a student to recognize that this is a teaching. I'm not just giving you a hard time. I'm showing you something to work on. Something in yourself to work on. And that's what spiritual teachers do. They turn you on yourself. They show you your mind. And then they give you the means The means through meditation, through mindfulness, they teach you how to deal with yourself, how to resolve the conflicts in your mind, how to apply these teachings of the Dharma so that you can overcome these obstacles, the darkness, the emotional disturbances, and then you can be happy and bright. That's what this is about.

0:16:59
Excellent.

0:17:02
So you all have had enough time to understand your choice to be a part of this. That's good. That's why we're having a mandatory meeting as well. mandatory. Because mandatory is unpopular.

0:17:18
Yeah, it's true.

0:17:22
How many people just decided to not show up just because it was mandatory? There's people, definitely people who are not here because they were really upset about the mandatory thing. They said, I'm an American, I do what I want. Yeah, it's true. I do what I want. I'm going to do anything that says mandatory. And that's just a lack of humility and doesn't make any sense. So, therefore, you know, they're not here. They're not at the mandatory meeting, therefore, that's it. So we are going to have mandatory meetings, because you have to be working on your spiritual practice. You have to work earnestly on meditation, mindfulness, and hopefully yoga. Because if you're doing these things, then you're progressing. If you're not meditating, if you're not practicing mindfulness, then you're setting yourself up for a tremendous amount of suffering. And you're not going to be in this school much longer, because you're not keeping up. So this is what I call a black belt school. And that means that everyone will become a black belt who is in this school. You'll become a black belt in yoga. You'll become a black belt in meditation. You'll become a black belt in mindfulness. And what we do is we progress together. And when someone's not progressing, it's because they don't want to. It's a choice. They don't want to progress. It's not that they can't.

0:19:38
It's that they decide not to.

0:19:39
And when you decide not to, then you just get to the point where everyone else is doing it, but you're not. And therefore, it doesn't make sense for you to be there.

0:19:53
We have a saying in Buddhism.

0:19:56
There's no such thing as can't, only won't.

0:20:04
And it's true.

0:20:05
Even though you say, oh I can't for all these reasons. All the reasons that you think you can't are fictitious. When it comes down to the truth of the matter at a spiritual level, you're just choosing those reasons because you don't want to. You're afraid, you're attached, you're ignorant, whatever. But you're choosing not to. There's no can't. Only won't. So if you won't meditate, if you have a few people around who are not interested in the study, they're just hanging around, they drag everybody else down. It's true. If you hang around people who are making very positive progress in life, there's a very positive energy with that. And that energy will be something that lifts you. But if you hang around people who are going down in life, then they pull energy away from you, and they start pulling you down. If you do half and half, you probably are losing more energy than gaining. Sometimes you can hang out with positive people 90% of the time and then draining negative people 10% of the time and they drain you completely. And then you don't have the ability to practice your meditation, to practice your mindfulness. You don't have attention, you don't have personal power, you don't have presence of mind, because you're hanging out with people who drain your energy. So I can't let people be in the school who drain energy, because it's not... The people who are meditating hard, working on their yoga, practicing mindfulness, it's not fair to them. If you're spaced out all over the place, if you're engaging in activities and hanging out with people that drain you, then you come here and bring that level of energy and consciousness to a meeting of enlightenment. It doesn't make sense. It doesn't help the people who really want enlightenment. It doesn't help the people who are really practicing. And you're just not taking it seriously. You've got to recognize that you're going to lose this if you continue to do it. You've got to look at your life sometimes and say, what's positive in my life? What's powerful? What's empowering for me? What's going in a good direction? And what isn't? What are the things that are detracting me from success? You have to do a little analysis on your life. What the Enlightenment workbook is about, pointing that out. But it's important to take these lessons to heart, to look at your life and to make decisions on what you focus on. Because what you focus on you'll become. Your mind is scattered. If you're doing a whole bunch of weird things. But if you're focused on enlightenment, meditation, mindfulness, and yoga, you'll become strong in those things. And those are fundamental ways to improve your experience of life. It's not just, oh, I went to a party and it was fun. And then I got stuck in traffic and I was angry. Or I got into an argument and was angry. Now I'm sad. You know, that's transient life. When you meditate, when you practice mindfulness, when you do yoga, you improve your awareness field. You improve the way that you relate to life. And then you relate to life in a very bright way. You can sit in traffic, you can have someone argue with you, and you can still maintain a bright state of mind. But if you're trapped in the self, suffering, ups and downs. So it's necessary to look at your life and see what's important. See what you want to put your time, energy, mind into. Because you're putting your time, energy and mind into something. But you have So, we're going through kind of a process of change, stepping up to the next level, in our Lake Over Lake atmosphere. It's an excellent time for the students to take the next step in their spiritual practice. And that is to, you know, look at it this way. It's important to, it's necessary to, it's good for you, it's healthy, it's empowering for you to look at your practice this way. And if you don't want to, then at this point you understand your choices. Yeah. So, it's also important to understand that you're working with an enlightened teacher, which is different than other things, different than other teachers. There's different etiquette, there's different lessons, there's a different way with an esoteric teacher, an enlightened teacher. So, first of all, it's very, very, very important for you to feel positively about your teacher. Because if you have negative thoughts about me because you don't want to cut yourself off from the teachings. But secondly, there's a tremendous karma, a very, very intense karma for negative thoughts, or any thoughts actually, towards an enlightened person or a person of great power. So a person who's got great power can have a strong effect on you, a stronger effect on you than most people. So let's say you were walking down the street and you just went over to your average guy and shoved it Right, what's the karma? The guy will probably get shoved, maybe shove you back Maybe look at you strange and walk away Right, who knows? Something, right? But then Someone more powerful will say Mike Tyson. You go over to Mike Tyson and shove Mike Tyson. First of all, he's very powerful. Second of all, he doesn't like that. Mike Tyson would probably punch you. And it wouldn't be a normal punch. It wouldn't be a normal punch like if you regular guy, if a regular guy punched you, you'd go, ow, I shoved him and he punched me, how strange. How odd. Oh well, I'm going to go around and keep shoving people because that wasn't so bad. But when Mike Tyson punches you because he's a person of power, then there's a significant difference in your facial organization. So you have to be careful. You can't assume that every person is the same. Your habits of thought towards other people are like shoving a regular person on the street. And if you bring your regular patterns of thought to me, then what happens is you have a powerful reaction. Not that I'm pissed off like Mike Tyson and I hate you, but there is a karma, there's a universal law. If you bring, let's say, harm to a person who is pure, then you have a strong karmic reaction. There's a karmic consequence. And that results in really bad states of mind. So, an enlightened person is a person who is bright, has a very, very bright, pure aura. And when you affect that bright, pure aura with negative thoughts, that's like darkness. You're like pushing darkness at that bright light. And the karma for that is that the darkness gets rebound upon you with great velocity. That's it. Great velocity. Power is something that has a, let's say, a very, very quickly. So if you bring to the enlightened teacher thoughts and feelings of love, then that touches that light and is also rebound upon you with great velocity. It returns a greater love and that's wonderful. So that's why enlightened people are like places of power. Because when you focus on them in the proper way, if you use the relationship properly, then it advances you very, very, very quickly. But if you don't work with it properly, you can get yourself into a bad way. You've read the Awakened One, right? So there was Devadatta, and he got mad at his cousin Buddha. He was going into really bad states of mind. He was getting monks to quit hanging out with the Buddha, and he was really angry at the Buddha, and he tried to kill the Buddha. And Buddha was like, yeah, when you start having these angry thoughts about me, when you do things like take monks and try to get them to leave the Sangha, you basically go to hell. And you go to hell first in your mind. And Buddha said, and then when you die you go to hell. And it's actually true. Buddha wasn't kidding. If you have angry thoughts about an enlightened person, you go to hell in your head. And if you're in darkness and upset, horrible, dark thoughts about an enlightened person, then it's not a good thing. There's so much... every time you think those thoughts, there's so much rebound of darkness. And it's not conducive to happiness. You just got to cut it out. You have to stop. Otherwise you're going to hurt yourself. So up until now, I have been put... I had the training wheels on you guys. It's true. I can hold back karmas. I can take karmas. And during the beginning it's natural for you to have your regular habits of thought. It's normal for you to wonder what's going on, you know, so you understand what's going on, you wonder about it. Now you know what's going on. Meditation, mindfulness, and yoga. So, since you've been around for a while, and you understand what we're doing in this practice, now it's time for you to take responsibility for yourself. the training wheels, and I'll let you have the rebound of negative thoughts, if you have them. I recommend you don't. It's not a good thing. I don't think it's a good way to learn. I think it's a bad way to learn. It's not a good thing. So it's very important for you to be very mindful about negative thoughts towards me because it's a fast way to very bad states of mind. Whenever you think negative thoughts about people, you are harming them. So, negative thoughts about anyone, someone else in the Sangha, if you have negative thoughts about them, you are harming them. If you have negative thoughts about people outside the Sangha, you are harming them. meditate your mind becomes stronger. Your mind becomes more focused than most people's minds. And you direct energy through focus. Your thoughts direct energy. So when you think a negative thought about someone, what you're doing is you are pushing darkness at them. You're pushing it in subtle physical energy, in energetic vibrations. And this hits their aura and causes injury. So it's very important not to harm people. Because if you hurt people, then first of all, they're hurt, but at the same time it lowers you. It lowers you into states of mind of an angry bully, of a person who's always fighting with someone. And if you're always fighting people, you're always hurting people, you're never going to be happy, ever. You're always harming people. We work on being harmless in Buddhism. And I don't allow people to be in the school if they're harming other people. Especially if it's me. I notice it more if it's me.

0:39:05
But no, you can't.

0:39:07
You got to get out of the way of being harmful. It's no fun for you to do it. And it's no fun for the people on the receiving end. So you got to look at yourself. You have to deal with your desires and your fears. You have to deal with your mind and your thoughts and your feelings. And you have to deal with them in a mature way. Not blaming other people, not getting angry at other people. You have to say, look, this is a lesson for me. Whether I see that someone did something that bugs me or not. The situation is, I have suffering. I have some sadness. I feel hurt. Whatever you feel, whatever happens, you deal with your mind, not with another person's actions. You deal with your mind, first and foremost. I mean, of course, you work the problem. That means if there's something in the physical world that will relieve your leave your suffering, you do it. Whatever is intelligent and pragmatic, that action that will bring you to a state of balance and success. You do it because that makes sense. But the primary thing that you do as a practitioner of Buddhism is you deal with your mind. You banish negative thoughts. You don't blame other people. You don't get angry at other people. You just say, oh, I feel sad. I need to push my sadness away, and I need to think positive thoughts about how to go ahead. I can't blame that person for what they did. It's what they did. There's nothing I can do about it now. So let me just be positive about, think positive thoughts about how I can get higher, be stronger, be happier now. So you've got to look at your mind. You've got to deal with your mind. That's where the spiritual lesson is in everything. Right? Someone gives you a hard time. There's a spiritual lesson. Instead of getting mad at them, look at yourself. Look at your mind. So we learn to be harmless. It's important to be harmless. Harmless to everyone. Because if you're hurting someone, you are lowering yourself. You're existing in states of mind of someone who hurts people. And in the physical world, you can't get arrested for getting angry at someone. You only get arrested if you take a physical action. But in the spiritual study, we look at thoughts and feelings. We are mindful on the level of thoughts and feelings. Hurting someone with thoughts, with negative thoughts, is sometimes much more painful than hurting them physically. Right? Yeah. So we look at the actual experience of you, your mind, and what you're doing with it. So it's something that you should undo. You need to work on it immediately. Because hurting people, it lowers you. If you hurt people in the Sangha, then I'll start to talk to you about it. I'll start to teach you how not to hurt people directly. It's not... You can't do it. You can't hurt people in the sangha. It ain't right. That's not how sangha works. And especially, you can't hurt me. It is wrong to do such a thing. getting angry at me and stuff, then it doesn't work.

0:44:04
You'll be causing yourself so much bad karma, and you'll be hurting me so much that it's

0:44:09
not appropriate. If you hurt me enough, then I get sick. As a teacher, I have an opening to you. You know, I'm a good martial artist, strong mystic, and I can deal with all sorts of stuff. Angry sorcerers, witches, or whatever casting spells on me, it's happened. And it's no big deal for me. Because I'm a strong person. And I know what's going on. However, with you, my students, I am completely That's why if you think a negative thought, it comes directly to me. I don't shield it. Because I can't. Not if you're my student. Because if I shield, if I try to block you guys away, I wouldn't be teaching you spiritually. There's a very, very deep connection. It's not a very usual thing. And in this connection, there's a pathway to enlightenment. But if you don't work with it correctly, then you take something that's wonderful and you mess it up completely. It's a bad thing to do. It's a bad way to go. That's what Devadatta did. He had this beautiful connection with Buddha. And then he screws it up with desire. He desired to be powerful, too. He wanted to be big and bad or whatever. He had all his ego riled up. And he screwed up an amazing thing, a connection with an enlightened teacher. He became an enemy. He let enmity into his heart and Buddha tried to help him. Or Judas and Jesus, right? This guy got confused and angry and sad, totally, completely screwed up. Something that could have been wonderful and beautiful. Enlightenment is wonderful and beautiful. And in the union with an enlightened teacher, there's this possibility, this opportunity. So it's necessary to recognize that. It's necessary not to mess it up. Because if you mess it up, then it's messed up. It's not the Dharma if you have negative thoughts, if you're angry. So it's important for you to recognize this. We work on harmlessness. Harmlessness, harmlessness, harmlessness. And if you throw negative energy at me, now the training wheels are off. Training wheels are off. So you'll start to see your states of mind as karmic results. It's appropriate at this level for you to have responsibility for your mind. You have to recognize you can't just go around being a baby and a brat. You have to grow up, stop being negative. You have to be mindful. And if someone's giving you spiritual teaching, someone's giving you opportunities for enlightenment, personal then Don't be angry at them even if the study is difficult Get angry at your sensei. He told me to do a jump kick I'm not gonna do that jump kick. I don't get it. Yeah Yes, so it's a very very very important for you to be mindful and harmless. Don't think negative thoughts about me over anyone else. But don't think negative thoughts about anyone. But don't think them about me. I'm very psychic, right? And I have an opening to where I'm vulnerable. And I have a very subtle field of awareness. So if you throw negative energy at me, it hurts me deeply, and then it manifests, since I don't have ego reactions, that starts some crazy karma that brings me to some stupid state of mind or something, since I don't do that, what it does is it immediately hits my body. So I don't deflect in unhealthy ways for my spirit, but your negativity hits my body, and that means that my body will get hurt. So I don't want that to happen. I'm not here to get hurt. I'm not here for you guys to... I'm not your piñata. You're like, oh, you have some candy in there! Get the candy out of him! Spiritual candy. Spiritual sweets, right? No, no, no, that's not the way to do it. Yes, yes, yes. So be positive and work on harmlessness. Very important. Yeah, you don't want to throw bad energy at any spiritually advanced person. It's not good. It's like going and giving Mike Tyson a nasty look or something. There's a stronger reaction. For Mike Tyson, he might get mad and punch you, but there's a karma. There's a very, very strong karma. So you want to stay on the good side of karma in the spiritual path, and that is to create more good karma. You have an opportunity to advance yourself through this connection. So positive thoughts take you way up. And you should have positive thoughts. There's no reason to have bad thoughts. Everything's great. Right? It is. You have all the opportunity that you need for enlightenment. You have your struggles and that's good. That's what you're working on. That's what you're learning about. We're not afraid of struggle. We just deal with it in a way where we recognize it as a teaching. Say, oh boy, I'm having a hard time learning this thing. Okay, good. So you're learning it. But you just say, you know, this is what we do. I'm having a tough time with this, but good, this is good because I'm learning something. I'm being open minded, I'm not reacting, I'm applying my attention, I'm not running away, you know. This is how you learn spiritually. So we take challenges and we see that our hardships are lessons, we see that our reactions point to our mind and show us that there's something to be more mindful about. That we should have more restraint, so that we should be softer. And this is what we learn. We learn by observing our mind. We learn by observing our mind. So there's a lot, there's everything, every opportunity for happiness and enlightenment. And all of the struggles that you have, if you work them properly, you know, if you practice mindfulness, if you practice impeccability and selflessness, then you will become stronger, you'll gain personal power, personal power, and you'll get higher and brighter from working the problem properly. That's Karma Yoga. This is the spiritual path. Meditation and mindfulness gets you higher, brighter, stronger, able to deal with life in a happier, balanced, and grounded way. So when you meet your enlightened teacher, you have met me because of your good karma from this end, especially from past lives. So that's good karma. However, to stay with your enlightened teacher, you have to continue to make good karma. Otherwise, if you just made it once, you met me, and then you don't foster that possibility and create better karma, then the karma goes away. There's nothing more for you to do. You can't take it to the next level because you don't have the karma, the merit, the state of mind to be able to do the next level, to learn the next spiritual teaching. So it's necessary that you recognize that this is a special opportunity, not a common opportunity. And that you have positive thoughts, you're mindful, you practice your meditation, and you'll generate the good karma to continue to advance in this opportunity. So if you're in a martial arts school, and you wanna get to the next level in your belt rank, you have to put more effort in. You have to learn the lessons better. You have to try harder so that you can achieve that next level. If you're in there and you're fifth cue or green belt or whatever, and you wanna go for your next belt, but you're not Learning the new techniques. You're not practicing them that well. You're not improving the previous techniques You're not trying you don't get the rank. You don't you don't move up You stay at the same rank So this is a black belt school of spiritual study and that means that we will go up to the next belt rank, the inner belt rank of spiritual practice, right? But it requires you to do the work, to be mindful, to be harmless, to do yoga, to practice your meditation earnestly. And then you get to a higher level and there's a greater personal power, greater luminosity of mind, greater happiness, greater strength. And that's what this is about. That's what this is about. So when you practice, you will get higher. There's a new teaching here. We're going to the next next level for you, so that you can be brighter and happier, more powerful in your lives. But it's required that you work on it. You've got to work on it. You know, if you're not working on it, you're not earnest about your practice, then you're not doing anything. So there were a lot of people hanging around who were not doing anything. And hopefully, you know, I set up a structure in this school that is not easy, and it's strange. I talk about yoga a lot, I talk about focus and discipline a lot, because, you know, frankly a lot of you guys are very spaced out. And you need to have a lot of attention on focus, on discipline. So that's why focus, discipline, martial arts, yoga, yoga, yoga, yoga. Because that's what you need. That's what will allow you to have the personal power to establish yourself on the spiritual path, versus dabbling around and hardly doing anything, doing nothing. So I've created this and I focus on this. It's not popular things to talk about, but I talk about it because it's something that will really help you. It's what you really, really need to work on to get ahead. And it's definitely not popular. That's why I hope that if people aren't serious about the study, they would just leave on their own because they're not interested. They're like, oh yeah, Samar's kind of neat. He says neat things. But he just talks about yoga and how I'm getting bored. He talks about discipline. Oh, I don't like discipline. He talks about focus. Oh, I don't like to focus. He says spacing out is bad, but I like spacing out. You know, that kind of thing. I used I understand. But, yeah, this is a different way. And there's benefits to it. So, you know, so I figure, you know, if I talk about the things that are really important, the people who don't want to do those important things will kind of just select themselves out. However, somehow, some of them have remained, which is impressive. That's actually good. They've just been sticking around, maybe not coming to class, but at least sticking around somehow. And that's actually good, you know. time to make the change from just sticking around so that you can have a connection to being responsible for your practice. Otherwise, you know, like this is a hand up and not a hand out, right? The one thing that we've established for sure is that all of you like enlightened energy. You like the connection. And you all get light and brightness from this connection. Even if you never show up, even if you never meditate, just by having a connection, being a student of an enlightened teacher, you know, whenever you focus on something, like you focus on getting a job, when you go into that interview, you'll see it's bright. You'll be like, oh, there's light, like when I sit with Samara. Because I have an internal teaching for work. You go to a martial arts class, all of a sudden, wow, this is so fun! I never thought martial arts would be this fun. So bright, so cool, so empowering. You know why? What do I talk about all the time? Martial arts. I have a teaching, I teach martial arts in a spiritual way to all of you. So, you know, cool things come out of this connection. However, as we move into the next belt rank, you have to be responsible for your technique. And if you're not, then this is the point where I'll say, thanks for coming. Thanks for all the fish. Because you don't want to do the work. It's like if you're in a karate dojo and you've been around for a while and the sensei is like, okay we're gonna learn the kata for the next belt. All right, so first downward block and everyone starts doing it and you're just standing there. in there yeah okay yeah Kazuki step forward punch and then you'd stand in there so it's like you're not doing it but you're just hanging around and what would the sensei say the sensei would say hmm maybe better if you go off off dojo mat. Maybe, oh, remember in Ramen Girl when she didn't, she was having trouble cleaning the toilet, so he kind of like goes, oh, oh, come here, come here, takes her to the door. Pushes her out and closes it. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That kind of thing, right? I mean, if you're not, if you're not doing it, if you're not interested enough to do it, then after a while, you don't need to. You're relieved of any obligation to do anything. You can do what you want. You're an American.

1:05:06
Americans have this wonderful...

1:05:09
Americans and people who live in America have this wonderful sense of entitlement. I'm entitled. You're entitled. Yes. So you can do what you want. But if you want a black belt in martial arts, you've got to listen to the sensei. You've got to do the work it takes. It's hard work to get a black belt. If you want that kind of power and excellence, it takes a lot of effort. It takes a lot of work. You got to want it. Otherwise it's not going to happen. And if you do such a terrible job, if you're just like giving your sensei attitude, and you're not doing your technique, then there's a door marked exit. Then you don't have to do any martial arts, you don't have to have your sensei tell you anything to do. You can take a couple of classes at the Y, or whatever. But if you want to go to a school where black belts are strong and powerful, it takes some work to do it. That's right. You can't just hang out. Hanging out doesn't work. You have to earnestly work on your meditation, mindfulness and yoga. Yoga is very powerful. People who want to succeed in their career do yoga. But if they say, oh, but my career isn't doing computers or whatever, right? Yeah, I know. But in yoga, you learn something spiritual that helps you in your career, whatever your career is. You learn job yoga. You learn how to work on anything and gain spiritual power from it. So, you know, if you don't want to succeed in your career in life, then you don't need to do yoga. It's an aid. But if you don't do it, then you don't get it. But yoga is very helpful. Yeah, people who do yoga are people who want to succeed. They want to get that light into their life. Eight hours a day you're spending sitting around doing something. It could be part of your spiritual path if you do yoga. But you don't know how to do yoga. Some people are like, yeah, I do similar things at work already, and I do it like yoga. So I do yoga already by myself.

1:08:08
Ha ha ha.

1:08:10
Yeah, right. Complete egotism, right? Yeah. You don't know. You don't know what yoga is. You're just barely getting an idea of what yoga is for some of you who are actually practicing. So, you know, yoga is a esoteric structure. It is an enlightened teaching in the second attention. And you think you bring that out by yourself at work? You think you know what that is? You don't. That's like saying, oh yeah, I know karate. I watched Van Damme in the Kickboxer 3 movie. That's equally ignorant. There's a lot of magic in yoga, but it takes doing yoga, which is selflessness and impeccability and when the selflessness part doesn't even let you start then therefore you're not really doing yoga. You're practicing egotism. So I recommend yoga but you can do what you want for now. We'll see if you can stop being harmful first. Lesson one. Stop being harmful. Yeah, because, you know, if you're just sitting around being mad about things, disagreeing, then what are you doing? Then you're just around too long. Probably. Right? It's kind of like if your roommate's brother comes over from New York. He's like, oh yeah, my brother's coming over. Can he stay with us for a while? Yeah, sure. No problem. But then he stays a little too long. Sitting on the couch, eating chips, playing video games, watching TV, just hanging out. Too long. What's the point? The visit's over, right? Are you going to move here or what? If you move here, you got to start paying rent, get out!

1:10:52
Right?

1:10:54
So, it's necessary for you to take a look at your life and see where it's going. It might be going wherever you want it to go. But, if you want to be a part of the school, you have to meditate, practice mindfulness, and if you're smart, you're going to get yourself involved in a yoga project and do yoga. Like you don't have an hour a day, or you do. So the study, the study of enlightenment. See, this is what a teacher does. A teacher starts to give you a hard time. When I teach martial arts, I'm nice sometimes.

1:11:44
I'm like, oh good!

1:11:46
You extended your arm. Yeah. But I also am an intense martial arts teacher. Because when I teach martial arts, I'm not teaching you just how to do certain techniques. I'm teaching you to be able to have the power to defend your life against an attack. And if I'm too goofy about it, or too nice about it, if your technique is bad and I'm just all, oh it's okay, then I'm not doing you a great service. And as a spiritual teacher it's the same. If you're a pissed off loser, I'm going to point it out. I'll say, hey, you're pissed off. Stop being pissed off. Yeah, stop being pissed off. Why are you so pissed off? You know, I'll point it out. We'll talk about that, right? There's a button, we push it. So, because that is something that is in your best interest, it'll help you. If you address that, if you learn about it, if you look at it and say, Oh, I am doing that. Why am I doing that? Maybe I should practice mindfulness. Maybe I should have a bigger heart and stop being such a jerk. You know, if you keep on thinking negative thoughts, you're choosing to think negative thoughts. Stop it. You don't have to think negative thoughts. You can change. Start thinking positive thoughts. It's a happier way to be. It's a more productive way to be. So it's necessary to take a look at your life, see what's positive and empowering, and to learn the lessons that will get you higher. Very necessary. So this is the end of the beginning, and we're heading into the next level of practice. Which is, stop being a jerk. Don't be so negative. Be positive. Don't be harmful. Don't be harmful. Yeah, it's no fun hanging out with someone who's harmful. It's like, oh yeah, you're my good buddy, but every once in a while you make me feel terrible. You say terrible things to me, and I feel horrible. Or you punch me or something, you know, like terrible. It's like, you're great. You're a great friend. You're a nice person. But then you do these terrible things. That's how people are out there in the world. People are mean and nasty to each other, you know, draining to each other and things like that. But in the Sangha, there's no place for that. You have to get beyond that karma, beyond that negativity. You got to be mindful and direct your mind to harmlessness and to all of the positive opportunities.

1:15:54
Very important. Very important.

1:15:59
We will take a little break, we'll come back, meditate again, and then on to yoga meetings.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
