0:00:00
Let's go on to one team.

0:00:03
One team stand up.

0:00:04
One team stand up.

0:00:05
How many sales people are there? Three, okay.

0:00:07
And stand up.

0:00:09
I have a problem with all of Lenting. Especially Brooke, who's not even here. Let's start with Laura. And Dakini, you'll be leading because you're the sales manager.

0:01:02
Okay.

0:01:04
So, can I say something that's really important for me first?

0:01:08
Sure.

0:01:09
Okay. So, you guys are doing your yoga as a routine. And it's not working like this. It's not like I'm brushing my teeth everyday, I do yoga everyday. It's not going to work like this. So you guys are doing your test, but you are not going for results. And basically I have to say, you are wasting your time and energy like this. Because if you went for results, you all know that you should put much more effort and energy and attention in this and none of you are willing to do this. So that's my problem.

0:01:46
You know, this is so true. Sales takes that little extra super push. It's kind of like sparring. So for those of you who do martial arts. So if you're doing martial arts and you're sitting there going, like, you know how you do a kata? Right, and if you do sparring like that, you'll be like going, I'm punching and kicking.

0:02:11
Right? But in order to actually get to hit somebody,

0:02:17
you have to push more. So you guys are doing a routine like you're doing kata. I'm punching and kicking. I keep going, and I'm doing the right things. It's the right moves. But in order to get that point or hit that opponent, you have to focus for real, and you have to make it happen. So I absolutely agree with that. The main thing is that you guys are not willing to score. OK. not willing the score. OK.

0:02:53
And now, Roro.

0:02:54
That's exactly it. That's exactly it. And we talked on the Equinox that there is a way to deal with your life situation without putting so

0:03:43
much energy in it, but you just don't. This is the thing that always stops you. You're all, but, you know, my definition. Definition of being a mom. You're like, I'm a mom, I have to take care of my kid, my kid has a problem. And you spend way too much thought cycles on it, way too much energy on it. You could manage it, you could manage Gabe, you could manage his illness, you could manage everything without putting so much energy in it and have enough energy to do your yoga properly, but you don't do that and it seems like you've selected not to because you don't. We've talked about it for years. So, I mean, you want to just give up? You should just give up if you're going to give up. I mean, if you're not going to make a change, it's probably not going to happen. So consider that. Next person. This is how you lose your mind.

0:04:43
But in yoga, this would be your primary test, to work on your personal power. And you are not doing it. So you put all your effort in your work, and you do an amount of yoga, you are not making any results, you are not making any better with your yoga, basically. And where I see the problem is basically the effort and focus. You don't put any focus in yoga, or you just can't focus, I don't know.

0:05:19
Yeah, so, you know, Wanda, you, you do, you're not really committed to your yoga. You're not spiritually committed to it. If you're spiritually committed to your yoga, then you overcome karmic barriers. You transcend karma. So you have karmas that stop you, like everybody. Everybody has their story of what bothers them, what stops them. And everyone has to overcome their karma in order to break beyond what they think they can do. And you can do that through yoga, but you're not. You're just not committed

0:06:07
to it. Next.

0:06:09
So, you have the most heart for yoga in the whole team, and we really appreciate that, and you put a lot of effort and energy in it. You still don't succeed yet. I think this is because you've been decided on your needs in your own success. And even in the most obvious situations, when you're just about to succeed, you always fail.

0:06:38
I call it that flying feeling. You really have to will and know and believe in and push for that success. And then it happens. And when it happens, it's awesome. Thank you. Yeah, so yeah, you don't believe in yourself. And that's what stops you. If you believed in yourself, then, or if you just got over yourself, put yourself aside, it would happen. With the effort that you're putting in, you're putting in the right effort. You just have to get yourself doubt out of the way. OK.

0:07:31
Now.

0:07:31
So, Wanda, I'd like you to step out of the yoga. It's not happening. You're not doing what it takes. You're not doing it. So I'd like you to step down. Laurel, I'd like you to consider.

0:08:07
You can bow out if you want.

0:08:09
If you're not going to make it happen, then you're not making it happen. You know full well what it takes. And if you want to complain, if you want to bitch, if you want to doubt, you can just go. You can quit. If you think that this is a bad deal for you, that this doesn't help you, doesn't help your life, doesn't help your situation, then go away. But if you go away, you never come back. The spirit of the eagle, as John Watt says, comes around once, goes, but for you it's come around twice, it's not coming back though. So, if you don't want to succeed in this yoga, quit. And if you're so pissed off about this practice, quit.

0:09:00
Otherwise, change.

0:09:03
Because, you know, the same complaints, the same bullshit, the same stuff all the time, you're not doing anything. So I'd like you to step out of the Hobson yoga. Micah, if you don't change you're going to get fired. And getting fired for you means that you're going to get fired from from the Hobson job. You've done your year. You've lived up to your commitment. You've got a lot out of it. You've got a lot out of it. But, you know, if it's the same bullshit and you don't do anything about it, then I have a problem with it now. So if you don't stop getting so fucking pissed off, you've got to work. You've got to work. You've got to push yourself. And if you don't do it, you'll get fired. That's it. And Robert, next week, if we don't see a change, if I don't see a change in your aura, a change in your heart, and work, you know how you do it? You work. Do the work. You get bright. I've seen people in here who have done the work in the past week and turned it around from being dark to bright. I see darkness in your aura. I don't like it. So next week if you haven't turned it around I'll say, too bad. It was a great opportunity and you should have excelled in it but you're not doing it. So let's see what it's like next week.

0:10:52
Alright. Now, what do we have left? We have Yama. The Yamingians. Yama, please stand up.

0:11:00
Diamond, please stand up.

0:11:02
What are you thinking about? I know yeah, Isabel Isabel problem

0:11:14
And then you you you and you okay, let's start with those four

0:11:21
Okay, first of all, Yama. Yeah, so Yama, you guys are the you guys are the team that has the injured team leader. This is a bad sign. You guys have had a lot of ego reaction. You guys remember when Kamala was managing you, you know, personal emails and communications, you guys threw a lot of shit at her. This is a problem, right? And then it ended up creating damage to her aura, greater pathology, which ended up with a physical damage. It's very bad. So, yeah.

0:13:18
This is not a good thing.

0:13:20
So, we really, really, really, really need to stop negativity. We have to be positive. The flying feeling. Alright, so let's start with the four. I'm going to show this one before you.

0:13:38
Okay.

0:13:39
So, you're one of the smartest people I've met,

0:13:45
you have this beautiful mind.

0:13:47
I'll give you a task and you'll go do this research

0:13:49
and you'll come up with this amazing document in a third of the time it would take me to do the same thing. So I really love that and I appreciate that. And I think that place where you're primarily getting stuck is you've set some completely essential goals for yourself in your personal life and then in your yoga. You know, to go beyond just this, oh let me do this research task and be helpful here, but let me like really make something happen as your yoga goal. And the thing that you have to do is prioritize those above everything else and put the time in. Because you can do so much when you're focused on it, but you don't give it enough time, and so you get scattered across these other things, and things don't happen, and your whole life stays heavy, instead of just making this hugely popular and excelling. And when you can do that, in your personal life, in your job, and in your yoga, then you'll have this really amazing time.

0:14:48
Your life has drained the shit out of you. And so I'd like you to stay here after everybody else leaves. Because if your energy, you can't maintain energy in your aura, it leaks out. And then you don't have energy to do things. Alright, that's it. Next. I'm Sean, Sean, 3-18.

0:15:43
Playing plenty of time, really responsive, so I appreciate this quality. So, hard is on yoga, however, putting a lot of personal limitations in your yoga. So as a result, you don't produce results. There's a lot of time, but there is nothing. There's no outcome. And that's sad to me, because I'd like to see you succeed. I know that you've lived with your limitations for a while, and yoga was meant to help you let go of them, and that hasn't happened yet. So that may result in lots of fear and self-limitations.

0:16:31
Yeah.

0:16:33
And a lot of it is that you're stuck in your old job. Yes. You've been working for months, you have to get another job, and we've been pushing on you harder lately. But I know it's a really scary thing to go out of this sort of comfort zone of inconsistency,

0:16:46
but you just have to do it. You have to make it happen.

0:16:49
Yeah.

0:16:50
You're extremely stuck, very stuck. So change job would be extremely helpful. Yeah, what your yoga teachers tell you is right. You've got to listen to them and take action. Don't just go, oh, whatever. They're telling you how to succeed, and they're right. So you've got to change your job. That would help a lot. It looks like you're kind of going through the motions in yoga, but you are getting no results. So that means that you're not putting your heart into it. And it's got to become real to you, and it's not. Yeah, so change your job, start with that. Next.

0:17:38
Misa?

0:17:39
I'm really happy with Misa's work. Misa puts a lot of energy, excitement, and enthusiasm in the quality of her work, too, and also really good with changes. I gave Misa a ton of constructive criticism, and she responded positively to me. So it was really nice and refreshing. It's great quality to be able to read criticism and respond

0:18:03
well.

0:18:04
weeks, I guess, but the problem is the comfort zone. There's a lot of sitting around and having sentimental relationship with a comfort zone. So on one hand, I know you don't want to be there, but on the other hand, you constantly look back and romanticize it and so how wonderful it is to be where your comfort zone is. And as long as you hold on to it and look back at it, it will never go away. It will always haunt you and prevent you from being successful.

0:18:32
You have terrible social conditioning that will stop you from following the path to enlightenment. And it is definitely able to be seen in the comfort zone. You have to be a warrior. That means that you have to have courage to push beyond what's comfortable. I think you need to get a job.

0:18:55
That's what you need to do.

0:18:57
You need to put some energy into getting a job.

0:19:00
Yep.

0:19:03
And then that will break you out of whatever funk you're in, because you're in a massive funk. And if you make that change, then you'll be being a warrior, and you'll be moving along. But right now, I mean, I'm happy to hear that she's doing good stuff on her yoga. It's good. But there's something deeper that is going to really take you off the path. So you have to be a warrior. Your social conditioning stinks. Get a job. If you got a job, quit. No, get another job and then quit.

0:19:42
Wait a minute.

0:19:45
Always get another job and then quit.

0:19:47
OK.

0:19:49
Olga, really happy with her graphic work. So Olga excels, very talented person in general. Just has many good skills and just talents. Talented at learning programming, talented at graphics, which is really familiar with. The problem is when doing new stuff, when doing stuff like coding tasks, that's something that's not comfortable, you just kind of close your eyes and do it. But you have to be awake while you do it. So not just breathe through it, but think through it and be mindful about your work. So don't let the fog, fear, and unclarity settle in your work. Don't be sloppy. So a lot of the code that you put in me, something you have to know, is just not a good quality work. And I wouldn't be saying that if I knew you weren't capable of it, but you're fully capable. Talent that's smart. No reason to be sloppy.

0:20:56
No good excuses.

0:20:58
So in terms of your coding, the thing to focus on is how do we do this with the least code possible? Like what's the absolute most efficient way that I can do this? Where can I put this in one place that will work everywhere instead of touching all these different platforms you use. And so that'll be clearly understandable and easily maintainable by the rest of the team. And then the other area, as I heard, in terms of improving attention to detail and floppiness, is making sure that you don't override

0:21:26
other people's check-ins.

0:21:28
So, like this happened to Kamal a couple times, so that's just where we do all this work. So either merge it, or if you can't merge it, then the thing to do is to accept someone else's code and then add your changes back in. So just be really careful to not accidentally mess that up.

0:21:44
It's a big headache. Where did you start fucking up?

0:21:47
Ah, I know.

0:21:48
A relationship. So at a time where you could have focused on your own personal power, you did what a lot of women do because of conditioning. You saw someone else that was powerful and you said, that is my way of getting power. So you said, my power comes from a man. And it's not that you can't be in a relationship, but you can't look for your power in another person. And that's exactly what you did. So what you are doing right now is you're starting off on a foundation of not trying to develop your power. So if you already know graphics and you're helping out with yoga to do the graphics that's good but you know how to do that. If you were talented at learning technology good but you have to be able to do that technology, develop yourself through that technology. So you have to develop yourself. And since there's a lack of development in yourself, it's because of that core problem. You made a huge decision to try to get your power from being with somebody else and not focusing on developing yourself. So you can be in a relationship and both be positively moving forward, but you can't get confused, right? Like two people can be riding a bike next to each other, going the same way, hey, this is really fun. But if you guys try to hold each other's handlebars, then it creates huge problems. You can start crashing.

0:23:37
You can start crashing left and right.

0:23:39
You're all like, oh, let me hold your handlebar.

0:23:41
Oh, let me hold your handlebar.

0:23:43
Oh, oh, oh.

0:23:45
So, you know, that's what you're doing. You're like, oh, this person is moving along fast on their bike, so I want to grab onto their handlebars, and then that way I'll move along fast with them. But it really fucks things up. So what you need to do is you need to say, all right, I'm my own biker. And I'm going to ride my bike, and I have fun riding along the side with someone else. That's awesome. But you have to manage your own balance, and you have to pedal yourself. You've got to take responsibility for that. And you have to reflect on that critical error. I mean, it almost took you off the path. It's so fucked up. And that's what a lot, that's what women's conditioning is. You gotta recognize that, and you have to deal with it, especially because you're a Russian. Eastern Europeans have a little bit more social conditioning than in America. Americans are all like, yeah. But in Eastern Europe, it's more intense. OK, next. Morgan, also really good heart, really good effort, good yoga.

0:24:57
Can't complain about a lot.

0:24:58
The only thing I think is a personal, is a lot of unclarity, fog in mind, and because of this fog, a lot of errors get created unnecessarily. Errors in reporting bugs, the kind of bugs sometimes you report and errors within the same bugs. It's inefficient. Creates work for me, creates work for you, it's a pleasant Why?

0:25:38
Can you give a specific example? So one specific example is there was one bug about really long title text, and it had three different effects on the homepage, so you put in three different bugs. But if you'd been more focused and more clear, you would have realized, oh, this is all caused by the same underlying issue, so let me just report one bug, because that's more efficient and faster for the engineering team to process.

0:26:05
The hand-in-stand is a lot of good bugs. A lot of good bugs that helped us to cover some serious problems with software. So they're very capable, smart, able to do good work. It's really thick.

0:26:18
It's weak.

0:26:20
I have one more compliment to add. It's really inspiring to me when you talk about the spirit of our yoga. I'm like, whoa, she sees this thing that I see.

0:26:33
It's really tremendous.

0:26:35
Yes. And one more thing, I also want to add this compliment to both Nisa and Morgan. It was really nice to be able to outsource them, meaning have another team hire them. job and you receive so many compliments and so much positive feedback that the rest of us haven't seen together. So that's a really good indicator, you know, considering that you don't even come from technical backgrounds and technology, it was so early on for you.

0:27:08
So it's not scary.

0:27:10
Yeah, Morgan, your heart is definitely in the right place. Your mind is scattered. Too many thoughts. You really, really, really need to focus on things that are constructive for you. You really need to push your focus on getting a job. I don't know if you have a job, but you need a better job. You need to push your focus on that. That'll mean everything. Because when you step up into a more powerful job, then you'll think there's a reason to try. And maybe you can let your... If you feel like you're doing something special and cool, then maybe you'll let your self-importance down so that you won't get yourself fired. Because you won't give people a hard time.

0:28:11
Yeah.

0:28:13
You definitely have to, you know, how to win friends and influence people should be your etiquette at all times in dealing with people. It's very important. And when you find that you're not doing that, that's self-importance and you need to check that. You need to be mindful of that. And you need to get a better job so that you get into a place with better, more respect for you. Absolutely. And you need to focus on that. And not think a lot of junk. When you think junk, it just starts to take your attention away from succeeding. You need all your attention to succeed.

0:29:00
Okay.

0:29:02
Next.

0:29:03
Next person is Christian. Smart, talented, hard-working, lots of good stuff. Can handle a wide range of tasks, from sales to technology, that's great. One thing that, where you lose energy is being negative towards yourself. Kind of creates scars in your aura, and the energy just leaks through and drains you. And it just decreases quality of your life. And that could be really great.

0:29:43
Yeah, some people are like that, right? They do great stuff, and they work really hard, and everyone says, yeah, that's a good guy.

0:29:52
Or she's a good gal.

0:29:54
And then the person just beats up on themselves. Don't do that. There's no reason to. You should try to find a balance with yourself. I mean, you do your work, you do the best you can, but you don't have to beat yourself up because you're doing a good job. Yeah, being critical of yourself is good. You always want to be like, am I doing the right thing? That's good, but not in a way that's harmful. So you actually do it in a harmful way. You beat yourself up, you don't think you're good enough. You're like, I'm not good enough, I'm doing it bad, or stuff like that. And you don't need to think that at all. You just keep working. And by following the yoga you'll get more and more powerful and more and more bright. So just keep on working on it. Don't beat yourself up because you're doing great.

0:30:48
Next.

0:30:50
Isabelle not here. That's a no.

0:30:54
Isabelle! Sad state of mind. Garbage crap.

0:31:01
Jonathan, thank you. Jonathan has a really beautiful heart. A lot of good effort towards work really tries hard. I appreciate it. It's always nice to see. I think Ip Som reminds me of the Wizard of Oz, a lion who has a teenage of courage. No, not teenage of courage. One of the characters. They're seeking for courage and the courage is already within them. Losing fear is also a fundamental issue. Also, for the concrete stuff, concrete examples, you succeeded a lot in your coding. So from where you came from, where you are right now, it's a really big step up. And so the next thing for you to work on is become a professional coder, where your code has that quality. You know how you can sometimes see if a print work and it's just kind of like weird. Somebody did something, they printed a card, but it just doesn't have the right vibration. So you're at the point where you can do something, but it just doesn't look professional enough. So adding that touch of professionalism, independence, maturity to your code would be really, really good next step for your coding.

0:32:26
Yep.

0:32:27
Yeah, so your heart's in it, and you're doing the work, and you just have to keep going, and refine and do better.

0:32:37
Next.

0:32:38
Lizette. Lizette, I think the beautiful quality about Lizette is harmlessness and gentleness.

0:32:42
So a lot of her attention and mind is spent thinking how to not harm, how to be helpful, how to be beautiful with people. And a lot of that explains why you're so quiet and kind of lay low. you just try not to be a problem, you try to be harmless but you develop this habit of just being invisible and that invisibility clock is just all over the place it covers your talents so with that invisibility, limit yourself so I don't really know what you're... quite honestly you tell me what you're doing, but I don't really know what you're doing. You're not producing results. You're not learning. You don't push yourself. So you celebrate your weaknesses. And I believe it's time to start celebrating your strengths.

0:33:54
Yes, this is good. Yeah, so one of the great things is that you have a lot of purity and harmlessness which is nice to me. But you have you have to push more you have to you have to break out of your Santa Cruz karma being chill. With everything New York on it. And you really, really have to just push harder.

0:34:25
You've got to do more.

0:34:27
You have to get more results in your work. That's it. But you are working. You're working pleasantly. That's nice. And you're making progress. But it's just like, if you follow this line, it's going to be so far. It's like, we want to go like this, the hockey stick. So you have to really, really, really push yourself. Get higher. Get brighter. Get your work done. Do more. We need more results faster. So that's what you've got to do. You've got to light a fire up under your ass. Light a fire up under your own ass.

0:35:10
You're like, oh.

0:35:10
Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah.

0:35:12
Ah.

0:35:13
Ah. Ah. Ah.

0:35:14
Ah.

0:35:15
Ah. Ah.

0:35:16
Ah. Ah. Ah. Yeah, because you have to have that self-motivation. If you don't have the willpower to motivate yourself, you're going to sit around playing video games. Video games!

0:35:29
Next? Lindsey. Probably knows what I'm going to say. Thank you for turning it around this week, because this was a really, really awesome week. on Friday and said, hey, guess what? My cold calls from Monday landed us pro bono work from the biggest PR firm, or one of the biggest PR firms

0:35:46
in the world, from a guy who loves the NAA.

0:35:48
And I was like, oh, neat. Pro bono? Pro bono, yeah.

0:35:53
And he's meeting us for breakfast,

0:35:54
because we want things out in time for National Hospice

0:35:57
Month this week. Wow. After a while ago, we did get the perfect pro bono lawyer

0:36:02
from one of the best law firms in town.

0:36:03
I remember.

0:36:04
That was a while ago, though.

0:36:06
She's all, pro bono.

0:36:07
Pro bono.

0:36:08
I think you completely know the things that have hung out before is just this procrastination and you just get in your own way. You're like, oh, problem, problem, rubble, rubble, procrastinate, complaining, push of people a little bit. And then these really neat results are happening. And what I would love is for you to continue that for the rest of the quarter. I like this project. I want to help it succeed. I own responsibility for that. I work on it every day. I've worked my amazing networks to make more of this magic happen. Launch the Facebook marketing thing. And then you alone will get us 25 plus users.

0:36:46
And I will be so happy.

0:36:49
And you will be so happy.

0:36:50
I'm sure you will.

0:36:52
Everything that feels so heavy and so hard will just be gone. You'll be so bright and so joyful.

0:36:59
It'll be fun.

0:37:01
Yeah, so, um... If you stay in the light, you will take off and be happy. In every way. So you just have to make yourself stay in the light. And that means doing the work that you gotta do to stay in the light. And then you'll, in so many ways, everything will go really, really bright and fantastic. So, I mean, because right now, your aura is bright. A little while ago, maybe different. But because of what you've, you know, you've pushed yourself, you've done things, then you just get yourself into the light. So you're definitely doing yoga, that's excellent.

0:37:47
All right, anyone else?

0:37:48
I think this is it.

0:37:49
Okay.

0:37:50
All right.

0:37:51
So we're not gonna do

0:37:53
any layoffs of the Yama team this week.

0:38:07
Not this week.

0:38:11
But everybody has stuff to work on. And you need to work on it. You need to work on it. What we're doing is, you know, for people who are really just not doing yoga, we're getting you out. And next week, if you don't, if some of you who are really close, if you don't make changes, then we're going to get you out. And then after that, we need the people who are doing kind of good and bad sometimes, we need you to work on the stuff that you need to work on so that you're consistently bright, that you're consistently doing your yoga. We're working our way up to the solstice, the time of power, and we're perfectly positioned with three of our projects to succeed. I'm all like, one team? It's up to you guys. And if we do this right, magic happens, and these projects that we're working on take off and it's really exciting and fun. You get money from it. Money comes at you, stuff like that. And besides that, it's exciting and fun. We have this saying in yoga, cash flow equals energy flow. And when we get cash flow, you will see. You'll be like, oh, we made money. Yay! That's bright. You know, things like that. It does work. So we've got to really, really work on our yoga. We're not fooling around here. We're not fooling around. We're heading into the solstice. This is a serious time. We put so much time and energy into these projects. Now is the time to sharpen up, become a warrior and succeed. If you're not a warrior, you won't, you know, you'll fall off the project. But you will fall onto enlightened media. So if I've asked you to step off of your yoga project, you're now officially on enlightened media and Gabor is your new manager. And in enlightened media, you have the opportunity to learn the same lessons as, you know, it is yoga. So if you want to do yoga, you can do it. If you don't want to do yoga, then you'll still be on enlightened media, but you won't do anything.

0:40:44
But you have an opportunity.

0:40:46
And it's up to you if you want to learn it or not. If you don't want to learn these lessons, then when we come into after the solstice, I don't know what's going to happen with the organization. If we have a bunch of people who fall out and they don't become yogis, they don't do the work, and they don't seem like they're interested in the study, then I don't know. We'll see. We might change things around a little bit. We might have two groups. We might have the warriors and the wits. The warriors of light and the wits of light.

0:41:28
At one time, my teacher did that.

0:41:30
What did he call it? I forgot what he called it. He had two groups where there was a group of us who were doing really well and kicking ass. And then there was a group that was struggling

0:41:45
and they were all funky.

0:41:47
But then, and so he separated us so that he could work with my group, the advanced group, to go faster. And then the wimpy group, he's like, okay, there's still some teachings I can give you, but you're just going at a different pace. So maybe we'll do something like that. I don't know yet. We'll see.

0:42:08
All right, so

0:42:10
next weekend if you want,

0:42:12
Bodie Wood's workday We'll watch another special film Special film and I'll talk about that film. It may or may not include demons. I don't know.

0:42:29
I don't know. I don't know.

0:42:31
Did you guys notice anything about like, the demon movies being very special? We are training to be warriors,

0:42:37
and you know, we become warriors in every way.

0:42:40
You know, we become warriors in terms of, you know, learning how to be a business warrior, how to martial arts. We learn to be physical warriors. We have to learn to be warriors in terms of what if some spiritual bad things happen to us, like someone gets mad at us or a demon comes over. We have to be able to deal with those things. So that's why we talk about these subjects. They're good and helpful subjects to talk about. So, yeah, if you want to come next week, next Saturday, we'll have a Bodewoods Workday and we'll watch a movie. And it might be fun. It might be interesting. We might not talk about demons, we might talk about another subject. Another subject of defense against the dark arts. Yeah, I think we will. Okay, that's what we'll do. We'll do some Bodewoods work and then we'll stop and do some movies and talking. The other thing I might add is, if any of you are interested, we're going to be opening up a Bodewoods 3. But Bodie Woods 3 is actually a property that we're going to buy. So if you want to get in on it, it's an investment, if you want. And Bodie Woods 3 is a good investment, because what it is is it's a three bedroom house that's on five acres of land. It's an unpermitted house. So the guy who built it, he didn't get a permit for it, and he just built it to live there for the rest of his life. But then he met some girl in San Francisco and decided to just leave, not pay the bank, and go away. So it got foreclosed on. And we heard about it from a very friendly neighbor of ours, because it's a great deal because the price of it I think is $250,000. And then he hadn't finished building it so we have a little bit more work to do, just a little bit, and we just have to pay for the permits. And then the property will be worth at least twice as much. So if you want to get in on the Bodie Woods 3, I guess, investment, then you can put money into it. But what we do with Bodie Woods, different people put in different amounts of money. And we just keep track of what everybody puts in, because that way we know that level of investment. So if we wanted to sell Bodie Woods, I don't know, I think we're gonna keep Bodie Woods one

0:45:47
because we like it.

0:45:48
But this other one is probably gonna be an investment because we will get a great return. So we'll live in it for some period of time, and then, especially when the market's better, we'll be able to sell it for maybe a lot more than we bought it for. Now, I've heard of some people who have like $50,000 or $75,000 or something like that to put into it. And if you've got like $50,000 or $75,000 and you want to put it in and move in, if you want to live there, then that's a possibility. If you have the money, but you don't want to live there, that's cool, too. I mean, it's really, if you want to be a part of that investment, it's good. If you want to move into a yoga dojo and be able to take part in the Bodhi Woods meditations and martial arts and additional things that we do, you can be a part of it if you want to live there. So if there's someone with like 50,000 that goes in and they want to live there, they'll be able to get in. So I just wanted to say that that is an opportunity I would make open to all of you if you want to.

0:47:17
Ta-da. Ta-da.

0:47:19
Yes, Kat? Would you just have him contact me?

0:47:22
Oh yeah.

0:47:23
Contact-ow. Ha.

0:47:24
All right, so let's see if we can turn things

0:47:28
around this week.

0:47:29
This is a week where I really, really, really want things to turn around. It will be to everyone's benefit. To all of our benefit. To your benefit. To my benefit.

0:47:49
Excellent.

0:47:51
So thank you all very much. Now for those of you who I've asked to step down, those of you in e-media, I'd like you to stay behind here for a few minutes. those of you in e-media, I'd like you to stay behind here for a few minutes. I'll chat with you, and everyone else can go to their meetings.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
