0:00:00
All right. Good evening, everyone. We're going to begin with meditation. Three songs. When Westerners come to the spiritual path, they often come with kind of Hollywood ideas or Hallmark card pictures of what the spiritual path will be like. Or they come with an agenda of where the spiritual path with a personal agenda, you say, yeah, I made a New Year's resolution to start meditating so that I could have a little bit of peace in between doing some crazy activities at work and hanging out with my crazy friends. I want a little bit of peace in between my insane life. So you come to the spiritual path with these ideas. And you find that as you progress along the path, that the ideas go away, that the agenda goes away. unsettling for those people because the reason that the ideas go away is because their lives change. The crazy situations and the crazy people that they had the idea about change comes to a place of greater stillness. However, when you have those ideas of what you want from the spiritual practice, and then you start to see your life change, that's where people kind of freak out. They say, oh no, this is going beyond the scope of my ideas. And then it's a big worry and a big concern. And then I say, welcome to the spiritual path. So it's really funny for us to think that the spiritual path will fit into our current view of our lives in the world. Because Because we don't think that about, let's say, a martial arts class. If you go to a martial arts class, you kind of follow the routine. You take the lessons, you do what your sensei instructs you to do. You don't say, Oh sensei, I think that maybe I will sit out the kata today because I don't feel like it. I have this other idea. I'm just going to sit in the corner and do some punches and kicks. And also I think I'll skip the sparring because I just don't like it. You don't have the ability within the structure of the class to start modifying it to the way that you think your personal workout should go. My personal workout trainer told me that I should work on abs today. So I'm not going to do kata, I'm going to just sit here and do some sit-ups. The sensei will say, what? No, this is crazy. And then you'll say, oh yes, and sensei, I think I'm ready for my black belt test. However, for my black belt test, I have to be assured that I pass it. Also, I'm not going to do any sparring on the test because that's bothersome to me.

0:04:32
And let's negotiate the terms of my black belt.

0:04:34
So this is how, you know, when we look at it in terms of martial arts, since we've seen more physical examples of martial arts, watching the karate kid or something, we realize that if Daniel San said, no, I don't want to paint the fence, that the movie would be over. So we have to recognize that a bit of humility is involved in learning any inner discipline. Because when you come to the path, although you might have ideas of what you want to get out of it, those ideas are limited. They're limited to your current view of the world. And when you practice meditation and do yoga and follow the spiritual path, your view of the world changes. So you have to be open to that change. Because when you're not open to the change and you see your view of the world changing, dissolving, transforming, it could be quite upsetting. If you hold on to the ideas of your agenda, then you find yourself in great mental consternation about whether you should do the spiritual path or not. However, if you just follow the lessons, follow the teachings of the spiritual path, then as life changes, your ideas will change. And you can let go of them and see what the new circumstances of your life are and follow the teachings. The teachings, spiritual teachings, are universal and eternal. They are applicable for all life situations and conditions. So when you apply them in one circumstance, in a certain condition, they work. And then when your life transforms and changes, and you follow the spiritual teachings, they lead you to a higher awareness, to an elevated condition of consciousness at every different condition of how you see the world. So the second way that Westerners come to the path is with the Hollywood dreams. You you get this idea of, I'm great, I just am undiscovered as of now. And you come to the enlightened teacher and you expect the enlightened teacher to say, Aha, there you are. I've been waiting for you. You are great. And now I will give you the secret teaching that will make you instantly enlightened and everyone else will say you are great. There will be a little bit of hard work but only for two or three months. And we have this idea, this dream of finding our, or having someone point out innate wonderfulness and attaining liberation very quickly, which is nice. And that's good. That's a good dream. I hope it comes true. However, we start to find that life is different than this fantasy when we engage in the spiritual path. For most people, we start to find that we have a lot of struggles. That what was supposed to be amazing and wonderful is very challenging. Where we wanted to have these amazing meditations, we find that we're thinking and we're struggling with thoughts and feelings. And then we find that our enlightened teacher, instead of praising us, is usually giving us a hard time about our thoughts, about our mindfulness, about our meditation, about our spiritual practice. And then we say, hey, wait a minute. This isn't easy. This isn't measuring up to my ideal of how it's supposed to be for me on the spiritual path. It's supposed to be great. I'm supposed to walk in here and own the place. And then we find that things are not so perfect as we might imagine, and that we are having difficulty dealing with our lives, with our thoughts, our feelings, with developing personal power, with silencing our mind in meditation, with getting along with other people, with just keeping up with our lives. And then I say, welcome to the spiritual path. It's not what we might think of, but it's real, the spiritual path. Often when people think that they're very special and doing really well. I like to look at, you know, kind of like the baseline for measuring your practice, and that is how long do you stop thought in meditation. If you stop thought for 30, 45, 60 minutes in meditation for your meditation session, then I think you're doing very well. I think that is the idealistic meditation. However, if you find yourself thinking and struggling with thoughts to one degree or another, without stopping thought in a meditation period, you are a beginner. You're learning to slow down your thoughts. You're learning to stop your thoughts. You're learning to go into brighter states of consciousness. And you do. You make progress with every meditation. But if you think you're the next enlightened one, the next Maitreya, right? Refer to your meditation. If you were very, very, very, very advanced, if you're the Buddha from a past life or something like that, you'll have very advanced meditation So it's always good to look to your own practice for proper humility. If your practice is... if you're struggling with it, if you're struggling with even being disciplined, you know, with doing your daily meditation, with showing up and doing your yoga, if you're struggling with your practice, you're a beginner. It's good to be a beginner. It's humble to be a beginner. But accept that and work on advancing yourself instead of thinking that you're advanced and wondering why everything else isn't working out the way you think it should. These are the two things that seem to occur with Westerners. But tonight I'm going to talk about how to overcome these challenges and how you can succeed on the enlightened path of mysticism, succeed in yoga, really succeed in any inner art. And inner art is a practice, a discipline, primary focus on the transformation of attention. Sometimes we call it power, love, wisdom, but in any inner art, there is a focus on the transformation of one's attention to have the ability to do something enlightening or powerful or magical. So you could say that the spiritual path is an inner art. I think it's the innermost inner art, the essential inner art. But there are other inner arts, such as martial arts. Martial arts, while there's a lot of focus on physical form, the primary focus in martial arts is a transformation of attention of the naval center. There's a transformation of power when you learn martial arts. So the way to be successful in any inner art is to become a successful student, a successful student of the inner arts. Now, the inner arts are a little different than outer arts. If you are trying to accomplish anything in the physical world that doesn't have a primary focus on the transformation of consciousness, then you're engaging in a physical activity. There could be a spiritual component, right? Zen and the art of motorcycle maintenance, right? You could have a spiritual component to anything if you bring a spiritual mind. However, if you engage in, let's say, motorcycle and you don't know anything about Zen, you probably won't have any spiritual realization. It is an outer art unto itself. However, things like martial arts and yoga, mysticism, they are by their very nature arts that will bring advancement and success. I'd like to talk about those tonight so that it benefits you as you learn more about the pathway to enlightenment, Buddhism, mysticism, and yoga. So it's first important to understand that the spiritual path is difficult. It's difficult from the point of view of the ego, of the limited self. Once you get a lot of the limited self out of the way, then the spiritual path, pathway to enlightenment is not difficult at all. What tends to block one on the spiritual path is the self. When we're blocked, we always think it's something else, somebody else's fault, but it's ultimately the self that blocks progress. So when we look at the spiritual path, we essentially are looking at getting over the getting beyond the limitations of self. And that is a challenge. The self by nature is the definition of who you are. So this is the ego, a definition of who you are, what the world is like for you, your personal history, what you like, what you don't like. your world, your universe is the self. And on the spiritual path, we undo limiting aspects of the self so that we can gain more awareness, gain more power, gain more luminosity. And by doing that, we see that there's a bigger, brighter, more beautiful world beyond the definition of self. And then on the pathway to enlightenment, in attaining enlightenment, we eventually let go of any self-description at all, and we experience the totality of being. One tends to experience difficulty or struggle. You experience challenges on the spiritual path. The spiritual path requires effort and discipline, open-mindedness, and ultimately humility. So meditation, a daily meditation practice, mindfulness practice, coming to the satsang, to the dharma talk, to sit with your teacher, going to your yoga meetings, doing yoga. This takes discipline, it takes effort and it's necessary to have this discipline and put forth this effort to succeed on the spiritual path. You also have to be open-minded and you have to be open to new ideas. New ideas of how to think, how to act, what to do. And you put them to the test in your life, you try them out, and you see if they're empowering. You see if they're real. And if meditation, mindfulness, and yoga is powerful, then you engage in it. Then you put your effort into it. Then you make it a discipline of your life. But you have to be open-minded even to consider new ways of being, new ways of seeing life. And you have to be open-minded to even try it out. You have to be open-minded to dress nicely to the meditation. It's an open-mindedness that brings you to a new experience. You have to be open-minded to have a teacher who's a Westerner. Because the concepts will say, oh, it should be someone with a swami or someone wearing a robe or something like that. So you have to be open-minded about your life and about these new practices. Open enough to try. And ultimately, you have to have some humility. And this will get you past the two conflicts that Westerners find on the spiritual path of their grandiose ideas of themselves and their ideas of the path, and also their ideas of how the spiritual path will fit into their life. When you're humble, you have a flexibility to engage in this whole process. If you're not humble, you will find everything wrong with it, and you'll say, oh, it's bad, it reasons and problems. The whole spiritual path is an exercise in humility, where you let go of invested ideas, self-descriptions. You let go of ideas so that you can be open-minded, put effort into spiritual discipline. And through this disposition of humility, you make progress on the spiritual path. Without humility, you'll always be deflecting, denying, defending the ego. So it's very important to always observe humility as you practice meditation, yoga, mindfulness, as you walk forward on the pathway to enlightenment. So the trouble is that when people are practicing, when they find the difficulties, they find that they have desire. They desire all sorts of things. They desire practice to be certain way. They desire their spiritual path to be a certain way. Or they desire things in life. People, places, things. They have all sorts of desires. When you act upon limited desires for self-fulfillment, desires that will supposedly fulfill the limited ideas of the self. You'll run down a desire, put effort into it, you'll get the desire. And that desire will be an experience, there'll be some joy for a while, then it'll go away, and then you'll look on and see what the next desire is. So, desire takes away effort. Desire puts effort off of spiritual practice. And again and again you see people who can't establish their spiritual practice, even their meditation practice, even mindfulness practice, because they constantly put effort into fulfillment of desire. So there has to be enough effort, enough discipline, that you meditate twice a day-by-day practice. Observe every day your practice. Observe your meditation, your mindfulness, your yoga, and then you can see progress. If you don't meditate, if you're progressing. You're not taking the study seriously. You're not putting enough effort into the path. The other thing that people run into a lot of trouble with is attachment. When someone is attached to a certain view of life, a view of the self, of the possibilities of the self, a view of other people. When you're attached, attachment is the opposite of open-mindedness. So someone who has a very fixed idea of what spirituality should be would have a story of, has to be a Buddhist monk wearing a robe. There has to be chanting. There has to be incense. Can't be in a Fairmont hotel. Has to be in a little dark room somewhere. There will be all these ideas that one becomes attached to, the model of what they think is right. And that is something that limits them because if they walk in and say, ah, this is just not what I think it should be, they could miss the truth, which is that it is authentic spiritual practice. And if someone's looking for a Swami wearing a turban, then they'll just ignore the greater truth. So attachment to concepts and ideas always closes down an open mind. It also appears in your life, in terms of work. You might be attached to a career path that doesn't make a lot of money and you're going to be setting yourself up for a practice where you don't have enough personal power to deal with the world and therefore you don't really establish meditation practice. So attachment to people. You might be attached to people who drain your energy. So, it's like you want to meditate, but every time you sit down to meditate, your boyfriend starts to bother you, doesn't let you meditate. So attachment to bad situations, attachment to unempowering activities, attachment to views of life, these are things that close the mind and they take people off of the path. They don't succeed. And the third is egotism. Egotism is the opposite reaction of humility. The ego can deny every truth and the ego can close down anything that's open. The ego can make everything dark that's bright. The ego can take enlightenment and turn it into the greatest evil. The ego can justify anything. It's been done throughout history. You can say anything's good, anything's bad, whatever works for the ego. The ego can take any type of partiality and make it the foremost thing. So the ego is the opposite of humility. And it's the principal reaction seen through desire, fear, attachment. Those are its methods. And the ego really can shut down the whole process of self-discovery. So it's important to be aware of your ego's reaction. You can feel, actually, sometimes. It's subtle physical. The ego makes reactions in the subtle body. It makes reactions in thoughts. The first reflection of egotism is in thought. That's why when you stop thought, you stop egotism. You stop the limited self. experience humility, the humility of being, and then that's the spiritual path. When the ego thinks thoughts, then the next layer is emotions, feelings, and you can feel those in the subtle body. And then you can also feel other aspects of the subtle body that are related to the ego. And it's primarily a very gripping feeling, very often associated to the stomach. So we observe in our body, in our mind, when we start to act egotistical. And you've got to catch it, and you've got to do something about it. You've got to let it go. Practice humility and focus on mindfulness, focus on meditation, focus on yoga. These are ways So, we must observe humility, effort, discipline, open-mindedness in our practice. And we must be careful of desire. We have to observe that our desires are desires that bring us into a stronger condition. Like if you desire to be a good meditator, you're going to meditate hard. You desire to have a strong financial life, you're going to put your life in order. You're going to develop your life and your skills properly. These are positive, constructive desires. But if you have limited desires that are falling outside of the teachings of Buddhism, you might find that these are places where you're losing energy. So it's very important. Very important. Because if you don't follow the teachings, if you don't follow meditation, mindfulness, yoga, then you'll find yourself in a place where you just don't have the personal power to take the next step in spiritual practice. You won't have the presence of mind. You won't get it. You'll say, I can't do it. I can't do the spiritual thing. I can't do the yoga. You'll say that, but the truth is, not that you can't. There's no such thing as can't in spiritual practice. There's only won't. It's a decision that you make. You say, nope, I won't. And then ask yourself when you say, I can't, or I don't want to. You'll say, why It's going to relate to fear or desire, attachment or egotism. And that's a choice and that brings you off the path and into the self. So recognize your life. Recognize your mind. Recognize what you're doing. Take a look. It's evident, it's right there. It's in your intent, it's in your thoughts, it's in your actions. Look at what you're doing, look at what you're thinking, and evaluate it. What's your discipline, your spiritual discipline? Or are you following desire? Are you in attachment? Are you open-minded? Are you humble or egotistical? Are you saying I can't all the time? Because when you can't, you're running into a condition of you're not practicing, you're not following the teachings, and you're making a choice to not have the personal power to do it. So when you say can't, it's really I won't. I'm not willing to focus on meditation and mindfulness and yoga. Not willing to do those, so I won't. If you do meditation, mindfulness and yoga, you become powerful, spiritually powerful and aware. It's like in martial arts. In martial arts, if you go to the dojo, and you follow the program, after a period of time, you'll get a black belt. And on the way to that black belt, you will learn many things. You'll get stronger, faster, you'll learn techniques, and most of all, your awareness will transform, your power will come up. You will learn something about power. And all it takes is following that structure, going there and doing it. Everyone can do it. Every one of you could do that. You can just walk in there, follow the program. You will face challenges, definitely. But if you just follow the program, a good sensei will work with you, teach you how to overcome your challenges. And then you will have that transformation of attention. You will gain that power and you will get that See, this is why we say that yoga is a science. The spiritual path is a science. If you practice it, you will get spiritual results. If you practice things that give you personal power, you will gain power. If you practice humility, then your awareness field of life that limits you will open up. You'll see many more options beyond self-descriptions. So when we look at the spiritual path, we have to recognize that there's an opportunity to change, to transform, to gain spiritual power and enlightened enlightened awareness, but it requires working on it. It requires putting some effort into it. So in the spiritual path, there's a structure, an inner structure of attention transformation, And it really works. Now, I don't see a lot of... I don't see anything great in getting a yellow belt, or an orange belt, or a green belt, or even a brown belt. I don't see any great accomplishment in that. Because you go in, learn a little something, and then get an idea of what it is, then fall out before you reach a level of competency or mastery. So this means that you were not a serious student. You weren't interested. You didn't have what it took. And you were just being a mediocre practitioner. If you're a brown belt, orange belt, yellow belt, or whatever, although you've learned a couple of things, they're virtually unusable. If you're in a fight, you can't use that. You try to use your Ozuki when you're a green belt, or a fourth cue, or whatever. You try to use that in a street fight, you will lose. You don't know what you're doing. You can't just learn a technique and think that it's going to work, you have to master the technique. You have to get to a level of competence and power. It's not just the technique that makes you win, or that defends your life, or defends another's life in martial arts. It's power. So you can learn an Ozuki in two weeks, how to do it properly. But to gain power in it, takes what it takes. So someone who's an intermediate belt, I see no accomplishment. Why even start if you're going to not do it? You're going to quit. Martial arts is important. You know, you have a physical body that you have to protect in order to, you know, have a nice life. And if you are attacked, or if someone you love is attacked, you can do something about it if you're trained, you can use power to defend your life or the life of another. And that's powerful. That's something real. And that's why it's worthwhile engaging in a practice like martial arts. Because, God forbid, something happens. If you're trained, you can do something. If you're not trained, you're going to act like an untrained person, which is fall into the karma of the calamity. So it's similar in spiritual practice, only in spiritual practice, it's more essential. In the physical world, hopefully, you can avoid being attacked. But in the spiritual world, you are in a fight. You're in the fight of the ego. You're in And it's just as important as a physical confrontation. So in the spiritual path, when we recognize that we are suffering, when we recognize that we lack control, when we recognize that we don't experience life the way we would like to. We'd like to be happy and bright and balanced and powerful. But when we realize and recognize that we're filled with experiences that make us suffer, then we recognize that we're in a spiritual fight, we're in a spiritual conflict. And that the spiritual practices of meditation, mindfulness and yoga are things that can help us to win this fight. And to win the fight of the self is to win happiness and balance. And to constantly be in this conflict is constant suffering. It comes back again and again and again. You have an up day, you forget about it. You have a bad day and everything is terrible in your life. But this is the condition of the self. Again and again and again, the self will lead you into suffering. And the whole condition of ups and downs is an ultimate condition of suffering. It's ultimately dissatisfying to realize that you're just going to be upset again. You're going to get upset about the same thing you got upset about the day before and couldn't control. The spiritual path is a discipline that brings you into a condition of spiritual power where you can deal with the liberation from the suffering. That's why it's powerful. But you know, a little of this, learning a little of that, practicing a little here, jack of all trades, master of none kind of thing in terms of spiritual practice isn't real. It has no effect. It has very, very, very limited effect. The spiritual path is an experience. It's something you do. It's not something you think about, read about in a book. It's not something you conceptualize. It's something put into action. You've got to meditate. You've got to get up in the morning and meditate. You've got to meditate in the evening as well. You have to be mindful. Practice your enlightenment workbook mindfulness exercises. And you've got to do yoga. Yoga is powerful. It's the most powerful way to pull you up out of the dissatisfactions of self. There's a lot of personal power that you can gain in doing yoga. Yoga is an inner structure of life. And if you make friends with yoga, you will be very, very bright because of it. If you don't make friends with yoga, then you'll struggle. You'll struggle with the challenges of the path. You don't do yoga because of what? Desire, fear, attachment, egotism. And then that's the struggle of the path. Overcome it with proper effort, discipline, and open-mindedness and humility.

0:47:21
Okay.

0:47:25
We're going to meditate again, and then we'll take a little break. We're going to meditate again, and then we'll take a little break.

0:47:37
And then we'll take a little break.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
