0:00:00
Anybody have any great demons? Happy demons, shiny demons.

0:00:14
That was fun.

0:00:19
That was fun.

0:00:24
Alright, we're going to begin with a three song meditation. Yeah. I'll put this.

0:00:35
OK.

0:00:35
the

0:00:42
the the the Thank you. So. So. Yeah. So So the the the ♪♪ ♪♪ the I'm going to go ahead and get the camera out of the way. the the the And I'm not afraid of the dark And I'm not afraid of the dark Open your eyes, look up here toward me. the the the the the So, the So. So, So, So So The lighting's good. The thing about enlightenment is, enlightenment is up here. And enlightenment

0:16:31
doesn't come down to you with your ideas of how things should be. You have to come up to it. It means you have to do something.

0:16:53
You gotta do it right.

0:16:55
So we are working on yoga. And there's a couple things happening. We're gonna end up with a group of people who become warriors. And apparently we're gonna end up with a group of people who don't. Don't know what's going to happen to those people.

0:17:18
We'll see. Today, what I'd like to do is I would like to to review every individual on their yoga.

0:17:31
So we're going to have each yoga teacher team address the students, each student in the yoga. And we're going to point out the primary positive things that they're doing and this is all currently you know we're not going to go back to like oh last month we were a jerk to be we're going to talk to you we're really talking about the past couple weeks because some people a month ago were jerks and the past couple weeks they've turned it around and are going in a good way so if you're going in a good way right now if you're in good state of mind right now, from your yoga, then you're doing fine. So then continue with that good state of mind. And if you're in a bad state of mind right now, that means you're not performing, if you're not doing yoga, then eventually you'll be asked to leave your team. Because you've had a lot of time to learn how to do this, now it's time to do it. Now it's time to actually do it. Work on your impeccability. Work on your selflessness. And if you're performing in an unacceptable way, then what you're starting to do is hinder the success of your yoga. And this is where we have to pull you out of it. Now we're at a very exciting time because we get to drop some people from the yoga teams who are not doing well, tighten up the teams so that the teams are full of committed people who are actually working on yoga who really want yoga to succeed, who want to succeed in their yoga. And we're at a time where the products that we have, most of them are getting to the market. They are perched and ready to fly. So we have the Hospice Journey. And Hospice Journey has been ready for a while and the team has been laying down the foundation of connections and associations with hospice organizations. But they've just recently started their marketing which is internet marketing and through their internet marketing they've started to take off. So actually the llama is already on the market and it is starting to fly, which is good. And then we have AppBuddy.

0:20:57
And AppBuddy has a cape.

0:20:58
So AppBuddy has a cape, so we're pretty sure,

0:21:01
it stands on a cloud, right? So we're pretty sure that AppBuddy is going to fly. But AppBuddy is going to be up for sales and trading on next week. So, this is fantastic. One thing that I really like about AppBuddy is that it's piggybacking on Salesforce. Super great. And AppBuddy is pretty much like what we learned from our past yoga when we did MyWebDB. We spent like five years doing MyWebDB, where we were trying to blaze the trail, the new way to do software. If you need a system, don't ask a programmer to do it. Use this application. Use this platform. People can configure their own business people figure out their own applications we're trying to you know start a whole new trend we're trying to revolutionize the way that people do it systems for businesses and what we found is that it's really hard to get people to think differently or to even can consider a new idea even though it's helpful. So for people who are completely over-marketed in this country, the pain of change is more painful than considering something that's gonna make a huge positive difference for them. They're like, no, no, no, I can't consider something new. I can't consider something new. So even though we made software that was really evolutionary, it was something where if we had a marketing and sales system that was equally revolutionary or evolutionary, then we would have succeeded. And that's what we lacked. So AppBuddy goes on to a framework of a company that has Salesforce in their name. They are a sales organization. They're a very, very strong sales organization. And they have a great platform that they've sold that many businesses have bought into. So now there's this platform of people that are committed to this product for their business to succeed. So now they're, instead of us trying to create that whole platform, we just go, oh, we're jumping into that platform and offering something that everyone in this platform can use. Very exciting. So AppBuddy's got a cape.

0:23:54
Yeah.

0:23:56
And our AI is trading since last week too. So it's taking off as well. So we are at a time where we are taking off with our yoga projects. It's amazing. It's fantastic. And this is where the magic clicks in. But if you're a negative self-absorbed jerk, then you don't deserve to be a part of it, number one. And number two, you hold it back with your negativity. And we won't have that. We've all worked a little too hard to have that. So we have to ask people to leave the team if they're unwilling to change. If they're unwilling to stop being slothful jerks. Yeah, you know, if you're not putting energy into its success, you're taking energy away

0:24:54
from its success.

0:24:55
That's the way it goes, right? That's basic mysticism. You're either making it bright or you're making it dark. So it's really exciting. We're at this point where things can really take off because we've built the products. We've built the products and we're at that point

0:25:18
where it's ready to go.

0:25:20
Ready to go, it's exciting. So, you know, that's what we saw in the social network movie. We saw that this guy built a product, but he had such excellent seeing that when it was ready to go, it just took off. And that's what we need. We need to have built something that is just so exciting for people that when it gets out there,

0:25:49
it takes off.

0:25:51
And now that we're perched to fly, it's very important that we have the proper attention. Because at this point, it's all in the second attention. We've already built the product. We've put it up, it's training, or for how it's gonna start training next week. So it's up, it's out there. You know, we're about to, or we're just, you know, stepping off the, out of the nest to start flying. And we've never actually flown with our wings.

0:26:26
We got wings.

0:26:27
Yep, we definitely have them.

0:26:29
We know we got our wings,

0:26:30
but we've never actually gone flying with them. So we have to have this like magical energy, this hope, this knowing to fly. And if we have negative attention, if we have negative people involved, if we have negativity, then you become negatively buoyant. You go down. So it's really important to have that flying spirit. You want to have that flying spirit about your life, about your yoga and then magic can happen and it's so amazing and wonderful. So that's where we're going and that's the opportunity and it's a fantastic thing. But if you bring all your heaviness into it, all your bullshit, all your doubt, all your negativity, then you can fuck it up and you'll be asked to leave.

0:27:39
Yep.

0:27:40
And I guess the good thing is

0:27:42
if you're asked to leave, you still have book sales. I'll hand you some books, send you door to door.

0:27:48
Knock, knock, knock.

0:27:49
Hi, you want to buy my book about dolphins?

0:27:53
And I forgot, meditation. Oh, and diving.

0:27:57
Yeah, there you go door to door we make you go store to store okay so that's a that's a great challenge so if you if you're going to get bumped off you can still do yoga if you want to you will have a lot less supervision. You'll have to motivate yourself. But I've got to tell you, there's been one or two people who got kicked onto eMedia because they weren't performing as well as they should have on their yoga, but they enjoy doing eMedia. It's like less pressure, and they can do things the way they want to a little bit more and you know, they don't have to learn a computer or something like that right? So they're like, oh this is really fun and this is really cool and I find that it's a better balance for me. So if that's your case then do that or you'll be asked to do that. Alright, but first I would like the Ack Buddy team to stand. Teachers and students.

0:29:17
Who do we got here? Alright.

0:29:20
Alright, have a seat.

0:29:21
I have a problem with you,

0:29:24
Aaliyah, Jackie, and Shanti. You guys don't look shiny the right way.

0:29:33
You look like stuff is getting in the way. All right, what I'd like to do is we'll just have Parvati and Dharma. We're going to go individual by individual. We're not going to spend a lot of time on everyone, because we have to cover everybody today. But we're going to point out, if you've done things that have been constructive, what they are. And we're talking about just in general in the past couple of weeks, because this is really what your current state is in.

0:30:36
Your current state.

0:30:37
And then we're going to point out things that you really, really, really have to work on. And then I might be asking some people to leave today. OK, I'd like to start with the three people I pointed out. So let's start with Aliyah. Dharma, you begin.

0:31:00
Sure.

0:31:02
So Aliyah, unfortunately, you've been struggling the past couple weeks. The primary task that you've had over the past couple weeks to take screenshots of the application has taken you too long and we've had to have you redo it several times and each time you redo it it's unusable for us. So it got to the point where even with your latest deliverable Parvati had to redo everything. So this is screenshots for the past two weeks. Yeah. Okay. That's pretty weird. So it kind of sabotaging yourself with how you hold your possibilities of success in your mind. So you pretty much plan your failure before you even begin, and therefore when you work on yoga, you struggle, and it's also affecting, it doesn't just affect you, it affects the team. So, and this is one other thing I'd like to point out as well, is that it's very, one of the things we value in our team is to figure things out for yourself. We give you direction, but for you to really get in there and figure things out for yourself. And both on this and on QA, you've taken a lot of both mine and Parvati's time, and your teammates' time as well. And that's where it's starting to affect the team, for things

0:33:00
that you could have figured out yourself.

0:33:01
Anything to add, Farah?

0:33:04
All right, Jackie. So Jackie, one really good thing is that you put in the time. So you are very consistent with the time that you put into the yoga. However, and that's really good. You know, it's something that not everybody on the team does. The thing that's getting in your way is that you don't have confidence in yourself. And this puts you in a defensive posture. So it's difficult to work side by side with you, because you're focusing too much on defending yourself for things that you can't do, and making up excuses, when we're 10 steps ahead of you and already trying to figure out how to work the problem. We've also had problems with clarity. So when you ask questions in your emails, most of the time it's not clear, and we have to ask for clarity again. And that has even been communicated out with emails that you've even sent to the team, which should have only been addressed to me and Parvati. So it's something where you need to be a lot more precise in how you communicate. So we do Buddhist yoga. And we have to overcome our karmas, and we have to overcome the way that we interpret people. So you've had experiences in the past that have given you a model of understanding work and also men, and you get pissed off. So you get pissed off at work, you get pissed off at dharma. So dharma is giving you some positive feedback right now, and you have this program running in you that's all like, this asshole guy is giving you this bullshit. You need to stop that. Maybe in the outside world guys do that, but here guys learn to undo their social conditioning. So the guys here learn to work the problem. It's not like putting extra heavy male pressure on you or anything. Yes, a male has a male energy, but here we learn to do it where it's not something that's going to weaken your power. It's something that gives you greater power. So this is proper direction and what you do is you get mad about it. And that doesn't help you. It hinders you.

0:36:06
Okay. And Shakti. Does Parvati have anything to add about Jackie?

0:36:13
Yes, it's minor, but I just wanted to point out that Jackie, when you started on the Yoga Project and you were very consistent with your time and effort, you were actually making very good progress, both in your work and your attention. But recently, even with the time spent, your attention has been going down and has become more negative.

0:36:42
which is good, but you've got to sharpen your mind, focus more, put more power into it. It's very important that when we do this, thank you Prabhati, because it's very important that when we're covering every individual, that we're pointing out the things. You guys need to know the things that you're doing right and the things that you're doing wrong. And I think your yoga teachers tell you, but this is a formal meeting where we're bringing it up. It's important

0:37:17
Okay, shock

0:37:19
Exactly I wish

0:37:21
Your enthusiasm that you should you showed in the demo that you gave to everybody came through in your yoga consistently Especially lately it hasn't for instance this past week you put in two hours into the yoga project. We have a minimum commitment of five hours. And you actually have more time to spend, even more than five hours to spend a week on it.

0:37:50
So you're not putting in the time. Two hours? Okay, that's correct. Wow, that's terrible. Okay, continue. The most recent task you've been working on is a very, it's a super important task. The most important part about that task, which is to come up with postings that we're going to post on Salesforce blogs and communities, to actually come write the postings. I looked at your spreadsheet and there's two out of about 60 of those blogs, there's postings for two out of those 60 blogs filled in. So I pointed this out last week that this was the most important part next to getting the vibe of the website and this is not done. So there's incompleteness in your work. It came through in your QA. The QA, a lot of times when testers were going through your test cases, they were confused. So your work is often incomplete and sometimes not clear. And the communication problem still stands because if you don't understand the actual task at hand, we've not gotten emails from you asking questions about the task. And that's something that we've communicated many times to the whole team is that if you don't know what you're working on or you're confused to escalate that right away so

0:39:20
that we can get on it and move forward.

0:39:23
All right. Okay. Go on to the next person in your team.

0:39:33
Does everybody have anything to add.

0:39:37
No.

0:39:37
Evan.

0:39:39
So Evan, your enthusiasm when you bring your enthusiasm is fantastic. And it's something that is really in the spirit of our yoga. You're very responsive when we send emails to you and give you tasks. You're very good with your communication. And you don't give us any pushback about it at all. You're just really good about saying, yep, roger that, I'm on it. So that's really good. The main thing that I'm seeing is that what it feels like is that you have a lot of extracurricular stuff in your life and your attention is split between yoga and this other stuff. So you don't bring your full attention to the yoga. So that's come through on a few of your deliverables, your test cases, which I know Parvati actually has comments about the whole testing team as a whole and how this past testing was performed. But your test cases, the work is substandard. And it needs to be sharper. So when you're coding, you need to practice the listening that we discussed. So when you're coding, you're listening to your code. And you're seeing the solution. You're not getting in your own way. And on your status reports, don't tell us any more about, I read autobiography of a yogi or any of this other stuff because we only need to know about your progress for App Buddy stuff and if you didn't get a chance to work on it for a particular day, then just don't report anything. Yeah, okay. Yeah, so it seems like some things in your life take your attention away. You want to make sure that everything in your life is empowering and that it all adds to your ability to meditate, and be mindful, and be successful in yoga.

0:42:06
Anything else, Carly?

0:42:07
Yes. Something that would be very helpful

0:42:10
is to listen more to what Dharma and I suggest. And this goes for how to go about a particular task or how to communicate with other people. Because a lot of times, like Dharma mentioned, you have so many thoughts, you have so much going on in your mind that you get in your own way, and then that gets into the task that you're performing. So listening to or just being very simple and specific about the tasks you're supposed to do

0:42:56
will be extremely helpful for you, and you'll notice you'll become much more efficient that way.

0:43:02
Okay, speaking of listening, let's move on to Josh.

0:43:06
Is he here?

0:43:13
Yeah.

0:43:13
Josh, one of the things that you bring, which is really good when you bring it, is your enthusiasm as well. And then when you're enthusiastic about something, not only do you bring the right spirit to your task, but for instance, we just had this really big problem with the test case writers where the assertions were not there. And you responded to that faster than anyone. You started checking in code like mad. And it was, it was, we, me and Parvati looked at it, we were like, whoa, that's awesome. Like, it was this, it was obvious that you online. So when you're online, you're on fire. It's great. You're not consistent. So when you're not online, you go down into this state of mind where you do some of the same things that we discussed before. One is, you know, communicate, right? So all of a sudden, we're like, where's Josh? He's not there anymore, right? So we don't hear from you this past task that I gave you I haven't heard any Like haven't gotten a spreadsheet shared about that task haven't seen your progress nothing, right so you just kind of fall silent and You know the The time when you were leading the QA team. Here's a is another example of when you just kind of fall off, we have the Yama QA people come on and you basically drop the ball right after I gave you the initial task. So it's just this thing where you just kind of drop the ball and sometimes you pick it up and sometimes you drop it and it makes us think that you selectively get excited or selectively choose to work on the things that are right for you or that you feel you like the most. And some other stuff we just haven't figured it out. We just don't know why you don't like doing some of the other stuff or why you're inconsistent. But that's what it comes off to us as. This is where the ego comes in. The things that you get fired up about, you do well. That's great. So you have been doing very good work. We appreciate that. The thing is, you get moody about communications, and you get moody about stuff you don't feel like doing. So therefore, you're inconsistent. But communication, and this goes for a lot of people, communications and consistent effort is extremely important in yoga, in work, and in life. If you can't communicate, and if you're inconsistent in your work, in your effort, you're going to get fired from jobs in life. It's not the way to go. So communicate early and often. As soon as some problems come up, communicate it. If you don't know something, communicate it. I've seen so many projects where people don't communicate and that's how the problem occurs. But as soon as a problem comes up and you communicate, communicate. If you find that you're not communicating, communicate. Okay, so, and you've got to be consistent. Some things you say, yeah, I'm really going to push it on this thing, and you do great. And some things you just go, oh, that's not that important to me. That's the ego. It's not that important to me, so I'm just going to let it go by.

0:47:11
Or you also fizzle out. So you get really excited about something, and then all of a sudden you'll just fizzle out and like three days later it's like what happened?

0:47:20
So you have to you have to realize that everything every moment every action everything you have to do is important and that it requires your full attention so just communication and consistency and when you find yourself, I mean, like deep inside, you have like the little ego that comes up and says,

0:47:43
no, I don't want to talk to you.

0:47:44
No, I don't want to do that.

0:47:46
That's not important to me.

0:47:47
I want to do this.

0:47:48
Then don't listen to it. Tell it, whatever. I'm going to communicate and consistently do my work. But otherwise, besides consistency and communication, there's a lot of good stuff in it.

0:48:04
Parabody?

0:48:06
Yes, I have one thing to add. Which I hope will not confuse you. Sometimes in our yoga projects, you'll get tasks or roles that you don't like. And it's not good to get mad at your yoga leaders about that. It really just screws you over. And the thing is that, you know, that task or role, it will last forever. It's a stepping stone, and there's a lesson in that. So, for example, when, you know, you started out as a developer, and you thought it would be more helpful for you to become a TA person, and if you really owned that wall, you would have done your work really well. You would have had a lot of success finding an awesome job. And really, you would have raised your level and attention to that of a developer much faster by really going through those steps appropriately and effectively. So, you know, everything you do has a reason. So there's no reason to get pissed off about it and kind of screw around with it. Just, you know, take the task, do it honestly and effortly, and then, you know, if you do that, you'll transform and there will be a new awesome thing for you to do.

0:49:29
There's never ever any reason to get mad at work. When you're just working for money. There's no reason. I mean, when we do work, we always do it as yoga. So we're just working on our own impeccability and our own selflessness. Our impeccability gives us strength, and our selflessness makes us happy. If you're not selfless and you get angry, then it ruins the happiness of your work. So always remember, there's no reason to get angry at work. If you're getting angry at work, that's ridiculous. You know, like someone at work is giving you a hard time, and if you're ever going to get angry at them... It's like, work is like a game. And if you're like, getting angry at someone at work, it's like you're playing Monopoly and getting angry at someone.

0:50:16
You can't even have a hard place, you're ridiculous! You know, stuff like that.

0:50:23
It's stupid.

0:50:25
So, yeah, never get angry at work. If you find yourself getting angry at work, recognize that you need to check your self-importance and work on selflessness. All right, who's next?

0:50:38
Anthony.

0:50:39
Okay. Anthony, you're really smart, and you apply it in your work. So I find you a capable developer. And I mean not only in this yoga project, but I took you on a project, a real world project too, and you performed on that as well. So you're a very capable developer, especially when you focus your attention in the right way. Sometimes you get negative and cloud yourself. I'm not sure why it is, but you will cloud yourself and then you'll make stupid mistakes. So, there was one mistake that we're going to be addressing today in our meeting, but basically, you put the forecasting object in your test and it basically means that we can't release on Group Edition and Professional Edition for Salesforce going out the door. That's one of the biggest reasons why we can't release on those two editions, which limits our market. So that was a really big mishap. It's something that, you know, me and Parvati don't put our attention on the test methods because we asked you guys to. We were putting our attention on building the product. And when we come up with obstacles in our way, we figure them out. So you taking responsibility for that task, it's your responsibility to find the things that might go wrong. We can't give you the guidance that, hey, forecasting, you don't wanna put that in there. You have to figure that out yourself. So you own that task.

0:52:20
Parvati?

0:52:21
I think one of the biggest things getting in your way is general fear and also fear of getting hurt, or maybe just fear of getting your ego hurt, something like that. renders you incapable of completing things really well. But when you can put that aside and you do things extremely well. So, you know, a suggestion I can make is to know that Dharma and I, you know, and in this whole song, nobody is out to hurt you. And you should really, really try to put that aside and just do your work as well as you can. There's a couple other things to point out as well. One, I really like how you're working with Kelly.

0:53:13
You guys are an amazing team.

0:53:16
So you're working well with other people, especially your partnership with Kelly has been awesome. You guys have been working, have been really producing good work through that. So, just wanted to point that out to you.

0:53:44
Um, I like your haircut. I heard a couple weeks ago that you were interviewing for jobs, and I was like, I should tell him to get a haircut. And then I saw him. So that was really good. Because that way, when you're interviewing, you can be sure that they know you're not a hippie. Because if you have long hair and you're a guy interviewing and people are all hippie or not. So that's good. Yeah, but guys have this anger and fear thing. You have an anger and fear thing that you got to work on. And you got to work on it in your work.

0:54:32
You have to be mindful of it.

0:54:33
You have to work through it. So this is like a serious karma in your attention. And you have to be aware of when it comes up in your work, and you have to work through it with impeccability and selflessness.

0:54:58
Cool.

0:54:59
Next.

0:55:00
Sarah. Sarah, you've turned it around big time, in a good way. So working with you on these graphics for our conference presence has been awesome. You've been extremely responsive. You've come out with great work and it's been fantastic. So that's how to work.

0:55:28
Any doubt in how to work in yoga, that's awesome. Yeah. Um, yeah, Sarah, yeah, you know, it's a bumpy road, but you are headed in the right direction. It's good.

0:55:52
Very good.

0:55:54
There's a couple things to point out, though. So we have to work on that whole you get scattered thing. And me and Parvati have been working on putting you on very specific step-by-step tasks. So keep following this path step-by-step and don't get diverted into other things because then that's where you start getting confused. And even look at that like when you're working on individual graphics, work on that task in a step-by-step manner because there was one point in the graphics where you started to go way off and we were like, whoa, wait a second, come back, do the steps that we talked about and then you came back and it was good.

0:56:34
And then, so just keep on working on that and then the other thing is don't quit again.

0:56:41
That's good.

0:56:42
Yeah. That's right, yeah, that's right, you quit at one point and you never succeed from quit. And you really turned it around, and I really like your state of mind right now. It's really good. Alright, anything else? Nope? Okay. Next. put the right intent into your yoga. So working with you is a pleasure, interacting with you is a pleasure, and you put the right intention into your yoga. So like when I look at your status reports, and we look, especially when I look at your status reports, your status reports are bright because you're putting that intent in. It's really good. The things to work on is that you've got to, you're slow, so you have to speed it up. In the real world you need to be at a faster pace. And then the other thing I would say is that, I'm not sure if you are, you live in a Japanese household, or if you get the opportunity to speak English a lot, but you have to work on your English. So being more proficient in your English and in your communication is essential, because a lot of times we have to spend a lot of time

0:58:11
to understand where you're coming from.

0:58:13
Good points.

0:58:15
Yes, actually, overall, you're doing an excellent job. But now it's time to speed up. I remember we told Conn this once. Kyle used to be like really slow at reading through it. And then we're all like, speed up. So Kyle put it into gear and then, and then he was rolling. So what you want to do is you want to double your pace. So you want to double the pace of how fast you do things. So just work on going faster. Faster in your work, faster in your communications. In LA, there's three Hungarian gals. And they used to speak Hungarian down there to each other. And then I said, no, stop. You're not going to learn English. So speak English. So they're all like, you know. And it was funny, because at first, a couple of them didn't speak English so well, so they're all talking to each other in broken, funky sentences. But now, they speak a lot better because they just speak English. So, yeah, try not to speak Japanese with people. Even if your housemates are Japanese or whatever, tell them, I have to speak English. Because I'm trying to learn, and they'll understand. But yeah, increase your pace. In Japan, we've done some business in Japan. It's such a nice culture. And people really respect patience. And if someone asks a question, and the other person thinks about it, and they're thoughtful, and they take their time explaining it,

0:59:56
people appreciate that.

0:59:57
In America, they're all, come on! Let's go!

0:59:59
What the fuck?

1:00:03
So you gotta get used to the American business way.

1:00:13
But otherwise, big thumbs up. Next. Lauren. So, Lauren, you bring a very bright and happy attention to yoga. And thank you, because that's good. It's really good. So working with you is a pleasure. You're very clear in how you communicate. You're very clear in how you, not only communicating what needs to be done, but problems you might be having, next steps. You're very structured and methodical and clear. You can see it when you work on code. You can see it when you work on the other tasks we give you, and it's fantastic. So you keep on going in that direction. It's really good. The main thing that you've been struggling with has been your job taking a lot of energy out of you. Although in the past couple of weeks I've noticed you've put a lot of hours into our yoga and you can tell because some of the deliverables you've just come through with have been really happy and bright. So continuing to try to manage that balance between your day job and your yoga because they both give each other power is really essential.

1:01:33
Didn't I hear that you got a promotion at her work?

1:01:38
Yeah.

1:01:39
Okay.

1:01:40
That's a good thing. Um, yeah.

1:01:46
Just keep going. Borderline.

1:01:50
That's where you're at. But you're, you know, getting a C is passing. And passing in yoga is good, your work, the work you've turned in is really good. Working with you is fun. It's a pleasure. You bring a really happy, bright attention to the yoga. You lift up your teammates, which is super important. And that's just something that's so obvious. And yeah, I've just got nothing but good things to say about you. I have no problems. Kelly's tension is bright. It's very good. And Sarah too, so just be consistent there. It's like you guys are doing it really well. Anyone else? No, that's it.

1:03:09
Alright, I'm going to ask that Aliyah and Shakti be removed from the Yoga Project.

1:03:19
It's not working. It's not happening. And I don't think you're going to turn it around. I just don't see it in you. I don't see the interest, I just don't see it. So you guys are going to be removed from this yoga project because you just have... It's not happening. And Jackie, I want you to prove to us this week that you're going to change. This means a big change. Not just a normal, like, okay I'll work a little harder. You have to have a change, a spiritual change. Otherwise, next week we'll say, hmm, it didn't work out so well. Look, we're going to pull you out too. And unless you got a big thumbs up on your review, you have things you have to work on, everyone on the team. And you have to. Right now, we're going to get rid of people who are just not doing what they got to do but as we get towards the solstice you have to be you know you have to you really have to come up you have to be working at the level that you know Kelly Sarah you got to get rid of the crap you got to you got to put the effort in you got to show impeccability and selflessness because that's what a yogi is. And when we go to the Anza Borrego, it's going to be for yogis. If you get bumped off, you can still come to the trip. I don't know what I'll do. I might do a shorter version, a short half the night with everybody, and then I'm going to spend some time with the people who succeed in yoga. All right, let's go to Hobson. Alright, I have problems with Jason, because he didn't wear a costume.

1:05:40
Oh Jason, you got some stuff to work on.

1:05:44
and Robert.

1:05:46
Let's start.

1:05:47
Okay, please have a seat.

1:05:48
Let's start with those three.

1:05:50
Um, could you tell me?

1:05:51
You're laying low.

1:05:53
I don't even know what you're doing. Lower than a snake's ass.

1:06:29
Sorry.

1:06:32
You don't even talk to me.

1:06:34
I think you talk more to Connor. You don't take responsibility for your work. Whatever work he gives you, you do it. And then you do it. And then you do it some more for some more weeks. And then it's still on them. I don't feel any effort from you that you put into yoga. Five hours a week is nothing. And your attention is not in it.

1:07:07
Five hours a week, you have a lot more time than that. You're just not doing this study.

1:07:13
You're just fucking around. You're like asleep. And you shouldn't be. You should really take this opportunity to learn the discipline, put the work in, because all it does is make you successful. And you just, right now, you're just like, oh. You're like, yeah, you're like asleep. You're trapped in a quagmire. And it's a shame because you can do really, really well. But if you don't try, you won't. You know? You will do excellent at this when you do it. But if you don't do it, it will never happen. So you know, what you have to do is you really, really, really have to just do it. Like Nike said, just do it. Now the difficulty is that your life is completely draining. Your home life is completely draining. Your parents totally have such a level of mind that when you go into it, you fall down into it. You can't keep your power up. So then you find yourself falling into crappy, old, lame, unempowering habits. So that's difficult. So what you need to do is, you need to get a job, you need to get out of your house, you need to do your yoga. And if you have enough personal power to do your yoga while you're at your house, then that would be great. But I know how that is, man. If I was living with my mom, I'd be all like,

1:09:22
I'm going to do yoga.

1:09:23
I'm going to do yoga.

1:09:26
No, actually, I did that. I remember I was doing sales yoga in New York. And then I came to California. And I was going to do a month or two of sales yoga from here. And so I stayed at my mom's house.

1:09:41
And after a week, I was like, oh my god.

1:09:44
Yeah. I was like, oh my goodness.

1:09:48
Parents have a totally different vibe. And they're just totally into certain things. And they're your little cradle. cradle and it just it doesn't help you achieve personal power. Parents help you to have a stability in society so that you won't fall down in society but they don't really help you step up in your in your spiritual power. So get a job, get out of your house, do yoga. Those are the three ways you're going to succeed. But you know you're like the monkey who, you're going to be awesome at it. But you just don't do it. You really don't do it. What you've done so far in this whole study is not it. Anyway, I'm going on too much. But it's bad. Yeah?

1:11:06
One more thing. Too much video games in your country.

1:11:10
Oh, you're the reason I was talking about video games, but I always pretend to.

1:11:19
Anything else?

1:11:20
Alright.

1:11:21
Next.

1:11:22
Robert, you used to be a yogi many months ago, before things happened to you, before you decided to do other things and go in a different direction.

1:11:24
You used to take responsibility and you used to be a good person.

1:11:25
I'm not sure if you're still the same person. I'm not sure if you're still the same person.

1:11:27
I'm not sure if you're still the same person.

1:11:28
I'm not sure if you're still the same person.

1:11:29
I'm not sure if you're still the same person.

1:11:30
I'm not sure if you're still the same person.

1:11:31
I'm not sure if you're still the same person.

1:11:32
I'm not sure if you're still the same person.

1:11:33
I'm not sure if you're still the same person. I'm not sure if you're still the same person. I'm not sure if you're still the same person. I'm not sure if you're still the same person.

1:11:37
I'm not sure if you're still the same person.

1:11:38
I'm not sure if you're still the same person.

1:11:39
I'm not sure if you're still the same person.

1:11:40
I'm not sure if you're still the same person. decided to do other things and go in a different direction. You used to take responsibility, you took tests, you did your yoga, you put in a ton of hours. In the last few months, not even a few weeks, but in the last few months, you've not been doing anything. You've been putting in the minimal 4.25 hours that's required and your attention is... you're just a faded shade of Robert. And you could do so much more because you know what? We've seen it. And you're not communicating, you're letting go. I noticed in your status report this week that you did fix bugs.

1:12:34
Donna was waiting for that.

1:12:36
We didn't hear from you.

1:12:38
You're just barely there.

1:12:42
Yeah.

1:12:43
Usually when you get a programming job for the first time, it's a huge bonus to your personal power. But what you did is you went into a relationship and you lost personal power. And so your yoga sucks and you're not doing as good as you should at work. So it's possible to have a relationship, for sure. I mean, like, you know, you can definitely have a relationship, but you've got to make your yoga work. You got to do it. I know another guy who's got a relationship, who's doing his yoga. He works as many hours as you, but he puts the energy. He does yoga. You're not doing yoga. You're distracted. So if you can't do it for real, then you're not doing it. So it's a huge problem, because you used to do it, you have the potential to be excellent, but your personal power is not enough. You're not focusing enough, you're not managing your energy well enough, you're letting yourself be distracted, and therefore you're failing.

1:13:54
Anything else? Next.

1:13:57
Maika, you're not coding. You should be coding by now.

1:14:02
You're in the yoga dojo down in LA where everybody's coding. You're skidding around looking at your computer. And you're not online in the evenings at the designated yoga day, is not acceptable. You barely got your work done this week and this was the first week that you actually did something. through the cold. Just take responsibility, be excited, find the motivation for yourself, and just do it.

1:14:49
This is your opportunity to become a colder.

1:14:53
And you're not, right now, you're not doing this. to learn you need to put in effort to learn absolutely but more than that you

1:15:09
need to do yoga and you have a serious fucking ego problem you know out of the LA yoga dojo, you got a problem. Out of the whole dojo, you have a problem. And it's an ego problem. If you're going to just get pissed off, I'm dealing with the same bullshit right here. I'm like, what? This is an opportunity for you. And if you're just going to get pissed off at me, then if your ego and what you want to do with your life and all that stuff is so important to you, then leave and go do it. Otherwise, stop being so fucking pissed off. What's the...

1:16:14
I mean, why?

1:16:16
You know? But I'm telling you the truth. If your ego and what you... and your selfhood matters so much to you and go go away do that do self but if you want to learn what we're doing here stop being so fucking pissed off

1:16:39
next

1:16:42
Gotcha. Gotcha. Three hours of yoga a week is my assignment minimum.

1:16:50
And what happens with you is your inconsistency. You have peaks when you're actually doing things, and you're doing things well. You have a strong mind. And then you also fizzle out, and you just don't do anything for weeks and weeks until I come around and pick you up again and then you get excited about something and actually do it. You've pushed really well after losing empowerment, but now you're losing momentum this week, or last week you started from zero momentum and I warned you about this and you're losing it. And you need to be responsible for your code. You can't sit around saying, what's going on? What am I doing? You need to know. Because when you do it, you're really on, you're turned on, you get it done. And that's good. Another thing is communication. I've seen some of your communication to Kana about business requirements, and it's very challenging to understand what you say. So please read your emails twice before you send them. Because you might be asking for clarification, or you don't understand what you don't understand. So, pick the momentum back up, go find a job, don't get trapped by your current situation as you've been warned, and do yoga. And three hours of yoga a week is not enough.

1:18:45
Yeah, Katya, like, what was it, a couple weeks ago, you were doing really well. You were at one of those peaks, but you have to work on consistency. You can't let yourself drop down, because when you do, you lose so much energy. You've got to be consistent. When you can be consistent in your work, then you get so much personal power. But if you go, whoa, I had some good thing and then, oh, I feel terrible, and you don't do anything, then you lose personal power. So, everyone's got to be consistent. So, this is the same thing, communication and consistency. A lot of people have this problem. Communicate properly. Communicate clearly and be consistent in your work. Three hours is nothing. Nothing. So do more work. Remember I said yoga, yoga, yoga, yoga? Do yoga. Really, really, really. The more time you put into yoga, the more power you get. You just suck it in from doing yoga. So spend the time.

1:20:00
Yes.

1:20:03
not working problem that's taking your attention off of the problem and Sean's working multiple problems at once and you're off doing something else. So yeah, you have to definitely I mean that was a big problem for that we talked about is that you let things in your life drain you and yeah you don't need to you don't need to do that don't get don't let your focus get drawn away into things that don't matter. When you're

1:20:54
doing yoga, do it. Focus on it. Alright? Yes?

1:21:01
Mom? Mom, you're a really good coder. You just don't apply it all the time. When you get it fast, you actually get it done, you figure it out. You're not super fast yet, but that will change with time. But you take responsibility, you pay attention, you listen, you take notes, and that's great. You just gotta do more of that and less of the hedging. We have a problem with hedging commitment, deadlines, status reports, and getting a job. So, make up your mind and don't allow yourself to give excuses for not doing things. Otherwise, you'll be on the fast track, and you'll be a super fast coder very soon.

1:21:56
Yeah, so now you're very strong, you have great capabilities. The only thing that trips you up is you. And quite a bit. So you know, you gotta not... everyone... you can't beat yourself up. It doesn't help anything. It's very clear. Just do your tasks. Just do the work. If you're going to go and get a job, just do it. Don't think, oh, I don't know if I can do this or that. Just say to your yoga teacher, what do I have to do? They'll say, do this, this, and this. Put your energy into just doing it. And then once you get the job offer, then you can think about whether, then you can go back to your yoga teacher and say, I don't beat yourself up because that's where you stop yourself. And you throw some pretty good battles against yourself sometimes. And you know, you have good etiquette towards me, but when you create... Have you ever sat next to someone who's just mad? And you're just all, ah. They might not be mad at you, but there are some shits

1:23:18
going on in their head.

1:23:18
You're all, I'm very uncomfortable being around you. So what that does is it creates, in the sangha, in this organic fellowship, it creates a stink. And so if someone next to me is all mad, and I'll be all, they might not be mad at me, but then I'll be all, what could I think of that bothers me? But if someone next to me is happy, they're like...

1:23:42
Like that. Then I'll be like, oh, that's pretty happy.

1:23:45
And then I'll go...

1:23:47
So beating yourself up matters. Don't do it.

1:23:52
Next.

1:23:54
Sean?

1:23:55
Sean, you're doing a great job. You have a very strong attention on yoga.

1:24:03
You get your tasks done on time. If you need help, you ask for help. Yeah, it's great. You take responsibility. Great working with you. One challenge, don't let it get to your head. There's always more you can do. There's always and you're doing great.

1:24:32
And just keep doing it.

1:24:35
Yes. Yeah. So Sean, you know, you've taken a lot of steps in a very, very positive direction. You do good work.

1:24:46
It's going well.

1:24:48
Just keep doing it. So for this level of where we're at, yoga keeps taking steps. And for this step, you're doing great. Just keep doing it.

1:24:59
Do more.

1:25:00
Do more yoga. Is that everyone?

1:25:02
I've addressed the other LA girls enough. So you guys are, you know, when did we talk? Like last week or something. So you guys are working on those things. So that's fine. Yeah, the LA, I got to say, the LA group is making more progress on coding than the NorCal team. I mean, they're just like, they're just taking off. And the NorCal team that should be doing better isn't. I guess it's because, you know, the LA team is doing better yoga. The people who are in a yoga dojo really do much, much, much better because they have a structure of a yoga dojo and they just get a lot more support, a lot more light. There's a sangha structure, a spiritual structure in the yoga dojo and it just really helps them. So, except for Mica. So, if you intentionally want to fuck around then you have serious problems, but if you work with the program and you do things properly, then it really, really helps you. So like everybody in the North, everybody in Bodie Woods 2 is supported and aided and does really good because of the structure. And also they get to come over and do morning meditations and martial arts classes and stuff like that. And then the LA group is just really excelling. All right, let's go on to one team. One team stand up. One team stand up.

1:27:04
How many salespeople are there?

1:27:05
Three, okay.

1:27:16
And, sit down. I have a problem with all of one team.

1:27:22
Yep. Especially Brooke, who's not even here. Alright, let's start with, we're not going to talk about Brooke because she's not even here. Let's start with Laura. And Dakini, you'll be leading because you're the sales manager.

1:28:00
So you guys are doing your yoga as a routine. And it's not working like this. It's not like I'm brushing my teeth everyday, I do yoga everyday. It's not going to work like this. So you guys are doing your test, but you're not going for results. And basically, I have to say, you're wasting your time and energy like this. Because if you went for results, you all know that you should put much more effort and energy and attention in this, and none of you are willing to do this. So that's a problem.

1:28:44
takes that little extra super push it's kind of like um sparring so for those who do martial arts so if you're doing martial arts and you're sitting there going like you know how you do a kata right if you do if you do if you do sparring like that you'll be like going I'm punching and kicking But in order to actually get to hit somebody, you have to push more. So you guys are doing a routine like you're doing kata. I'm punching and kicking, I keep going, and I'm doing the right things, it's the right moves. But in order to get that point or hit that opponent, you have to focus for real and you have to make it happen. So I absolutely agree with that. The main thing is that you guys are not willing to score. Okay, and now Roro.

1:29:51
So, Roro, you're a great, talented salesperson and you proved it before the song did because you actually made a cross for sale. So, that was great. But, you know, in order to do that, you have to put your attention and focus in the yoga, and maybe for personal reasons, you're not doing it. So that's why you're not succeeding, because although in the first attention, you put effort in your yoga, 99% of your power, attention, and energy goes somewhere else, and you know that.

1:30:31
That's exactly it. And we talked on the Equinox that there is a way to deal with your life situation without putting so much energy in it, but you just don't. This is the thing that always stops you. definition. The definition of being a mom. You're like, I'm a mom, I have to take care of my kid, my kid has a problem. And you spend way too much thought cycles on it. Way too much energy on it. You could manage it. You could manage Gabe, you could manage his illness, you could manage everything without putting so much energy in it and have enough energy to do with yoga, to do your yoga properly. But you don't do that. And it seems like you've selected not to because you don't. We've talked about it for years. So you want to just give up? You should just give up if you're going to give up. I mean, if you're not going to make a change, it's probably not going to happen. So consider that. Next person.

1:31:41
Okay, so, basically you don't have any personal power. This is how you live your life.

1:31:43
But in yoga, this would be your primary task, to work on your personal power.

1:31:44
And you're not doing it. So you put all your effort in your work, and you do minimum amount of yoga, you're not making any results, you're not getting anywhere with your yoga, basically. And, you're not getting anywhere. So, you're not getting anywhere.

1:31:49
So, you're not getting anywhere.

1:31:50
So, you're not getting anywhere. So, you're not getting anywhere.

1:31:52
So, you're not getting anywhere.

1:31:53
So, you're not getting anywhere. So, you're not getting anywhere. So, you're not getting anywhere. So, you're not getting anywhere. So, you're not getting anywhere. So, you're not getting anywhere. So, you're not getting anywhere. So, you're not getting anywhere.

1:32:01
So, you're not getting anywhere.

1:32:02
So, you're not getting anywhere. So, you're not getting anywhere.

1:32:04
So, you're not getting anywhere with your yoga, basically.

1:32:05
And where I see the problem is basically the effort and focus. You don't put any focus to yoga, or you just can't focus, I don't know.

1:32:17
You're not really committed to your yoga. You're not spiritually committed to it. If you're spiritually committed to your yoga, then you overcome karmic barriers. You transcend karma. So you have karmas that stop you, like everybody. Everybody has their story of what bothers them, what stops them. And everyone has to overcome their karma in order to break beyond what they think they can do. And you can do that through yoga, but you're not. You're just not committed to it. Next.

1:33:06
Julie. So you have the most heart for yoga in the whole team, and we really appreciate that. And you put a lot of effort and energy in it, you still don't succeed yet. I think this is because you deeply decided on beauty in your own success. And even in the most obvious situations

1:33:32
when you are just about to succeed, you have to have, I call it that flying feeling. You really have to have, you have to will and know and believe in and push for that success and then it happens and when it happens it's awesome.

1:34:00
Thank you.

1:34:04
Yeah, so, yeah, you don't believe in yourself, and that's what stops you. If you believed in yourself, then, or if you just got over yourself, put yourself aside, it would happen. With the effort that you're putting in, you're putting in the right effort. You just have to get your self-doubt out of the way. Okay, now, so, Wanda, I'd like you to step out of the yoga. It's not happening. You're not doing what it takes. You don't have enough spiritual involvement in your yoga. It's not going to happen. You're not doing it. So I'd like you to step down. Laurel, I'd like you to consider it.

1:35:05
You can bow out if you want.

1:35:07
If you're not going to make it happen, then you're not making it happen. You know full well what it takes. And if you want to complain, if you want to bitch, if you want to doubt, you can just go. You can quit. If you think that this is a bad deal for you, that this doesn't help you, doesn't help your life, doesn't help your situation, then go away. But you go away, you never come back. You know, the eagle, the spirit of the eagle, you know, comes around once, goes, but for you it's come around twice, it's not coming back though. So if you don't want to succeed in this yoga, quit. And if you're so pissed off about Otherwise, change. Because, you know, the same complaints, the same bullshit, the same stuff all the time, you're going nowhere. Alright? Oh yeah, I forgot about Hobson. Jason, it's not happening, you're going to get fired. And getting fired for you means that you're going to get fired from the Hobson job. You've done your year. You've lived up to your commitment. You've got a lot out of it. You got a lot out of it. But if it's the same bullshit and you don't do anything about it, then I have a problem with it now. So if you don't, stop getting so fucking pissed off. You've got to work, you've got to work, you've got to push yourself. And if you don't do it, you'll get fired. That's it. And Robert, next week, if we don't see a change, if I don't see a change in your aura, a change in your heart, and work. You know how you do it? You work. Do the work. You get bright. I've seen people in here who have done the work in the past week and turned it around from being dark to bright. I see darkness in your aura. I don't like it. So next week, if you haven't turned it around, I'll say, too bad, it was a great opportunity, and you should have excelled in it, but you're not doing it. So let's see what it's like next week.

1:37:50
All right.

1:37:52
Now, who do we have left?

1:37:55
We have Yam.

1:38:04
The Yam-inions.

1:38:06
Yam will please stand up.

1:38:08
What do they think of you, Papa? people I know yeah Isabel Isabel problem

1:38:52
and you.

1:38:54
OK, let's start with those four.

1:38:56
OK, first of all, Yama. Yeah, so Yama, you guys are the team that has the injured team leader. This is a bad sign. You guys have had a lot of ego reaction. You guys remember when Kamala was managing you, personal emails and communications, you guys threw a lot of shit at her.

1:39:59
This is a problem.

1:40:01
And then it ended up creating damage to her aura, greater pathology, which ended up with a physical damage. It's very bad. So yeah, this is not a good thing. So we really, really, really, really need to stop negativity. We have to be positive. The flying eel. All right, so let's start with the four.

1:40:34
You're one of the smartest people I've met, with this beautiful mind. I'll give you a task and you'll go do this research and you'll come up with this amazing document in a third of the time it would take any of you to do the same thing. So I really love that and appreciate that. And I think the place where you're primarily getting stuck is you've set some completely essential goals for yourself in your personal life and then in your yoga. So you have to go beyond just this, oh let me do this research task and be helpful here, but let me really make something happen as a yoga goal. And the thing that you have to do is prioritize those above everything else and put the time in. Because you can do so much when you're focused on it, but you don't give it enough time until you get scattered across these other things and things don't happen and your whole life stays heavy instead of just making this hugely popular next time. And when you can do that in your personal life, in your job, and in your yoga, then you'll have this really amazing time.

1:41:46
And you need to change that.

1:41:53
You have some damage to your aura. And so I'd like you to stay here after everybody else leaves. Because if you're energy, you can't maintain energy in your aura, it leaks out. And then you don't have energy to do things.

1:42:18
All right, that's it, next. Sean Hinton, Sean QA team.

1:42:23
Playing plenty of time, really responsive,

1:42:27
so I appreciate this quality. So heart is on yoga however putting a lot of personal limitations in yoga so as a result you don't produce results. There's a lot of time but there is nothing, there's no outcome. And that's sad to me because I'd like to see you succeed. I know that you've lived with your limitations for a while and yoga was meant to help you let go of them, and that hasn't happened yet. So no results. Lots of fear and self-limitations.

1:43:29
you have to get another job,

1:43:30
and we've been pushing on you harder lately, but I know it's a really scary thing to go out of this sort of comfort zone of thinking that you just have to do it. You have to make it happen.

1:43:40
Yeah, you're extremely stuck, very stuck. So, you know, change job would be extremely helpful. Yeah, what your yoga teachers tell you is right. You gotta listen to them and take action. Don't just go, oh, whatever. They're telling you how to succeed, and they're right. So you've got to change your job. That would help a lot. It looks like you're kind of going through the motions in yoga, but you are getting no results. So that means that you're not putting your heart into it. And it's got to become real to you, and it's not. Yeah, so change your job. Start with that. Next.

1:44:33
Misa? I'm really happy with Misa's work. Misa puts a lot of energy, excitement, and enthusiasm and quality into her work, too. And also, really good with changes. I gave Misa a ton of constructive criticism, and she responded positively to me, so it was really nice and refreshing. It's great quality to be able to read criticism and respond well. But the problem is the comfort zone. There's a lot of sitting around and having sentimental relationships with the comfort zone. be there, but on the other hand, you constantly look back and romanticize it, and so how wonderful it is to be where your comfort zone is. And as long as you hold on to it and look back at it, it won't ever go away. It will always come to you and prevent you from being successful.

1:45:29
You have terrible social conditioning that will stop you from following the path to enlightenment, and it is definitely able to be seen in your comfort zone. You have to be a warrior. That means that you have to have courage to push beyond what's comfortable. I think you need to get a job. That's what you need to do. You need to put some energy into getting a job. Yep.

1:46:00
Yep

1:46:02
And and then that will that will break you out of whatever funk you're in because you're in a massive funk And if you if you if you make that change Then then you'll be you'll be being a warrior and you'll be moving along But right now, I mean I do I'm happy to hear that. She's doing good stuff on her yoga. It's good, but There's something deeper that is going to really take you off the path. So you have to be a warrior. Your social conditioning stinks. Get a job. If you got a job, quit. No, get another job and then quit.

1:46:40
Wait a minute.

1:46:43
Always get another job and then quit.

1:46:45
Okay.

1:46:46
I'm really happy with her graphics work. So Olga excels. Very talented person in general. Just has many good skills and just talents. Talented at learning programming, talented at graphics, which she's really familiar with. The problem is when doing new stuff, when giving stuff like coding tasks that's something that's not comfortable you just kind of close your eyes and do it but you have to be awake while you do it so not just breathe through it but think through it and be mindful about your work so don't let the fog, fear, and unclarity settle in your work. Don't be sloppy. So a lot of the code that you put in me, something we've had to do, is just not a good quality work. And I wouldn't be saying that if I knew you weren't capable of it, but you're fully capable. Talent is smart. No reason to be sloppy.

1:47:55
No good excuse.

1:47:57
So in terms of your coding, the thing to focus on is how do we do this with the least code possible? Like what's the absolute most efficient way that I can do this? Where can I put this in one place that will work everywhere instead of touching

1:48:10
all these different platforms?

1:48:12
And so that'll be clearly understandable and easily maintainable by the rest of the team. And then the other area I heard in terms of improving attention to detail and floppiness is making sure that you can override other people's check-ins. So, I guess it happened to Kamal a couple times, so no chance of him doing all this work. So either merge it, or if you can't merge it, then the thing to do is to accept someone else's code

1:48:36
and then add your changes back in.

1:48:38
But just be really careful to not accidentally mess that up.

1:48:42
Just to be careful.

1:48:44
Where did you start fucking up? Ah, I know.

1:48:47
A relationship. So at a time where you could have focused on your own personal power. You did what a lot of women do because of conditioning. You saw someone else that was powerful and you said, my power comes from a man. And it's not that you can't be in a relationship, but you can't look for your power in another person. And that's exactly what you did. So what you are doing right now is you're starting off on a foundation of not trying to develop your power. So if you already know graphics and you're helping out with yoga to do the graphics, that's good, but you know how to do that. If you were talented at learning technology, good, but you have to be able to do that technology, develop yourself through that technology. So you have to develop yourself. And since there's a lack of development in yourself, it's because of that core problem. You made a huge decision to try to get your power from being with somebody else and not focusing on developing yourself. So you can be in a relationship and both be positively moving forward, but you can't get confused. Right? Like two people can be riding a bike next to each other, going the same way, and this is really fun! But if you guys try to hold each other's handlebars, then it creates huge problems.

1:50:36
You start crashing left and right.

1:50:40
You're all like, oh, let me hold your handlebars!

1:50:42
Let me hold your handlebars!

1:50:44
So, that's what you're doing. You're like, oh, this person is moving along fast on their bike, so I want to grab onto their handlebars, and then that way I'll move along fast with them. But it really fucks things up. So what you need to do is you need to say, all right, I'm my own biker. And I'm going to ride my bike, and I have fun riding along the side with someone else. That's awesome. But you have to manage your own balance, and you have to pedal yourself. You've got to take responsibility for that. And you have to reflect on that critical error. It almost took you off the path. And that's what women's conditioning is. You've got to recognize that, and you have to deal with it, especially because you're Russian. Eastern Europeans have a little bit more social conditioning than in America.

1:51:44
Americans are all like, yeah.

1:51:45
But in Eastern Europe, it's more intense. OK.

1:51:52
Next.

1:51:53
Morgan.

1:51:55
Also, really good heart, really good effort, good yoga, you know, can't complain about a lot. The only thing I think it's a personal, is a lot of unclearly fog in the mind, and because of this fog, a lot of errors get created unnecessarily. Errors in reporting bugs, the kind of bugs sometimes you report and errors within the same box. They, um, it's inefficient. It creates work for me, it creates work for you, it's a pleasant life.

1:52:36
Can you give a specific example of that? Yes, so one specific example is, um, there was one bug about really long title text, and it had three different effects on the homepage, so you put in three different bugs, but if you'd been more focused and more clear you would have realized, oh this is all caused by the same underlying issues, so let me just report one bug, because that's more efficient and faster for the engineering team to process.

1:53:02
We have to understand that there's a lot of good bugs, a lot of good bugs that helped us able to do good work, this will fix the week. And I have one more compliment to that.

1:53:14
It's really inspiring to me when you talk about

1:53:16
the spirit of our yoga.

1:53:18
I'm like, whoa, she sees the same thing that I see. Yeah, that's really tremendous. Yes.

1:53:24
And one more thing I also want to add this compliment to both Nisa and Morgan, it was really nice to be able to outsource them, meaning have another team hire them. So it was like a different job. And we received so many compliments and so much positive feedback that the grass always has a team to get it done. So that's a really good indicator, considering that you don't even come from technical backgrounds and technology

1:54:07
is so alien to you. So it sounds weird. Yes, yes, yes. Yeah, Morgan, your heart is definitely in the right place. Your mind is scattered. Too many thoughts. You really, really, really need to focus on things that are constructive for you. You really need to push your focus on getting a job. I don't know if you have a job, but you need a better job. You need to push your focus on that. That'll mean everything. Because when you step up into a more powerful job, then you'll think there's a reason to

1:54:53
try.

1:54:54
And maybe you can let your... If you feel like you're doing something special and cool, then maybe you'll let your self-importance down so that you won't get yourself fired. Because you won't give people a hard time. definitely have to, you know, how to win friends and influence people should be your etiquette all times in dealing with people. It's very important. And when you find that you're not doing that, that's self-importance and you need to check that, you need to be mindful of that. And you need to get a better job so that you get into a place with better, more respect for you.

1:55:41
Absolutely. You need to focus on that.

1:55:43
And not think a lot of junk.

1:55:46
When you think junk, it just starts to take your attention away from succeeding. You need all your attention to succeed. Okay, thanks. Thanks. Next person is Christian.

1:55:58
Smart, talented, hardworking, lots of good stuff.

1:56:02
Can handle a wide range of tasks, from sales to technology, fixing bugs, that's great. One thing that, where you lose energy is to be negative towards yourself, kind of creates scars in your aura, and the energy just leaks through and drains you. And it just decreases quality of your life, and it could be really great.

1:56:41
Yeah, some people are like that, right? They use great stuff, and they work really hard, and everyone says, yeah, that's a good guy.

1:56:50
Or she's a good gal.

1:56:52
And then the person just beats up on themselves. Don't do that. There's no reason to. You should try to find a balance with yourself. I mean, you do your work, you do the best you can, but you don't have to beat yourself up. Because you're doing a good job. Being critical of yourself is good. You always want to be like, am I doing the right thing? That's good, but not in a way that's harmful. You actually do it in a harmful way. You beat yourself up. You don't think you're good enough. You're like, I'm not good enough. I'm doing it bad, or stuff like that. You don't need to think that at all. You just keep working. By following the yoga, you'll get more and more powerful and more and more bright. So just keep on working on it. Don't beat yourself up, because you're doing great.

1:57:46
Next.

1:57:48
Isabel not here. That's a no. Isabel!

1:57:52
Sad state of mind. Garbage crap.

1:57:56
Jonathan, thank you.

1:58:02
Jonathan has a really beautiful heart. A lot of good effort towards work really tries hard and I appreciate it. It's always nice to see. I think Ikson reminds me of the Wizard of Oz, a client who had a teeny bit of courage. No, not a teeny bit of courage. One of the characters. Yeah, they're seeking for courage and the courage is already within them. So I think courage, lose fears, losing fears of self-promotion. And also, so for the concrete stuff. So for concrete examples, you do code, you've succeeded a lot in your coding. So from where you came from, where you are right now, it's a really big step up. And so the next thing for you to work on is become a professional coder, where your code has that quality. You know how you can sometimes see at the print work and it's just kind of like weird, somebody did something, they printed a card, but it just doesn't have the right vibration. So you're at the point where you can do something, but it just doesn't look professional enough. So adding that touch of professionalism and independence mature into your code would be a really, really good next step for your coding.

1:59:24
Yep.

1:59:28
Yeah, so your heart's in it and you're doing the work and you just have to keep going, and refine, and do better.

1:59:40
Next. Lizette? I think the beautiful quality about Lizette

1:59:44
is harmlessness and gentleness. So a lot of her attention and mind is spent thinking how to not harm, how to be helpful, how to be beautiful with people. And a lot of that explains why you're so quiet and kind of lay low. You just try not to be a problem, you try to be harmless. But you develop this habit of just being invisible. And that invisibility clock is just all over the place. It covers your talents. So it was that invisibility limit yourself. So I don't really know what you're... quite honestly you tell me what you're doing but I don't really know what you're doing. You're not producing these albs, you're not learning, you don't push yourself. So you celebrate your weaknesses. I believe it's time to start celebrating your strength.

2:00:52
Yes, this is good. Yeah, so one of the great things is that you have a lot of purity and harmlessness, which is nice to me. But you have to break out of your Santa Cruz karma of being chill with everything. You've got to get New York on it. And you really, really have to just push harder. You've got to do more. You have to get more results in your work. That's it. But, I mean, you are working. You're working pleasantly. That's nice. And you're making progress. But it's just like, if you follow this line, it's going to be so far. We want to go like this, the hockey stick. So you have to really, really, really push yourself. Get higher. Get brighter. Get your work done. Do more. We need more results faster. So that's what you gotta do. You gotta light a fire up under your ass.

2:02:04
Light a fire up under your own ass, you're a whore.

2:02:07
You gotta do it.

2:02:08
You gotta do it.

2:02:09
You gotta do it.

2:02:09
You gotta do it.

2:02:10
You gotta do it.

2:02:11
Yeah, because you have to have that self-motivation.

2:02:13
If you don't, if you can't, like, if you don't have the willpower to motivate yourself, you're gonna sit around playing video games. Video games!

2:02:19
Yeah, next.

2:02:20
Lindsey probably knows what I'm going to say. Thank you for turning it around this week, because this was a really awesome week. And you sent me that email on Friday that said, hey, guess what? My cold calls from Monday landed us pro bono work from the biggest PR firm, or one of the biggest PR firms in the world, from a guy who loves the NAA. And I was like, oh, neat.

2:02:45
Pro bono?

2:02:46
Pro bono, yeah. And he's meeting us for breakfast, because we want things out in time for National Hospice Month this week.

2:02:53
Wow.

2:02:54
After, a while ago we did get the perfect pro bono lawyer from one of the best law firms in Kansas.

2:02:58
I didn't know that.

2:02:59
That was a while ago though, yeah.

2:03:01
She's all, pro bono, pro bono.

2:03:03
So I think you completely know, like, oh, problem, problem, rubble, rubble, procrastinate, complain, push people a little bit. But you just did your fast, and you dropped it, and you're like, let me just decide to do this. And then these really neat results are happening. And what I would love is for you to continue that for the rest of the quarter. I like this project. I want to help it succeed. I own responsibility for that. I work on it every day. I've worked my amazing networks to make more of this magic happen. Launch the Facebook marketing thing, and then you alone will get us 25 plus users. And I will be so happy. And you will be so happy. Everything that feels so heavy and so hard will just be gone. It will be so bright and so joyful. It's going to be fun.

2:03:57
Yeah, so if you stay in the light, you will take off and be happy in every way. So you just have to make yourself stay in the light. And that means doing the work that you got to do to stay in the light. And then in so many ways, everything will go really, really bright and fantastic. So, I mean, because right now your aura is bright. A little while ago, maybe different. But because of what you've, you know, you've pushed yourself, you've done things, then you just get yourself into the light. So you're definitely doing yoga. It's excellent.

2:04:44
Alright, anyone else?

2:04:46
I think this is it.

2:04:47
All right.

2:04:49
So we're not going to do any layoffs of the Yama team this week. Well, this week. But everybody has stuff to work on. And you need to work on it. You need to work on it. What we're doing is, for people who are really just not doing yoga, we're getting you out. And next week, if some of you who are really close, if you don't make changes, then we're going to get you out. And then after that, we need the people who are doing good and bad sometimes. We need you to work on the stuff that you need to work on so that you're consistently bright, that you're consistently doing your yoga. We're working our way up to the solstice, the time of power, and we're perfectly positioned with three of our projects to succeed. I'm all like, one team? It's up to you guys. And if we do this right, magic happens and these projects that we're working on take off and it's really exciting and fun. You get money from it. Money comes at you. We've talked about that. And besides that, it's exciting and fun. We have this saying in yoga, cash flow equals energy flow. And when we get cash flow, you will see. You'll be like, oh, we made money.

2:06:37
Yay.

2:06:39
That's bright. Things like that.

2:06:42
It does work.

2:06:44
So we've got to really, really work on our yoga. We're not fooling around here. We're not fooling around. We're heading into the solstice. This is a serious time. We put so much time and energy into these projects. Now is the time to sharpen up, become a warrior, and succeed. If you're not a warrior, you won't, you know, you'll fall off the project. But you will fall onto enlightened media. So if I've asked you to step off of your yoga project, you're now officially on enlightened media and Gabor is your manager. Gabor is your new manager. And in enlightened media you have the opportunity to learn the same lessons as, you know, it is yoga. So if you want to do yoga, you can do it. If you don't want to do yoga, then you'll still be on enlightened media, but you won't do anything.

2:07:42
But you have an opportunity.

2:07:44
And it's up to you if you want to learn it or not. If you don't want to learn these lessons, then when we come into, after the solstice, I don't know what's going to happen with the organization. If we have a bunch of people who fall out and don't become yogis, they don't do the work, and they don't seem like they're interested in the study, then I don't know, we'll see. Yeah, we might change things around a little bit. We might have two groups. We might have like the warriors and the wimps. The warriors of light and the wings of light.

2:08:26
At one time, my teacher did that.

2:08:28
What did he call it? I forgot what he called it.

2:08:33
He had two groups.

2:08:35
There was a group of us that were doing really well in kicking ass.

2:08:38
And then there was a group that was struggling. And they were all funky. But then he separated us so that he could work with my group, the advanced group, to go faster. And then the wimpy group, he's like, OK, there's still some teachings I can give you, but you're just going at a different pace. So maybe we'll do something like that. I don't know yet.

2:09:06
We'll see.

2:09:09
All right.

2:09:10
So next weekend, if you want, Bodie Wood's work day. We'll watch another special film. Special film, and I'll talk about that film. It may or may not include demons. Did you guys notice anything about the demon movies being very special? We are training to be warriors, and we become warriors in every way. We become warriors in terms of learning how to be a business warrior, how to do martial arts, we learn to be physical warriors, we have to learn to be warriors in terms of what if some spiritual bad things happen to us, like someone gets mad at us, or a demon comes over, we have to be able to deal with those things. So that's why we talk about these subjects. They're good and helpful subjects to talk about. So if you want to come next week, next Saturday, we'll have a Bodhi Woods Workday and we'll watch a movie. It might be fun. It might be interesting. We might not talk about demons, we might talk about another subject. Another subject of defense against the dark arts. Yeah, I think we will. Okay, yeah, that's what we'll do. We'll do some Bodewit's work and then we'll stop and do some movies and talking. All right? The other thing I might add is if any of you are interested, we're going to be opening up a Bodie Woods 3. But Bodie Woods 3 is actually a property that we're going to buy. So if you want to get in on it, it's an investment, if you want. And Bodie Woods 3 is a good investment. Because what it is, is it's a three bedroom house that's on five acres of land. It's an unpermitted house. So the guy who built it, he just didn't get a permit for it. And he just built it to live there for the rest of his life. But then he met some girl in San Francisco and decided to just leave, not pay the bank, and go away. So it got foreclosed on. And we heard about it from a very friendly neighbor of ours because it's in our little neighborhood. And he said it's a great deal because the price of it, I think, is 250,000. And then he hadn't finished building it so we have a little bit more work to do, just a little bit, and we just have to pay for the permits. And then the property will be worth at least twice as much. So if you want to get in on the Bodie Woods 3, I guess, investment, then you can put money into it. But what we do with like Bodie Woods, like different people put in different amounts of money. And we just keep track of what everybody puts in. Because that way we know that level of investment. So if we wanted to sell Bodie Woods, like, I don't know, I think we're going to keep Bodie Woods one, because we like it. But this other one is probably going to be an investment, because we will get a great return. So we'll live in it for some period of time. And then, especially when the market's better, we'll be able to sell it for maybe a lot more than we bought it for. Now, I've heard of some people who have like $50,000 or $75,000 or something like that to put into it. And if you've got like $50,000 or $75,000 and you want to put it in and move in, if you want to live there, then that's a possibility. If you have the money but you don't want to live there, that's cool too. I mean, it's really if you want to be a part of that investment, it's good. If you want to move into a yoga dojo and be able to take part in the Bodhi Woods meditations and martial arts and additional things that we do, you can be a part of it if you want to live there. So, if there's someone with like 50,000 that goes in, and they want to live there, they'll be able to get in. So I just wanted to say that that is an opportunity I would make open to all of you if you want to.

2:14:15
Yes, Kat?

2:14:16
Just have them contact me. Oh, yeah.

2:14:19
Contact.

2:14:19
All right. So let's see if we can turn things around this week. This is a week where I really, really, really want things to turn around. It'll be to everyone's benefit, to all of our benefit, to your benefit, to my benefit.

2:14:48
Excellent.

2:14:49
So thank you all very much. Now for those of you who I've asked to step down, those of you in eMedia, I'd like you to stay behind here for a few minutes. I'd like you to stay behind here for a few minutes.

2:15:00
I'll chat with you, and everyone else can go to their meetings.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
