0:00:00
And then when you have success in your cash flow, software products done, cash flow happening, then the results are self-evident. Yoga is real. Excellent! Isn't that fun? Isn't that going to be great? You guys, you know, yeah, you have your definitive battle, but this is like that moment in kick-ass where you put your backpack with jets on, you start to fly, and you go from being a little peon, a little complaining, angry, frustrated learner, to a yogi, a real yogi. Yeah, you know, I was a little complainer.

0:00:54
Yeah.

0:00:55
Something my teacher said astounded me one day. He said, if I could succeed in yoga, so can you. And he said, if I could become enlightened, so can you. And at the time, I was like, no way! But he was right. You just have to do it. You have to go for it. You have to stop indulging. You got to stop indulging. You got to recognize that from now until solstice, This is the shot. This is our chance. And you've thought about and considered in the reflection what yoga means to you, what this opportunity means to you. And believe me, it means more. It does, really. I know what it means to you, but it means more. And your yoga teachers know that. They're not fooling around. They know. They know. When you succeed in yoga, it's amazing. When you don't succeed in yoga, it's hard. And, you know, we've had enough hardship. Enough hardship. So, we want to succeed. You have to focus on success. You have to recognize that you're in the transition now from a learner to a yogi. In the winter solstice, I should be sitting here with a group of yogis. And that's a transformation. That's not just messing around anymore. You're like, I wasn't just messing around. Yeah, you were. Because your intent was not there. When your intent is there, you are impeccable and selfless. And all of you, maybe excluding Zen's team, are not at the point of impeccability and selflessness. Yes. So we need to become yogis. You need to assume responsibility. See how this mysticism works right on into your karma yoga? Yeah. Yeah, you need to assume responsibility. When you assume responsibility, then your impeccability for this yoga, for this opportunity, then your yoga becomes impeccable and selfless, naturally. But when you're going through self, self, self-reflection, when you're like, oh, my lifestyle, and oh, I don't like this, and oh, this is hard, you need to grow a pair. Yeah, you do. You need to have some courage. You need to push beyond your petty bullshit. Because you guys are full of petty bullshit.

0:04:42
It's true.

0:04:45
You're a pain in the ass. I love that part in the book, Power of Silence, where Carlos says, So what do you get out of this, Don Juan? And he's like, Well, I get a lot of impeccability. I get power from dealing with you because you're such a pain in the ass. He's like, I have to push myself so hard just to be able to be in your presence without vomiting. And he's not kidding. Don Juan's very sensitive, very aware, and when he's sitting in front of someone who's all like, Carlos is all, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh,

0:05:32
meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh,

0:05:33
meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh,

0:05:34
meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, his whole weird states of mind and stuff. Yeah, it's hard to be around. It's hard to be around. So, you know, it's hard to know what enlightenment's like when you're not An enlightened person is good at stalking. They're good at fixing an assemblage point. They're impeccable at it. So, you know, I stand up here and I talk a certain way, and I, you know, put on an act for you. I talk to you, I say things in a certain way, I hold myself in a certain way, and you get an idea of, you get a fixed idea of who I am. But this is my act. This is my act because it's an effective act. And when you study martial arts with me, I put on a sensei act because it works for martial arts. But I'm really nice. Yeah. And when you're a beginner, a yogi, you have to put behind you a lot of this bullshit. This is self-indulgent, self-important stuff, and it's very limiting, and it's a pain in the ass. So, if your life is so painful, then take the pain. Grow a pair. Be courageous. Be a yogi. Stop being such a schmuck. Yes. Yeah, it's important, because the field of energy that you create with your negativity is not anything about the study of enlightenment. You sit there and you have your doubts, your negativity, your self-importance, your desires, and your fears, and you let them stop you, and light, and energy. And so, you're taking enlightened energy and making a mess out of it. And therefore, you know, it's painful, it's disturbing, perturbing, it's unhealthy for me. So, you have to grow up. We're making a change right now from being a learner to being a yogi. A warrior doesn't have time for this bullshit. You have to become stronger. You have to work through your difficulties. You have to keep enlightenment in mind. You have to keep success in mind. You have to keep the spirit of yoga in mind. You've got to work through your stuff and succeed. Otherwise, what's this all about? Just a hard time for you? That's what it seems like for a while, I guess. But no, this is about enlightenment. This is about doing yoga for real. All the teachings of yoga, impeccability, selflessness, advising your death, assuming responsibility, erasing personal history, inaccessibility. You need to do it. You need to do it. This is the time to put your yoga and your lessons of the warrior into practice. This is the time to do it. This is the definitive battle. This is where we're going out to make this happen. And succeeding in this endeavor is very enlightening. Because if you have the tenacity to follow the spiritual path, you'll become enlightened. Yeah. If you want it, you can do it. No hardship. Nothing could stop you from becoming enlightened if you really want to become enlightened. Nothing can stop you from succeeding in yoga if you really want to succeed in yoga. So that's the good news. Now there's the fast path which is taking the definitive battle seriously, following the teachings and doing it, getting over and beyond yourself and really, really going for it, going for yoga, going for enlightenment, going for this whole deal. You know, that's a fast path. The slow path is letting yourself stop you. Letting your negativity hold you down. Letting your limitations rule you. And then that yields a different lesson. It yields another lesson that, you know, another lesson will come. If you're sitting around me, if you fail in your yoga and you're standing around me, I will show you the pathway to enlightenment. I'll say, oh, you fell down. Well, let me help you back up. Go right this way. But falling down isn't very fun. So I recommend that you follow the teachings, that you do it for real this time. Now, can all of you see the coast out here where you see the land kind of disappear into the ocean? If you can't see it, you can stand up. But what I'd like you to do is I would like you to just look out this way. We're going to do a seeing exercise. And I'm going to show you something in the second attention, and it has everything to do with the definitive battle. We're going to just gaze out this way, just for a few minutes, and kind of over here. So the land, the far hill, goes right down into the ocean. And we're going to be looking out where that invisible land meets the ocean, or barely visible land meets the ocean. Okay, so just gaze down that way. Just look down that way. Still your mind. Focus on the third eye if you need to, but just look down this way.

0:13:50
So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. I'm going to go ahead and get started. Okay. Alright. That was very nice. You can see in the second attention the doorway to success. And I know some of you saw it in certain manifestations,

0:16:13
and some of you don't know what you were looking at, but you saw it. Your eyes met with the doorway. It's a good thing. I like this big sur place. It has a wonderful energy, although very inaccessible. I mean, we have to sneak out here to get to these nice energy lines. But this is an amazing place. It's a great place for transformation, a fantastic place for transformation. It's one of the most dramatic coastlines in the world, where we have these beautiful mountains shooting right down into the ocean. And that energy of the land dramatically ending and going to the ocean is a beautiful, amazing energy. That's why we're here. This, when you come up on top of the mountain and you can see down the coast, it's a really very, very good place for seeing. That's why we did this exercise here. Excellent. Okay, now we're going to go down to a bathroom. Hooray! We're going to be performing an empowerment, a yogic empowerment for you. And that is an empowerment to help you become a yogi. Yes. This is our, this will be our last leg of the adventure tonight, going down to the Pfeiffer Beach. I'd like you to put your chair back where you got it, so if you picked one up from the back, put it there, and if you got it from here, let's put the chairs back where they were. they were. Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
