0:00:00
Okay. Everyone hanging in there? Okay. Good. All right. So, yeah, so my mentor was showing me some things in Microsoft Access, and I was able to follow them, and, you know, I didn't know what the point of it was, really. It was kind of confusing. But in New York, I knew I didn't know anything, but I decided to go to interviews anyway. It was really fun. So I remember going to this... My first interview was at a law firm down in the financial district. And I was like... It was my first interview, it was like my second week in New York, and I was like, I'm gonna go get my computer job. I was like, I don't know anything, but as my mentor said, you learn on the job. So then I showed up, and I was like, hey! And they're like, okay, so are you familiar with this, this, this, and this? And I'm like, yeah, sure. And they're all, OK, what do you know about it? And I'm like, yeah, everything. No, OK, you want to explain that a little more? And I'm like, where have you used that before? And I'm like, you know, other places. I was not very specific. And so I didn't get the job and I was like, what happened?

0:01:39
What was that about?

0:01:43
And then I remember going to a power builder interview. It was a front end development tool. And so I sat down and, you know, talked about very pleasant things with the guy interviewing me. And then finally he said, OK, let's just start with something really easy. I said, sure. And he's like, I just want you to show me, how do you get to the cursor in Power Builder? And I was all, what's a cursor? And then he's like, OK. Interview over. And then I got the idea that maybe I really, really had to learn something. I really had to learn something. So I thought about it and I was like, okay, well, I'll just get some more computer books and I'll really, really work on it. And so what I did was I worked on Visual Basic and Microsoft Access. And it was really hard to learn and I didn't know it very well. Access was really easy because it had wizards and stuff, but I didn't really get it. And then one day I was on the train, I was coming back from the store, I had to buy a monitor for my computer. So I had a monitor box, you remember when they had the big monitor boxes? And I was like, oh! And I was on the train going home with the monitor box holding it. And then this guy comes over and says, oh, do you do computers? Because I'm holding this big box with a picture of a monitor on it. And I'm like, yeah. And then he said, I need a client database for my business. And I said, database? That's like access. I said, I could do that. And then he said, all right. So it turned out that he had a little business. What was it? Oh, yeah. Multi-level marketing. Selling vitamins and shampoo or something like that. about it and he's like, okay, cool, yeah, I got these, how many, like he had a thousand customers and I was like, oh, cool. So I was like, yeah, I'll build that for you. And so I actually got a job and I got a rate for $15 an hour to build it for him. And it was really good because before that I was just like working at Friendly's, which is like like Denny's and Pizza Hut. And I got yelled at all the time at Pizza Hut for putting too much pepperoni on the pizza. Yeah. So, how many times do we have to tell you? I'm like, oh, sorry. The pepperoni. So I was struggling through my waiting jobs and pizza making jobs. But then I got this job and I was like, good. Because then I actually, I think I got fired from both jobs. Both of those jobs. The Pizza Hut, I got fired two days before that because I put too much pepperoni on the pizza. And at Friendly's, what happened? They said I was a really bad waiter Oh waiting tables is hard I was bad I would mix up orders I feel like here's your fried clams they're like what but I was like oh And then, it was fun. The worst. Okay, we won't go into that too much. But it was, it was, yeah, and so I got fired from both jobs. And a couple days later, I was like, oh, hey, I'll build you a database. because there was a desert trip coming up in California. So I had to save up money to get the money to go to California for a desert trip. So I was like, wow, this is perfect. Otherwise, I wouldn't have been able to go. So it was really, really, really, really good timing. So I had a job to build something for somebody, and I really had to build it. So this is the first time where I actually had to do something for someone. And he was a really nice guy. So I wanted to do a good job for him. So I worked on this access database which was like two tables. And and then I I had to make a screen so that he could data entry and stuff. So it was like two tables and a screen. A couple queries, a couple buttons and stuff. And it took me two weeks working like 20 hours a day. I just worked and worked and worked to really figure it out. And I built a little lame program. But it worked, which was the good thing. So I was like, wow. So I got enough money to go on my desert trip and I built something and I figured out how to make the computer work. I was like, wow, that's amazing. Wow, I did something.

0:07:22
Wow.

0:07:23
So I was really happy about it. And then, but I didn't think, I thought Microsoft Access was kind of like Microsoft Word, that it wasn't really worth anything. So I was just like, oh, I got to really learn Visual Basic or Power Builder or something like that because I need to get a job and I didn't think there were access jobs. But then one of my friends, a guy, one of the black belts, he was like, hey, I called a placement agent and I asked them about access jobs and they said you can get like $40 an hour for it. And I was like, no way. And he said, yeah, that's what they told me. So I said, okay. But I still didn't believe him. I didn't look for it. But then I heard about a temp job at Bankers Trust, which is a good Wall Street bank. And I heard about it from a friend who was working there. And they needed someone to do something with Microsoft Access. So I said, wow, I did something with Microsoft Access. I should try for this. So I went to the temp agency and I gave them my resume and they said, okay, we'll submit you. And then I went to an interview and they hired me at Bankers Trust. And I was like, wow, this is great. And that was making like, I don't know, like $15 an hour or something like that. And so I was like, wow, this is really good. So fortunately, the guy who got me the job was a friend of mine, and he was a programmer. A lot of you guys know him, David Brun. He was a programmer since he was like 10. So he was very good at programming. And he was doing Microsoft Access and I had a little program I was supposed to do. But what he did was he helped me. And so I would sit there and watch him code his application and he explained every step to me. And I was all, oh, oh, that's why you do that. Oh, okay. And then he would come over and help me with my application. And he would do it. He would do most of it. He did most of it. I did like a lot of the easy things, but he did like the hard stuff. But he explained it to me. So I think I was there for three months. And because I was doing it all day long, and because someone was explaining every step to me, I really kind of got it. I got like a lot of the basic functionality and I was like, oh okay, okay. And then my job there ended. It was just a temporary job. So I was like, okay, I'll go find something else. And what I did was I sent my resume to recruiters and this was the first time I had done that. And then they got back to me and they said, oh yeah, there's some Microsoft Access contracts. And I said, wow, okay. And then I had been talking to some other friends, like, who was it? Samadhi. Samadhi was one of the first people to get a programming job when we got to New York. And some of you know Samadhi. She's fantastic. Really powerful, really great. And Samadhi was very... Whenever she says something, you know it's true. She just says things in really powerful ways, and you're like, okay. So when the recruiters asked me, what's your rate? You know, I didn't know anything about rates, but I remembered that one black belt saying $40 an hour, and I thought that was crazy because I only made $15 before. So I said, $40 an hour. And they were like, okay. And I was like, okay. And so they said, okay, we're going to submit your resume to a couple places. And I was like, all right. Now, this is where I started to have a really powerful experience of yoga. So when I was talking about $40 an hour, it seemed like huge to me. I was like, wow, that's a lot. And I sort of knew how to program a little bit. So then what I started doing was I started learning how to do regular programming, like how to find the cursor and how to code. So I started to write SQL and write AccessBasic, VisualBasic, and I started coding just to do exercises for myself. And I started to learn coding on my own and doing more advanced things than I had done before. And this was like the two weeks where I didn't have a job after Bankers Trust before I got my next job. And I had this amazing feeling, this feeling of lifting up, this feeling of like spiritual levitation, like I would feel like I was going up in the air. I was like, wow, this is fantastic. And I was learning new things. And it was very, very, very exciting and uplifting and empowering for me. And then I had a couple interviews. And the first interview, I was really happy, but I wasn't good at interviewing. So I didn't communicate properly with the person interviewing me. But I was all, I'm really excited. It was, that was the first interview I had at Merrill Lynch. And they were like, I remember when I showed up for that one, back then consultants were usually people who had 10, 15, 20 years of experience. So when I showed up as a consultant, the placement agent wanted to meet me and introduce me. So I showed up and he was like, Oh my God, what are you, 18? He's like, I can't, I can't submit you. I said, no, come on, I know that, I know access, they want access. I know it. And then he's like, he's like, I'm going to regret this. And then I went into the, I went in to be interviewed by four people, and I was all excited. And then they would ask me questions, and I'm like, I'm just excited. So I didn't really answer the questions. They're all, do you know what ODBC is? And I'm all, yeah. They're all, what is it? And I'm all, it's I know it. I was like, yes, I know it. But I didn't really communicate properly. So then they said, we really like you, but we're going to go with someone with more experience. And I was like, oh, OK. And then my next interview was at Kraft General Foods in their headquarters in the suburbs in Ryebrook, New York. This place, we called it the Taj Mahal. It was this big, gorgeous palace of a place. It had a moat. It was amazing. It was just a beautiful place. I'm serious. It was crazy. It had helicopter landing pads and stuff. And it was also Philip Morris headquarters. So, you know, everyone's walking around smoking. Kraft and Philip Morris were like the same thing at the, I don't know. But yeah, they were. Maybe they still are, I don't know.

0:15:51
Yeah.

0:15:53
So, everyone was smoking, but I was on the food part of it, which was really fun. So, I went in there and I interviewed and then after the interview, they didn't ask me any technical questions because they didn't know anything technical. They just asked me, do you know how to do access? And I said, yeah. And then it was an okay interview and I was excited.

0:16:16
I was like, I can do it. I can do it. And that was one thing my teacher said.

0:16:24
He said, if you want to get a computer job, be excited about computers and the people you meet. And I was like, that's no problem. I am excited. And then it was pretty good. And then I went home and then I got a call from the placement agent. And they said, they thought that the interview went well and that you'd be good for this position. When can you start? And I was like, now? I can start now. And they said, how about on Monday? And I said, okay.

0:16:58
So then I had to move out in New York.

0:17:00
I was in New York City and had to move to the suburbs so that I could like get to work. So that was a great adventure too. But that was really where I stepped from a couple jobs that I was kind of flaky on to a really cool contract. And then I had the okay to work as much as possible there. So I was there for about a year. And so I learned how to code very well. I built several applications there. And and then after that, I was a programmer, you know, before that. I was like trying to figure it out, but that's where I became a programmer. And it was very, very fun programming there, but the thing that really, really, really was powerful was when I was going up to getting that job. Because I was excited, I was learning, I was moving up to that position. And spiritually, my energy moved up to that position. And then that's why I got it. So that was a very significant experience in my job yoga. So this is me reflecting on my job yoga, the first yoga that I did. Later on, because I was a programmer, a couple years after, maybe three or four years after programming, then I started to do software project yoga. And then that's where I started to learn the software project yoga, which is more powerful. You move faster in it. That's why I have you guys do it to start with, because you move faster. It's much more powerful. So when I reflect on my yoga, I talk about the hard times that I had. And I had some hard times. And I make fun of it, you know, because it was funny. At the time, though, it was super hard and painful. Things seemed impossible for me. I was like, I'll never learn the programs. You know, I'll never do this. It's too scary. It was like really hard for me. But when I reflect on it now, I can see that it was a very, very positive and powerful lesson. And that by going through it and seeing it through and working through it, working through it, you know, karma yoga, work through it, that I really transcended a lot of personal limitations. And I kept changing, I kept going through different transits. I kept following the yoga practices. And I kept going through more cycles and more cycles and more cycles of refinement, of working karma yoga, mysticism, and really developing myself into a higher self that had vastly more opportunities than I did in my karmic pattern. Okay, so what we're talking about is reflecting on our yoga. Reflecting on our yoga. So when you reflect on your yoga, you want to reflect on the things that you did, the places, the people, and this is just in our yoga, in our group so far. And you want to look at the difficult times that you have, and if you can make fun of it, great. If you have a sense of humor about it. See what you're working on in facing those difficulties. And also know that the whole point of yoga is being able to work through it. So, understand that when you're working on it, when it's difficult, when it's really hard, it's still possible by doing Karma Yoga. You just keep on working on it, working on it, working on it, and you'll see yourself break through all of these limitations and barriers. So, when you reflect on the difficulties, you have to say, this is a hard thing, but I'm going to do it. That's the spirit of our school. This is a hard thing, but I'm going to do it. Sometimes we're like lemmings. We're like, OK, I'm going to do it. And you just fall off the cliff. But then you reincarnate. I'm living proof. Yeah, sometimes, you know, it's hard and sometimes we don't do the best things or we don't do it in the best ways, but we always learn from our mistakes so that we can get back up, dust ourselves off, and keep going, and then not trip and fall off the same cliff as we did the time before. and then not trip and fall off the same cliff as we did the time before. Yes. Yes, yes, yes.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
