0:00:00
This is my wand. Yeah, so in Harry Potter they have the defense against the dark arts class and that's where they learn to duel and defend themselves against each other. And it's kind of interesting except for what they do in that class as depicted in the story is kind of make-believe stuff. However, there are some dark arts. So today we'll be talking about dealing with difficult people. Dealing with difficult people. Difficult people are people who get angry at you. People who have negativity towards you. And it could also be people who have trained skills in psychic offense. If someone has trained skills in psychic offense, it's very similar to someone who's focusing negatively on you, whether it's purely emotional or if it's very planned, even if they're trained, they're similar defenses. It's just that you have to be stronger in defense if someone's trained. So we're going to talk about dealing with difficult people. Now, defense against the dark arts is, the best analogy is martial arts taken to a more subtle level. What you learn in martial arts is defense against the dark arts. And it is something that helps you physically, but also when you have a meditative mind, when you have mindfulness and you apply it to the subtle physical. Now, when you're just concerned about the physical world and you learn martial arts, then you're able to protect your physical life. So if you're trained in martial arts, if someone comes over to punch a defense mechanism. You have your training of how to block the attack. You gain a power and awareness to deal with that physical assault. Now, as we start to meditate, as we start to practice yoga and mindfulness, we become aware of the power of thoughts. We become aware of subtle physical things that one can experience from another. So we are not only concerned about physical martial arts but psychic martial arts. And the two are actually the same, it's just applied from a physical condition to a subtle physical condition. I think one of the best ways to learn defense against the dark arts, whether it's demons or angry people at work or whatever. I think one of the best things to do is to take a martial arts class. Because when you learn to do it in the physical, you start to develop that power and that awareness. And then through a more expanded awareness that you gain through in a subtle physical way. So that's why I talk about martial arts all the time. Martial arts is very, very helpful in this crazy world we live in. In this world, people, you know, you might get attacked or into a fight or something like that, you know, it could happen. But very often, inwardly, people are very, people attack inwardly all the time. So for a sensitive person, the attacks that happen inwardly, people don't think that, you know, you can't go to jail for someone attacking you inwardly, right? The jail system, the physical system, the awareness that everybody has a response to, a negative response to in our society happens from physical things. So if someone throws bad energy at you, gets angry at you, or if they're trained to hurt you inwardly, subtle physically, there's no ramifications for that. There's just bad feelings. So people do that commonly. People do it at work, people do it in traffic, people do it on the bus, people do it in the DMV. It happens all over the place. People are throwing around bad energy at each other. So what we start to become aware of in psychic self-defense is not just physical defense, but also what do we do when someone is throwing negative energy toward us? And there's many different forms of negative energy. And so how can we deal with those energies? We're talking about defense, right? Defense. So we're not talking about learning offense. We're talking about learning how to defend ourselves, how to be able to push that off so it doesn't hurt. If it's coming, how to get out of the way. So that's the scope of these lessons. It is self-defense against dark intentions, dark forces, dark energies, dark intentions toward you, more in the subtle physical. There's always a physical component, but we're focused very, very, very much on the subtle physical, because that's what the arts are, the dark arts, they are not physical, they're unseen. So, in terms of self-defense, probably the best thing to do first to understand in self-defense is don't get into a fight. Or don't get hit if you're in a fight. You know, if someone like sits there and says, I don't want to fight you, don't engage them. And if they engage you, once they throw the punch, then you need to know how to get out of the way of the punch. So in self-defense, the best idea is to not get into a fight at all, or to be able to defend yourself when the fight happens. So this is very, very, very important. Martial arts is physical and subtle physical. Let's say you're walking down the street, right? And you're walking on your side of the street. And let's say you have some awareness and you look up and look down the street instead of looking at the floor. And you see down the street at the end of the block there's some rough-looking young hoodlum type people, right? So you look down there and you see them. Now, self-defense is this. Cross the street and walk on the other side of the street. You avoid a problem, right? Don't just assume everything's okay. You have to be concerned with your safety. You have to take your safety a little bit more seriously, right? Because you don't want to just walk into an accident. You don't want to walk into a bad situation. If all it takes is you walking across the street to avoid a potential problem, then do it. You start to look at things differently, like what might be a problem for me? So, you know, a lot of gals do this more than guys. They're like more concerned about their safety. But guys will walk right into someone giving them a sucker punch. Because they just like don't look down the street. When they see they don't care. And then they just walk into a problem. So it's very important for you to start to look around and avoid problems. So when you're walking down the street you look down say hmm you know I don't want to walk past those guys. Who knows? They just look like, you know, they might bother me. So you walk around it. And this is a complete exercise of tone out. Remember when Don Juan was working with Carlos? And he's like, look at the tone out of these people. Pointed out a couple old ladies and a bum and stuff like that, right? And he said, you know, don't feel sorry for them. We're not talking about social or economic or racial profiling. We're just talking about look at their tone out. This is a complete exercise of tone out. Stay away from a problem. If there's four businessmen sitting there on that corner, you're not going to have a problem. But if there's four hoodlum types, then cross the street. You don't have to go through any existential quandaries of race and class. This is a complete exercise in tone out. So this is what we call avoiding a problem. And this happens in subtle ways at work, in families. It happens in a family. It's like, you know, it happens with a family. It's like, you know, dad's really pissed off today. You know, he's obviously has something on his mind and he's upset, right? So I'm gonna go over to him and start, you know, asking him if I can, if he can buy me a PlayStation 2.

0:11:31
Right?

0:11:32
Yeah, dad, when I get my PlayStation 2? And then of course, you know dad's not in a good way, and then he gets pissed off and yells at you. Could have avoided the whole problem. Don't ask for the PlayStation 2 now. You know, just silly stuff like that. And it happens at work, it happens with friends. Depends on your friends. But the idea is to avoid a problem and Sometimes The problem is unavoidable, right? But we'll talk about that You know, you might just turn around the corner and when you come around the corner the hoodlums might bite They might be right there And when they're there, then you couldn't have avoided it You couldn't you couldn't have seen that they were around the corner. Or maybe you couldn't have felt that they were around the corner at the time. So you just went around the corner and boom, there they are. When you find yourself in a situation, let's say a physical situation, where you come around and the hoodlums come right at you, then the idea is to not get attacked. This is defense, right? Someone swings at you, you get out of the way. That's the primary idea in defense. Because if you can get out of the way, then you're not hurt. And then you can run away. So, both in the physical world and in the subtle physical world, in the inner worlds, we want this thing called street smarts. You have to be street smart. You have to, you know, you have to walk down the street like a New Yorker, you know, a gal in New York holding her purse. And that means that she's not just letting her purse be open for someone to grab or someone to pickpocket. She holds it tight. It's something to be protective of. And she looks around while she's walking. You don't just like space out and walk around. You have to have street smart awareness. You need to have it in the physical, right? You also have to have it in the subtle physical. So in interpersonal relationships, you know, people at work, people that you run into at the post office or whatever, people in traffic. You have to have street smarts. You don't put yourself into a position, you don't walk into a position that you can't avoid. So if you can avoid it, you stay away. If you're driving down the street, you're driving down the highway and you see a guy who's swerving because he's a drunk driver, you're not going to drive right next to him. You're going to go far away from him and pass him if you can. Or you're just going to stay far enough behind him so that he can't cause an accident on you. He might cause an accident on himself, but not you. So this is just, you know, street smarts is what we call it. Just being intelligent about your own safety. And you need to look at your life this way. You need to look at your physical life this way. A lot of you don't have very much awareness when you're walking around in the world. You're not like, you're like not looking around. So like a black belt looks around. They look down the street. When they hear someone coming up behind them, they look behind them. They just start to gain this awareness. But you don't have to be a black belt to have this awareness. You just have to start looking. You have to start thinking of your safety. And then that way, you're better off, because you're not going to walk into getting mugged or something, and you're going to be more careful in all situations. But we do this inwardly, too. We do this inwardly. We avoid arguments when you see that someone's mad. You know, you don't start giving them a hard time when they're mad. You don't start challenging them when they're mad. The idea is to avoid a problem, you know, if you can. If you can't avoid the problem, then you move on to step two. And step two is dodging. So, avoid a lot of, in fact, many, many, many, many, the majority, almost probably 90% in your experience of problems that you will have in terms of dealing with difficult people, they will be because of you. 90% of them because of you. Either you're a jerk and you're walking into the center of the hoodlums. Okay? So first of all, avoiding problems in your physical world is don't be an idiot. Have street smarts. And also, don't be a jerk. You're walking past the hoodlums and you say, hey, what are you looking at? Right? And if you do that, you're causing trouble. You're looking for trouble. Now, a lot of you cause trouble. You know why? Because you're being a jerk. So when you're talking about dealing with difficult people, you have to first recognize if you're being a difficult person. Because difficult people have to deal with difficult people. They will make the difficulties out of other people. So, you know, that's what meditation and mindfulness is all about. We have to try to stop our anger, right? Because, what is when you are angry at someone, then what you're going to do is you're going to focus, I'm angry at you, Bob, right? Bob bothered me. Now I'm mad at Bob. Now, when you feel that, that energy of anger toward Bob, what happens is energy from your aura hits Bob. Okay? So a lot of the problems that you'll find is someone will be reacting to you because you were not mindful. So if you are never causing trouble for other people, then you won't be being a jerk and you won't be starting a fight. That's very, very, very important in self-defense. Don't start the fight. If you want to avoid fights, don't start them. And this is hugely important. That's why we meditate. That's why we try to get rid of violence and negativity towards others in our mind, because we would be causing trouble. So don't start the fight. When you get angry at someone, and this is the most prevalent form of negativity, darkness towards another person or what you're going to get from other people, 90% of the time you're going to get someone's angry at you. Because we are an angry country of angry people. Everyone's so pissed off out there. They are. Lots of and they don't practice mindfulness. Hopefully you will practice mindfulness. Because if you're in this Buddhist school, after a while, you know, I understand when you get mad and you're trying and you're working on it, but after a while it becomes unacceptable. And if you're angry, you're out. Because that doesn't happen here, at a point. Right now, if you're too much of an idiot to know that you're doing it, then, okay, then you're just learning. You have to understand what you're doing, before you can be responsible for your actions. But then, once you start to realize, whoa, I'm thinking negative and angry thoughts about this person, then we have to say, no more, can't do it anymore. You have to understand that's what you practice mindfulness about. So Buddhism, mindfulness, is about getting rid of the violence in your mind. You gotta do it, you gotta grow up, and you gotta cut the bullshit, because that's not Buddhist. That's not what we do. We don't do that. And if you do that, you won't be we. You won't be doing Buddhism. So, you know, you'll start to realize it through mindfulness practice where you're going, you know, in negative ways, but you really, you know, how to stop a fight, don't start it. And anytime you have negativity towards another person, you're starting a fight. And that's unacceptable unacceptable at a certain point. Okay, so once you can get rid of your own personal violence towards someone, then you'll reduce their reaction. They won't have a reaction to you. It's like one guy goes over to another guy, pushes him, the other guy pushes him back, push, push, and then after they're pushing each other, they're getting more and more and more angry. And then they're all, hey, you did something to me. No, you did something to me. But where did it start? It started with somebody pushing first. And so, to learn to stop that kind of situation, that's what people do all the time. It's ridiculous to have like a little, oh, I'm pissed off at him, bing, ah. And then like after like 10 or 17 thoughts, then they say, I got a problem with that person, he's doing something to me, she's doing something to me. But you know, you don't want to start that. Don't start it. Don't think negative thoughts about people. It's because you'll hit their aura, and then they'll probably react right away towards you. And then you'll say, it was them! But maybe it was you. If you're mindful, if you practice mindfulness, you'll know you didn't start it. And then you'll be like, okay, cool, I'm not starting fights. Now I just have to work on my defense. So, don't be a jerk and start fights. Very important. And then there's the thing about don't be an idiot. Don't be an idiot, you moron. Yeah, don't be an idiot, okay? And being an idiot is putting yourself in harm's way. Driving up next to the drunk driver and saying, hey, how's it going? I'm just going to drive right next to you. See if you swerve into me." Or to go over to the hoodlums. Or just to walk down the street not aware of what's going on. Your wallet hanging out the back pocket. The cash pull halfway out your wallet. So if you're not street smart, if you're not careful about your situation, then people will take advantage of you. So, there is a book on etiquette that helps you to stay in a way that doesn't give people a reason to start a fight with you. The book is called, How to Win Friends and Influence People. the opposite of how to start fights and piss people off. How to make enemies and be a big jerk. So this is a good book. It's a book on etiquette, on dealing with people. Things like smiling, things like nice ways of speaking to people, talking in terms of other people's interests and things like that. Because you can get, what are those things that always cause problems, right? It's not talking about the weather, right? It's talking about politics and religion or something like that, right? You're all like, you go over to an Obama supporter and you're all, I think Obama's a secret Muslim. I think he's in with Saddam Hussein. Oh wait, he's dead? Well, I think he was in with him, you know, or whatever, you know. You go over and start talking about something that someone doesn't like and then they start to get mad. So if you go over to a Jewish person and you say, I don't like Jews or Israel, I don't know why. I'm just being honest. Then you're going to cause trouble, right? So that's being an idiot. You might not have any negative negative anger or anything towards that person, but you're just like setting yourself up for trouble. So, you know, so when you read How to Win Friends and Influence People, you learn this thing called etiquette. And that's how to deal with people in a way where you don't set yourself up to have a problem. So, you know, like one of the huge important and one of the best things in the book is they say, talk to people in terms of their interests. And when you can start to understand people's interests and look for what would be positive to talk about with them, then you talk to them in terms of their interests and they like you. They don't want to start a fight Yeah, so you can go into a situation that would be maybe negative or hostile. I remember one time I was at work and I had to deal with a system that was late, a system that was behind schedule, it was over budget and I had to talk to a manager about it. And I was partially responsible, because I was a project manager. And I went to her office and I said, okay Mary, the problem is we're totally hosed. And she was like, oh God. So she was really upset. And we talked about some things. And she was like getting mad actually, getting angry. And there's a certain etiquette in things, and a certain kind of anger about the work is acceptable, but when it gets, you know, people get too personal, and that kind of anger is not acceptable, it's not right. So when she started getting too angry, then I looked at the picture of her two-year-old son, and I said, hey, how's Chris doing? How old is he now? And I just started, you know, I had talked about the difficult things. Instead of her brooding over them, I changed the subject and I was able to create a positive conversation. And it gave her a chance to shift gears and talk about something where she was smiling. Now, the situation still had to be dealt with, but there's no reason to fight over it or be angry about it in the wrong way. So, talking in terms of people's interests usually smooths things out. It avoids problems. So, this book, How to Win Friends and Influence is an excellent book that you all should read. And I think we have an audio version of the book, too. So if some of you want to listen to it instead of read it, because you also have to read your Don Juan book, you can do that, too. But it's a very, very good book. It has about a dozen points of very, very good etiquette, how to deal with people so that you don't create problems. And this teaches you how not to be an idiot. It's great. Yeah. It teaches you some very, very, very positive ways. It's mostly being very selfless when you're dealing with people. And so that way you'll deal with people without doing things that will bother them. So you'll create an atmosphere, a condition of positivity. You won't be sitting there, you know, you won't go over and give someone a reason to poke at you. Because you'll be, you'll hold your attention in a positive etiquette. Yeah, so it's very important. Just like in the physical, let's say someone's on the street looking to mug somebody, right? And he's like a big, strong, scary-looking guy. He'll be looking for an easy target. So he'll be looking for an opening, right? And when he looks at you, if you're afraid and look away, at that scary person. Then he might say, that's an easy target. I'll attack that person. But if they look at you and you look back and you show that you're vigilant, then they'll say, maybe not an easy target. So what you want to do is you want to make sure that you're not creating any openings for someone to bother you with. So on the street it's through vigilance, you know, and when you're talking to someone it's through etiquette. Because if you have a hold of bad etiquette, you're all like, oh how's your son Chris? Oh did I mention that I don't like Jews? Then you're not opening yourself up. I mean I've seen so many times, you know, amongst friends or acquaintances or at work and things like that, where someone just says something really stupid that creates a problem, you know. And when you start to think about avoiding walking into those situations, avoiding having yourself open to those situations, you start to notice it more. Notice it at work. Notice it with acquaintances. Notice it everywhere. That, oh, somebody said something really stupid. And make sure you're not that somebody. So when you're not a jerk starting the fight, the Buddhist mindfulness, right? And when you have etiquette, how to win friends and influence people, and you're speaking to people and dealing with people in a way where it doesn't cause an opening for them to attack you, then you're going to avoid 90% of the problems. The place where you won't avoid it is where someone is in a disposition that your behavior cannot change. So if somebody wants to get you and they're focused on it because of their desires or because of whatever, they're like, I don't care, I'm going after that person. So, you know, generally it, you know, it doesn't happen, but it could happen. Let's say you're walking down the street and the person sees that you're, they like your jacket. They like your jacket more than anyone else's jacket, so they're going to mug you for your jacket, right? And you can't do anything about it, you know, you you got the jacket on and that person is going to come for you no matter what. So you can't get out of that situation. And sometimes you just walk into a situation where that person is talking to you, you know, and then there's going to be a problem. So sometimes it's unavoidable. Most of the time by not being a jerk or an idiot, then you will run into times where someone else is just having a bad day and they take it out on you. Someone wants your jacket or whatever. And when that occurs, to the defense mode. So that means that they square off with you and they are going to attack. It means that they're going to do something. They're going to throw their negative energy at you. So in physical martial arts, the first thing you do is get out of the way. So that means that we try not to get hit. They punch, we move. So that's what we have to try and do. We have to get out of the way of an attack when it comes. In terms of a psychic attack, if someone's facing you directly and they're attacking, you need to work on getting out of the way. Getting out of the way. Now, getting out of the way, the first thing that you see in a street fighter is when someone takes a swing, they take a swing right back. That means that someone punches, street fighters aren't good blockers. So they just go, oh, we're fighting? Okay. He's swinging at me, so I swing back. That means you both get hit, or you definitely get hit. So the untrained person reacts in kind. So that means that when you get mad at someone, guess what they usually do? They get mad right back at you. That's the knee-jerk response. You go punch someone on the street, they'll punch you right back. They won't block, they won't move, they'll get punched and then they'll punch you. So, that's the basic karma of attack. It's like someone attacks, the other one attacks. Someone gets angry, the other one responds in kind. They get angry right back. So the first thing you got to do is you got to stop yourself from getting angry. This goes back to mindfulness and self-control. But you also have to realize that that response is the weakest position. That's the fastest way to lose. That's the fastest way for you to get hurt. You know, if someone punches you go, oh he's punching I want to punch too. It doesn't make sense. Yeah, you might hit him, but you're going to get hit. So what you have to, what you got to do is you have to work on getting out of the way. Getting out of the way is first, let me just chill out and not respond to this. So that means someone goes, oh I'm really mad at you. They throw energy at you. You feel, oh I feel terrible. This guy just threw this bad vibration at me. But when you feel it, you can't get angry back. Or you're setting your, or you're following karma. And that is karma. What you want to do is break that karma. Like hate begets hate, but you want to break that karma. So when that hits you, then what you want to do is chill out. A good martial artist, when a fight starts, they become calm. Their energy starts become grounded. Other people, their energy goes crazy and their energy goes up. So you really need to focus on when you recognize someone's angry at you, calming yourself down. And a really good way to calm yourself down is to start breathing to the navel. So when So, when someone goes, oh, I'm really, really, really, really mad at you, then you just start breathing. Deep, slow breaths. It's good to focus on taking eight or ten of them. So they're throwing negative energy at you and you want to make sure that you don't throw energy back. That will escalate their anger. That will escalate the problem. So you just inhale and start counting breaths. That was one, two, alright. And if you need to respond, take a moment. You know, say, if someone goes, you're wrong, I dislike you. They throw bad energy at you. And you go, okay, okay. Take a moment to make sure that you're breathing deeply, because then when you're breathing deeply your energy is becoming more still, because you're making sure that you're taking slow breaths. Your energy is becoming more still instead of amping up. And when you're breathing, focusing on breath, you're not pushing angry energy back. You're focused on breath, inhalation, exhalation to the navel. As you breathe through the navel, it charges your dantian and it makes your personal power strong. It makes your power center, make your aura stronger. So it does help you to deal with whatever they're throwing at you. But most important is to not react like an idiot. Don't go and right back at them. This is the Buddhist way. Someone punches, get out of the way. Someone throws negativity at you, don't respond by going right back at them with negativity. Chill out. Relax. Because when you're balanced, when you're still, when you're centering yourself, when you're charging your personal power and your aura, then you're able to deal with things in a much better way. Then you can address them in a calm way with your breathing. Your energy starts to cycle in a calm pattern. And they might expect a fight back, but when you are able to address them with balance, you might just be able to bring them out of the fight, no more fight. They might be like, oh, I should chill out. Maybe not, but often they'll recognize that that's where they should chill out, that they're just like, you're the whole problem in my life. I get that a lot. You're the whole problem in my life. My life would be perfect if it wasn't for you. Then they're just throwing all the energy that they can at you in an untrained way. Now, if someone's a witch or a magician or something like that, then they will generally train certain energies. So the energies that magic users understand or develop is energies associated with their art. So a street fighter will always throw this wild punch, a haymaker they call it, right? And that's the way they fight, and it's an effective attack. Now, yeah, it'll knock you out, you know, it's nothing to play with. So when someone throws all their energy at you in a very negative way, it's like someone's throwing a haymaker at you, and it'll hurt. Now, if somebody practices a form of magic, then when they want to bother you, they might cast a spell on you. I've had that happen too. And when they cast a spell on you, they are using the power and dimensions from their lineage, and they are focusing on you with more intention. So, you know, so their level of focus and their level of intent means that they can carry out their attack better. So like a karate person, they will throw an attack that's more straight and they will have their stance behind it. And they will, through their art, through the martial art that they're developing, they'll develop a power. You know, an O-Zuki or a reverse punch or something like that, it is a, it's a mudra. It's a way to make a movement that moves power. So when someone does that, they are able to create a stronger power than a haymaker, a more effective power than a haymaker. So someone might throw a haymaker and nine times out of 10, it just hurts. But if someone's trained in karate, their Ozuki seven out of ten times will knock you out. So that means that when someone does, you know, magic, that they have stronger and more effective techniques and probably a better way to deliver it. Now, most magic users in in America are like white or yellow belts in martial arts. They know some techniques but they're not very good at it. That's the way it is. So that means they'll come at you with an Ozuki and it'll still hurt, you know, still come in with a punch and it would hurt but they're not like a black belt. A black belt will be much, much stronger and frankly people just don't practice magic with enough intensity, generally. So, that's great. So, yeah, it's like so very, very, so very, very, very, very, very, very rare to come across someone who's a black belt in magic. So, yeah. I remember, you know, I've had people cast spells on me because they're mad at me, for whatever reasons. Usually for, you know, like teaching their boyfriend Buddhism. You know. But then I remember this one time, there was a businessman who we were working with, but then he broke business etiquette, and then he blamed me about some garbage, and he got mad at me. And he was so much stronger than any of the other magicians who threw bad energy at me or who cast spells on me. I was like, this businessman was much, much more effective in an attack. It wasn't the haymaker. He had like a strong mind. So you never know. It might be someone in the office who has a... In fact, most people, you can find a lot more people in business who are way more powerful with their minds than magic users. Magic users are usually spaced out hippies. And yeah, sure, they might have access to a weird dimension. They're like, ooh, I found a weird dimension. I'm going to cast it at you, right?" And yeah, when they throw the punch, it seems weird. It's like if you're fighting someone who knows drunken Kung Fu. They're doing their drunken style, you see them do a little dance, and you're all, huh. But when they punch you, you know, they're all, punch! And you're like, oh, that was weird. But it doesn't really hurt that much. So it's weird, but it doesn't hurt. So yeah, but in business there's people who've got much stronger minds, because it's about money. Money! So they get really intense and they're focused, and they actually develop personal power by doing business. So they have, business people are actually a lot pushier than magicians. So if you deal with a magician who is stronger, then you just need to understand that they'll have a more effective attack. And they'll use, let's say, like in drunken Kung Fu, they'll don't see coming as easily. But at the same time, usually they're not very strong attacks, because people in the West don't practice that hard. And also, it's not that big of a deal either way. So here's the really important thing to understand. If someone's angry at you, and they throw a lot of bad energy at you, it's really not that big of a deal. Over a long period of time, people can make themselves, you know, like people are together for a long period of time doing that back and forth, they can make themselves sick. You know, you can start to develop illnesses from that. But if it's just like, you know, if you have to work with someone for six months and they throw bad energy at you on a regular basis, it's no fun to deal with, but it doesn't hurt you that bad. It generally just, you know, hits your aura and bothers you. And if you don't react, you'll just go, oh, you know, kind of, this person's a pain in the neck. Yeah. And that's where that term must come from. Because very often anger hits the primary meridian, which is your shishumna. And people get a pain in the back or pain in the neck when someone's throwing energy, bad energy at you. Sometimes you can get a stomachache if someone throws bad energy at you. So that's about it. And I've had my pains in the neck before. And yeah, it's not the end of the world. So, pain in the neck, maybe a little bit of a stomachache, and that's your black magician. So, you know, they're sitting there with a doll, sticking needles in there. And you have to understand, about the most they can do is give you a stomachache or a pain in the neck. And, you know, chiropractor and Pepto-Bismol. And it's really important to understand this because you don't have to be afraid. In fact, that's the only way you can actually get hurt is if you're afraid. If you're afraid, then you're going to be an idiot. And being an idiot means that you'll just be paralyzed in fear and don't do anything smart. So if someone says, I know black magic and I'm going to cast a spell on you, then you should say, so? It's not that big of a deal. Like inwardly, you should be all, whatever. All right, so I'm going to wake up with a crinke in my neck or I'm going to have a stomach ache one day. You have to understand that that's about it. And that's if it's a pretty strong black magician. Now if someone's extremely strong, yeah, then they'll be very effective. But I have never seen, outside of the students from my school who are mystics, who are Buddhists, so they now and they besides besides them I have never seen in America anyone who had mystical powers as strong So I just haven't seen it So you're probably not going to run into Mystics or black magicians that are that can do anything but give you a stomachache or a pain in the neck. So you should generally understand that that's about what's going to happen. But if you're afraid, you know, that'll be like, you know, like if someone comes over and you're not afraid of them and they go, I'm gonna punch you. And you go, oh, and they punch and you put your hands up and you get hit a little bit, but you know, it's not that big of a deal. But if they say, I'm a black magician and I'm gonna punch you and you go, oh, you put your hands down and you just sit there and let them punch you again and again. You just stand there. Oh, oh, oh, oh. Then, then you're doing a bad job. You're paralyzing yourself. So don't be afraid because they can't do that much to you. Yeah, they can't do that much to you. And if you're in a situation where you are close with someone and you guys are... and that person gets angry at you a lot, or that person's got negative energy. Yeah, anger is one of the main things, but, you know, just negative energy, dark energy. They might think little of you. You're just a lame person and that constantly pushes against you. If you're in a close relationship with that person, then you're going to get hurt because you're staying open to them and they constantly hurt you. So what that does is it doesn't give you much of a stomach ache. It might give you a little pain in the neck, but it starts to create pathology in your aura. So you're going to start developing sickness in your aura. So a lot of, you know, where sicknesses come from are being open to people who have many layers of intent, and they use them against you. So sometimes, you know, in loving relationships, people have many layers of intent, and energy moves across every layer towards you. So, people can have love and hate at the same time. Absolutely. So, someone might love you and hate you, right? They might love you and at the same time attack you. So those are people who don't practice mindfulness. And if they do practice mindfulness, they will start to stop their negativity. And they will stop it. That's mindfulness. That's someone who practices mindfulness, like actually does mindfulness. If you don't actually do mindfulness, then you're a jerk. That means that you're nice and you're an asshole at the same time. But at a certain point in Buddhism, you stop becoming a jerk. It's just not okay anymore. And you're getting to that place, I guess, since we're starting to talk about this. So if you're open to someone and they keep on throwing negative energy at you, then you can get sick. If you're psychically aware, like your yoga teachers or me, if you have a more subtle awareness field, then it hurts all the more. So, let's say one of your yoga teachers is open to you, trying to help you, but you're throwing bad energy at your yoga teacher. If you do that, your yoga teacher is going to notice and they're also going to get hurt from it. Because we've been spending months doing yoga and if you keep throwing that bad energy at them, then they're like, oh, my aura hurts. And we've already had instances where we've had to take yoga teachers out of interactions with you because you guys have thrown bad energy at them and they've gotten hurt from it. Or, you know, they got to a certain level of it. Some of them just keep coming back for more. But it's not the right thing to do. It's the wrong thing to do. It's not the right way to do this. So you have to recognize that you need to cut the negativity. There should be no negativity back, you know. The yoga teachers are teaching you something useful and helpful and it's difficult stuff, but you shouldn't react towards them. They're pointing out to you how to be stronger for yourself. Every single thing they do is tell you how to be stronger, more powerful, happier, how to get over problems, how to be more successful. So, if you throw crap back at them, you're being a jerk. And that's not going to work. You've got to stop that. You have to be mindful. That's not the right thing to do. You've got to stop that. Right? So, if you and your interpersonal relationships are with someone very close, who keeps throwing bad energy at you, you know what it does? Squashes you. You're going to get hurt. You know, like, let's say there's a girl here who's got a boyfriend outside of the study, and this guy has many layers of intent. Most guys, with their conditioning, will trash your aura, deplete your personal power, and you'll just get pounded on. Pound, pound, pound, pound, pound. And you'll just go like this with your meditation practice. You know, like, flatline, not even a heartbeat. Yeah, it's true. That's what normally happens. Because the energy that they throw at you keeps on hurting you, keeps on hurting you. It hurts your aura. When your aura is hurt, then you lose personal power. And after a long time, it creates the pathology of illness. So if you're in a close personal relationship where people, where someone's acting out of their conditioning, someone's acting negatively, they have some levels of negativity, at some point you have to either control that in them, you know, beat them down so they don't do it, or you got to get rid of them because they are harming you. And if you're going to deal with that, if you're going to succeed, then you have to control those things. You have to modify your life, so that those things don't happen. Because it's just negative. It's bad. I guess yes, through attachments people keep themselves open to being hurt. They're like, oh, you know, he hits me sometimes, but I love him. You know? But, you know, and maybe he does love her, but he hits her sometimes. And that kind of thing will smash a woman's personal power. She can never get her personal power high enough because it's always depleted by that kind of energy. And guys do that to women in a lot of subtle ways. So it's very, very, very, very important to recognize if you have a close personal relationship that you need to cut those negative impressions, if you want to be at all successful in the spiritual path. Because otherwise, it'll never happen. So that's defense. Defense against your boyfriend. Now if you're a guy and you have a girlfriend outside of the study, if a woman's throwing bad energy at you, a guy's subtle physical body tends to be stronger. But if it's a bad situation, if you're aware of a bad situation, you stop it. And it will and create sickness in your aura if the energy she throws is bad enough. But girls have it worse, much worse. So it's something that they have to be more careful about in defense. Yeah, guys have to be careful too, but girls have to be critically careful because every guy pushes an energy, the male energy, towards a woman he likes in a way that is harmful. And a woman has a porous aura. So if you practice self-defense, then you won't put yourself in a place where you get attacked. So it's important. Stay out of a fight. Staying out of a fight means that when the attack comes, and it might hit you, but you breathe deeply. Breathe deeply. Focus on not reacting, not the knee-jerk reaction. Your knee-jerk reaction will be following karma. We have to break karma. And in interpersonal relationships, or in relationships where you're close to people, you have to be very careful that you can't just sit there and get hurt all the time. It depletes your personal power, it damages your aura, it'll cause sickness eventually. So then what do you do after you've been able to remove yourself from the punch, if you're lucky, or even if you get punched, don't do the knee-jerk reaction. Well, as Buddhists, we try to be very, very, very positive, okay? So, we take an inward disposition of positivity, of enlightening positivity. And then, at the same time, we do things in the physical that are intelligent. So there's an inward disposition of light and an outward disposition we call working the problem. We've talked about working the problem as it occurs in yoga. It's like something comes up, you know, someone yells at you, you become calm, you take an inward disposition of light, and then you deal with them in a pragmatic way. You know, they might yell at you about your work, you might be at work, they'll say, you didn't do that on time. It's on your desk." Or something, right? Versus, screw you! Or something. So, it's very important to understand that after their initial blast of negativity comes, and we can calm ourselves, make sure we're not reacting, then we immediately focus on the internal disposition of light. And that is, you know, you imagine the person in a field surrounded by white light. Very simple. So if the person's right in front of you, you imagine while you're looking at them, all of this white light all around them, that they're in a ball of white enlightening light. Like when we meditate, we go into the causal dimensions of white light, we imagine that light around them. It's a causal dimension, it's a very enlightening dimension. So, that is so important, because that is a way of enlightening the situation for them and for you. When you can imagine that light around them, it actually gives them an enlightening influence. You're actually opening up a dimension of light that will help them to understand life in a more balanced and productive and enlightened way. And the more you practice that, the more powerful it becomes. That's what I do when I sit with you guys. I open up dimensions of light. Because when we sit in these dimensions of light, then you can learn things and you can understand life in a more enlightened way. So you can focus on them, see light around them. at the same time it puts you in a very enlightening disposition, makes you very happy while they're yelling at you. Oh look at that light all around the sky. Wow! And he's out. And you're like, wow! This is amazing! Okay. So when you have that disposition of light, you then deal with the matter at hand as intelligently as possible. You want to be pragmatic, moderate. You're already breathing deeply, so you didn't react. You've charged up your navel center, so that your aura is strong, powerful, grounded, and your personal power, your defense is charged. So, energies get deflected, negative energies get deflected when you've breathed eight times and charged up your navel. And then you focus on light. Light, it's a heart thing really. But you don't have to focus on your heart, but when you see the light appear, that's a heart thing. It's heart dimensions. And And then you focus on light and you're in a disposition of enlightenment for the person. It's a selfless giving. It's a way of saying, hey, I want the spirit of this matter to be as enlightened as possible and maybe we can resolve this this way. And then whatever they're talking about, you try to intelligently and pragmatically speak about. You're grounded, your energy is going to be very powerful in a positive way. Your energy is grounded, you're charged up, you're focusing light on them. So when you talk to them, your voice will have a certain tone and you'll have an energy that is helpful for ending the problem. So, in some self-defense, it's like someone punches at you. You get out of the way, punch them back. In Aikido, for example, when someone attacks you, then you don't want to have to punch them back because, ah, that would hurt them. So you start to put them into a position, and in Jiu-Jitsu, they attack you and then you get them in a way where they can't attack anymore. You're like, oh, there's no fight, now they didn't have to pound you in the head to end the fight. You just punched and I got you into a way where you can't do anything. I'm holding your arm in a way and then now the conflict's over. So we want to get to a condition where we don't have to fight anymore. We don't have to say, no, you did it. Milli Vanilli. That's it. Milli Vanilli. So Milli Vanilli, what did they do? They sang that one song about the rain or something, and they got a Grammy for it. And then they had to give back their Grammy. Then they got into a fight. They had a fist fight. They're all like, Millie, it's your fault. No, Vanilli, it's your fault. No, it's your fault. I was just... I was just... I was just... I was just... I was just... I was just... I was just... I was just... I was just... I was just... I was just... I was just... I was just... I was just... I was just... I was just... I was just... I was just... I was just... I was just... I was just... I You know, let's go out there and sing it ourselves Wait, we can't sing. Okay, maybe we should pick up learning the guitar then, you know or something, right? So that's a that's a positive way to resolve the problems. They're saying no Millie. It's your fault

1:08:17
No, no, it's your fault

1:08:19
So there's always pragmatic and positive ways So, when you're focusing on light, when you were breathing deeply, you've balanced your mind and spirit. And instead of saying, no, it's your fault, and being reactive and making the fight go further, then all of a sudden you can be in a space of mind, in an energy field, where the possibilities of solving the problems are plentiful. You can just say, there's no problem. So this works with angry people at work, and this also works with angry anybody, and also works with the black magicians. It's the same thing. So if someone's all, I'm going to take a doll and call it you and put pins in it, then you should have the same reaction. You're like, oh, you might just be walking and someone will come to mind and you feel negative energy. be walking and someone will come to mind and you feel negative energy. And when that happens, you should first breathe deeply. This is your self-defense, breathing deeply. And then you hold in your mind, you see a picture of them in a field of light, in an infinite field of light. And then you're able to, just by that, solve. That's a defense. Solving the problem. And if you can think of positive things like, you know what, we have a little beef about beef. I don't know. We have a problem about something. Maybe I should contact them and tell them here's a solution. I should call that black magician friend of mine. Tell them, I'm sorry. Or whatever. Right? So, yeah, so, you know, again, black magicians just have, you know, particular attacks, but, you know, someone at work has a strong attack. Your, you know, cousin could have a strong attack, you know, someone who knows you well. Also, people who know you well, like your parents, have a strong attack. You know why? Because they know all your defenses. Right? You know how your mom or something could be out like, Hey! Say something to you that just bothers you so much. You're like, I can't believe my mom said that. If anyone else said that, whatever. But when your mom says it,

1:10:44
Mom! God!

1:10:47
Right? So, that's actually your mom attacking you. It is. She's pushing your button. You're, ow! And that's because that's what they do. Who cares? So, that's what you should do, especially with your loved ones who just don't know, Breathe. See them in light. Tell them, okay, mom, I'll remember to use bathroom tissue next time I go to the bathroom again. Thanks for reminding me, because I might have forgot. Anyway, that's like a previous joke. Okay, so yeah, so you just want to really work on this, this defense of breathing and not reacting, and then seeing them in light. There's one other defense that, and of course, pragmatically dealing with the solution. But there is one other defense that is a very, very strong defense that I'll tell you about today. This is, you know, when you just really, really, really don't know what's going on and you're confused, like they're coming at you so fast that your breathing is not working and you see them in light, but you still feel really, really weird. There's another one that is very, very, very, very helpful and it's a good one when you don't know what's going on. Your breathing is not working. It's just not happening. And this is a simple one. You focus on the navel center and you see a white ball of light in your navel center. And then, like blowing a balloon on the exhalation, you make the ball of light bigger until it gets so big that it encompasses your whole body.

1:13:04
Okay, that's it.

1:13:05
This is a bubble of protection. It's very important to focus on the navel center and it's very important to bring the ball of energy up and out to surround you. This dimension of protection is very good. It lets positive energy in but it keeps negative energy out. And it's a particular dimension. We're going to practice it in a moment. Because deep breathing is just you deep breathing. And then envisioning someone in light, there's many dimensions of light and any dimension of light is very, very good. But this bubble of protection is something that is a particular light. Because there's a lot of bubbles of protection. A lot of people intuitively develop bubbles of protection. It just so happens that this one is a very, very good technique. It's a very good dimension to use. And you can use it in conjunction with your deep breathing to calm yourself down and also extend the bubble. You can do it at the same time as you're seeing them in light, but at the same time you really want to protect your aura. So the deep breathing really starts to charge up your aura. The deep breathing helps you to not react. Okay, so that's the first reaction you should have is, let me just chill out for a minute. Breathe deeply. You'll ground your energy, charge your aura, and you won't be reacting. Then you see them in light, but at the same time you could say, I don't want to be hurt by them, right? While I'm calm and seeing them in light, I also really, really want to defend my aura. And that's actually really, really strong in preventing, especially anger, from hitting your aura. Actually, I mean, everything dark and any negativity could be a spell. Someone can shoot a spell at you, it'll bounce off your aura. Even if someone's pretty strong. This is a very good technique. This is a very, very, very good psychic self-defense technique. So, you know, if you're very, very concerned of somebody with spells or something like that, you can do this one. We'll be talking about this one also when we go on to talk about other spirits and demonic forces, because this one's applicable from people to Jawas to Wookiees. Okay. All right. So we're gonna do this exercise together and it only takes about 10 seconds. So what I want you to do is sit up nice and straight and I want you to... well, it's going to take more than 10 seconds. But when you actually do it, it just brings it out. So I want you to see in your dantian, your navel chakra, a ball of light, the size of a pea, a little pea, right, in the navel center. A ball, a sphere of white light. Good. Now I want you to inhale and exhale. And as you exhale, I want you to see the ball get bigger, like the size of a ping-pong ball. And as you inhale and exhale extending it bigger. Continue to focus on the whiteness of it. Inhale and bigger. Inhale and bigger. Now it's like a big beach ball around you. Inhale and bigger. It's extending beyond your legs, beyond your body. Inhale and bigger. Inhale and bigger, extending above your shoulders. And bring it above your head so that it surrounds you. Now envision in your mind's eye this white ball of light. Continue the focus on the navel center. But the white ball of light is pushed out from the navel all around you. Make sure that you envision the whiteness of the light. Very good. The focus on the navel. Very good. This is a very, very, very, very strong form of psychic self-defense. Okay. Excellent. Thank you. Okay. That's it for now. self-defense. Okay. Excellent. Thank you. Okay. That's it for now. I'm still recording.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
