0:00:00
Alright, why don't we meditate again.

0:00:03
Hang in there.

0:00:04
And we'll sit for three songs, like usual. This music is selfless giving. to a place is selfless. Very often in the world of music, you see, music's magic, you know, right off the bat, it's structures in different worlds,

0:01:18
different dimensions. When you listen to music,

0:01:20
you can listen beyond this world into different places. And very often when people engage in creating music, or making music, or singing, whatever, they're engaging in a form of magic, the magical world of music, and they're engaging in it in a way of self. Musicians always have music they like and music they don't like, and music that they attach themselves to certain vibrations and certain things, and they don't like other things to the point where they get put off by it. And they create definitions, a selfish way of entering into the world of music, definitions of what they like, what they don't like, what's good, what's bad. And when they make music or when they even listen to music, there's a way to observe your ego when you engage in it. So that's part of what one observes in music yoga. But this music is good yoga. It's selfless, giving. The intention of the music is not the things that the composer likes. It's reaching to a higher dimension, a dimension of light. And it is the creation of music from a selfless perspective of a focus on light, and most importantly, with an intent to bring this light to others. That's why this is so magical, because in the structure of this yoga, in order for it to work, it has to bring that light across to others. And there is beautiful light in this music, and it comes across. It's something that helps people with their spiritual practice. And that is successful yoga, and it is selfless giving. So every time you listen to your meditation music, you should realize that this is helpful to your meditation, helpful to your spiritual practice, because the yogi who did it, yogi or yogini who did it, was practicing selfless giving. That's an example. It's important to observe. You know, a lot of times you'll listen to music and you just really feel the person who wrote the song, their likes, their dislikes, feel their mind. Did you ever see that movie Beethoven? It's really good. There's this one moment where Beethoven walks over to this girl that he likes and she's listening to some of his music and he gets this intense thing, he's like, ah, you know. When you listen to music, you connect directly with the composer's mind. That's what he said. It's kind of cool. And it's true. What you focus on, you become. And there's something special in this music in that it is yoga. It is selfless giving, and it has the intention and the connection to bring light from the causal dimensions, the dimensions of light that we focus on in meditation, across to the meditator. It's not only magical, it's not only using the vehicle of music, but it's also the vehicle of yoga. So it's magic, Buddhist magic. It's quite nice. Most people, choosing choice number one, to give to themselves, to fulfill themselves, they find suffering, they find unhappiness, they find temporary joy, but ultimately they find dissatisfaction. There's a difference between joy and happiness, in the way that I talk about it. Joy is transient. Joy is, you know, you want a piece of chocolate cake, you get your chocolate cake, you're happy. But then you get three or four pieces of chocolate cake and after a while you don't like it anymore. You're full, it's too rich, and then the thing that made you happy doesn't make you happy. So the thing that made you happy, that gave you joy, then gives you pain. And this is human experience, going from joy to pain, joy to pain, and you're always following a desire that you think will make you happy, and then you get it, and for a while you're happy, and then after a while the desire satiates, and then you're not happy anymore. And you need to have another desire that will really bring you to happiness. It's the endless cycle of desire. The Buddha said it could rain gold. It could rain gold, and you still wouldn't be fulfilled. And it's true. Desires are endless. And when you fulfill desire, you experience joy, transient happiness. But what I call happiness, true happiness, is a happiness that goes beyond the transient awareness of life. It is a spiritual happiness. It is really finding your higher self, being free of limitation, being free of the ego's grasp, and realizing that in truth, innately, you are happy. In your heart of hearts, you're not lacking anything. And when you can get in touch with the center of your being, there's all the happiness you need. So when you're in balance, when you're in union, the result of practicing yoga, you come into a condition of happiness that is beyond this transient world, a condition of happiness, spiritual happiness, eternal happiness, where you are good, you're innately happy, you're balanced. And then in the transient world, you can deal with the joys and pains of life, because there's always pain. It's the first truth, noble truth of Buddhist teachings, that life is pain. But But when you're happy inwardly, when you have come to that condition of spiritual union, when you can break free from the suffering of spirit, then you're spiritually happy. And then, the ups and downs in life. Good things can happen, it adds to your happiness. Bad things can happen, and it doesn't detract from your happiness. You're able to be happy in spite of the difficulties of life. So it's important to seek that eternal happiness through meditation, through mindfulness and through yoga, through selfless giving, because selfless giving really makes you happy. When you're trying to give things for yourself, when you're trying to give things to you, then what you're doing is you are defining the limitation of you. So you say, okay, well, this would make me happy and you go out and strive to get the thing that you think will make you happy. Guaranteed, it will make you happy for a transient period of time. That's the teaching of the I Ching. And then what happens is, you, in the process of going for it, you set down all these really important facts of who you are and what you want. You start to define yourself through the struggle to get what you want, what the ego wants, what you desire. And ultimately that creates a greater amount of egotism, a greater amount of self that really limits you from being eternally happy. What we seek to do is we seek to, yeah, we got to go out and do things in life, but we do it in a Buddhist way. We do it selflessly. We do things selflessly. We do it as giving. We go out there and give our best in an effort with complete detachment. See, when you're giving your best in an effort to do something, then you're giving your best to the effort. You're not going out and getting something for yourself. And when you give your best in an effort, then that's where you gain power and awareness, and you don't have self-definition. So you say, okay, I want to go out there and get a job. And a lot of people go out there and get a job and it defines their ego. I am a lawyer now, or something. But when you do it in a Buddhist way, you go out there and you go at the same thing. You are impeccable in your effort, but at the same time, you're not going out there to define yourself through the activity. You're going out there to give your best. And then in that case, win or lose, you are happy. Because that's Buddhism. That's selfless giving. You selflessly give yourself completely to a task. And then it's enlightening for you. Even if you don't get the goal, the whole process is enlightening. So this is very important for you to look at life in a new way. Look at life in a new way. Instead of you getting, change your intent to you giving for everything that you do. And especially in the dojo of yoga. When you're doing yoga, observe selfless giving in every way. Be extremely mindful in your yoga because that's the place where you can really develop yourself the weather, the sun and the rain. We oftentimes see ourselves as separate. And this is why we think that we need things. This is our ego's view of life. Kind of like a raindrop falling from a cloud. You find yourself just falling. You're in a particular form, in a particular karma, particular trajectory, and you see other raindrops around, and you know you want to go over to one and stay away from another. You're in the winds of life, falling, no control, trying to get control. And essentially you see yourself as separate. And what happens in the end is you hit the ground, or go into a puddle, or maybe you hit the ocean, and go into the big puddle. But you go from a point of separativity to a condition of unity in the ocean. When you're falling through the sky, to a condition of unity in the ocean. When you're falling through the sky, you're separate and you perceive yourself as a separate thing. But this is only a transient awareness. And the truth is that you merge with the ocean. At the time of your death you go back into the Dharmakaya, the clear light of reality, for a period of time before reincarnation. And that's like coming back into the ocean of being. The self goes away for a while, and you merge with all of existence, all of eternity. And then, like a raindrop forming from the cloud, you go back into a karma that draws you into a particular karmic condition of self-awareness. But the greater truth is that when the raindrop falls into the ocean, it is merged with all water, all raindrops. The water in the cycle where there's separativity, the fact that there's unity as the ultimate condition means that the whole cycle is a cycle of unity. So when we perceive ourselves as separate, we're missing the big picture. Even our perception of separativity as a self is part of the unity of all things. And for the weather, we also have the sun. The sun is the thing that brings light and warmth. The sun is constantly really burning its own essence. And by burning its own essence, it brings light, brings light and warmth to people and to our planet. And so when we think of selfless giving, we should think of the sun. The sun is doing something, taking an action, selflessly giving of itself to create light and warmth for the planet, which creates life. So when it rains, and we're in the rainy season, and you see the raindrops, you should think of the separate self, the separate idea of self, and the cycle of water being a greater whole. And when you see the sun, you should think of the fact that the sun is an example of selfless giving for you. You should be like the sun. You should be bright. You should give of yourself to give light and warmth for others, so that they can have life, brightness and happiness. So, those are good things to be mindful of when considering the weather. Which reminds me of a story of a Buddhist monk who was in our school. When he first started, he still lived with his mother. And his mother had a nice, big, beautiful yard. And she would always ask him to take the weeds out of the garden. And he didn't like to do it. But she gave him, you know, she paid him money. His mother gave him some kind of allowance when he did the weeding. And he really didn't like it. He was always bothered by it. He would say, oh yeah, I got to pull out the weeds so that I can get something out of it. Otherwise, you know, I won't have money for the things I want. And the thing that really bothered him is that he had to do it every week. He's like, the weeds just keep coming back. And I just always have to do this, and it's just terrible. Now, when he did it, he did it not because he wanted to. He didn't do it because it was fun for him. He didn't do it because he wanted to help his mother. He did it because he got some money, some kind of allowance from it. And then that's the thing that he thought he needed. And he didn't like the task that he had to do to get it. And the other thing that he would do is he would, from time to time, try to control the situation through his giving. So once in a while his mother would say, OK, it's time to do the weeds in the garden. And he would say, no, I don't want to. And then she'd say, well, you know, you're not going to get your money. And then he would say, I don't care. I have enough now. So it was this whole thing of, you know, that's what you get. That's selfish giving, you know. That's when somebody is, you know, always looking at what they get out of it and controlling other people through their giving. And that's the way that most people do things. The return on investment and the control. So he was the classic case. But then our spiritual teacher invited him over to work in his garden, or her garden. And when he went over there, he saw a bunch of weeds and he just started pulling the weeds out and he was happy to do it. And he wasn't getting anything out of it. He wasn't getting paid anything and he didn't have any reason to do it or to not do it. He just saw what to do and did it. And I had seen him go through a lot of turmoil when his mother asked him to do weeding of the garden, but when he was doing it for his teacher, he was very happy about it. And his teacher pointed out that it was doing the same action, only selflessly. And it created happiness and brightness, versus the time where he had done it for his mother, the many times that he had done it for his mother, where he was very unhappy doing it. So for him, it was a very clear example of what was selfish and what was selfless. And for all of us, we have to look at our lives and what we do. And we have to look at our yoga, our spiritual path, and what we do. And look at the conditions whereby we are expecting a return on investment, where we're trying to control things in our actions. And we have to also look at the occurrences, the times where we have just a blast, where everything's bright, where life is fluid and it's fun. Because when you're in that experience, that flow of light, humor, and fun, that's selfless giving. The other is self. So it's important to observe this. Now when you do selfless giving, it's fun. It doesn't take a lot of willpower. It's what the Buddha called right intent. You just do it and it just happens. It's a fun thing. Or right effort, sorry. You have to have right intent, but then it's right effort. So giving seems like, oh, I've got to give something, I have to take action. But when you do right effort, it's effortless. It's fun. It's bright. You see that it brings you beyond yourself, beyond your limitations, that you get personal power, light and happiness from the experience of selfless giving. So this is something that you should observe in your life, in every aspect of your life, and observe it especially in your yoga. Now for my friend who had seen selflessness, selfless giving for the first time through, you know, picking weeds out of the garden in different situations, he entered into yoga, seeing, the inner consideration. That's what yoga is about. It is about looking at yourself, seeing what works, seeing what doesn't work, seeing what makes you bright, seeing what doesn't make you bright. If you're in the structure of yoga, and you're feeling angry and bad and depressed and sluggish and bored and all this stuff, you're hanging out in selfishness. Maybe because of fear or whatever, or anger or whatever. But you enter into a world where you can say, this is me. This is not happy. This is not bright. And instead of letting the you cut you off from happiness and brightness and enlightenment, you have the opportunity to look at yourself directly and say, this self is the problem. The self is the problem, the anger is the problem, you. It's not the yoga that's the problem. When people do yoga, they're happy and bright, it's fun. When people are unhappy and angry and depressed, it's because of the self. So yoga gives you an opportunity to see the self, and because you can see it, it gives you an opportunity to work around it by taking action. Do your actions. If you do your actions in your yoga, you will crawl out from under the self. Did you see the film about Schmidt? It's a great film. There's this regular kind of American guy going through his regular American life, following very regular kind of karmas for Americans. And then towards his retirement period, things happen, and he just enters into selfless giving. He doesn't have to try hard, he just starts doing a little selfless giving. And when he starts a little selfless giving, it opens him to this internal dialogue where he starts to look at his life and see his life. And then eventually it leads to a true experience of selfless giving. I recommend that you watch this film, because if you see this film, you'll see how someone starts into this yoga of selfless giving, and how they enter that internal dialogue, and how they see themselves, and then the magic of what selfless giving does. Selfless giving brings you outside of the self. Selfless giving brings you into light. Within the self there is darkness. Yeah, within the self, self-reaction, thought, you know, limitation, it's all dark, it's all unhappy. But yoga and the spiritual path brings you beyond that, into the transcendental light, into the light of spirit, and that is happy. That's what yoga is. When you're not in that, be humble. Look at yourself. Take action. Be self-effacing and push your willpower to take action in yoga. And that is a way out. You've all read Milarepa, right? If you haven't read it, read it. It's hard work, yoga, but it leads to somewhere good. So Milarepa, hard work, but it leads somewhere good. And also you can see it in a very beautiful way in about Schmidt. Very beautiful. Excellent. So what I'd like to do is I'd like to give you an example of selfless giving. A spiritual example of selfless giving. itself. Let's give it. And to do this, we're going to do a meditation, open-eyed meditation. I'd like you to look up here towards me while we meditate. And let's see. We'll meditate. I'm going to find a song that's a little bit longer. A little bit longer meditation.

0:28:56
Okay. Alright, so, I'd like you to focus on the heart. And I'd like you to look up here toward me during the meditation.

0:29:10
And I'm sorry. Good. Alright. So observe selfless giving in your life, in your relationships, in your work, and use yoga as your microscope. Look at yourself, look at your mind in yoga. Yoga is a fantastic way for you to address what limits you. That's what yoga is for. It's for addressing your your spirit, the ego, and finding a way out of the ego's grasp, finding a way to brightness, to happiness. And as we make our way over to the lake of a lake, you'll see that just beyond these heavy aspects of self, the ego, just beyond it, that the lake is pretty good. That it's very happy, it's powerful, it's bright. So we're in this transition, and your part is to practice yoga. Practice selfless giving in your yoga and you'll see a beautiful transformation from now until the equinox. You'll see heaviness of self go away. You'll see yourself arrive at the lake, over lake. You'll feel, you'll see what that spiritual teaching is, that spiritual direction. It's a fantastic place, but it requires some selfless giving in your yoga. Excellent. Thank you. All right. So, I'd like to have a chat. So, I'd like to have a chat. We'll take a little break, but I'd like to chat with just for a few minutes with the people who are at the party, the New Year's Day party. So if you would hang around for a moment or two, that would be very kind.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
