0:00:00
under your seat.

0:00:01
I'm going to turn this on. I'm going to turn this off. I'm going to turn this off. I'm going to turn this off. I'm going to turn this off. I'm going to turn this off. I'm going to turn this off. I'm going to turn this off. I'm going to turn this off. I'm going to turn this off. I'm going to turn this off. I'm going to turn this off. I'm going to turn this off.

0:01:05
I'm going to turn this off.

0:01:06
I'm going to turn this off. I'm going to turn this off.

0:01:08
I'm going to turn this off. I'm going to turn this off.

0:01:10
I'm going to turn this off.

0:01:11
I'm going to turn this off. I'm going to turn this off. I'm going to turn this off.

0:01:14
I'm going to turn this off. I'm going to turn this off. Two songs per talk, okay?

0:01:16
You want me to go?

0:01:17
No, I'll go. Okay. Okay.

0:01:20
So,

0:01:27
So. So Oh. So. So. So. So, thank you. the the the the So So Oh So So the the the the You. you you you the Oh So, the the the So, you you You So the the the the the the the the. the. A. you So, thank you. the the the the So, the the the the The. Oh. So So, So. So, ♪ ♪ the If anyone comes in through this door, please ask them to leave. So, good afternoon, rodents. I mean students. See?

0:25:18
I still have a problem. The problem is in your head. And it's a severe problem. It's unacceptable, this problem. I have never seen a group of people mess up in empowerment so badly. You You take enlightened energy and you turn it into egotism and you come right back with negative bullshit. You know what that is? That's a bad way to go. Yep. No, it's not all of you, just many of you. So, the yoga teachers in Bodhi Woods are excluded, of course. They wouldn't be so idiotic. It's idiotic to do something that doesn't serve your enlightenment, that doesn't serve your whole health. And a lot of what you guys are doing is very negative for your state of mind, negative for your personal power, negative towards your health and the health of others. It's unacceptable behavior. Yes. So, I remember when we started off learning about the path of the warrior, I told you a story, an old Native American story, about the two wolves that live inside everyone. There's the white wolf and the black wolf. And you feed the white wolf with your positive thoughts, with your positive intentions and acts. And you feed the black wolf with negative thoughts, thoughts that do not serve your spiritual evolution, thoughts that serve your limitation and disempowerment. And whichever wolf at some point of power, at some point the wolves will battle. And the one that's been fed more will win. And then you'll be ruled by that wolf. That's how the story goes. But it actually kind of is that way. people either lean to more positivity or more negativity. And most people actually lean to negativity. I mean, look at the options we're given in this world. They're not very good. The physical world and the structures of society and government. They're not extremely spiritually liberating structures. And that's what people see as options in their lives. This social conditioning and the physical world in their body. That's what's real to them. And therefore, amongst those opportunities, they choose to be positive or negative. But out there in the physical world, it's pretty heavy, pretty dark, and pretty easy to be negative. This is a different way. This is a way of spirit. Now, when you you feed the white wolf. The white wolf will defeat the dark wolf and in you will live the spirit of goodness and very acrimonious attributes. Now, it's very, very important to really recognize that that's what's going on within you. And that a lot of you have been feeding the black wolf with superfood. From the empowerment, you've been given a kind of superfood. So all of a sudden, whatever wolf you've been feeding has gotten a lot bigger and stronger. Which is good if you follow the teachings of the Dharma, because then you have the very bright, positive, good spirit, white wolf. But a lot of you completely lost the plot and went the other way, into egotism. And this is a very, very great danger in your pathway to enlightenment. And I've never seen a group of people make such a big mistake as what you guys have done. So this is, you're in a bad spot as a group. A bad place. And we need to change that. You need to change it. You need to change it. It's a problem. It can't go on like this. It's bad. Now, while I was away, I considered just kicking people out. Just saying, you leave, you leave. Because it's not working out. Right? But you have elected to engage in the study. You have elected to take certain teachings, to have certain dimensions of awareness open to you, to receive certain empowerments. There's a karma to that. And it's something that you have to either learn how to do it right, or you're going to suffer tremendously from not doing it right. It's kind of like if you come to a martial arts class, and you might have your whole silly ideas of martial arts, whatever notions from watching Karate Kid, or whatever kung fu movies you've seen on TV. You might have all these ideas, but if you do martial arts, I guarantee what you've seen in the movies is very different than your experience. You might have great, fantastic ideas about yourself. Do martial arts. You'll be humbled because it's true, it's real, and it's obviously real in carrying it out, you'll see. And then you'll develop power properly if you do it, and then if you do it, you'll develop properly, you'll have the proper humility, you won't have all these... you never see a brown belt who's going for their black belt, thinking, oh I'm going to be amazing, blah blah blah, like a silly person who watches movies. This is what you are, a bunch of silly people who have concepts and your concepts are wrong. Don't believe me? Stop thought for five minutes, and then you will see the truth. If you can't do that, then you have to at least listen to me because I can stop thought. As soon as you stop thought, you peel away this veneer of ideas that mask the truth. You go beyond all of these concepts, thoughts, impressions, conditioning, what other people have imposed on you as what life should be like, definitions of life, models of life. You go beyond all of these things and you come to experience directly life in its true essence. Meditation brings you to that vision. Meditation brings you to that experience. So if you can't stop thought is a truth that is based on your limited concepts. Bad counsel. And I could point it out to you. I am pointing it out to you. But in any way you come up with, oh, but this, but this, but this, it's wrong. You're full of shit.

0:36:56
Definitely.

0:36:58
So, if you walked onto, into a martial arts school, even if you have all these goofy ideas, if you put on the gi and the belt, and then the sensei puts you on the mat, teaches you what to do, and you're in a sparring match with someone. Your concepts and ideas about how fanciful someone was in a kung fu movie you saw will not work for you, guaranteed, because that's not based on truth. You can try if you want, but it won't work. And that's the truth of life. And if you find yourself dismayed with the fact that your concepts didn't work, and you want to extricate yourself from that situation, you have to deal with the moment at hand. And the moment at hand is that you are on the mat. There is an opponent. You're in a fight. Your stupid concepts don't work. So although it would be happier for me to just kick you out, because I don't like your attitude, you're in the middle of a lesson. You're in the middle of a lesson. And this is where people make it or people wash out. If you want to wash out, you're not following the path of the warrior. Didn't you know that's what I told you we're going to do? I mean, you might not believe me. You might not believe a sensei. Okay, here's what you're going to do. You're going to get on the mat, and those techniques I taught you, you need to hit the other person with it. And they're going to try to hit you, so you need to block. You might be like, oh, Karate Kid, oh, Kung Fu Movie, oh, Bloodsport. I'm going to do that jumping, flying split kick, just like Jean-Claude Van Damme. You might not even recognize it because you're such an idiot. It's true. You might be all, oh no, I still have my ideas and oh, I'm not in a real fight or anything like that. No, you are. I guarantee it. And you're going to learn to do it right, learn to win, and be powerful, be a warrior, be a yogi, make progress on the spiritual path. It's a tremendous and fantastic possibility. It's an opportunity that really gets you higher. But if you watch out, you lose the fight, you don't care, you don't get it, I guarantee what happens is the same thing as in a dojo. You get hurt. You get hurt. The reality of it hits you hard in the face. So you have been a student of mine for a while. And I've told you what we're studying. You've elected to come to these teachings. And you're in the midst of a fight, or let's say a real spiritual lesson. And that means it's one that you can't back out of. You can back out, but that means that you lose. You lose in a big way in a spiritual endeavor, which has a karma. There's something to that. And that's what a lot of you are doing. You're feeding the black wolf. You're aiming to lose, because you don't even recognize what's going on. And what's going on is very simple. We are, through our yoga projects, working towards certain goals for the solstice. If you work towards those goals with a positive intention, if you practice selflessness and humility, when we get selflessness and impeccability, when we get to the solstice, you're going to be in a completely different place spiritually. You'll be more powerful, you'll have succeeded, you'll have really achieved something in spiritual practice. However, if you don't do that, if you keep on feeding the dark wolf, you'll really misuse your energy, you'll fail, and you'll have have a lot of suffering, a lot of hardships that are avoidable. So it's really necessary to recognize the situation that you're in. You're in the middle of a spiritual lesson. And if you honor that, then you'll see, I need to try. I need to practice mindfulness. I need to practice yoga. I need to meditate. Just from now until the solstice, this is the opportunity. This is the lesson. And if you do it, wow, it's fantastic. It's amazing. It's powerful. It's a real lesson. It brings you somewhere. But if you don't do it, then you suffer the consequences of doing a bad job on a spiritual lesson. And those are some difficult consequences. Those are difficult consequences. They create problems,

0:43:06
suffering.

0:43:07
to recognize that you're doing something. I told you you were. I explained everything. But you just forget. You can't hold a state of mind. You go into lower states of mind. You can sit here with me, go into high states of mind. You can be empowered. You can see light, brightness, beyond physical world, opportunities of enlightenment. And then you can go and go into your house and go into yourself and go into your relationships and go into all sorts of things that bring you back into lower states of mind. And then you forget everything. This is a danger. This is why there is yoga. Yoga is a refuge. When you engage in yoga, it pushes off all of the heavy karmas, attachments, and problems that would take you off the spiritual path. But when you don't engage in yoga, then you let all those things get you. So you have to do yoga every day. You have to meditate, you have to be mindful, you got to do yoga. Yoga is a powerful mechanism, but you got to meditate. If you don't meditate, then you're throwing it away. You're throwing away all of your attention. If you're not mindful, you lose energy left and right. You don't know what's going on. You can't remember a higher state of mind. You make no effort to maintain it. And then yoga is a powerful construct of dharma. And when you practice yoga, then that's how you can be renewed and refreshed. You can foster the light within you and apply it correctly so that you can get higher and brighter. Absolutely.

0:45:05
Absolutely.

0:45:08
Not everybody here is doing a terrible, terrible, terrible job. But some of you are, and it's a huge problem. For those of you who have gotten new jobs, gotten a promotion at your job, and or are extremely on fire about your yoga project. Like you wake up thinking about yoga, you dream about yoga, and you do yoga. And you're excited about it. For those people, you're doing fine. You're using the empowerment correctly. It's very smart to use the empowerment to get yourself a job. It lifts you up to a higher place so your foundation's stronger for yoga. This always is positive. And for any one of you who've gotten a better job through using this energy, a promotion, you have no problem. When you reflect on your yoga, it's obviously very positive because you're using the energy properly. So if you've gotten a job, you've gotten a promotion, you're doing it right. Good. And for some of you, you know, you haven't gotten a new job or whatever, but you are on fire and positive about your yoga. And there, you're using the energy properly. This is fantastic. Those two types of people are the ones who are feeding the white wolf. But the rest of you are not. You're going the other way. You know it yourself. Just based on that, am I on fire about my yoga? Am I happy about it? Am I excited about it? Like completely? That's the way of using energy properly. And if you're like doubtful, negative, having hard times with it, having all these difficult internal feelings and crap like that, you're feeding the black wolf. And it's a huge problem. I would kick you out, except for kicking you out means that you lose, and you'll suffer the consequences of losing. But in the midst of this fight that you're losing, you can change things around. The fight's not over.

0:48:02
You can learn to do it right.

0:48:04
It just takes a change of heart. But you've got to learn to do it right.

0:48:09
You've got to learn to do it right.

0:48:11
So a lot of you go into your desires and you find yourselves experiencing limited states of mind, going into darkness when you do that. And the thing is that you've gotten an empowerment of enlightened energy and instead of being mindful and directing it towards positive things like you've been taught to by your enlightened teacher, you have not done that. You've directed it to yourself and your limitations and your problems and your desires. And so you have made those things so big. So if you have your little inner fear about doing your sales or about whatever you're doing. And then you get this empowerment. You are stopping yourself by focusing on your fears. But this empowerment was made so that you could break through those fears. And it's totally possible to do even now. And if you've taken the empowerment and you focused on your desires, guess what? Your desires pull you completely away from following the pathway to enlightenment. And you go, oh, I want to do all that, because your desires become the biggest thing. You magnify them. And then there's nothing else but them. using the enlightened energy to empower your limitation, your negativity, your desire, your fear, you need to stop immediately. You still have energy, you still have power. This is not the way to go. You need to direct it. You direct your mind. Don't you know that you can direct your mind? You can direct your thoughts. You can sit there and think negative thoughts about someone and create the experience of crap in your head. You can sit there and think of all these crazy desires and your life goes fluttering by like an idiot. Or, you can direct your mind to what is constructive, powerful, healthy, empowering, and enlightening. And that gets you somewhere. That gets you somewhere in terms of your personal happiness, in terms of your personal power, in terms of the truth, understanding the truth of life. So for those of you who have been empowering your negativity and your limitations and your desires, it's disgusting. And it needs to end. It's going to end or you're going to end. You don't recognize, this is a, so what did I say, a path of the warrior. You know what a warrior does? They go into a battle. You're in a battle, a spiritual battle. You fail with your fear, you fail with your desire. And that's not what any of this is about. This is about going beyond it. You want to hear a simple recipe? Yoga. Do you want to know the pathway beyond your suffering? Meditation, mindfulness, yoga. Do your yoga with the best attention you can bring. Muster your attention. Be impeccable in your yoga. Do it every day. It's so simple to do it, right? Yeah, it is. So simple to be an asshole, too. So simple to be a jerk. So simple to think dark thoughts. So simple to be lazy. So simple to let life push you down. To let other people pull you out, spin you out, do what they want with your energy. It's so simple to do that. But this isn't, this is a warrior's path. This is a warrior's lesson. This is a warrior's battle, and you're in it, no matter what your Spirituality is just playing and smelling roses. No. It's about overcoming your bullshit. And you're dishing it out. You're dishing out your bullshit everywhere. And I've had enough of it. Remember that time when I told you that negative thoughts have an impact? Right? thoughts have an impact. So if you think a negative thought about me, I'm pretty psychic. And I know that you're thinking a negative thought about me. You know what that feels like to me? Bam! I'm like, oh, ow. Ouch. Really? Now, I know a lot of you don't really investigate your minds. You don't practice meditation very deeply. You don't practice mindfulness to see what you're thinking. All you say is, I have a desire, I'm going to follow it. I'm not going to look beyond this desire. I have a fear, I'm going to let it stop me. I'm not going to try to do anything But you know what you're doing? You are following the ego way. And the ego way is a bad way, and it reacts tremendously negative toward enlightenment. Right? You're so afraid of me, because I'm giving you a hard time or telling you what to do, or I don't know what your ego problem is. It's bullshit is what it is. But you're so like afraid of me that you will fight me for your ego. Yeah, that's what it gets down to. This is the pathway to enlightenment, right? This is going beyond ego. But it's kind of like we're in the stadium. I bring you into the stadium. I give you the baseball bat. And I say, all right, now they're going to throw the ball. And when the ball comes, you're going to hit it out of the park. You're going to hit a home run. It's going to be amazing. And you're like, oh, that sounds neat. And then you get up to bat. And you're all up to bat. You're up to bat. That's where you're at. And then you get so afraid or so weirded out. Your ego rides over. And then instead of trying to hit the ball out of the park, you decide to go after the coach who gave you the bat, who got you into the situation in the first place. And you go, why am I here? I'm going to hit you instead of the ball. I'm not going to hit the ball out of the park and hit a home run and feel great and win. I'm going to hit you with the bat. That's your attitude, guaranteed. I know. If you investigate your attention and your thoughts and your intentions, you would know, too. You don't even know what you're in here. You're in the stadium. You're up to bat. And you're all, oh no, I thought I was just being myself and all normal and like spirituality's smelling roses. It's not true. There's a very, very defined path of success for you. And then it's also obvious that if you're then that's the way to not success. That's a problem, a huge problem. And you think that it doesn't have any effect. It has a tremendous effect. You just don't see it because you're ignorant. And I entreat you to do something to get out of your ignorance because it matters. You think this doesn't matter? It matters, guaranteed. This matters. This matters to your spirit. It does. It matters to your spirit. That's why I didn't kick you out. I am disgusted by your behavior. I understand, too, because you lack awareness. But at the same time, it's disgusting. At this point, it's disgusting. And what you do has an effect. It definitely has an effect. Absolutely has an effect. Yeah, so let's consider a regular person, you know, thinking negative thoughts about a person, no big deal. But a person who meditates, a person who's had certain empowerments, certain powerful dimensions open to their chakras, their navel chakra especially, there's power. You gain power on this path. Just like in martial arts, you learn to punch and kick. You learn things that give you power. You gain an overall personal power, but you learn techniques that are powerful. Now, if you use them wisely and in an enlightened way, you evolve in others and you can help others. But if you use it in a selfish way, you will cause harm to yourself and others. You have been given techniques. You've got your punches and kicks.

0:58:22
And guess what?

0:58:23
You need to use them right. With great power comes great responsibility. It's true. And you're like, oh no, I just learned how to do this kick. You can't have this little dainty way of looking at things. These are conceptual and they're not real. There's something more real happening. Someone who's got power can use it. Someone who has power, if they focus on you, can hurt you. That's what magic is all about. Magic is different ways of using energy. If you want to influence someone, if you want to hurt someone, magic is a way to do that. But this is energy, right? This is direct attention. And you are directing attention. And you've got skilled means for directing attention. Absolutely. And if you use it correctly, fantastic. And if you don't, it causes problems. So, when you, like deep down inside are struggling, your ego is struggling with the path, and when you're not resolved to overcome yourself and make progress on the path, you know what's happening? You are going against the path. And in fact, within my aura, within my company, within my assistance, you're just turning around with that baseball bat and saying, I don't want to hit it out of the park. I'm going to hit you, because I'm afraid when I stand up at the plate. I don't know if I can hit it out of the park. So therefore, I'm just going to cave into my fears. But you're acting one way or the other, because you are empowered. You're feeding the white wolf or the black wolf because you are empowered. You need to learn how to handle power properly. For those of you who've gotten jobs, a lot of you guys got computer programming jobs, good, you're using it right. For those of you who got promotions, good, you're using it right. If you take this energy and only use it to make yourself completely wealthy or do something fantastic with it, then it's a dharma. That's what this power is for, it's for doing that. So if you make yourself higher, stronger, more powerful with this energy, then you look at the yoga in such a bright way. Because that's how it works. But if you're the person who's just like, oh, I'm struggling with my yoga, and I don't really believe it's going to work, and I don't want to do it, and my teacher's just yelling at me about it, then you're in a bad way. A bad way. I studied Chinese medicine for a long time. And I learned about the subtle physical body. I learned about when someone has an illness, pain or internal illness or something like that, I learned that it doesn't come... it's not completely physical. It actually happens first in the energy body. So someone goes, oh gosh, you know, I got a bad liver. And they go, oh, my liver's bad. I need a new one or something like that. Or, oh, I tripped and hurt my knee. My knee hurts. Both of those things came from energy first. So if there's a bad energy in the body it will slowly deteriorate the liver. If you have a bad energy in the aura you will make a mistake in the way you step, you fall down and hurt your knee. So many, many, many illnesses and injuries come from a problem with the aura first. Now, if you just get hit by a car, or someone walks up behind you with a baseball bat and hits you, then of course it hits the aura first and then the head. But that is like a, that's a cause that has an immediate physical effect. Also sometimes there's environmental effects, like you live near a three mile island and you drink in the water, and then you grow a third eye in the wrong place. Or you get cancer, right? That kind of thing is environmental. So there definitely are environmental reasons why people get sick. There's physical reasons why people get sick. But many, many, many, many, many illnesses and injury, they occur because of other people focusing on you in a negative way. I know this for sure. Now, in Chinese medicine, we go, oh, you have a bad liver. Your liver has pain. OK, you have too much yang energy there. We're going to balance it with yin energy. So it's just looking at balancing energies in the subtle physical body. But my teacher was a master healer. He, he healed better than anyone you've ever heard of since Jesus Christ. I, seriously, I've seen him heal cancer. I've, I've seen him heal brain tumors that were supposed to kill people. I've seen him heal it in two weeks. So I've seen him cure the blind. Absolutely. So he was a master healer. He knew a lot about healing. He said that he can heal anything in the body except for viruses, because viruses are alive. And also he couldn't touch tooth enamel. So he couldn't help you if you had to go to the dentist. Those are the only two things. And many of his students had illnesses that they came to him and were healed for. And I've seen miraculous healings, where there were people who were either blind or people who had cancer that were supposed to die and he was like okay you know I can handle this he was a master healer and I have been around him when he was in he had three students out of all the students he had three who were who he was teaching healing because they had the right past life profile. And I heard him talking to them. For the rest of the students, myself included, when I met him, I was an acupuncturist. But the rest of the students, he said, don't practice healing. Don't do it. It's bad for you. Healers don't live long lives. They don't. A healer, someone who actually could really heal. What they do is they go into other people's auras with their aura. So I remember when he was talking to the three women, they were doctors, but he also taught them to be healers. He taught them how to keep their auras clean and strong. And most healers just don't know, have no idea what's going on. And they just go, oh, I'm going to go into someone's aura

1:06:26
and help.

1:06:26
But then they come out with toxicity. That's why I would love to find a good healer, but any time a healer touches me, it's worse for me. Because they go into so many other people's auras, and they go and touch all these toxic people. They bring all this toxicity in their aura. So if they touch me, I'm like, oh, god, no. I mean, you actually might have helped with the one thing that hurt, but you also loaded me up with all this auric toxicity, because I'm a little bit more sensitive than most people. So I don't like it, unless there's a good healer. I haven't met one yet. So my teacher was a good healer. The other aspect of healing is karma. If you can heal someone, then you have to recognize people generally get illnesses because of some karma. And if you can heal them, take their pain away, and they're healed, what have you done? You've taken their karma. This is why healers usually live short lives. Because you're taking other people's karma. Now for someone who's a very, very advanced practitioner, they can see people's karma. They know why it occurred, and they know how to process the karma if they want to. So, that's one of the things that I've done for you and other students in the past, is I've given you a little bit of a buffer between your karma. Dealing with people's karma takes a tremendous amount of energy and it takes knowing what their karma is, being able to see it, and being able to deal with it. And you have to be, if you go into Samadhi in every meditation, then I would say you have that ability to see and you have the luminosity of mind to deal with karma, another person's karma. And if you're not at that point, then you don't see, you don't know what you're doing. You're shuffling chaos. If you're a spiritual practitioner, it ain't right. You have no business mucking around with other people's karma. Your karma is bad enough. You have enough karma that stops you from stopping thoughts. You have enough thoughts that occur. You have enough things that are difficult in your life. So for spiritual balance, if you're taking on other people's karma, if you're going into their toxic auras, you're not going to have a very practical way of progressing. So my teacher told me early on in the study, stop healing. And he told me the reasons why. And I loved healing until that time. Then I stopped. I was like, OK, you're right. I don't know. And if you're not a spiritual practitioner, it doesn't matter, because you don't care. It's not a consideration in your life. But if you are a spiritual practitioner, then it has a tremendous effect on you. So my teacher had three women who were doctors who he taught. They were advanced healers from many past lives as well. And he taught them because, I don't know why, they had the dharma for that. And he taught them how to do it at their level properly. But he was able to do it at the level of a master, where you make significant, significant health changes when someone's got a malady. So, I was in some of the meetings with him and his doctors. And they discussed, he discussed healings that he did for other students. And he discussed healings that they would bring up things like, I have this one patient, they have this problem, they would show him a picture and he would help diagnose them. So when they had patients, he taught them how to heal the patients but he also taught by example of how he healed his students. And I remember 90% of the time when he was talking about what caused an illness for someone. We're talking about cancer, we're talking about car accidents where someone's injured, from accidents to just internal maladies. Ninety percent of the time, he would say, this was caused by the patient's husband. This was caused by the patient's sister or boyfriend or girlfriend. These people who love each other, they have so many thoughts going back and forth. The beautiful couple who loves each other so much, but then after six months they start to get irritated by each other. Irritated energy back and forth for many, many, many, many, many years causes illness. Because it batters the aura in the same place continually, continually, continually. So 90% of the time, when he was talking about healing, he pointed to this person got this injury because of that person. And this blew my mind. I was like, that's weird. The first few times I heard it, I was like, wow, they must have really done something. But then I started to realize that people just have an effect on people. And then as I started to meditate more and have better mindfulness practice, I realized how many shitty thoughts I had towards other people, how they were harmful, and how, you know, like, I would batter people, especially people I knew really well. I'd batter them with my negative thoughts over and over and over and over again. I'd be all like, oh, God, I hate it when you're doing that. Oh, that's irritating to me.

1:12:34
Right?

1:12:35
Batter, batter, batter.

1:12:36
And what that does is it wears on the person's aura. And if you keep on throwing negativity at someone again and again and again and again, if you keep on throwing negativity again and again and again and again, over time it creates illnesses. So with many people who are close together, they get illnesses from the person that they're close to, out of their irritations and negativity. Someone might have 90% positive thoughts towards you, someone close to you, and that would be amazing, because most people don't have 90% positive thoughts. They have like 20% positive thoughts, 80% crappy thoughts, no, maybe 70% crappy thoughts, and 10% just negative. So 90% great thoughts, but then if they had 10% irritating thoughts, then 10% of the time, you're getting hit with this irritated energy from this person. It just keeps on hitting your aura, and that 10% of the time. And if it's someone that you've known for years, a family member, boyfriend, girlfriend, husband, wife, it hits you over a long period of time, and it ends up causing illness. And that's generally illness within the body. Many cancers come this way. So, it could be environmental, but from watching my teacher, I was like, wow, a lot of it comes from other people. Other people's auras. If we sit in this room and everybody wants and loves enlightenment, this room becomes bright and it becomes wonderful and everyone feels great. If we have one person in the room who's going through their ego and they're angry and they're distrustful and negative and dark. Guess what? That one person makes the rest of the room feel like shit.

1:14:55
Yep, that's true.

1:14:57
But if that one person just left, then everybody else would be super bright. And it works the same way in your body. Everybody in the room, 99% of people, super happy. But one person angry everybody else feels it and it dampens spirits. I remember a time with my teacher where he was yelling at us about our yoga because we were doing a bad job and and he pointed the same thing out and he was like if you guys wanted enlightenment this room would be glowing right now. And I saw all this light come out of him, and then I saw this darkness just make it go away. But he was pulsating this light, and then the darkness would just make it become physical again. And that's what you guys do with your negativity. You cut out enlightenment. And that has an effect on your consciousness. That has an effect on your spirit, and it also affects everybody else in the Sangha.

1:16:12
Yep.

1:16:14
Now, if you think a negative thought about someone, if you try to, you go, I'm going to think a negative thought about that person. And if you're so unaware of yourself that you just have irritations and doubts and negativities that are always going on to a person, you are hurting that person. And it's true. It's absolutely true. So I have come to see that when people get illnesses, if I follow, I can see the physical illness. Everyone can. I could also see the subtle illness. What went wrong in the aura? And I can see that. And then I also can see, now that I know to look there, because my teacher did, I could see where it came from, what caused it. I could see what caused it. So this is a problem. Now, you guys, you guys, you guys who deserve the big mantra, the big mantra, right? You guys know the big mantra?

1:17:40
What is this?

1:17:41
What's it represent?

1:17:44
Like the Tao, right?

1:17:45
It's like the full circle. No, it just represents you're a big asshole. A big asshole. Right?

1:17:52
It's true.

1:17:53
So for you big assholes out there

1:17:55
who are not excited about their yoga, who are not succeeding in their lives, just sitting there being negative shitheads, you are the offenders. You are fighting your spiritual battle wrong. There's no other way to say it. There's no and, if, or but. And you're at a very deep level of your spirit, whether you're aware of it or not, because you're not yoga action, taking the action, seeing positive actions in your physical lives, right? And since you're not on fire and seeing your yoga actions going up, you are being shitheads with your energy. And you are pounding me with negativity. Yep, it's true. But, you're not only pounding me, you're also pounding my students, because they're your yoga teachers. So you kind of go like this, you're mostly mad at me, so you want to hit me with a bat, but then the first base coach kind of gets in the way, so you hit them first. This is where I, the reason I'm having this talk with you so frank is because you need, frankly, you need to make a change. And you better make a change in the heart, and you better get yourself into meditation, mindfulness, and yoga properly. Otherwise, you're creating yourself terrible karma, terrible spiritual karma, and you will go a low way. This path is not the most happy, bright, smelling roses path if you do it wrong. Let's take a Bhakti teacher. There's a really great, loving Indian teacher. Everyone goes and bows and throws flowers at his feet. And if someone comes over to him and punches him in the nose, they go, oh, what? Oh, I had violence? Whatever, because it's all about love, right? That's their concept. They got bad karma. It does. Okay, so that's you. Whatever you think is going on might not be going on. I'm telling you the real thing. Unless you can say, I got a job, I got a promotion, or I am on fire happy about my yoga, I am am doing it every day, learning more, it's getting brighter, then you are being going after me, going after the first base coach. So the problem that I have when you do that is I can take it. Yeah.

1:20:42
I can take it.

1:20:43
I'm not happy dealing with it, but I'm willing to give you a shot. I'm willing for you to learn properly, and when you make mistakes, I help you back up, and I try to get you to do it right. And when you turn around and try to hit me with a bat again, I try to get out of the way, but since I'm there to help you, sometimes I get hit, and I do get hurt. If you were some stranger to me with a baseball bat, guaranteed I would not get hurt. And if you came to me, you'd get hurt. Now, the problem that I have is not with you towards me, But when you, and this is where in the study, I always come down hard on people, personally. Because, you know, there's just a certain point that you cross, and when you cross that, it's a bad way to go. power to hurt someone else in the study, that's where I come down hard on you. That's where I get real serious, because that's the worst karma. Using your negativity to hurt somebody else on the spiritual path, I think is terrible. I've seen so much bad, bad karma come out of that. That's a terrible student. It's a terrible way to go. So, you guys are not only coming after me, I can handle it, right? I'm not happy to, but I can. But you also go after some of my students.

1:22:49
That's where I draw a line. Yep. I don't accept that.

1:22:54
You will go down into a dark state of mind and follow a very bad karma. Not because I set that up or made you, not because I used my martial arts to do it to you, but because you're in a spiritual lesson with an enlightened teacher and fucking up because of your choices, because of what you think, because of what you intend. You want to do that? You will burn your ass out of here. And if you want to go that way, I've seen it happen before. You know? Jesus has seen it happen before. What was his name? Judah. Right? Buddha has seen it happen before, his own cousin, the Vārada. There always seems to be people who have such a problem with enlightenment that they have to try and kill it. And that's in you. And if you want to be on that side of the fence, it's a bad way to go. Now, I've got to say, Judas and the Vatida at one time loved their teachers.

1:24:33
But, see, that's the thing about enlightenment.

1:24:36
Enlightenment is bright, it always challenges the ego, and at some point they went from, to, oh my god, I'm so upset with it, I'm going to smash it.

1:24:47
And that's what they tried to do.

1:24:48
That's the way they went. It's a bad way to go. And you are going that way. You are using enlightened energy from an empowerment. And you're using it to feed your negativity, to feed your fear, to feed all of your limitation and darkness. And from a place deep within you, your spirit, you are lashing out and attacking. You're like, no, no, if I'm in a battle, I don't want to be in. I'm going to take your head off instead of fight for the right thing. There's a way to fight the battle as a spiritual warrior, and that's not to attack the other spiritual warriors. If we work as a team, as a sangha, a spiritual group, then we all succeed. But if we have people in the group who are attacking other people, boy, you know, I guarantee there will be people in the group who succeed, but if you're the one attacking others, you won't be the one. So you are definitely off. And it's completely obvious who you are. And you need to make a change. You need to make a change. You need to make a change. So I give you a chance to make a change. I give you these teachings, this opportunity, and if you want to go out the bad way, it's a bad way out. That's up to you. Enlightenment is a spiritual choice. Hell is a spiritual choice. I wasn't kidding around about the pathway to enlightenment. And these effects are real. I mean, you might not see it or get it because you lack awareness, but you have to listen to me because it's true. Those of you feeding your negativity with the light of enlightenment, and those of you who've, you know, attacked your first base coach, have caused harm. And that's where I get really pissed off. And not only, you know, yeah, it's been this culture within this organic fellowship of darkness, of fear, of negativity, of siding with your weak parts and acting upon them. This is not what I teach. This is, you know, it's kind of like when you read the Don Juan books. Like, Don Juan and Don Hinero are sitting there laughing and having a good time. And Carlos is all, oh, it's all freaky, and everything's strange, and it's dark, and are there ghosts out there? You know, he's totally tripping out. And it's completely different than the humor and the power that they talk about. That's like you. You're totally in a weird-ass trip. And you're doing things that are very dangerous. Now, you can correct it. But these have a serious, serious, serious effect. And you guys have taken out one of your first base coaches with your negativity. If it was just me, I'd be like, oh, okay. It's tough to deal with. But when you do something like this, then it's not going to happen. It's not going to happen. Yeah, you've got a problem with me. I'm gonna get in the way. I'm gonna get in your face. I'd rather you try to pick up a baseball bat and hit me with it than for you to sit there and go, oh my knees, fats, over and over and over. Don't you get what we're doing here? Stop thought. Stop the karma of insanity. Stop thought. Mindfulness. Be positive and constructive and bright in your thinking. Push away negative thoughts. Yoga. That's where you push yourself to be selfless and impeccable. Follow that path. It's a very, very enlightening path. Your notions are bullshit. Your negativity, your fear, is bullshit and it's trouble. And you are acting upon it, not only towards me, but also towards your yoga teachers. And you guys have injured one of your yoga teachers. Injured one of them badly. Yeah, so, it's a problem. I do not condone this. You need to have a change of heart, you need to do meditation, mindfulness, and yoga, and change. Otherwise, just sit there and say, oh, I like the way that Devadatta went. Yeah, that's who I aspire to be, too. I aspire to be Judah. I aspire to be some person who reacts negatively against enlightenment, acts against them to the point where they try to kill them and maybe succeed.

1:30:55
Thank you.

1:30:57
So, this is what you're doing. And this is a huge problem. And this is where you need to stop. And you want to run from this? Guess what?

1:31:15
You're on the mat.

1:31:16
You're in a fight. You're in a spiritual battle. You don't run. You win or you lose. Winning means do it right. Have a change of heart. Stop being an asshole.

1:31:28
Right?

1:31:29
How do you stop being an asshole? Change your heart. Be positive. Think positive thoughts. Do your yoga with positivity, with selflessness. Read the Bhagavad Gita again. You think your dilemma is so hard? Arjuna had it harder.

1:31:48
He's like, what?

1:31:50
I've got to go kill people I know, my own grandfather, my cousins, my friends, my teachers? His dilemma was a little harder than your little personal bullshit dilemmas. He had it harder and he did the right thing. He said, okay, I'm going to follow the teachings of enlightenment. And by doing that, he got higher and brighter. You are in a battle. Do it the right way, you get And you go a dark way. You go a dark way. So we're on the path of the warrior, in the teachings of the warrior. And if you act like this as a warrior, then you lose. You lose the battle. And losing a spiritual battle of this significance is a bad way to go. This is pivotal in your spiritual life, not just for the next month. It has a tremendous effect on your lifetimes. It's not often that you come across an enlightened teacher. It's not often that you come across an opportunity to really launch yourself into a very bright enlightened pattern. That's what the solstice brings if you do your yoga right. If you use your attention, your energy, your thoughts, your intention correctly, meditate, mindfulness, yoga. If you direct yourself toward enlightenment, then you launch yourself in such a bright, positive, amazing way, not for just this lifetime. It launches you, it redirects you, it redirects you from your karma. If you're suffering from your bullshit, which you are, you need to have a change of heart and change your intentions. Meditate, mindfulness, yoga. Are those bad things? Are they unhealthy? Are they negative? Do they detract from your well-being? No, the opposite. All of these teachings bring you to healthiness, happiness, peace, power, enlightenment. And and everything that you're doing is the opposite of that. And you're doing it to a point where you're harming other people. You're harming me too. Yeah, I've had a lot of pain from you. Pain, physical pain. Pain in my energy body from you. And it's a problem. But at the same time, I am holding you in a construct of Dharma where this can be forgiven. I'm helping you back up. I'm saying, no, use the back to hit the ball out of the park, not my head. Right? I'm giving you an opportunity to learn to Take the opportunity. Otherwise, it's a bad way. You can't imagine how bad it is.

1:35:16
Study Judah. Study what happened to the Vatida.

1:35:22
It's a bad way to go. Very negative states of mind. So you guys have, through your negativity, you have caused a serious illness to one of my students. You knew students. You knew students who were being assholes. And you know who you are. Because you didn't get the job, you didn't get the promotion, and you are not on fire about your yoga. In fact, you're sitting there thinking all these weird-ass thoughts. And the people who aren't here avoided this from me for a reason. Because the people who aren't here are assholes. But that's why we're recording it, so at least they hear this. Hey, were you there last week? I haven't done MP3.

1:36:39
Really cool, you should really listen to this.

1:36:44
You need to have a change of heart. Because this is not right. And it's not right not with me, it's not right with you. The teachings are perfect. But if you bring your bullshit into the pathway of enlightenment, and you want your bullshit to stand, no. It's not like that. That's not the way it works. And I've brought you into a battle with yourself. And right now you're letting the dark side of yourself win. Now if you have a job, or you've had a promotion, or if you're on fire about yoga, and you know it, do you have the proof that you're on the right side, on the bright side, that you're using the empowerment properly. And to you, I say, thank you. This is the way it's supposed to be. And for those of you who are just struggling and negative, you're on the dark side. And I have a huge problem with you.

1:37:58
I have a huge problem with you. You need to change.

1:38:02
You need to change your heart. There's no other way. I mean, you might not be very aware, but take it from me. Losing to your fear and desire and darkness and confusion is the worst way to go of ways to go. If you don't believe me on anything, believe me on that. I've seen it. So this is something to take very seriously. You have to recognize that you are harming people. just try to give you kindness. I'm not sitting here yelling at you for my pleasure at all. I'm just trying to help you.

1:39:03
Right?

1:39:08
Yeah, this is not pleasurable for me. Dealing with you is not pleasurable for me. But if you can change, then I'll be happy. You know how long it takes to change your heart? And the moment you change, it's bright. And then I don't hold grudges. I don't worry about the past. The past is dust. I I work with a state of mind that is before me right now. But the injury that you've caused, we have to work with over the next six to nine months. It's reached a physical level. But you need to have a change of heart, and I'd like you to reflect on this for a little while.

1:40:06
Alright, we're going to take a break Alright, we're going to take a break

1:40:07
for about 15 minutes, then we'll come back.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
