0:00:00
Excellent. Meditation is where we transform. So when we're dealing with difficulties, when we're dealing with egotism, where we feel all frustrated or sad or angry. The best place for you is your meditation mat. When you sit down and stop your thoughts, you know, you slow your thoughts down and focus on your chakra, you are changing your karmic pattern. So if you see yourself being negative and nasty, sit down and meditate. When you're meditating, those things will come up and you focus on the chakra. What that does is it breaks that momentum of thought patterns. Then the thoughts become less powerful. As you focus on your chakra, push away the negative thoughts, focus on the chakra, and then after a while you become free of those thoughts. Those thoughts just don't even create suffering for you anymore. If you think back to the thing that made you so angry, you just go, oh yeah, that thing used to make me mad, but now nothing. There's no problem. Meditation gives you that space. It helps you to break from the gravity of self. So the primary place where we seek... the primary way that we change from negative patterns, harmful patterns, patterns of thought and feelings that create suffering for us and others, the primary place is in meditation. Meditation exposes us to the very pure dimensions of light from focusing on the chakras, spiritual light, and in that light we are purified. Now it's important for you to focus on that light and not the darkness of self. The darkness of self will lead you on the path of self. And that means the path of ups and downs and the path of suffering ultimately. So it's important for you to recognize that the light, peace and stillness that you feel in meditation is the place to operate from in Buddhism. Good. Now, not all of you are doing a terrible, terrible job. There are a few who are doing just fine. Some of you are doing just fine. Just fine. No problem. So, it's important to, you know, if you want to know if you're doing well or if you're not, it's very simple. Are you excited about your spiritual practice? Are you meditating better than you were last month? That means you do your meditation more consistently or you're spending a little more time on it or your meditation is getting just Are you practicing mindfulness better than you were last month? If you are doing that, then you're okay. If you're excited about your yoga, if you're putting in the time on your yoga, doing the actions, turning your assignments in on time, if you're doing your work properly, impeccably, and it's getting better, and mostly if you're there in your heart, you're excited about it, you're positive about your yoga, then you're doing well. So if you're feeling positive about the study, if you have positive thoughts and not negative thoughts, you're not getting better at it. So you don't get your next belt rank when you don't practice as much as you're used to. So it's necessary for you to get that discipline of meditation. You have to have the discipline of meditation. That's the foundation of Buddhism, the foundation of spiritual practice. So you've got to get your meditation. Be mindful. Be more and more mindful. As you practice mindfulness, your awareness field starts to grow. You start to be conscious of other more subtle things that you before because you're looking for what affects your mind. You're looking at your thoughts. You're starting to look into yourself to see what's going on. So if you are continuously improving your meditation, you can concentrate longer, slow your thoughts down more, stop thought longer. And when you're being mindful, looking deeper and deeper into your intention and into the thoughts that come up and the feelings that are running around in your body, then you are improving. However, if you are not being mindful and you are slacking on your meditation, then you are not improving. So it is good for you to look at yourself, maybe every time we come to a meditation together monthly, and look at your practice and say, is my meditation getting better? Is it getting stronger? Am I practicing mindfulness more? Because then you can see how you're doing. You should be able to see improvements in meditation, mindfulness, and yoga every month. Yoga is simple because there's physical tasks. You're like, yeah, I did that coding task. Yeah, I wrote that website copy. You know the things you have to do, and you do it. And mostly to be excited and positive, positive-minded about your yoga. So you can see, you know, you can see very simply how well you're doing with your practice. If you don't have any negative thoughts and you're excited about everything, you're doing well. No doubt you're struggling with learning something or accomplishing a task or struggling just to stop thoughts in meditation, but you're struggling the proper way. You're struggling in a way that is going to bring you to great success. The other way is the way of ego, where you're fighting it. You're like, I'm doing yoga, but I'm fighting it. I have negative thoughts about it. And I'm like, all these ego thoughts about me, myself, and I. You know, you do the me, me, me mantra. Whenever I think of yoga, I think me, me, me, me, me, me, me, and I'm unhappy. Right? And that's where you start to say, oh, okay, I'm fighting yoga. I'm fighting it. I'm fighting it. Or not really learning it, not being mindful. So when you find yourself thinking negative thoughts about your yoga, negative thoughts about your teacher, negative thoughts in general, then that's the person who has to work on harmlessness. That's the person who has to take a look at their life and say, you know, why don't I do something that's positive for me? Or, you know, why am I finding all these problems with something that's positive, constructive, and empowering? Yeah. So, however, if you find that you're someone who's, you know, negative thoughts about something, about the study, negative thoughts about your yoga, or you're not meditating so well, or practicing mindfulness so well, you can change it. You can change it now. It's good. You can just say, you know what, I'm going to change it. Why should I do this? Why should I be negative about this? I enjoy the teachings. They're powerful. They're positive. They're constructive. I want the results of meditation and yoga. So put aside the negativity and make a change. If you're not meditating well, I want to succeed in meditation. I want to be able to stop thought. So start working harder on your meditation. So you could turn it around right now with a decision. And it's a good decision. And it's a necessary decision. You know, you got to go forward. If you're in this school, you're going forward. If you fall out of the school, then you go wherever you want. But this school produces results, enlightening results, results in terms of personal power. So if you want to be along with those positive results, you've got to do your part. Everyone in this school is going to end up being a black belt in meditation, mindfulness, personal happiness, personal success. And that's where this goes. That's what we do. But it requires that you do it too. You've got to keep up, you've got to take the lessons and you've got to work on them. Take them to heart. And you can choose to do that if you've been fighting it and resisting it. You can choose to do it right now. You can turn it around. Turn it around. And most especially turn around being angry at me. Being angry at me is not going to help you. And it's very likely that I'll be asking some people to leave because they're not doing it, and they don't get it. I don't know why. They don't get it. Don't be a jerk. Don't be angry. It's like, come to an enlightened teacher, and you get all pissed off.

0:11:33
Why?

0:11:34
What's the point?

0:11:35
What's the point? You're getting mad at the wrong person. You've got to look at your own mind and see your suffering instead of pointing fingers and blaming other people and having a problem with that which is going to help you. It's ridiculous. So, it's just ridiculous. And for me it's very harmful. I would put up with it as long as I could, but this is as long as I can because for me it's damaging and unhealthy. So, you know, you guys just see me and I'm like, you know, talking about martial arts and stuff like that. So I think I'm really tough and I am pretty tough. But at the same time, I'm vulnerable in this relationship of teaching. And it just doesn't make sense to have someone who's throwing bad energy at me. Because it hurts me. That's why I wear sunglasses. It's true. Yeah, you know, an enlightened person is really, well, in one respect, very tough, but if I'm open to something that's negative, it's damaging. And from my being open to students over the years, I've gotten damage from it. And, like, for example, going blind in this eye, and that was a result of taking my first round of students through the process that we're going through right now. So now we're going through this process, and now I'm going blind in this eye. Which I don't want to do. But this is the effect that happens That happens to me. Negative energy being thrown at me. And I don't like it. And I go to a specialist, and the specialist doesn't know why it's happening. It doesn't make any sense. I'm like, oh, I know why it's happening. I studied acupuncture for many years, right? But illness comes from other people's bad energy very often. Sometimes it's environmental. But when I have such a deep opening to you, and if you throw bad energy at me, it will make me sick. And the spiritual opening in the eyes, like if you look me in the eyes, you can see very deeply. You see a lot of light. You'll see no thought. So the spirit is seen through the eyes very often and now my eyes are basically under attack by you guys who get angry at me. So I have to tell you this, I usually wouldn't even bring this up for a while because you don't know what you're doing. You just, you lack awareness, but you need to start being aware. You need to not be negative. You need to be positive. Because I can't take too much more of it. It's too... I have to stay balanced and strong so I can teach the other people. The people who really want to learn. If you're just angry and stuff, then... I've given you a long time to figure out what you're doing here. And if you want to be angry and leave like that, then it's fine. If you want to change, you can change right now. You can say, oh, man, I should stop being such a jerk. Which would be great. So, you know, transformation is wonderful. That's what this is all about. But if you choose not to, if you're mad and you like being that way, then I'm going to ask some people to leave if they can't figure this out. If you can't have a change of heart and you can't be positive to your teacher, then it's too damaging. But, you know, like I say, what is it to make a change? What is it to start being mindful? It just takes wanting it. I want to be harmless. I want to gain the benefits of meditation and mindfulness and yoga. You can change right now. You can decide to change, to be positive about everything. Then there's no problem. All is for possible. Everything is good. But it's necessary. At this point in the study, it's time for you to take a greater responsibility for your mind, your thoughts, because that's what this study is about. Directing your mind, your thoughts, to that which is constructive and positive for your spiritual life and your physical life. It's necessary, important.

0:17:15
All right.

0:17:22
So we'll have our May seminar on May 2nd. a mandatory meditation seminar. Some people don't like mandatory. Be positive. Well, be positive.

0:17:39
If you don't go to your...

0:17:40
If you're not going to your meditation seminars with your teacher, you're not really doing anything. So it's just an obvious way to figure that out for yourself. So we will have our May seminar. We're moving towards the summer solstice now. And there is a very positive teaching that's coming for the solstice. A very, very beautiful and powerful teaching. However, it's necessary that you're ready for it, that you've improved your meditation and your yoga, that you're harmless. It's extremely important to practice harmlessness to accept the next lesson or this upcoming lesson. But you have to be in the right state of mind to, even here, to be able to integrate the teaching without it being destructive for you. Just having an enlightened teacher can be very destructive for you. You're like, oh cool, I have an enlightened teacher, and this is fantastic, I get all these great, amazing experiences and this wonderful connection to enlightenment. And then, you know, it should be great, but if you're not prepared, if you're not mindful and you're harmful, then it's terrible. It's a bad situation for you. You go into bad, negative states of mind and you hurt someone. So, it is a wonderful thing, the teachings of enlightenment. You have to decide that you want it instead of all this self-defense. I'm defending myself from stopping thought by being angry. Interesting. Yeah. You can explain yourself away, you can explain enlightenment away. It's kind of like guys after they break up with a girlfriend, you know like teenage jock guys. They go out with some girl for a while, and then maybe the girl breaks up with the guy, and the guy's all, she's a slut. Yeah, she's just a hoe. Yeah. Like they get all mad at them and say all these nasty things about them. But at one time, they really liked the person. So, you know, the ego can explain that away. It's like, at first, I like you, and then I hate you, because my ego is doing its thing. Yeah. You can explain away enlightenment and everything. But that's a sad way to go. It's a sad way to be. It's a way of suffering. And the truth is the truth. So it's important for you to take this to heart. To decide to really succeed in the pathway to enlightenment. To be harmless. To be harmless is good. Work on your meditation. Enjoy it. It's wonderful. It's a discipline. This is a discipline, a spiritual discipline. But it is one that definitely works. It makes you stronger, brighter. It leads to enlightenment. Like for real, versus like playing around. So, take this teaching to heart. If you've got problems in your head, with anger and stuff, be positive, change it. You can change it right now. And then, you know, we have wonderful, really wonderful adventures coming up in the summer. And we're on our way to those wonderful adventures right now. With our meditations and our yoga. So, yeah, enjoy. But work hard. Be positive. Alright, so, thank you all very much.

0:22:51
That's very nice. So we're going to move on to yoga meetings.

0:22:54
And if you haven't done yoga and you want to do yoga, talk to Suvidri. And for those of you who are going on to a celebration where we go out to dinner where I yell at you over dinner. And then we go to a movie where I can't yell at you because we're watching a movie. Just kidding. I'm not going to yell at you. This is a thank you because you guys, The people who are going on this definitely are in bright states of mind. They definitely are happy and bright. Oh, we're off the hook. All right, well, thank you all very much. So we're going to meet at what, 5 o'clock? 5.15? How about 5.15? 5.15, out in front, just in the front doorway area. In front, just in the front doorway area. In front, just in the front doorway area. Alright.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
