0:00:00
Alright, we're going to call in L.A. No, it's okay.

0:00:27
I feel a little dizzy.

0:00:30
Hello, so we're going to start with meditation. Quiet on your side.

0:00:42
Because I have no speaker phone.

0:00:46
We're going to be meditating now.

0:00:48
Please don't speak anymore.

0:00:51
Yeah, that means don't make any noise.

0:00:55
I'm making you up. Oh wait, there's a mute button, huh? I don't need to mute. No, you go. You tell them to mute. Here, I'm going to mute you guys. Off. Oh, sorry. Yeah. Yeah, so you guys should be quiet.

0:01:08
So put mute on your side.

0:01:09
I still hear stuff. I hear you breathing.

0:01:16
Alright. I'm just going to trust that they're quiet. Okay, three songs. the

0:01:45
You.

0:01:46
So. the

0:02:21
the

0:02:28
the

0:02:35
the Oh. Oh, the the the the Oh, Yeah. Oh. the the the ♪♪ ♪♪ the You. the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the Oh,. so So. Oh. Oh. So. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Oh. the the the the you Thank you. the the So Oh. The. the the the The. the the the the the so Oh. So. Oh. the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the Oh. the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Where's the microphone on this thing? Hello. Okay. Hey, put your thing on mute. I can still hear you. Can you hear me? Are you on mute?

0:29:24
Yes, that's the problem.

0:29:31
Are you on mute? Okay, be on mute.

0:29:40
Ah, it sounds like mute now.

0:29:45
I said they were on mute, but I heard noises.

0:29:48
It must have been the demons coming through. Alright, very good. Yeah, demons give you some perspective.

0:30:00
That's why we watched The Entity last night. For everyone that didn't show up, I was thinking of sending an email to everyone who couldn't come last night. And just having some pictures from the Emily Rose website. There's this movie, The Possession of Emily Rose, or something like that.

0:30:17
And it's about a girl who got possessed by some evil, evil demons. And the demons were like, just completely gnarly, and they ended up website of her when she's possessed, they're so hideous, they're so freaky. It's like the opposite of an enlightened person. If there's an enlightened person, you see a picture of them and there's like all this bright, beautiful light because their spirit is balanced and peaceful, there's no egotism, the spirit just reflects the universe. So it's a beautiful light. So just looking at a picture of an enlightened person, you would see this beautiful light. But then if you saw a picture of someone who's possessed with a demon, then you'd see the opposite of enlightenment, just this evil, vile, disgusting, terrible energy in a being. And so, I was all like, oh yeah, you guys should focus on this. Look at these pictures. They're hideously scary pictures. Yes, that's good. But it gives you something to think about.

0:32:10
Yeah.

0:32:11
Gives you some contrast from your mundane way of looking at things. Your pattern, habitual way of looking at your life is very, very stuck. Then you have an enlightened teacher, and then you get stuck in concepts even around your enlightened teacher. So then we throw some demons in the mix. And then that kind of rattles you to wake up. So, you know, we add demons for contrast. And also to learn about them. So, the people who have attended all three of our Defense Against the Dark Arts sessions, you have what I would say you have ranked yourself, or you've gotten a rank in terms of martial arts, Defense Against the Dark Arts, where you have a capability of dealing with something that happens. And that's a very good thing. It's a very good thing, because you have techniques and awareness for dealing with some difficult things. And sometimes on the path, you come across these difficult things. And you can address them with the knowledge of what to do. And that gives you power. And that's a good thing. So getting your rank in Defense Against the Dark Arts is a good thing. It gives you capability, it gives you power, and it helps you in the inner world. It's kind of like with martial arts. So anyone who's gotten their first rank with me in martial arts, we call it the Bodom level. When you get your rank, that means that you have a capability in terms of defending your life in a physical sense. And that means that anyone who gets their rank, you have defense. You have a self-defense that works really, really well. What you gain in learning our defense technique is a tremendously helpful defense technique. You also have a capability of some pretty effective attacks. So anyone who gets their first rank with me, they can fight. I'm comfortable that if something happened to you in the real world, if someone attacked you or something, that you would be able to defend yourself. You'd be able to handle the situation. And that's a power. That's a fantastic thing. With Black Belt comes greater mastery. But with the first rank, there's only two ranks in our system, Bodon and Black Belt. So the Bodon level is a level of competency in self-defense. And when you have that, it gives you a power and a capability in life. And if you want to be a master, then get your first degree, your second degree, your third degree, Black Belt. That's when you start getting into the mastery of the art. But you have a capability, a power, from getting your first rank. So, likewise with the Defense Against the Dark Arts, what we've covered in these three sessions is really a rank in Defense Against the Dark Arts. And everybody in my Sangha, we learned this. We learned this. We learned what to do with these difficult things. Difficult, malicious spirits and such. And also difficult people. And we all had, after a while, a rank, a capability of dealing with these difficulties. Because it's very, very useful on the path. Now, one thing that we learn in looking at the world of demons is sometimes when you're watching the films, when you're learning about it, you'll be alone in your house or walking somewhere and it will come to mind. And it's something that's dark. And it forces you to confront a darkness and to feel what it is and also to push it away and to refocus on things that are positive. So in essence, everyone who's come to these three sessions You have confronted several different dimensions of the demonic and you you've actually Confronted those energies in a safe way, and you and you've learned how to push them off Push off that negativity and focus on more positive things Even though when the negative negativity comes it's like scary and uncomfortable, but you've learned to be able to push it off and focus on more positive things. Now this is a good analogy for your mind because worse than any demon is yourself, is your mind when you focus on negativity. When you are in the dark in your own personal thoughts, it's much worse than any demon. Because if your mind is bright and strong and you're happy, even if a demon comes across you, they can't harm you as much as when you are in a state of dark confusion, anger, or depression. The demons that you conjure up in your own thoughts, your own states of consciousness, are much worse than any demon you'll ever come across. That's why we practice focusing on things that are positive and constructive. We become competent in positive and constructive thoughts and actions and words. And then after some time we master it. So if you're sitting there meditating and you start thinking negative thoughts, fearful thoughts, depressing thoughts, angry thoughts, those are like demons. They're worse than demons because they're coming from you. It's not an outside force. It's something that's coming from within yourself. It affects your own personal experience much more than a demon could ever affect it. And when those things come up in your meditation, you push them off the same way you push off a demon. And then you go on forward in a very positive way. Positive thoughts, no thoughts. And this occurs in mindfulness, this occurs in yoga. You have to think positively. Negative thinking, anger, depression, you know, limitation, all of those things, they limit you from within. They have the greatest effect of stopping you. and then they create a darkness. And the darkness that your negative thinking creates tends to cause a tremendous problem on the spiritual path after a while. In the beginning, you know, you might have darkness, but you're expected to practice meditation and mindfulness, which reduces the dark thoughts. But if you find yourself having more dark thoughts, more negativity, then you're not handling the teachings properly. So if you're in a martial arts school and you get the basic teachings and you don't take them to heart, you don't work on them, when you get to the more advanced techniques, you're no good. You can't even do the basic things. And the more advanced techniques are ineffective. It's the same in mathematics. You can't multiply and divide when you get into algebra or geometry. You have a serious problem, unless you have a calculator. So, it's really important to really take responsibility for the negativity in your mind. Because your mind is the building block of your experience. And we are in an experience of yoga. We're in a battle of yoga. And if your mind is in a bright place, it's a good foundation for successful yoga. If your mind is in a dark place, your yoga crumbles. So you have to be positive. Your negative thoughts and your association to limitation, it's dark and it creates problems. It means that your yoga doesn't work. So it's very, very, very for you to abandon negativity and to focus on positive things. Be positive, be constructive, be intelligent, be pragmatic. Work that way and your yoga will succeed. If you hold on to fears, if you hold on to angers, if you hold on to limited and negative states of mind from your personal history, then you are creating a dark energy. Yoga is a structure of light. And when you create a dark energy, it goes against the yoga. In fact, it harms the yoga break. But when you listen to the teachings of yoga, you can go from being dark to light, like the yoga. You actually become the yoga. And then it's very enlightening, it's very powerful, empowering, it's very happy. But if you hold on to darkness, and if you do not abandon your personal darkness, then you hurt the yoga. You hurt the yoga, you hurt the whole system. So we have a culture of egotism here. It's a culture of darkness because you're not heading toward union. You're not heading towards the light. You're holding on to doubt. Doubt that you'll succeed, doubt that you can do certain things. You're holding on to personal history. I've never done it before, so why should I be able to do it now? You're holding on to ideas of what's possible and what's not possible. And that limits you, and it creates darkness. You're also holding on to angers and depressions and all sorts of egotism which makes your attention dark If you're on fire about your yoga, then your attention is bright And you see yourself moving beyond Yourself beyond what you thought you could do before you see yourself move beyond ideas and concepts of what's possible You end up doing things that are quite miraculous and concepts of what's possible, you end up doing things that are quite miraculous outwardly and inwardly. You find yourself being happy, being inspired. You find yourself accomplishing tasks that you've never done before. And making things happen in the physical. There's that balance of happiness within and the success on the outside. So we always start with our mind. We start with how we feel. We start with our attention. We start with our thoughts. That is our yoga. That is our practice. To make our intentions bright. To make our thoughts bright. When we have negativity in our thoughts to practice mindfulness redirect our thoughts otherwise you're just continuing to create darkness and creating darkness is not part of the pathway to enlightenment. Yeah it's true. Creating darkness is going against, it's Adharma and it's actually bad for you. It's worse karma than even starting the pathway to enlightenment, to come onto the pathway to enlightenment and to start creating darkness. Because you've been granted access to pure light, something that's very helpful for you. That's what the study is all about spiritually. It's about a spiritual structure, a spiritual connection that should be uplifting to you. And if you follow that spirit, it's very bright and happy. And yes there's challenges, but the challenges shouldn't be met with defiance and anger. with a smile and some curiosity. How am I going to do this somehow? But I know that doing this will make me more enlightened. Hey, you can do it. So when we... Yeah, so when we are working along the pathway to enlightenment, we have to be positive. We have to recognize that the negativity becomes not only a danger for yourself, but it also becomes a problem for the others around you. So what we have going on here is a culture of negativity. You guys are a bunch of people who don't practice much mindfulness. You don't put a lot of positivity into your yoga. You don't see or feel the essence of the yoga or the spirit of the yoga. You just go, oh, my manager's telling me to do something, and I'm reacting to that. If you were really, really, really on fire about the yoga, you have a connection with the spirit of the yoga. And that's what you need to do. I remember when I did my yoga projects when I was learning, I was excited by them. First and foremost, I would think about them in my meditation. I would sit down and be like, OK, stop the thought. And like, oh, I'm going to code this today. Oh, I'm going to make a sale tomorrow. I was always excited about it, even when it was hard, even when there were challenges. When there were those great difficulties, I was like, I'm going to get in there and do it. Because I had a positive mental attitude. And I had a connection with the spirit of the study. The spirit of the study is not to give you a hard time, it's to help you, to give you the proper structures for you to climb up into higher states of mind, into higher experiences of enlightenment. So, what we're going through, every aspect of it is a lesson. That's what yoga is. Karma yoga is the lesson of action in dealing with structures of life. So you have your yoga project, you have things to do. That is your spiritual lesson. To be angry about it, to be negative about it, to hold all of your personal limitations and personal history as a barrier to the success of that yoga project is to side with darkness and side with egotism. And there's way too much of that going on. So I really, really recommend that you look at this opportunity for what it is and to make yourself, make your actions and your thoughts, your work, and your yoga connect to the light of the opportunity. It's very, very, very positive. And you have to be positive. There's a tremendous light in it. Otherwise, you're just being negative. You're being negative about something that should be helping you. Like with one team, we had four managers, and we had, I think, seven salespeople in the beginning. And now we're down to, like, two salespeople or something like that. Two or three. Three if one comes back from Mexico. And what we did in starting this is we said, okay, we had two people who did sales yoga successfully in Hungary. We had, you know, and we had two other teachers didn't do sales yoga, I don't think, but they're good at whatever they want to do. And they said, all right, what should we do? Should we do sales? And I said, well, there's a greater opportunity if we teach the new people to do sales. And we said, OK, let's do that. The four yoga teachers spent their entire time and energy helping those people so that they can succeed in their sales yoga. They didn't say, oh, I want this company to succeed, so I'm going to do it myself. We made the decision to teach other people to do it for an opportunity, so that they could make one or two sales a month and be able to spend, I don't know, 20 hours a week or something like that, instead of 40 hours a week, or maybe 40 hours a week. But being able to do it from home and not having to commute, not having to go into a workplace. Having a pretty cool lifestyle, where you're making a couple sales a month, it pays things, and you can make a lot. I knew, actually I did this. I made lots of money on getting other placements for my own consulting company when I was in New York. And I've also known other students who made like $40,000 a month just making placements. It's possible if your mind is in the right place. If you try, if you do yoga, it's possible, definitely possible. I've seen a lot of people do it. I've done it myself. So we had this dream to make that an opportunity for them, where they, all they have to make is a couple sales a month. You could work 20 hours a week and do that if your mind is in the right place. You can even work less if your mind is in the right place. If you're focused on it right, if you're strong and you do it, it's possible. So we wanted to make that for them. We wanted to help them to do that. And then what happened is we got a whole bunch of pushback, people who flaked out, people that didn't try, and people that pushed back and became hard heads. They worked against the yoga teachers instead of working toward the results of their yoga. And then that's just completely not the spirit of the opportunity. The opportunity is completely in the interest of the student who's learning yoga. It's a great way to have a nice lifestyle. You have the opportunity, once you learn how to do this, to make a lot of money and get to work from home. It's a really cool opportunity. And the yoga teachers didn't set out to do it for themselves, they set out to enable the others to do it. And the yoga teachers wouldn't get anything out of it. They wouldn't get anything out of it. They wouldn't get paid for it. The people who would get paid for it are the people who made the sales. So it's completely in the interest of the person. All of these projects are actually in your interest. But it's just like such a glaring conflict that we saw in one team, where it's like, this is totally in your interest. The yoga teachers are totally there just to help you. And then you push back. You think negative thoughts. You hang on to your doubts of yourself. You don't do yoga. You don't do yoga. Yoga means that you change. Yoga means that you transform. The limitations that you have of your personal self, your personal history, your negativity, your anger, your doubt, your depression. That is what limits you. And yoga takes that on to push you beyond that to have a success. And to become a salesperson that makes a couple sales a month, it's not the biggest thing in the universe. It's not the biggest, hardest thing to do. It means doing it right. So in the first detention you've got to do it right. But you also have to be positive inwardly. You have to have a positive mental attitude. You have to think, you have to be mindful. You have to cut the negativity. Negativity kills it. Negativity kills yoga. So you've got to cut negativity. You've got to be a positive person, because that energy lifts you up. That's what works in yoga. And when you have even one person on the team who's negative, who's not doing their work impeccably, who's selfish in their dark thoughts and their limitations and their personal history, then what happens is they let down the whole yoga. So if you have, let's say, a table, everybody's holding up part of the table. Everyone's a leg of the table. And if one person doesn't do their job selflessly and impeccably, if they have negativity, if they're not working hard, they're not earnestly putting their effort in, then what happens is the table tilts and the cards fall. So in a yoga project, in a yoga team, every individual has to do their job, otherwise the yoga doesn't succeed. So if you're not pushing towards the success of yoga, then you're screwing up the yoga. And then you'll be asked to leave the yoga project. Because at this point, we don't want the yoga projects to fall because of individuals who are doing a bad job. So we would rather remove you from the team, just so that we can have a balanced team to push the success forward of the project. So it's very important that you take responsibility for the positivity in your mind and that you push forward in a constructive, positive and bright way. Connect with the spirit of the opportunity. The opportunity is for you to overcome yourself and to have greater success. When you reach greater success in your yoga projects, you see that you're overcoming yourself and it's brighter for you. But if you're constantly focusing on negativity and doubt, then that's where you get stuck. That's where you're hurting the yoga project and that's where a yoga project will just not take off at all. The darkness that you create from your negativity is also harmful. So imagine this, my aura is very bright and pure and you're within my aura of light. And when you resonate with that light, then that light becomes part of you. You become brighter because of that. That's the way it's supposed to work. However, when you have a person who gets angry, reacts, doesn't get what's going on, doesn't want the light because they're confused about their lives and they're going up and down crazy, personal history and depression and all that stuff. What they start to do is they start to put out darkness in their aura. And because I've extended my aura to you, your darkness actually hurts me like we've been talking about. And you need to stop doing that. That's not the way it works. I mean that it's like it's the opposite of how the pathway to enlightenment works. That's the path of devadatta. He's a Buddha's cousin and student for a while. He likes Buddha and then he gets jealous of him. He gets angry. He gets into his own trip and his own reaction and he becomes harmful to the Buddha. That's a bad way to go. You don't want to go that way. It's so much nicer to really recognize the light of the opportunity and to resonate with that light, to foster that light, to foster the light within you, to have success that is bright. That's the pathway to enlightenment. And when you're going through so much personal negativity, it's just, it's ad dharma. It's the opposite of dharma. It's not the way to do things. It's not the way that's going to make you happy. It's not the way that's going to lead to a better life. It's going to lead you to darkness. It's going to lead you to more unhappiness. It creates worse karma than if you've ever started. It would be better that you never started the pathway to enlightenment at all, because then at least you weren't exposed to a pure energy. But when you are exposed to a pure energy and you crap on it with your darkness, then that's really bad. It's really negative energy. It's really negative karma to bring your darkness to something that's completely pure. If you see something completely pure, it should inspire you. It should be something that you're like, oh wow, I like that. I shouldn't be angry. I shouldn't be all myself. I should get out of myself and I should be inspired by this to see that there is this light, that there is this purity in the world, in the universe. that should make you bright, that should give you reasons to be bright. And if you don't foster the connection with light properly, then it really creates trouble for you. So this isn't about creating trouble for you, this is about making you strong and powerful. In a martial arts class, you learn how to block and kick, and you learn all these cool techniques. And then you get up to levels of class where you have sparring and things like that. And it's not about you getting hurt. It's about you becoming powerful. So you can use those techniques. If someone throws something at you that would hurt you, you have the ability to block it. You gain techniques and power, and you go up in higher levels of practice so that you are more and more capable. So it's very important for you to be positive, to foster a positive connection with the light. That's what this is about. Now this study doesn't get easier. What I'm doing is I'm stepping you through lessons and dimensions that are helpful for you. They are the proper challenges for you at this time to get ahead. And I don't give you challenges that are insurmountable. They're challenges that you're capable of handling right now. They're your spiritual lesson right now. The things that you can do right now. And your job is to work on them. And then after you get through learning these dimensions and these lessons, then there's more advanced lessons. But you can't do those lessons. You won't have the presence of mind, the personal power, the attention to be able to learn those lessons unless you deal with the ego that you have now. You have to deal with your mind as it is right now, with the current tasks that you have now, with the current yoga project that you have now. You have to be positive, controlled, focused. You have to do your actions and your yoga projects correctly and positively now. And then that leads you to higher lessons. So we are stepping up higher and higher in spiritual lessons, but right now we're at some basic stuff. And the basic stuff is, oh, here's how you work with an enlightened teacher on the pathway to enlightenment. Don't get angry at them. Don't be negative. Don't be angry. You guys are like the opposite of how normal people are. Really, it's crazy. A normal person says, oh, wow, here's a special opportunity. I'm not going to crap on it. I'm not going to try to destroy this special opportunity. There's something that's fantastic. And what I'm going to do is I'm going to learn about it, and I'm going to foster it, and I'm going to become it. I'm going to take advantage of the opportunity. That's what an intelligent being does. A crazy, reactive being that has just been completely too self-indulgent, self-obsessed, desirous and immature in their whole life, they are the ones that react negatively towards an enlightened opportunity. It's a bad way to go. Don't go that way. It's not the pathway to enlightenment. So if you follow that path, you won't be on the pathway to enlightenment. You'll create so much bad karma for yourself that you'll fall off the path. You just won't do it. You'll be all, no, no, I have so many negative reasons to not do this anymore. Then you'll see, you won't be there to do it anymore. And then the people who show control, who connect with the spirit of the yoga, people who really foster the light of this opportunity will become bright, powerful and happy. And they'll have many, many more opportunities for enlightenment by following the path. So we're working on things. We have more steps to take, but you have to take this step seriously. You've got to take this step seriously. Because if you get this worked out, then you can learn some higher lessons. You can learn some brighter things. But we're working on some basic stuff here. And it's that everybody changes from being in a mode of darkness and self-reaction and darkness. It's like a sickness in you guys. And when one person has it, the other person feels it. And then it inspires them to be sick too. This is what happened with Kamala. This sickness of negativity hurt her. It hurt her. Because I extend my aura to you and if you darken my aura, then it hurts my aura. And the yoga teachers, they're learning to work with their yoga teams and to help them. That means that they are also open to you. Normally, if they were being just a regular job yogi out in the world, if you come over to them with crap, what they're going to do is they're going to put up a shield. They're not going to be harmed by your crap. And they'll work powerfully with you, and then they will just move on. But what they're doing is they're trying to bring you up. They're trying to teach you yoga. So that means that they don't shield themselves from you, they are open to you. So they're working with you, they're trying to help you, they're pointing out things about yoga and your mind. And when you react nasty back to them, they can't put up their shield like they would normally do. So they are actually getting hurt because of your reactions and it does have a very bad effect and Kamala got hurt very bad by these reactions. So this is the kind of thing we need to avoid. Hurting people through such negative reactions is bad. And especially, it's especially bad, you know, trying to hurt your enlightened teacher through these reactions. But hurting Kamala is also bad.

1:08:32
It's bad.

1:08:33
It's not a good thing. Now, the way it happened with her, there was something that really keyed it off. And what happened was that, first of all, she had a karmic disposition to be hurt like this. Not that she causes it herself, but she had a karmic disposition where someone could hurt her this way. And then somebody did. It was a student who got very, very, very, very confused and upset and angry about the study. Very, very, very upset, decided that they wanted to quit, and had an opening to her, had communication lines open with her. So they, via that opening, attacked her and hurt her. And that created the first part, the first hit that created the pathology. But then all the negativity from all the students, not only in the yoga group itself, but in the whole sangha, because you guys are all negative, negative, negative, reaction, reaction, reaction. That affects everybody in the room. But if the yoga teachers are open, then it's going to affect them more. It's no fun to sit in a room with a bunch of people who are in an ego reaction. If we have the room and everybody loves enlightenment, then the room shines. If everybody here wanted enlightenment, the room would fade away and all you would see is light everywhere. But because you guys are such hard-headed egos, you make everything physical, you don't get the big picture, you don't see what's going on, you're not connected with the spirit of the study and you're all in yourself you're all in your head. You're experiencing the transient limitation and also darkness of your own reactions. That's the big problem. So but if everyone was really wanted enlightenment everything would shine here. But if you put one person here who's going through all sorts of anger issues and stuff like that then there wouldn't be light there would be or there would be a lot less light and everybody in the room would feel uncomfortable because that person's energy goes all over the place so when we're here together in a Sangha in Satsang, it's very important that everybody is positive and bright. You have to take some responsibility for yourself. You can't just come here and have a crappy state of mind. You can't just live your life with crappy states of mind. You're in the study on the pathway to enlightenment. You're doing yoga with an enlightened teacher. And you got to do it right. This is about getting you higher and brighter. And if you're not doing the work to get yourself higher and brighter, you're not really doing anything except for causing trouble. And I guarantee the most trouble that you're causing is the trouble for yourself. If you're negative about your yoga, hanging onto selfishness, if you're reactive towards your yoga teacher, reactive about the study in itself, you're like, whoa, it's all hard for me and I don't like it. That's the wrong way to be, and that leads to the way off the pathway to enlightenment and the way into a lot of personal hardship. That's a bad way to go. It's a low way to go. Don't go that way. You have to banish the demons from your mind. The demons from your mind are your negativity, your selfishness, your desires, your crazy, weird desires, and your personal history and limited states of thinking what you can do. You have to banish that negativity. Everyone should be positive here. I mean, like, spiritually positive. You have a tremendous opportunity. A tremendous opportunity. Even if you're only on e-media, you know, it's a tremendous opportunity. You should be bright and happy. You should wake up inspired about your yoga. If you're going to think in your meditation, think about succeeding in your yoga. When you dream, you should dream about succeeding in your yoga. That's when you really are doing yoga. When you wake up inspired, when you always have an excitement in you about succeeding in your yoga. That's when the magic of yoga really works. Otherwise, you haven't really connected to it. You're just kind of going through the movements or you're reactive and you're too negative. And you're not really taking advantage of the tremendous opportunity. Because when you do yoga right, you're becoming more selfless, you're becoming more impeccable, and inwardly and outwardly, things happen. You feel great, you feel excited, you feel bright, and you go out and do things that reflect that light. And it brings that light from you into the world, into your actions, into your interactions with customers, or into your code. Whatever you're doing, it brings it out. If you're not doing that, you don't get what's going on. You're completely clueless. A lot of you guys are really clueless. You don't get what's going on. You don't understand this opportunity. You're just so filled with limited thoughts of self. And it's like so boring to be that way. And worse, when you react negatively, you cause darkness and harm. And that's disgusting. That's not the way that the pathway to enlightenment works. You need to fix yourself. You need to cut the negativity, cut the reaction. You need to put yourself into the spirit of the yoga. That's the way it's supposed to work. Otherwise you end up being a fool. You know like the Buddha says, a fool could be with an enlightened teacher for their whole lives and learn nothing. But with me, no. It's not going to happen. If you don't do this right, you'll be gone. Because I don't hang out with people who cause problems continuously for other people who don't try, who don't put in earnest effort. You all agreed to put in earnest effort in your yoga. That will give you impeccability. But so many of you have not really been earnest. You have not been earnest in your efforts in yoga. If you were earnest in your efforts in yoga, you would be on fire with your yoga. And so many of you, your earnestness, you were disingenuous when you agreed to be earnest about your practice. You were like, yeah, I'll try to kind of, sort of, and see what happens if I sort of try. You were not earnest. If you are earnest, you experience the light of the yoga. So I would recommend be earnest in your actions in yoga. Connect to the light of yoga. It's fantastic, but you'll completely miss it if you just sit there thinking the thoughts in your head, if you don't practice mindfulness, if you don't work on your yoga earnestly, then you'll just be dark, dark minded. But the people who work on this earnestly, they're becoming light in their attention. Their attention fields are illuminating. They're becoming bright. That's what this is supposed to do. You're supposed to do yoga, become bright and powerful. And if you're not doing that, then you're sitting there wrestling yourself, wrestling your confusions and depressions, your limitation. You've got to get past that, because that's not what this is about. Drop the conflict, drop the negativity, work earnestly. Push, believe, try. That's the way this works better. Absolutely.

1:17:33
Okay.

1:17:35
That is it for today. However, I would like to speak to some people. Who would I like to speak to? Lizette? Katya? Jackie? Aliyah.

1:18:00
Robert, Olga, Sean.

1:18:02
Jason. Okay. That's it. Thank you all very much. The rest of you can go off to your yoga meetings. Thank you. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye.

1:18:17
Bye.

1:18:18
Bye. Bye.

1:18:20
Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Thank you all very much. Thank you all very much. The rest of you can go off to your yoga meetings.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
