0:00:00
All right. Good morning. We're going to sit for six songs. About half an hour. What speakers do we have this time? I'll just address the instruments, Starr. We shall see. Okay, six songs. Let's begin.

0:00:30
So, to the

0:00:51
So.

0:00:52
So.

0:00:53
the

0:01:00
So.

0:01:01
so So, the So, the the the the the the the the So, thank you. the So So the You you You you So, thank you. the You. You. you. You The. You. you the the the the you. you the So, the So, So, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So, you you you. you So, You. So, the So, thank you. ♪♪ ♪♪ So, con hay Phat Choi, and happy Heart Day.

0:26:06
Many celebrations today. Today is a good day to celebrate. It's a new moon. A new moon and a new year. I was very impressed with the meditation last week. It was very good. I like having meditations here. I like the change.

0:26:55
Hello.

0:26:58
Yeah, I like having meditations here. We're going to do meditations here for a while, for two or three months, and no more Fairmont for a little while. I like the fact that you go through the effort to come here. So the Fairmont, for a lot of people in San Francisco, is just easy to get to. I want them to come here.

0:27:43
And this is a good place.

0:27:44
This is kind of an in-between place for those of you who live in Santa Cruz.

0:27:49
So it's a good place.

0:27:51
Everyone has to come here. Take some effort. So the group that came here last week was a good group. The night before we were in the Fairmont and there were a lot more people who were more confused, let's say. And then they didn't come the next day when we had our meditation here. here were less confused. Less confused. And it was a very bright and beautiful meditation. So we have a lot of people in the group right now who are still thunder over lake. They're still confused and they're trying to figure out how to get over to lake over lake. Or they're just staying in thunder over lake and not making the transition. And And that's okay, you know. We give people time to figure things out. Give them a little laugh. However, it's very important that they do figure it out. Because the energy, the unseen structure of the teaching is shifting to a place of dharma, really. A place that's more balanced, appropriate for the teachings. for people to not know and to have the ego come up with all of its things. But as you apply the teachings, you should be able to learn and gain the presence of mind and personal power the inner structure of the Dharma. And it requires following the teachings. So some people who are confused don't follow the teachings and stay confused. And then eventually, they'll decide not to continue. And I want to give them that opportunity. Or they'll change. Someone at the last minute might realize, Oh, you mean if I meditate and practice mindfulness, my life will change. Things will be different. So, we have a period of time where we go thunder over lake, to lake over lake. The teachings are very real. They seem just kind of cerebral and difficult and strange sometimes in the beginning, but on your life, your consciousness. I liken the spiritual path to the martial artist's path, because there's a lot of similarities. They're both inner arts. They're both disciplines that transform consciousness. And you know in martial arts there are things that you learn. There's conceptual structures. There's things that you can talk about. However, in martial arts, you really gain the power of the art through practicing it. And it's obvious because it's a physical art. But the spiritual path is very similar. When you practice it, when you follow the basic teachings of meditation, mindfulness, engaging in yoga, then your life becomes bright, you gain personal power, consciousness expands, attention sharpens. And it's a real thing. It makes a real effect. I remember in my martial arts school, my Kung Fu school, I learned how to do this horse stance, right? And it was a very difficult and painful stance to stay in, and I was supposed to stand and horse an hour every day. And I struggled with it in the beginning, and that was the only exercise I had for a while. And then I started learning all the really cool Kung Fu kata forms, and the weapons and things, and it was really fun. So after a while, I started to neglect my stance training, my... I like the spear form, so I was really focusing on the spear form and having a lot of fun with it. And then, you know, my teacher kept on telling me, you need to work on your stance. And I kept saying, yeah, yeah, I'll get to that. But I was learning the spear, and the spear was just much more interesting. And then after a while, he just stopped teaching me the sphere. And I would just kind of go to class and stand around, and he wouldn't pay any attention to me. And then I would just do the sphere by myself. And then after a while, he came over to me and said, stop. He's like, just don't do that. And it's like, but, you know, that's what I'm learning. And then I just stood around for the class going, what should I do? And then, and then the next time I came, he put me back into the beginning and said, stand in horse. Stand in horse. And that's because you got to do things right. If you don't do things right, then it doesn't work. So if you do all sorts of stuff, but you're not meditating, if you're not meditating, then the fundamental discipline that transforms consciousness, elevates awareness, that brings you to enlightened attention, is not there. And so all of the things that you do, although they're positive and good, they start to lose the foundation that lets you step up toward enlightenment. So it's very important to maintain a proper When you're engaging in the disciplines of spirituality, then a really real transformation occurs. So it's important to do it right. Like in martial arts, you could be healthy, go jogging and running and jumping jacks and sit-ups and everything. It keeps you strong and healthy, and it's good. But in my Kung Fu school, my teacher would say, oh no, you're missing the point of what this art can give you. So the horse stance was was the place where I developed the kind of power that I could develop in that art. And all the other exercises, while they're healthy and good and fantastic, were not as important as the horse stance alone. And that's what my teacher kept telling me would happen. He's like, yeah, the horse makes you powerful. In my Kung Fu system, it was if you do three years of horse, one hour a day, which is really hard, then you'll gain this thing, this attainment called the root. That's what we called it. And it's really a connection between the dantian, the navel chakra, and kidney one, which is a chakra, a small chakra on the bottom of the foot. And it opens up meridian between those two chakras, and you gain power from that. And so the way that you open it is by stance, a physical body mudra. And through that stance, your aura starts to become stronger. You start to open those doorways between the chakras. And that's one way to do it. And it's very good. And it is very powerful. What I gained from doing horse, and I continued on and did horse a little longer. I did horse for five years. And I did it at least an hour a day, usually an hour and a half a day, sometimes two and a half hours a day. I did a lot of horse. Because I started to see what I was doing. It was very powerful. And from that I gained an ability to knock people down if I wanted to. Which I needed to at the time. Be able to just knock someone down. And that was like a cool power. And to me, in martial arts, if you're learning how to defend yourself, it's a useful thing. So I learned that through that exercise. That exercise wasn't easy. And I enjoyed doing the spear. However, the thing that was powerful and the thing that was the main purpose of that kung fu system was the horse stance. Now when I teach martial arts, I don't have my students stand and horse nearly as much. Stance training is important, that's the first thing you learn, balance. However, it's not necessary to put yourself through that level of training. I think it's healthier for you to work on technique, but a lot of cardiovascular training, because that is good for your aura. It's healthy for your aura in this day and age. In past times where the population was smaller and the toxicity, the aortic toxicity was less than inner arts, yoga, tai chi, qigong, these things were healthier and stronger. time, cardiovascular exercise is stronger for your aura. And it's a better way to spend your time to have a balanced life, to keep your energy body strong, and to be able to and work. So there's an approach to the spiritual path that we engage in. It starts with meditation, mindfulness, yoga. And this approach develops a power in you, a spiritual power. You could do lots of things that aren't yoga that are positive for your life, but it won't develop the power, the spiritual power, just like doing other exercises not doing horse. When I was in that study, the horse was the powerful thing. So when you engage in yoga, you're engaging in a spiritual structure that develops power, spiritual power. And it's very enlightening. That's why we focus on it. That's why I like to have meditations here. We'll have meditations here as often as I'm in town. So this week, next week, I'll be here to meditate with you, talk with you a little bit, answer questions, and then we'll move on and do yoga. So I'm hoping that some of the people who haven't been doing yoga might show up for these meditations and figure, why not stay around and do some yoga? That would be good. That would be advantageous for them. So that's what we're going to do for a while. And it's nice. It works well. Meditation is very good. And we can have a little bit longer meditation together, which is nice. It's good to work your way up to a half an hour meditation if you're at 15 minutes. And if you're only comfortable meditating by yourself for 15 minutes in a session, that's good. And then once a week you can sit a little bit longer with me, which is good too. Yes, so there is something magical and real and powerful that occurs during yoga, but you have to practice meditation. You have to practice mindfulness. You should read your enlightenment workbook. If you haven't completed your enlightenment workbook, you should. Because that teaches the basic mindfulness practices. And it's very important. So meditation, mindfulness, yoga, it's very good. We're going to do a presentation. A presentation about getting a job. Getting a job. So, recently it's occurred to some of you who have been through Golden State that you'd like to get a job in technology. And that's good. That's positive. So what we're going to do is we're going to talk about how to get a job. And even if you're not interested in getting a job in technology, this is important information because it's information about job yoga. And job yoga is something that everybody should know something about. It's a way of looking at right livelihood. And you know, it's keyed around how to get a job. But it's an important way of looking at what your job is, what your livelihood is. So we're going to have a presentation this week, next week, for two or three months, something like that, where we will be focusing on how to get a job. This is going to help those of you who are interested right now. And then for everyone else, if you're interested in doing it later, or if you're in a different area, it's still helpful. So, yeah, this is something that we'll do just for maybe an hour a week before we go into yoga as well. This will be good. Now, another thing. Next Saturday, for any of you that would like to, we're going to have a Bodhi Woods Day. Bodie Woods days mean usually dirt. But since it's probably gonna be raining, it might mean mud. It's been mud recently. So next Saturday we're gonna have a Bodie Woods day. And so for any of you that would like to, you can come over to Bodie Woods at 10 AM, and we're going to dig in dirt or something like that. One of our favorite pastimes, weekend pastimes. Yeah, we're going to be doing something. There's plenty to do there. During the day, and then we'll have a meditation in the evening. So for any of you who would like to, you're welcome to come and that will be next Saturday 10am.

0:48:14
Excellent. Yes? I mean, next Saturday. Yeah.

0:48:33
No one to warn?

0:48:35
Well, they're all like, what? I'm like, next Saturday. I mean what I'm saying.

0:48:48
Yes.

0:48:49
Good.

0:48:50
Excellent. So it's nice to sit with you guys.

0:48:52
It's good.

0:48:53
Yes.

0:48:54
We're making our way.

0:48:55
All right.

0:48:56
So Tal, you're going to give us a little bit of a break. I know you're going to be a little bit of a pain in the ass, but I'm going to give you a little bit of a break.

0:48:59
I'm going to give you a little bit of a break.

0:49:00
I'm going to give you a little bit of a break.

0:49:01
I'm going to give you a little bit of a break. I'm going to give you a little bit of a break. I'm going to give you a little bit of a break.

0:49:04
I'm going to give you a little bit of a break.

0:49:05
I'm going to give you a little bit of a break.

0:49:06
I'm going to give you a little bit of a break.

0:49:07
I'm going to give you a little bit of a break. I'm going to give you a little bit of a break. I'm going to give you a little bit of a break.

0:49:10
I'm going to give you a little bit of a break. I'm going to give you a little bit of a break. I'm going to give you a little bit of a break. I'm going to give you a little bit of a break.

0:49:14
I'm going to give you a little bit of a break. I'm going to give the presentation, right? All right. Come on up. We're going to talk about... So Tal, you know, the lead of one team who deals with, you know, how to get a job. I was going to teach you guys.

0:49:44
It's really quite excellent. We'll take a little break. We'll take a little break. I want them here.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
