0:00:00
Thank you. All right, so, however, at night, it's fantastic. And what's the difference between day and night? People. Absolutely. Hello? Hello? Yes. Yes, of course. Yes, okay. Excellent. All right. Now this is an energy line that's very nice, a field of energy. It's beautiful, lots of houses around, so it's a lot more of a happy, friendly place for people and that way you guys will be able to work with this better.

0:00:40
It could be happier for you. Yeah, that's good. And of course, you know, moonlit night, beautiful place. One of the days where we have not too many clouds in the sky, which is rare out here usually. So, it's very good. This is a place that has a beautiful energy for dreaming, a beautiful energy for dreaming into being things that are wonderful and happy and successful in your life. So that's kind of the energy of this place. And the energy line runs right up to Pebble Beach and 17 mile drive over there. Beautiful, amazing, successful, positive energy line. So it is a good idea for us to come here.

0:01:26
And we will get to do a little exploration of this energy line for its strengths. But we have to accomplish something for our Buddhist mysticism and our yoga projects. And that is that we have to accomplish this reflection. And as I said, when we do a reflection, we have to reflect the light. So, in yoga, there is a foundation of enlightened energy. It is a pathway to enlightenment. That's what yoga is. It's a pathway to union. So when you do yoga, when you engage in yoga, when you read Arjuna, when you read Milarepa, Krishna's teachings and things like that, these are the teachings, the way to enlightenment. When you reflect on it, you have to reflect the light of the path. That's what you're looking for in the reflection. There's two ways to reflect, right? Reflecting ego, and that's missing the point of yoga. Or Or there's reflecting deeply on the spirit of the path.

0:03:18
And that's what we must do in our little mystical exercise. Now, we're reading The Power of Silence, right? And in The Power of Silence, we have stories of me when I was doing my first phase of yoga. My first phase of yoga was job yoga. So a lot of you are practicing job yoga as well as practicing our specialized company yogas, you know, similar to, you know, building an application, like the piggyback guys, or building, you know, I guess, applications. buggy and cart days before the Internet. So we didn't have like websites or anything. But, you know, we built software as yoga. And a lot of the students were successful with their yoga projects. But my teacher wouldn't even let you start a project unless you were already highly successful in your area of technology. You had to be a very, very successful technologist, professional, successful, and you had to have a very strong business sense. So you had to make a proposal to the teacher so that he would put his investment of enlightened energy into the yoga project.

0:05:14
So it wasn't just like, oh hey, you knew you wanted to try some meditation, and hey, how about some yoga? It was like you had to really, really, really work, and work, and work, to get to the point where your teacher would actually invest in this specialized yoga. Before that, you were just kind of going through your kadas, your basic forms, learning your basics. So you had to get to the point where you're proficient in your technology and then also had enough business experience to know that a software product would be successful.

0:05:56
So for all the new students, we all had basically job yoga and that was get a job. Get a job, which was, you know, it's very challenging for people, you know, to get a job when they don't really want to work. And also to learn learning technology, it's challenging. But I find that it's the reason that we're doing yoga together is because number one, my older students are yogis and they're capable, and I think it would be fun and I want to succeed in yoga. And number two, I think it's always fun to have the beginners involved in yoga. It keeps a really interesting and impossible edge in the yoga projects. In our first yoga project, we had Mandala architecting a very sophisticated cutting-edge technology. She architected it, and then she had your yoga teachers build it with her. And the funny thing is she is an expert programmer and they were they didn't know how to program. So they would just like sit down and learn while coding a very, very, very advanced system. So it's kind of funny. But we ended up coding it and everyone learned how to program along the way. So it's kind of exciting. But back in my first experience of yoga, we called it job yoga. And that was the yoga of getting a job. So we had to learn our technical skills and we had to get a job in technology. And that was basically it. So for me, it was extremely difficult to learn computer science.

0:08:12
I had really bad experiences in mathematics in school. So I was like, I don't do computers, I don't do math, I'm not kind of like that kind of person. I'm more of an artistic spacer. So I was, you know, I was a musician and I was like really into music and martial arts and stuff like that. So I was like, yeah, that's, I'm not into like thinking. I'm into like playing some tunes and kicking and punching. So I was kind of into that. And so it was very, very challenging for me when I got into the study, for me to use my mind, because I was a daydreamer and a spacer. This reminds me of the last beach we were on. Yeah, so I know where you're coming from. So, yeah, it was really challenging for me. I went to this little school called the Computer Learning Center. A lot of us new students went there. We didn't have a Golden State.

0:09:26
We didn't have the older teacher. The older students were all professional computer programmers, but they didn't really teach us how to program computers. I don't want to waste my time on you. You go to a school and you learn it yourself. So we went to this six, seven month little certificate school, similar to our little Golden State program, except for we didn't learn anything. They were just like, all right, let me teach you stuff. And we were learning COBOL and assembler. And it was just like it was right at that time where COBOL and assembler were phasing out of being useful. antiquated technology and yet I couldn't learn them. So I went through this six-month course. It was actually a seven-month course, but I got kicked out after six months.

0:10:38
They were just like, oh, no, you're going to mess up our statistics. Because one of their things was like, yeah, you know, 75% of the people who graduate from this get a job in computers. Right. I was like, wow, this is great. So far, I didn't graduate. I got kicked out. Yeah, it was terrible. So I remember my first programming class was Cobol and it was just so strange to me. I would look at code and I wouldn't look at each line and go through the logic of it. I would just look at it all and go, whoa. It was just like this big chunk of stuff. So I would totally space out. It was really hard. And I was trying my hardest because I really, really wanted to do yoga. I knew it was challenging. I was afraid because it was so challenging for me.

0:11:41
Because I was like, yeah, I could be a creative writer or something, but I don't think I'd be good at computers. And at first, I wasn't good at computers. I was terrible. It was very, very, very difficult for me. And so I went through this seven-month course, and I've only survived six months before they kicked me out. They kicked me out because of attendance. But they didn't kick out anybody else in our group who missed the same amount of days. They're like, oh, this guy's getting bad grades. I got like D's and stuff. So I got kicked out. And then I was like, oh my gosh, what am I going to do?

0:12:22
And I had a mentor, a meditation teacher, and she said, Great! Now you can get a job! And I said, I just flunked out of computer school, how am I going to get a job? She said, It doesn't matter. She said, You really learn on the job anyway. And I said, OK. I had nothing to lose because I dropped out of my university to go to the computer school. I was like, computer school is the fast path to, you know, being a programmer.

0:12:58
So I was like, yeah, that's great. So I flunked out of my computer school. And then I was like, I was devastated for like a week. And then it was great. And then and then my mentor just said, go out and get a computer job. So I was, I had a scholarship to go to the university for teaching. I wanted to be a teacher. I wanted to teach fourth graders. I thought that would be fun. Hanging out with little kids all day, like you guys. So, yeah, so I still had my scholarship and part of my scholarship let me be a paraprofessional teacher. So, like on the summers or vacations or something like that, I could be a paraprofessional teacher. And so I had that status in the school district. So, my mentor said, why don't you ask the school district if there's a computer programming job? And I was like, that's crazy. I'm like, teachers don't program and she said ask so I said all right so I went to the school district I said you guys have any programming computer jobs and then they said yeah actually at Mark Twain High School they have a land class that was like the last two weeks of our school that I got kicked out of before I got into the land class.

0:14:38
So I was like, yeah, I can do that. So then, oh, this was hilarious. Yeah, this is great. and they basically had a computer lab with computers for the kids to use and all sorts of educational software. They said, this is a computer lab and it's a LAN and we can't get it working because we don't have anyone to do it. There was a teacher who was in charge of it, then he left. So it was just not used and they wanted to start using it. So I got there and they said, do you know how to do this land thing? And I said, yeah. And then they said, OK, well, show us. So the principal took me up and they there was the teacher's desk and all the little students desk and on the teacher's desk there was a PC. And I was like, wow. So I went over and turned the PC on and it booted up. And then I did a DIR, enter, and it showed a directory, a directory listing. And the teacher's all, oh, wow. And the principal was like, so you're familiar with this? And I said, yeah, no problem.

0:16:09
And then I like changed directories and looked into another directory. I said, oh, yeah, yeah, this is great. And then and then the principal said, well, fantastic. Well, OK, why don't you, you know, and I said, I'll need a couple of days to configure the land. And then the teacher said, OK, the principal said, all right. So I got I got hired for eleven dollars and ninety two cents an hour, which for me was so cool. And so I was like, OK, cool. So then I sat there at the computer trying to figure out how to get the rest of the land to turn on. And I was like, oh, I didn't know. And I was just looking at it and you're like looking at files and stuff. And I still didn't understand what a file was. After my introduction class in my school, we had DOS class. That's where I learned to do DIR. And the teacher was like, it's a file management system. And I was all, uh-huh. And they said, so, you know, it's just like if you have a file, you know, in a filing cabinet.

0:17:41
And I'm like, so the t-shirt's pointing at a filing cabinet, and I'm like, uh-huh. And she said, only the files are in the computer. And I was like, the files are in the computer. And I was like, how do they get them in there? And this is coming from someone who thought fax machines teleported paper. I'm telling you the truth. So anyway, so I'm sitting there going, what's a file? And then this wonderful thing happened. Shakti's sister went to the school. She was in her junior year or something like that. And she comes over and says, Oh, hey Jeff, how's it going? And I'm like, Hey, how's it going?

0:18:41
She's all like, It's cool that you're working here. And I'm like, Yeah. And she's all, You know how that thing works? And I said, Nope. And she's all, Well, the other teacher used to do this, and she typed this little, like, like, go into the computer. It was like, it was a bat file. She's like, go, enter. And then the LAN came on. And I was like, wow. So then I went down to the principal's office and took full credit for it. And I said, I said, Yeah, lands up and running. And I said, So, yeah, we can start having the kids come up. And then and then the kids started coming up and playing on the computers and stuff. And then a couple of days later, my mentor said, So now that you figured out how to get the land working, why don't you do something else?" And I'm like, oh, what?

0:19:44
She said, well, you have a computer. And I said, yeah. And she's all, why don't you go buy some programming languages and install them on the computer and then program? And I said, I can't do that. And she said, yes, you can. And I said, okay, I'll try. So then I started looking around in the drawers, I found these purchase orders and I was all, huh. I called up a computer store and I said, do you take school district purchase orders? And they said, yeah. So I was like, okay. I'm like, what do you have? So then I also bought some books like Visual Basic in 21 Days, How to Get Mixed Up and Lost in Visual Basic in 21 Days. That's what it was for me. Yeah, so it's great because then, you know, the school district bought cool software for me.

0:20:53
And I was teaching some of the kids too. I was like, yeah, and then you follow what? Yeah, we had a little programming class. And we were, yeah, we were all confused. But I did accomplish Hello World, which was huge for me. That was the first Hello World I got to work in Visual Basic. It was fantastic. So, yeah, that was my first computer job. But that was just kind of messing around, because then it got more serious. We moved to New York. My teacher said, you're all a bunch of spacers. No, he didn't. He just said, yeah, we got to go to New York. So we go to New York. And then I found out that New York wasn't so fun and friendly. It wasn't such a cheery, happy place. And I was like, I'll switch over. Yeah, so we went to New York and then that was where spacing out wasn't fun anymore. It wasn't fun, it wasn't interesting, it was just painful.

0:22:31
So, in New York, we were just supposed to, you know, we have gone through a little bit of schooling, we were supposed to go out there and get programming jobs, do our job yoga. I have to learn something. I have to really learn something before I can actually get a programming job. Now, my mentor fortunately told me, Hey, Microsoft Access is cool. It's just like a real database only in the PC. And I was like, OK. And she taught me these funny things like data modeling and stuff, how to make tables relate. And I was like, okay.

