0:00:00
So, our topic is how to succeed on the spiritual path. How to succeed in yoga, mindfulness, meditation, Buddhist mysticism, martial arts, computer science, within the context of spiritual study. These are inner arts. The inner disciplines that transform awareness and consciousness. Now I've been a practitioner of the inner arts since I was I think six. I started Kung Fu, Tai Chi, Qi Gang. And I noticed in these exercises that there was a transformation in my subtle physical energy. I started to become aware of my energy, my energy body. And I started to become aware of other people's energy. So through my practice of martial arts, and especially when I got a little older, I started practicing Chinese medicine. I started to become aware of energy in people, people's auras, the health of the physical body and the subtle physical body. So I've been practicing these arts for know, meditation through Qigong and also my martial arts system when I was younger. But when I was 19, I started practicing Buddhist meditation. I started to take my meditation very seriously. And since then, I've practiced thousands of hours of meditation and thousands and thousands of hours of yoga, karma yoga, selfless giving, our special yoga where you practice, you take action. So I practiced these arts with some success. In terms of healing, I have a lot of knowledge about healing, but I don't practice healing, primarily because it's difficult on my aura to heal other people. I couldn't practice healing without hurting myself too much. But as far as martial arts, I've practiced a lot and I've gotten five black belts. So I've attained liberation through these practices, through the spiritual discipline. So I've practiced this for a long time, and I've had a lot of success in the inner arts and with the essential inner art of spiritual practice. So, I can pass on to you some of the kind of attitudes or the proper attention that is necessary to succeed on the spiritual path. Now, although I've practiced for a long time, I'm still learning. I learn from life. I learn from every moment. I learn from the ocean, I learn from the deserts, I learn from nature, I learn from reflecting deeply on the nature of being in meditation. So I love learning and I'm always learning. I'm always a student of life. And this openness to learn, this capability to continue learning, is the proper way for a spiritual practitioner to be. It's the proper disposition. Because when you think that you want to get an idea of something, to learn it, and then close the book and move on, you have just a conceptual understanding of a subject. But when your way of living life is a way of learning, you stay open. You learn the inner aspects of life by staying open to learning. Most people stop learning about life. They learn as much as they need to, and then maybe around the time of after high school, they stop learning. Up until high school, you're still learning who you are. You're learning your way in life. You're learning how you react to other people, the things you're good at, things you're not good at. that. And you basically go from being a child to an adult. And then after that point, after high school, most people stop learning. They just finish. They've gotten to the point where they think they understand themselves, and they think they understand enough to get by about life. And then they go through their life without learning very much more about life. Now up until the end of high school you're just learning the basic karmas. However, after high school you have the possibility to start going beyond those karmas. And that is to stay open to life, open to learning, to learn from everything in life. But see, most people don't want to do that. Learning is hard. It requires effort. And so when they don't see a reason why they really, really, really have to put forth that effort to learn, it takes effort to keep an open mind. It takes effort to be humble. And when they don't see a really, really good physical reason, then they tend not to do it. Some people go on from high school to the university or to learning something about a career. That's a place where you see people learn more. They learn more about a niche. They can develop personal power and some awareness from it, but by and large, they go on to a very specific path and they stop learning about life. So really, it's after high school where people kind of stop learning about life. I remember after practicing Buddhism and yoga for 10 years, I ran into a woman who I had gone to high school with. And we were in the same grade, and we had shared some classes together. And I was at work, and I ran into her. She recognized me, and we started talking. And she said, wow, wasn't high school so totally intense? I mean, the experiences were so amazing, and we were learning all these new things about who we are and what life is like, and everything was so neat. And then after high school, everything went downhill. That's how it is for most people. when you're young and learning about life. And then it's downhill from there. Things don't work out the way you hoped they would, expected them to, life ended up being hard and tough. Students have an open mind. There's a lot of energy, they're learning. And after that, that's when they get heavy. And they think, oh, life isn't like how I thought it was. People just close down. And that's kind of the natural cycle. However, you could continue to learn. It takes a certain disposition. It takes the intent to do it. But you can continue to learn past high school, like I did. I kept on learning past high school. When I got into my Buddhist school, I went to the university for a little while, then I became a Buddhist full time. And the university for me was not very interesting at all. It was very uninteresting. But then when I got into the study of Buddhism, where I practiced my spiritual discipline of meditation, mindfulness and yoga, my whole life was full-time spiritual practice. And everything that I did was challenging. And everything that I did, I learned from. And my spiritual practice was much more challenging than high school. And I learned a lot more about myself in spiritual practice than in high school. But for most people, they don't push it that far. They're done, basically, after high school. They're like, I know enough about myself and about life and how it reacts towards me. And now I'm just gonna try to get by with this framework of knowing life. do. But when you keep learning, when you want to learn more, when you want to understand life more, understand yourself more, then you are in this condition of a spiritual student. You're in a learning the inner arts, the inner aspects of being. And it's bright and fantastic. And there's more energy, more momentum, more things to learn more. Not seeking to say, oh no I don't feel like it, oh I'm tired, I don't feel like meditating, I don't feel like being mindful, I don't feel like doing yoga. The successful student is always seeking a challenge. A challenge to learn something about something great about themselves, about yoga, about life. They're seeking to challenge themselves to learn more. So you gotta want to learn. You gotta put effort into learning. And you gotta face that challenge. You have to face the challenges of the study. Now most people don't like to face challenges if they don't have to. They say, oh yeah, high school was hard and boring, and I had to do homework and tests. University, midterms, finals, it was difficult. They wouldn't want to engage in that structure unless there's a reason why. But there is a reason why. A student of life continually seeks challenges that yield a greater awareness of life. A spiritual student seeks those challenges. When most people don't, they're not interested, they don't want to put the energy forth, we do. And the reason why is because of what we gain from engaging in the challenge. We gain personal power. We gain awareness. We gain spiritual luminosity. And so we see that there's a point to engaging in learning. Learning from meditation, from mindfulness, from yoga, the spiritual path. We gain something that is bright for us, that is enlightening to us. And that's why we engage in it. So when we're learning, when we're facing the challenge It takes discipline. But we do it because it returns enlightening results. Now most people don't like the feeling of facing a challenge. It's hard, it's difficult. But we learn to like it. We learn that life is facing these inner challenges, bringing ourselves to the forefront of our awareness field to face life, to face learning about life, about ourselves, about new areas of the mind, of personal power, new areas of wisdom. So, we continue to work on these things beyond what we would normally do if we were following our karma, if we were just doing what everybody else does, because we want those empowering experiences. We want those enlightening insights that we gain from the spiritual path. So we learn to like facing challenges. We learn to like the struggle, to get in there and really push ourselves beyond ourselves. we gain light, we gain brightness, we gain personal power, we gain the knowledge that the spiritual disciplines yield. So, we like challenges. You got to get yourself into this attitude, into this disposition, because it's a very, very essential way of being for a successful spiritual student. You have to like the challenge. You have to go, oh, okay, I get it. I see what we're doing here. We're trying, we're challenging ourselves. We're doing something. We're not just reading a book and complaining about our lives. We are engaging in the challenge of meditation, stopping thought, engaging in the challenge of mindfulness, observing your mind, focusing your mind on that which is right and empowering, engaging in yoga, which is an extremely powerful spiritual structure. We challenge ourselves again and again and again. We put our self completely into the position of this challenge for enlightenment. And it takes effort, open mindedness and humility. So we have to learn, this is the game, this is the deal, that we challenge ourselves through spiritual practice. And that challenging yourself, taking on the struggle, is something that is difficult, it's hard, however, it's powerful and it's luminous. So a successful student in spiritual practice always takes on the challenge of the practice. When you find yourself turning away from the challenge, when you find yourself shutting down and saying, oh, I'm not up to it, I'm tired of it, that's when you're falling into attachment, fear, desire, negatism. Those things are starting to overrule you. But you have to reach in deeper. You've got to get more spiritual effort. You've got to put it forth, because it will break down that selfishness. And it will open you up to a greater amount of personal power. So we always take on challenges. A successful spiritual student takes on these giant dreams. A very, very, very big goal. It is to create a company that reaches its financial model goals. And this is the creation of software, the creation of services, the creation of a group of people working together to build something that is a service to the world, but it's also a practice for you to push your personal power, to challenge yourself to do something new, and thereby achieving this amazingly interesting goal of success. And this goal of success is a goal of success for your personal skills, and it's a goal of success financially, because all of the projects that we have have a real financial result. And this is the goal. This is a big goal. It's a goal that's beyond you. It's a goal that you didn't have yourself, that was given to you from your enlightened teacher and the yoga teachers. And it's a goal that when you take it on, this big goal, you learn something beyond what you would normally learn. You have to be selfless to engage in dreaming this dream. You have to be selfless in engaging in taking on this task. And in doing it, you break down limitations of self and you open yourself up to a great deal of personal power and life in trying to reach this goal. Now in the bigger picture, beyond yoga, there's another goal. And the goal is enlightenment itself. So when we sit down to meditate, when we enter the spiritual practice, we take on this big goal. We don't even know what enlightenment is, but we say, okay, I want that. Or if it's the end of suffering, sounds good to me. If it's spiritual ecstasy, sounds good to me. I want that. And this is this really big pie-in-the-sky goal. And we take on these giant goals because when we take on this goal, you enter into an energy where that goal is possible. If you say, oh no, I'm not even going to dream that dream, I'm not even going to try to do something, it's so hard or it's so difficult or it's so big and grandiose, then you hold yourself out of the possibility of it ever happening. But when you try 110% for it, even if it's enlightenment, you're not sure what that is. But when it's the real pathway to enlightenment, and you try, you end up making some progress. And then it becomes very real and powerful as you move along. See, before you commit yourself to the big goal of the yoga project, you are outside of the energy field. It's not possible and there's no learning. But when you commit yourself to the pathway of enlightenment, you commit yourself to the big spiritual goal, commit yourself to the goal of yoga, then you enter into that flow of energy. And that's where you really learn something, by working on reaching these giant goals. So this is something that spiritual students who are successful do. They engage in these goals. They reach these goals. You have your yoga goal, and that's a very practical goal. What is it? It's building a website and making some money and learning some skills. That's what it is in its physical nature, but in its unseen structure, spiritual structure, it's something that gets you out of yourself. It gets you beyond the limitations of the self. It is an energy that when you engage in it brings you to a higher level of spiritual awareness and personal power. So when you engage in this yoga, this goal, it transforms you. And then we have other goals, like enlightenment. And this is the big goal. Now, goals are something that we always work toward. We're always working toward the goal. the ultimate goal is enlightenment. So even though we're working toward the goal, we're not always focused on the goal. So a successful spiritual student will follow the goal without chasing the goal. They'll head toward the goal without going to the goal. So that's one of those tantric things. You're all, this doesn't make sense. So what that means is, of course we're here to learn about enlightenment. We're here to become enlightened. That's what the spiritual path is about. However, if you're only focused on enlightenment, if you're like, okay, I want that end result, I want that end result, you're never going to get the end result. So what you have to do is you have to be in the structure that's heading towards a goal, and you have to work on the next step. So if it's a pathway to enlightenment, and it's a authentic pathway to enlightenment, it leads to enlightenment. And what you need to do is you need to focus on how to step, how to take the next step on the path, because you have to step one step at a time, and you have to be balanced with every step, and eventually you get to where the path leads. So that's the way that we look at it. If you walk into a dojo and you say, I want to get my black belt. And you're totally like, I want my black belt. When can I test? And your teacher, your sensei will say, you've got to go through a few other belts first. You've got to learn something first. You've got to follow the structure. And it will build you up to that level of capability, attention, and power. But it takes focusing on what you have to learn. You have to learn your basic blocks and kicks and katas, and then you develop the skills necessary to be a black belt. But before you develop the skills, if you're just focused on, I want to be like the karate kid, then you're missing the way to that goal. And the way to the goal is the goal. The pathway to enlightenment is enlightenment. So it's necessary to do the practice, to follow properly. There's no reaching the goal unless you perfect the path. So, you know, enlightenment starts off like a story, right? It's like, oh, there's a pot of gold at the end of the rainbow. Oh, really? Because I could like, I like gold. A whole pot of it. And then you got to find the rainbow, you got to follow the rainbow. But the rainbow takes following. It's a bow, it's in the sky, you have to follow it, and you got to get to the end of it. But if you're just looking for the pot of gold that's on the bottom, you're like, okay, where's that gold? You're missing the path that takes you to the gold. So you have to follow the rainbow. You have to enjoy the rainbow. Enjoy the process. Because it's necessary to follow the path to get to the goal. Follow the rainbow. Otherwise, you know, it's like just imbalanced. It'd be like a third grader saying, when I grow up I want to be an astrophysicist. I want to be a rocket scientist. And then you know that's good. When a third grader says that you're all very good. But if they say, so I want to be that now. If they say that in the same way they say, I want some ice cream. It's like if you expect it to happen that quickly, you're going to be very frustrated because a third grader needs to go through a lot of years of school before they can be a rocket scientist. But if they want it the same way they want a bowl of ice cream, then it could be a difficult situation for them. Then you have to learn, no, no, no, you can't get that right now. You've got to do it the right way. And then you become mature and you follow and learn about life, the proper way to reach the goal. So we follow goals without chasing them. to the goal. And we focus completely and impeccably on our next step. So a successful student of spiritual enlightenment works on making the hardest thing their favorite thing. So when you're following the pathway to enlightenment or doing anything in life, you might find that you like certain things and you don't like other things. If you're going to be successful in any inner art, you have to say, okay, this thing is difficult, therefore I like it. So like in my martial arts system, my first, second martial arts system, Kung Fu, we had to stand in horse stance, Kibadach stance, for one hour a day. That's difficult. A lot of martial arts schools will do a little bit of horse dance for five minutes or so, but in my school I had to do it an hour a day, and it was difficult. At first I didn't like it, because it's just hard and painful and boring, but more painful than anything else. And then after a while, I realized that's what this is about. That's what this martial arts is about. And there's a big emphasis on the power that's gained from this stance. So I said, okay, well, I'm going to take this thing on. And instead of thinking, this is hard, I don't want to do it, I said, OK, this is my favorite thing. And I just thought about it very positively. And even though it was hard, I said, cool, I'm going to learn this cool thing. It's hard, but this is my favorite thing. And I worked on this horse stance every day, and I did it every day. And I got the power, the martial arts power, from it because I did it exceptionally well. And I did it exceptionally well because I chose to. I chose to like it. So you've got to take things that are hard, that you would normally evolve an attitude of, I don't want to do it. And you have to make them your favorite thing. So you find that in every discipline. Even if you like certain things, a certain art, you'll say, oh yeah, okay, I like doing this. But there's this one exercise, right, that is too hard, so I don't even want to go there. But you have to realize, if you can do the hardest thing, then you can do everything. So take on the hardest thing and make it your favorite thing. It takes choosing to do it. You have to say, this thing is going to be great. It's my favorite thing." And then you practice it really, really hard, and then you'll learn it. And then if you can do the hardest thing, everything else is easier. So in spiritual practice, we cultivate this attitude. When we're, let's say, doing our yoga, and you have to do something like learn a new programming language, go, oh, that's hard. Well, then it's going to be my favorite thing and I'm going to do it. Or if you have to do sales calls, you go, oh, this is hard. But then you say, yeah, cool, I'm going to do it. And you take it on and you do it 100%. And whether it's learning something new or it's doing sales in yoga. When you do these things, you take on these challenges and you overcome your resistance. You overcome the thing that held you back from doing it, from succeeding in it. And then you are happier and brighter and stronger. And then when you have to do the other things that are involved in your practice, you have so much power and momentum that those things just happen. So don't shy away from things. Don't shy away from the things you have to do. Find out which things are hard and face them. And you can overcome anything. You can learn anything. You can do anything. You just have to have the right attitude. You like the challenge. You like the challenge in general. And for the hardest part of it, that's your favorite part. That's the way a spiritual practitioner who's successful looks at yoga, looks at life, looks at spiritual practice. And that's why in spiritual practice we like meditation because really meditation is the hardest thing. Meditation is very difficult. It's not easy. That's what I like about it. It's not easy to sit there and stop thought. It takes a lot of effort to stop thought. It's the hardest thing and therefore we should all make it our favorite thing. You should make your time of meditation a special time. You should make a special area to meditate. You should bring a smile to your meditation and bring your most positive, optimistic energy to your meditation. And make meditation a special time, a special thing, because it's the hardest thing. So it's your favorite thing. But also, meditation is totally awesome. It's so bright and powerful and enlightening. So it's like, it is the greatest thing. You just have to, you know, you got to put yourself in the right disposition. You got to look at it the right way. You have to follow the path with the right attitude. And then it's fantastic and you make great leaps in personal power and attention. And you achieve things in terms of power and attention that you would never have imagined. So, you know, enjoy the challenge. Face the hardest things, make them your favorite.

0:38:51
And take on these big goals.

0:38:54
It's the greatest thing. This is the proper disposition for success in the inner arts. Okay. We're going to do another meditation.

0:39:14
It'll be another three songs. Okay, let's begin. All right, good.

0:39:20
I'm going to take a break for just a few minutes so you can stretch your legs and prepare for the last teaching, which will be short but powerful. So we're in our consideration period of lake over lake. This is a symbol going from thunder over lake to lake over lake. The destination, the goal, is lake over lake. condition of balance where every individual aids every individual. This is a proper way for a sangha to be. We help each other out. Otherwise, why be together? You know if you're in a relationship where someone's hurting you, you give to them and they hurt you Then it doesn't make any sense It's a bad relationship. You need to get out of it So if you're in thunder over lake You're taking and hurting In lake over lake that is a place where you give and receive. That's the proper way for a sangha. It's a basic spiritual consideration, but it's a real one. And it bothers people to the point where they can't really follow the spiritual path. They can't be harmless. They can't give. They're too selfish. They just keep taking and they're too harmful. So they can't operate in a proper condition to follow the spiritual path. Or they'll find that they don't stay around because it's too uncomfortable. So, I'm doing the best I can to teach you how to follow the pathway to enlightenment properly. I'm teaching you the things you need to know to reach lake over lake, if you want to. It's a choice. So, if you want to, I'm teaching you the things you need to know. If you don't want to, then you won't. But it's not that hard, it's not that difficult. It takes effort, open-mindedness, You'll find yourself acting too selfishly, causing too much trouble for yourself. You'll notice it in your own outlook. You'll see problems, you'll see yourself getting upset, unbalanced. You won't be dealing with this spiritual energy. When you have an enlightened teacher, there is a connection with a very, very pure spiritual energy. And if you have the proper regard for it and work with it properly, then it's wonderful. It's amazing. It's great. But if you find yourself in a disposition of selfishness, egotism, and following your personal desires and attachments, then it'll be very difficult for you. It's uncomfortable, and actually it's improper for you to have an enlightened teacher, in which case you'll select yourself out. You'll find all sorts of reasons in your head, in your life. Things will come up that take you out. So you have to observe your mind, your thoughts, your intentions, the actions you take, because that's what leads you along the path. And we are... I'm addressing very specifically what a spiritual step, and that's the step to Lake Over Lake. And for everyone to make it to Lake Over Lake, it requires effort, open-mindedness, and humility. So I'm teaching you the things that you need to know, and you need to choose to do them or not. But if you don't choose to deal with them, you'll probably find yourself getting swept off in other karmas and desires and attachments and not learning. But if you take the challenge of meditation, mindfulness and yoga, you'll be following a structure that that will lead you to a higher and brighter condition of being. It's well worth it to work with an enlightened teacher properly. It's a happy way to go. It's a happy way to be. If you follow the self, well, you know what that leads you to. You've been there. You've been there and done that. But if you follow enlightenment, enlightenment is a goal beyond the self. And when you are committed to that, you move beyond the self into a very beautiful transformative light. It's a great adventure. And it's definitely not stuck on your personal history. history, something that transcends the self, new territory. That's why I repeat this over and over. I have to repeat it so you guys remember. I might say it, then you'll forget as soon as I finish saying it. Then I have to repeat it. At the end of the night, you're like, did Samaras say I should meditate, be mindful and do yoga, that I should be open minded, I should put some effort into it. And I should be humble. Now I didn't. Yeah, no, but when things are important in Buddhism, we repeat them again and again and again. For the people who get it, it's really boring.

0:47:25
I remember with my teacher,

0:47:27
I remember there was a time where I had a spiritual epiphany, and I was on top of everything. And I was so bored. I'm like, why is he repeating all this boring stuff? He's talking to me like I'm a retard.

0:47:46
Oh, I get it.

0:47:47
It's the other people. I still had a lot to learn.

0:47:49
It's everybody else, not me.

0:47:53
I'm cool.

0:47:53
Yeah, so yeah, that's why I repeat things. Good, so we'll take a short break. Just get up, stretch your legs, go to the bathroom if you have to, have some coffee, and we're going to come back for the final consideration of how to be a successful spiritual student, which is a very important one. of how to be a successful spiritual student, which is a very important one. So I want you wide awake and ready. So I want you wide awake and ready. Okay.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
