0:00:00
Okay. Thoughts are like food.

0:00:38
So you think so much junk all the time that you don't really value and understand how those thoughts nourish your mind and spirit until you meditate, until you can stop thought. And little by little, if you practice, you will stop thought. Meditation and mindfulness, that's how you But what you generally do, most of you, is you just eat, and you got food, and you just eat. And you're not really aware and conscious of how the energy of the food affects you, how it nourishes you, what effects it has on you. You generally don't see these things because you just keep eating. It's just such a routine for you. And especially unhealthy people. So big fat people who totally have overweight and feeling sick and stuff like that. Or just big and yucky people. They just eat McDonald's and crap and they're eating all this junk and they're just very, very unaware of their physical body and their aura and how the food is affecting them. But there's a really good way to become aware, and that way is fasting. I would like to do a fast with the whole Sangha. I would like to fast with you for four days, beginning tomorrow. So, Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday. Thursday you can eat again. And the reason why is because I'd like you to reflect a little bit more deeply on the effects of thoughts by observing the effects of food. When you stop eating, you start to look at food and understand food and value food in a different way. And then when you start to eat again, you have to really understand, you feel so much energy when you eat again. You're like, whoa, it's very different. You come to a place where you chill out, your body chills out on its habit of intake. And you come to value food in a different way and understand it in a different way. And during this food fast, I'd like you to meditate, be mindful, and practice yoga. Because it's the same. When you can slow thoughts down and the same crappy thoughts are not always running through your head, then you have a very, very, very different way of understanding thought. Thoughts are very powerful. And when you slow your being down, you slow your mind down, you see how these thoughts have such an effect on you. They have an effect on other people. They have an effect on the world. You don't see that at all. You don't see the power of your thoughts when you just keep thinking, thinking, thinking, desire, fear, and just all this blah, blah, blah, over and over and over. It's like a big, big, fat, obese, unhealthy person going for, you know, like, you know, the comfort foods, the McDonald's kind of stuff, unhealthy ways. So, I would like you all to do a fast, because also when you do a fast, your aura's energy levels go a little bit down. So some of you are having trouble managing energy, managing the power of the empowerment. And fasting will help you to chill out, become a little bit more sensitive, so that you can balance yourself. It also slows you down a little bit, but that's good when you're spinning out of control to slow down. So a four-day fast to reflect on this difficulty that we're having. We have an imbalance in you, in your mind, in your way. And through this fast you can have a greater sensitivity and attention to food and also to your mind and your thoughts and what you're directing your life toward, your intention toward, your energy toward. You become more sensitive of what subtle physical energies come out of you when you fast. You become more aware of energy and thought and the subtle, the subtle field of awareness when you fast. So I'd like you to do a four day fast. If you can, drink only water. Or if you want to put cayenne pepper and lemon in the water, and maple syrup, that's fine. But if you can, just drink water. I mean, a lot of you might have little tips in fasting or whatever, and whatever the tip is, you can follow it, if that's what you know. When I have done fasts with my teacher, we just stop eating and we drink water. However, he always said, if you find that you're totally having trouble, you can drink fruit juice. And I had to run a lot of errands in Manhattan. And then on the last part of my errand, I felt extremely drained because I had to do so many things and interface with so many people. And it would have been tiring even if I was eating. But I was on like the third or fourth day of a fast and I was very, very tired. And then I was going to a martial arts class. And I was like, I'm going to die in my martial arts class if I try to go in there. So then I got some orange juice, and I drank it. And it gave me a lot of energy so that I can continue on. So if you get to a place where you're so out of balance that you're going to be a danger while you're driving, or you're going to faint and be crazy or something like that, then have some juice. Juice gives you enough sugar and energy to continue on with your fast. So I'd like all of you to fast. Chill out. This is what it'll do. It'll get you to chill out. time of fasting and meditation, we should reflect on the fact that we're causing harm. You should really recognize what's going on deep down inside and you should intend to change it. You should intend to change it right now if you haven't already changed it, which some of you have. It's just, you have to have a change of heart and go in that direction, in a brighter direction. You really, really, really need to take this teaching to heart. Fasting gives us a time to reflect on that. So I'd like on Sunday, you know, you wake up in the morning, drink some water, meditate. And we will begin the fast on Sunday. Thursday, we will breakfast, break fast, break the fast.

0:09:31
Yes.

0:09:33
Now, as you noticed, being on time is good. So from now on, we're going to close the door. We'll probably start 15 minutes late, so I'm going to give you a little grace period. But I usually do things very, very in a timely fashion, start on time. And if you're the kind of person who's always running late, then plan on getting there an hour early. It's simple. You need to manage yourself better, have better tonal. So we're going to plan to start meetings on time now. I'm going to give you a 15 minute grace period and that's it. Then the door's shut and if you're not here, if you get here late, we won't let you in. If you don't value this enough to show up on time, you have a problem. You have a problem with your attention. So, we're going to start on time. Whenever I go to films, I get there on time. It's so terrible to get to a movie. You know how the opening scenes are usually really important or really cool? You get to a movie 15 minutes late and you miss that opening scene. And then you start going, what's going on? Huh? You tap the guy in front of you, what happened in the beginning? You just become annoying and confused. And also, you miss something in the movie. We actually use movies as a study. We study patterns, we study attention, we study situations from watching films. You know, films are like, you know, they're the art of the day. They're the novel of the 19th and 20th century. So, 21st century. Sorry, 21st century.

0:11:38
Yeah, so they're very good ways to learn.

0:11:39
You know, we learn stories from watching films. We learn about life from watching films. And it's important to get there on time. So get there on time. I see a lot of people get to a movie and they're all, oh, it's just starting, I'm going to get popcorn first. Don't do that. You know, you go in there to watch the film, and you're like, oh, I'm going to get popcorn

0:11:47
first.

0:11:48
And you're like, oh, I'm going to get popcorn first.

0:11:49
And you're like, oh, I'm going to get popcorn first. And you're like, oh, I'm going to get popcorn first. And you're like, oh, I'm going to get popcorn first. And you're like, oh, I'm going to get popcorn first. And you're like, oh, I'm going to get popcorn first. And you're like, oh, I'm going to get popcorn first. And you're like, oh, I'm going to get popcorn first. And you're like, oh, I'm going to get popcorn first. And you're like, oh, I'm going to get popcorn first. And you're like, oh, I'm going to get popcorn first. And you're like, oh, I'm going to get popcorn first. And you're like, oh, I'm going to get popcorn first. And you're like, oh, I'm going to get popcorn first.

0:12:02
And you're like, oh, I'm going to get popcorn first.

0:12:03
And you're like, oh, I'm going to get popcorn first.

0:12:04
And you're like, oh, I'm going to get popcorn first. Don't do that. You know, you're going there to watch the film to learn from the story. Go there and do it. And you can learn a lot from even bad films. That's what I do. I love bad movies. I don't know, maybe not. I don't love them, but I still learn something. If I get stuck in a bad movie, I still observe things about it. I observe the creative process and approach and the psychology, even if it's crazy, of the film. Yeah, because art reflects life, and even in a bad movie, it reflects bad life. And it's something to learn from. You're like, hmm, I don't want to be mediocre. I don't want to be like this bad movie. I don't want my life to be like this bad movie. Love and other drugs. I don't want my life to be that way. You can really look at a lot of things about attention in these films, about states of mind. Actors, as we've learned, are able to move their assemblage point to a place where they become a person in that, that character in that situation. So we can learn from reading their mind, basically, because they move their attention to be in that state of mind. So you can see great warrior movies. You can see great depressions, great problems. And you can learn from it. So that's why we go to films. So we went today to see a film, The Social Network. And the primary reason we went to see this film is because it is about, it's a film about a dot-com success, a technology success, the youngest billionaire, right? Which is, there's something that's powerful about that. And the actor did an amazing job. The actor moved his assemblage point to the place, maybe not exactly the place of the guy who did it, but to this character. And this character was techie and edgy. He had that perfect genius to do something technical that makes billions of dollars. And that's something in the film to see, to learn from. So that's why we see this film. There are some things about the film that we can learn about in Aryoga, because we're doing a lot of technology projects. Not exactly the same thing as him, of course, but they're similar. We're doing similar things, computer projects. There's some structures in the characters and in the story that we can learn from in our yoga. One of the huge things that we need to understand is that this guy, you know, who started, the technical guy, Mark, whatever his name was, he in real life and in the movie was technically strong. And he had really great vision. And he had this special sense in him to be able to make something that people liked, that people would use. So that is something amazing to study in this film, is that a lot of people will make a website or a thing, an app or something like that. But it just doesn't catch on. But he made something that caught on. So for some reason, he made this little face mashup, and in the first hour, 22,000 hits. Brings down the network, right? And it's like, what did he do? He did something that caught on so fast that everybody wanted to mess with it, everyone wanted to do something with it. So that's the insight that this guy had that made him so successful. With Facebook, if the, remember those two twins? I forgot their names, but whatever. If those two twins had used him to complete their idea, that was with their insight. They would have never made a million dollars. Because they were just following a certain vision. They were doing the harvardsocialclub.com or something like that. And it was just about Harvard and their school. And they just didn't have the vision that he had. It wouldn't have caught on as much. It didn't have as much edge. Because they would have done something that just didn't work as well. So what he had, he had a way of seeing things, to make something that would catch on and did. And it's in his approach, it's in the way that he saw it and understood it. So even if he, a good programmer, programmed what they wanted to program, then it wouldn't have been successful. It would have been something some people use, people would get dates out of it, maybe there would be some advertising money or something like that. But it would never be what it became. It became what it became because of his vision to make something that people really wanted to use. And that's why when he got it to go to different places and finally for everyone, that's why Facebook took off in popularity. So he had a seeing of how to make something that people really, really, really wanted. And that kind of thing is fantastic. And that's one thing that we could learn from the movie. But at the same time, like so many successful business people, he was a miserable bastard. Or he wasn't an asshole. He was just trying to be an asshole. You guys have the opposite. You're not trying to be an asshole. You just are an asshole.

0:18:42
Yeah.

0:18:44
So that's a weird statement at the end. Yeah, he was an asshole. He wasn't happy. He had tons of money. He didn't really, you know, he had power and money that he got from his business. But he was still, you know, he didn't do anything to become more noble, didn't do anything to get to a greater sense of peace. He definitely gained more personal power, because that's what happens when you do something that gets you more money and more power. So he did that, but he wasn't happy. And he in fact engaged in an endeavor where he went and took his initial partner and his best friend and stabbed him in the back, threw him under the bus. What is that? That's selfishness. So he had impeccability, no doubt, but he had selfishness. And also, absolutely no enlightened teacher that's pointing a structure within the work, an inner structure toward enlightenment. If he was truly, truly selfless and he was impeccable, then the story would be a lot happier. It'd be like a nice, happy, good, warm-feeling business

0:20:08
story.

0:20:10
If there was an enlightened teacher pointing out the enlightenment in it, then there would be deeper and deeper and deeper realizations of lessons that they would go through. And if that movie was with an enlightened teacher and they were selfless and impeccable, then there would be enlightenment at the end. So we can recognize that with so many businesses, there's so much selfishness in the endeavor. Because when power kicks up in a business, you know, there's money, there's power, then people's egos kick up. That's when they start to say, oh, I need to own this. I need that part, my territory, my stuff. Get away. I want it all. If I can throw you under the bus and take your piece of the pie, that's what I'm going to do. That's what people do. When power gets involved, when money gets involved, then people start to, the ego starts to feel the power and react. It's like, ah, I want more. So it's good to observe this because we don't do this in yoga. In yoga we don't do it. We don't have these power problems where we're fighting with other people in our yoga group for power. Because we recognize that when we're selfless, when we're all selfless, and when we're all following our yoga to light and success and empowerment. That it's happy and it's bright and it's beautiful. So we can see things that he did that were cool in his impeccability, in his seeing, but we can also see things that he did that his happiness and ruined his spirit. It's terrible. There's plenty of people out there who make millions of dollars and billions of dollars who are totally unhappy, completely spiritually in the dark. So this isn't just about making money. It's not real unless it makes money.

0:22:23
It's not real.

0:22:24
There has to be that balance of tonal and nahual. But if you make a million dollars and you're selfless and impeccable and you're following the inner path of yoga, which is what we have to follow because it's the structure, it's the spirit of our endeavors, then when you make progress, when you see that you make money, you see that your bright intentions yield rewards in the physical world, then you get happy and bright and feel greater light. So we're heading towards that and it should be a really happy, bright, beautiful way. It should be exciting. You should feel yourself lifting up and your wings spreading. That's how you should feel when you practice yoga. It's beautiful, but when you're boggled down with your negativity, you need to really, really, really, really fast. You need to fast out your negative thoughts, your negative intentions, your fear, your selfishness, your crazy desires. You really need to fast them completely. You need to fast on those things completely until the ego dies. Dies of starvation from negativity. Yeah. Because those things are terrible. They Terrible. They don't help yoga.

0:24:05
They don't help yoga.

0:24:07
Yeah. So this movie is fantastic. I mean, it's really great. Maybe it's not the true, true story of what happened with Facebook, but it doesn't matter. I've seen lots of movies that were based on some real-life event, but there's still, the movie's powerful, because the movie is showing something. Maybe not what really happened.

0:24:27
Maybe what really happened was a lot lamer.

0:24:28
But the movie was good. And the movie taught things about the character and about his endeavors that were powerful. And whether it's the truth of what happened or not doesn't matter. It's set in our modern times. It's set in our field of technology. And it shows someone launching into a huge success. We would love to have that success. We would love to have that energy, that momentum of energy of success. That's what we need before you guys start to see how powerful and bright and enlightening yoga is. Right now we're all, oh, I'm coding something, and oh, I've got to do this and that, but we're not seeing how these products are affecting people's lives. And once there's that connection, then that's where you come into balance of the knock wall and the tone out, and that's where there's spiritual realizations. And that's what we have to get to. And if you're just going to be a stick in the mud, negative, and battling yourself throughout the whole beginning process, you might never, ever get to the place of success in yoga.

0:25:48
Yeah.

0:25:49
It's true. It's like a moment. You might sit there training on something and working on something. You sit at the violin, you're like practicing and you're scales and you're working on a piece of music but it's always hard and it's never perfect and your teacher is always yelling at you. But the moment you stand up in front of the whole audience and you play it perfectly, then there's some different thing that happens. Because there's a connection, there's your impeccability, and there's a connection with the audience, with people. And you bring that music to them. And then there's something different about that experience than you just working on it, and working on it, and working on it. Now, if you work on it, and work on it, and work on it, and get so angry that you never get to that point where you can stand up and give it your shot in that time of power, that place of power, playing your violin, then you've just shot yourself in the foot. You never even became a competitor for Enlightenment. You just couldn't even get to the level to start. But we are getting to that level. We are just beginning trading on our software. We've built software and now we're about, we're perched to start trading. So AppBuddy is software that has been finally built, been okayed by Salesforce, it's ready for the marketplace now. Fantastic. So we're getting up there with our violin in hand and we're ready to play. And what we want is we want to succeed, we want to make that connection. Because when we have that energy shooting through the marketplace on salesforce.com, then things click in and things get bright. So the fact that you've caused so much damage to one of your yoga teachers says something else. So I am, you know, we're moving along and we can do this right, but we have got to stop doing it right now. And what else do we have? We have the hospice journey. The hospice journey is complete. And we have partners. And we are just kicking off the thing of now let's get the users. Now let's start our model. Let's see it take off like Facebook. That's what we want to see with our products. We want to see that we have got things so right. We have seen a need that when it's available for people, people see it, they think it's useful, and they use it. They go, ah, I understand that. I can use that. And then they use it. And if we've gone for the 3,000 pound marlin, in our, if we've shot for the heavens, we hit the stars too. So if we've gone for the big fish, we'll get the little fish too. That means that we'll really cover everyone. We'll get a big, big, big, big impact. So really, we're coming up to that point where you're sitting there with a violin and you're ready to make that connection. So we're in a good place, but we really, really are going to see now from putting our intention, putting our power, doing yoga, the spirit of yoga, we're going to see our yoga projects take off, and you're going to see the rewards, the power, the light that comes back from having that moment of effect. Yeah. Because that's what it gets to. It gets through the period of you start, you learn, you do it for a long time, you get it to the ready point, and then you hit that time of power where it's time to make it real. And that's what we're hitting right now. fail unless you are bright in your mind. Every individual on the team. If you're sitting there attacking your teacher, attacking the whole endeavor, then you're killing it and you're killing yourself and you're killing everyone. So you need to have a change of heart. If everyone on the team brings their full, bright intent to it, then you give yourself the opportunity to hit a home run, and a spiritual home run. So we're in a very, very positive stage. A very, very positive stage. This is what we gotta do. This is what we're working on. So I assume that you've all read the three Dong Quan books and how to win friends and influence people.

0:31:37
It's very important that when we're dealing with each other,

0:31:40
we use those principles. Actually, deal with people. Practice how to win friends and influence people. Because it makes things so much more positive for your life. I remember when I read the book the first time, then I had this notion, oh, what if I do some of these things? So I was in New York, and when I smiled at people, they looked at me weird. Of course, I gave them a really weird smile. But then I found two things in there that were so positive in my way of dealing with people, and that was talking in terms of other people's interests and also listening. And I found that by doing that, I was able to be very, very successful in business. And also, since I was also a really, I was very, very introverted and I was a very bad conversationalist. So whenever I had to deal with people, I would just try, I would be like looking at them and like, what's something I can say to this person that's in their interest? And I would say one thing that I could find. Like even like, oh, that's a nice tie. And they're like, oh, really? Because my wife gave it to me. I'm like, oh, really? And then let them talk. And I wasn't good at talking about stuff, so I just listened. And then they all, I had a good time talking to you. And they go, what? And it's true. I really did that. I did that in job interviews, and people really appreciated it. So, those were extremely helpful for me, being a weirdo, nerd, introvert, freak. So, those were very helpful for me to seem normal to the rest of the people. And also to become normal because I was very weird and then when I was able to learn how to deal with people in a constructive way it was very very helpful for me too to become perceived as normal to be able to not be such a freak and not be so anxious and not think also weird and everybody else is normal. And I got along better with my fellow man and other.

0:34:07
So it's important to really put these things into practice.

0:34:11
And it's an etiquette. This is what this book teaches. It teaches etiquette, the way to treat people, the way to deal with people. We should deal with each other. We should deal with ourselves in these ways. Yes. Now, the next book that we're going to read, from this time until the solstice, so we've got plenty of time to start reading this book. It's a book called Autobiography of a Yogi by Paramahansa Yogananda. And it's this guy, Paramahansa Yogananda, who was a liberated yogi, and he went from India to in America for a long time. So he has a very neat grasp of American psychology. He addresses American psychology and religion in the book. And he has wonderful stories. It's a pretty big book, but it's fun to read, except for that whole chapter about the tiger yogi. That chapter, for some reason, when I get to it, I'm just like, OK, there's a guy who fights tigers. I get it, I get it, I get it. So it's a yogi who can beat a tiger up, OK? But then, you know, I should be a little bit nicer because tigers are pretty big. So yeah, so autobiography of a yogi. If you just look that up, Google that, you'll find it. But the author is Paramahansa Yogananda. Yes, sir. An authentic and real, true yogi. So it's good. And he didn't live too long ago, so sort of more modern times. So this is a very, very, very, very, very good book, because it teaches you, and it's very magical, it teaches you the magical path of the yogi. And you are becoming yogis. I mean, a lot of you are facing some very, very dark sides of the self right now, and you must overcome these sides of the self. But, after you get beyond that, autobiography of a yogi is your life. See, he was, Yogananda was an advanced, advanced, advanced yogi for many, many, many, many incarnations.

0:37:04
Not like you guys.

0:37:05
You guys are really learning things, trying to figure things out for the first time, a lot of you. So it's not like you've been enlightened in a lot of past lives. Otherwise, you'd be able to sit there and stop thought. You wouldn't have hate. You know, you wouldn't have all this like, myself, my desire, my me, me, me, me, me, and oh, I'm afraid of light, oh I'm afraid, I'm afraid. You wouldn't have all that stuff going on. You would just be like, be able to be still, you'd be able to take, understand, and maintain a personal balance, and be positive. And you'd be able to... The real key, if you've been enlightened in the past or very advanced in the past, is you'd be able to sit down and stop thought and meditation, because that's the true reflection of one's mind. So if you sit down and you meditate and stop thought, then right off the bat, you probably have been very, very advanced in past lives. And if that's not the case, then you can be humble and recognize you might not be just like Yogananda. If you read a book about Yogananda or these enlightened teachers, the Buddha, then you might say, I want to be like that, but you're not. So you have to understand, we're reading the biographies of the most advanced spiritual practitioners that have been alive, that we have a history about. So we're inspired by it. And you can have these experiences, these enlightened experiences, as your life. So that's what's fantastic about it. And you can do it in this lifetime. So that's inspiring. But you really need to cut the negativity and cut the harmfulness and darkness. So we'll read this because it's inspiring and it shows us the life and way of a yogi, as you guys are becoming yogis. It's really excellent. All right, I'd like to meditate with you one more time. to three songs from the new album, the new album of the planets, or the houses, or something like that. Oh, thanks, Sam.

0:39:50
Yeah, just the middle, yeah. Yeah, yeah.

0:39:59
All right, three songs. the

0:40:08
the

0:40:15
the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the So, So, so the the the the ♪♪ ♪♪ So, I'm going to play a little bit of that. the So, the So, So So So the You ♪♪ ♪♪ So, I'm going to play a little bit of it. the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the So, So So you Mudra hits the dimensions very nicely. This is our astrology album. They are very, very particular fields of awareness and Udra, the music and the energy of the

0:56:07
houses of the planets, he hits them really, really, really, really well in a very, very bright way. It's really amazing. All of you, in past lives, you have had circumstances that were life-threatening, and that instead of doing the easy thing, you did the right thing. All of you. This is a wonderful thing. Many, many, many times in many, many lives, there's been many, many, many problems. Wars, political strife, family dramas. And you've had times where your well-being, your life, livelihood, or well-being were in jeopardy. And instead of doing the easy thing, you did the right thing. This is the time of year where we practice past life seeing. And I'd like to focus this time on a very, very useful lesson from your past, a very specific lesson from your past. A place where you did what was right, even in the face of your fears, even in the face of opposition, you did the right thing. And for some of you, there were dramatic moments. And for some of you, they were more subtle. And some of you were great, great heroes during these times. And some of you saved your family or something like that. Saved the potted plant in the corner. Don't bring it in during the winter. Yeah, something like that. Some of you in more minor ways, but everyone here has faced times in their lives where their livelihood or life, in their past lives, where their livelihood or life was put in jeopardy. And that you could have gone and done the easy thing, but you didn't. You did the right thing. See, this is an important lesson for you now, because the easy thing is the way of karma and self. It's to follow negativity, darkness, desire, limitation, ego. Ego is the easiest thing to follow. However, it's unacceptable behavior to follow it in this sangha. It's unacceptable. So I want you to look into your past lives at times where you faced a dilemma that you were clearly understood. Maybe it's a more physical thing. Maybe it has to do with loved ones that you're saving. And I want you to see that time where you didn't do the easy thing. You went beyond beyond the self-preservance of the ego, and you did what was right. We're going to look, we're going to do a seeing exercise into our past lives for that time, those times. Those times where you were noble, those times where you were a spiritual warrior. You faced opposition, you faced difficulty, and you did what was right instead. That's in you. You've done it before, all of you. And I want you to see that time, those times, and to bring back the awareness of that. Because when you recognize that you can do that, you have been a noble person, you have been a hero, then it breaks you out of this very little, limited view of yourself, your predicament, and your life. You're looking at things in such a small way, and you're creating so much negativity from it. When you can crack it open and see in a past life you've been noble. You might have been a schlep, an ignorant fool this whole lifetime. But in a past life, you were awesome.

1:01:03
Thank God for that.

1:01:08
At one moment, it's true. And I want you to see that. I want you to bring back that awareness. Because it can aid you in cracking your way out of your current state of mind. Your current way of being. It's not just this lifetime you've lived. And you're not going to, you know, this isn't your only lifetime. You're going to live after this. So what you do matters. Once you can see that you've had a path, you've made positive, beautiful choices, you've followed higher dharma. This is the path of the hero, the path of the spiritual warrior. And this aids you in your current conundrum. So we're looking to specific lifetimes where we've faced tremendous opposition, fear, things that seemed tremendously impossible, and that there were two clear paths. The way that's easy, getting pushed over by life, following karma, following the self-preservance of the ego. Or the noble way, the way of truth, which which wasn't easy and some of you paid heavily for choosing truth. It was difficult, but it was good karma and it was noble of spirit. And that's what really matters in life. You'd much rather be noble and enlightened than an asshole who makes a lot of money and does good by social standards. It's much better.

1:02:51
So we're going to see.

1:02:53
In this seeing exercise, we focus on the third eye. We sit up nice and straight. We bring our attention, as we focus on the third eye, a little bit to the left, because through the third eye to the left is where we see the lives in the past. And there is a spirit, a feeling, and an intention of this seeing. And don't think, just see. And see where I'm directing you to see. See where I'm directing you to see. And I want you to just, you know, the pictures or the places or the things that appear in your mind may or may not be important. But what's important is the attention, the awareness. Because when this door opens, that attention and awareness does come to you. I'm directing it to you. I'm pointing it out to you. The door opens, the attention comes. And I want you to feel what that feels like. I want you to see whatever visions or feelings or seeings come with that. That's all. I just want you to see the attention. See. So we're going to do this for just about two minutes. So I'd like you to just sit still, focus on the third eye, look a little to the left through the third eye, and let's begin.

1:04:36
Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. I'd like you to continue to practice this exercise through the time of fasting. So after your meditation in the morning and or in the evening, just

1:08:13
sit down for a couple of minutes, maybe listen to one song of music, focus on the third eye and look to the left, and come back to this feeling or this seeing. If you've seen something very precise, good, if you just had a feeling, you had the feeling. I'd like you to reflect on it, to understand it more. Next weekend is the Halloween weekend. We're going to have a little party, teaching. I'd like you to attend the party in costume. And this is not going to be even better. Just kidding. Okay. I'd like you to attend this party in costume. So, some of you had visions that were very precise of who you were and what situation you were in. Some of you just had feelings that you need to understand and explore more. That's fine. We did this exercise last year, so you should do the same considerations to understand it. This is a specific thing that we're looking at, so the scene is a little bit more challenging, but you saw it. What I'd like you to do is I'd like you to have either a costume of who you were, or a costume that symbolizes the situation that you were in. You don't have to have a precise costume of who you were. So if you were in a situation where you were in Egypt and you're doing something noble, tending the fields, or whatever, you could just wear an Egyptian costume. You don't have to dress up like a poor farmer like you look like or something like that. Something noble like your poor farmer past life. You just wear some costume that you get from the Halloween store of an Egyptian. So it doesn't have to be precise, it has to be symbolic of that lifetime. But if you can make it precise, it's even better. But we don't have a lifetime. So do what you can do. When you do get the costume, and when we sit in meditation together, wearing the costumes, it does teach you something. The seeing comes through more. But I'd like you to, Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, practice this seeing exercise. Even if you get your costume earlier than that, just practice this seeing exercise. Because for a period of time, this information, this attention comes to you while the door is open. And at this event next Saturday, we'll start at 5 o'clock PM beyond time, we're going to be discussing defense against the dark arts, the next level, since it's Halloween. So we're doing kind of our past live thing. And also we're going to get into defense against the dark arts, some more difficult subjects. And we're going to watch a couple scary movies. And if you don't like them, you'll like them even less with me there. It's something that we learn from scary movies. If you've ever seen those Tibetan pictures where there's like some scary demon that's standing on a dead body and is juggling three or four human heads, there's a reason that that's in Buddhism because we're afraid of death, we're afraid of certain energies. And yet, when we start to accept them, we accept certain sides of ourselves, we're able to come into balance. I'll talk about it more next week. But there's a reason why we watch scary movies, what we can learn from them. So, if you're afraid of them, it's even better for you, because you have a huge aversion. And they'll be even more fun when I'm there. I can open up dimensions in a scary movie. Dimensions that stay with you. Especially if you're not on my good side. This is my way of dealing with those students

1:12:38
that are bothering me.

1:12:41
I'm like, oh, you're in a battle, for sure. I guarantee it. You think there's a way out? There's the door. It'll follow you. Absolutely. Okay, so, yeah, that's it. So for those of you who are having internal difficulties and battles. They're not so internal. And you need to stop fucking around. This is not the wrong place to fuck around. In your world of bullshit and concept and smelling roses and shit like that, it might be fine. But you're dealing with someone who's not living in your silly world. I'm living in the really real world. And you're in the midst of a spiritual battle because you've taken the lessons of a spiritual warrior. So do it right. There's only one way to do it, and that's do it right. Not like a sniveling asshole. Not like a sniveling asshole.

1:13:59
Bye!




Transcribed with Cockatoo
