0:00:00
So, the saucer's explanation. Yes, you've read the saucer's explanation. So, Dunwan gives it to Carlos for being a warrior. Saucery is an aspect. It's an attribute. It's a way that you utilize to become a man of knowledge, person of knowledge, or enlightened. So, as we read in the Bhagavad Gita, that mysticism, also known as sorcery, is the left-hand path. It's one of the pathways So when Krishna gives Arjuna the sasura's explanation, the mystic's explanation, he's talking about it as a yoga, as a way to enlightenment. So I'm going to talk about the sasura's explanation

0:01:28
Right?

0:01:29
Because we're working on yoga a lot. Yoga is the more broad term for the pathway to enlightenment. Yes, yes, yes. And it's all about the first attention and second attention.

0:01:46
Right?

0:01:47
First attention, the seen world, the physical world, everything that you can think of, right? Everything that's conceptual, everything you can, you know, see, touch, every noun. Yeah, everything that you can think of is the first attention. To now, the first attention, because they call it the first spring of power. So that is the physical world. And then the spiritual practice, whether it's becoming a person of knowledge or becoming enlightened. It's a study of the unseen world and the nahual, the second attention. So, breaking into second attention. Now the way that we come into this balance of first attention and second attention is through meditative, mystical, yogic practices. So, the double is a very, very good example. Because let's face it, you generally see the world in a very physical way, right? And then what happens as you start to meditate is you start to see luminosity. You start to have experiences in the second attention. As soon as you stop thought, you experience the second attention. Wow, amazing. You know the Nahual. You experience it directly. That magical mystical experience, boom, there it is. As soon as you stop thought. Now it might be kind of hard to stop thought, but sometimes you slow thought down and you shrink the tonal and you experience a greater experience of Nahual. So that's what all these spiritual practices are to get you into a constructive experience of the second attention. Now it takes generally training, or it takes a certain purity of your awareness field. And that is maybe you're very, very advanced in a past life, you're born, you pick up very quickly, you don't have a lot of karmas blocking your way, so it's very easy for you to progress. Or, progress, or like most of us, you slug it out with your thoughts and your personal history and your self-importance and you just really have to, you know, want to get out of your suffering, want to experience higher and brighter states of mind. And you have to work through it, work through it. And working through it polishes and purifies your awareness field. field, when you stop thinking angry thoughts, when you stop thinking negative thoughts, when you put them out, you use your willpower, say, no more, then you are purifying your being, purifying your awareness field, purifying who you are. You stop being a person who thinks all these nasty thoughts by saying, no more, I don't do it, I'm done with that. And then you end up having a pure being. And then when you meditate, you experience purer things. Because when you give up those negative things, you clean up your life, you clean up your mind, and it's easier to ascend into higher states of mind. Yeah. So, get rid of that old stuff. It's not useful. It's not happy. And then when you practice meditation, yoga, mindfulness, you read spiritual books, you hang out with spiritual friends, then you have these beautiful spiritual uplifting experiences. This is a constructive path. So just like if you're just a pissed off ego, depressed, confused, like most people. You sit down to meditate and guess what? Pissed off, depressed, confused plays in your head. But if you go through this study, practice mindfulness, do your yoga, practice meditation, guess what happens? Especially yoga, you are forced to make changes in your personal history, in your attachments, in your self-importance, in your model of yourself in the you of life. And then when you see yourself come up, you smooth it over, you make progress, and you start to purify yourself. Then when you sit down to meditate, the same garbage doesn't play anymore, because you are working through it quite literally in doing your tasks. You work through it. And then when you sit down to meditate, brighter and brighter and brighter meditations. And that means you have brighter and more direct experiences of the Mahawal. So you can't just sit down and go, bing, Samadhi. It doesn't just happen like that, unless you've been meditating in many past lives. For many past lives, unless you are very, very advanced, which is the case for about none of you. Yeah, very, very, very, very, very advanced person could go into Samadhi, probably the first time they try. But for the rest of us, normal folk, we have to really, really, really work through it. We have to work through our nasty thoughts. We have to work through our negative feelings and intentions. We have to polish those away. So then when you sit down after you've been mindful, done yoga, worked really hard on concentration and focus, when you've purified that side of yourself, you'll see that when you sit down to meditate, there's nothing holding you back anymore. You can just lift up out of those lower states of attention into very, very bright states of attention, right into a direct experience of the second attention, the nahual, and then magic. You stop thought, life becomes magical, bright, beautiful, there's no problems, everything's great, everything's love and infinite, amazing myth, right? So, that's what happens when you stop thought. It's your own experience. You know, when you slow down thoughts, things get really bright. If you can stop thought, if you've done it before, or even slowed it down enough, when you shrink the tonal, you have beautiful, amazing experiences. It's magic. That's what this is about. So, you know, and then, you know, all sorts of the mystical techniques, like the Therapy Double is another way to help you have a constructive experience of the Nahual. So it's all about coming into that balance. Now it is a balance, because if you have too much of an experience of the Nahual, then you basically go crazy. So if you have too much of an experience, you just cannot integrate the information into your life. So if you have too much knockball, then you're just out of balance. But you guys are all too much first attention. So you're too much physical attention of the world, and especially your special desires and all that stuff. Yeah, it's like you guys have too much tonal and very strongly associated with desires. We're getting beyond desires now. We're now just into regular self-importance.

0:10:10
That's good.

0:10:11
We're moving forward.

0:10:13
So we're, you know, we're having a positive experience in the realm of enlightenment. And this is the real way it is. You got to work for it. You got to do some work. You got to do some reflection. It's not just like you go over and a teacher takes a little feather, hits you on the forehead, and you're enlightened, or something like that. You become enlightened through making the choices, enlightened choices. You create enlightened habits, enlightened practices, and enlightened disciplines. And then you experience enlightenment. If you work on these disciplines, it happens. If you work on meditation, you can master meditation. If you work on being selfless, you will master selflessness. Because this is an authentic, proper way to practice it, to do it right, which is very rare, very rare in this world, to find out how to actually... To have a meditation teacher to teach you how to meditate correctly, when most people are teaching people in meditation how to space out, that doesn't give you an experience of the Nahua. That gives you an experience of the astral. That's what most people do when they meditate. If they have a magical experience, if they can break out of self, they usually space out. Astral experiences, dreams.

0:11:42
So this is a balanced experience.

0:11:46
Some people to have a experience of Nahuatl in the past may have taken you know, like as Carlos did, peyote or acid or something like that, right? And when you take a drug like that, you will have an experience of the knock wall. The first attention kind of melts away, but it's not a real pure experience. In fact, it's not a pure experience. It's a very skewed experience, but the toenail, the way that you see life, goes away. Your regular pattern of tonal dissolves completely and the knock wall opens. But if you're not trained for it, like Don Juan guided Carlos through his experiences on peyote and that's why it was constructive for him. If Carlos was sitting in the desert by himself and took some peyote, totally different experience. He would have tripped out, had some experiences, but they would be not integrated in his experience, so he wouldn't be able to become a person of knowledge. He wouldn't become a warrior. He would just be tripping out on acid and having weird experiences. This is about doing it in a constructive way. We don't use those drugs because, as Don Juan said, they're dangerous. They damage you. They damage your aura. So if you've used those drugs before, then I'm helping you purify your aura. I'm helping you clean out those toxicities. And it's cool that you had a neat experience. You saw that the tone out goes away, so you know it's true. Voila, that's good. But you want to actually work on purer dimensions. Do it this way. This way is a very constructive, positive way. But don't do drugs anymore. If you smoke weed, stop it. If you do peyote or something like that, stop it. All this does is trash your aura and it makes you feel good. It might make you feel good for a while, but it's not constructive for your spiritual practice. So don't do drugs. Doing drugs is going to screw up your aura. And eventually it's going to bother me because what happens here is I work with your aura. I purify your aura. I bring my aura out so that you can come in and get purified. So eventually I'm going to say, hey man, you smoke too much pot. Pop it. Marijuana, for all the good that it does, it also slows down your mental vibration. You start talking slow and you get depressed. True, it has a very strong depressive vibe. So don't do it. It's not the vibe of spiritual happiness. It's not a healthy vibration for your body, your mind, or your spirit. So don't do that. Drink alcohol. Yeah, really, if you want to get a good buzz or something like that, drink some alcohol. If you drink it too much, then it's terrible. But once a week or something like that is not a big deal. It doesn't have a strong effect on your consciousness. And if it helps you blow off some steam, if that's why you do drugs, to feel a little bit better and blow off some steam, then that's fine. Then don't do drugs, have a drink. Sometimes that's a good thing.

0:15:39
Ha ha ha.

0:15:40
Ha ha ha.

0:15:41
Ha ha ha.

0:15:41
Okay, so, but don't do drugs. Don't do drugs.

0:15:45
Don't do drugs.

0:15:46
Drugs is bad.

0:15:47
It damages your aura, especially acid and stuff. Damages your aura. So you go into the Nahual incorrectly. First of all, you'll go into it in a way that's very skewed. Second of all, it'll damage your aura. Even though it blasts you way out of your first attention, it's not an integratable experience of a second attention. So meditation is stopping thought. If you do drugs, you might go into a dissociated state of mind so that you feel like you're slowed, that your thoughts are slowed down. But it's really that you're just spaced out. Your vibes are very slow. Or you might be on a hallucinogenic and your first attention's gone and you're just experiencing all this weird stuff. And it's very, it grabs your attention, but it doesn't help you to have a still mind like in meditation, and it doesn't give you spiritual discrimination as described by Krishna. Discrimination, seeing what's true and what's false. If you're on acid, you don't know nothing. You have no discrimination. You'll lose it completely. And therefore, what Krishna is like, discrimination is the most important thing. But if you can't have discrimination because you're not advanced enough, then work. Because work is very obvious. You do a task, it gets done. You do another task, it gets done. If you can't see perfectly what's true and what's false, perfectly what's right and what's not right, and if you do peyote or something like that, or acid, you can't tell what's right or what's wrong. You're just absorbed in whatever comes. So you have no discrimination when you take drugs. And that means that you lose spirituality when you take drugs.

0:17:53
So don't do drugs.

0:17:54
When you're scuba diving,

0:17:55
let's say you go down and you get nitrogen narcosis at like 140 feet or something like that, you feel like you're high. But you have perfect discrimination. You have like the quietest mind like in meditation. It's so wonderful. That's like a natural high, we'd say. And you can get that from exercise and stuff like that. You know, you can get like a natural high. And what it does is it gives you a clearer mind, a stronger, balanced life. Drugs doesn't do that. Drugs doesn't give you greater balance. That's a, you know, exercise, healthy balance. Drugs, it's not right, it's just off. It's a unbalanced experience of the knock wall, of the second attention. So, don't do drugs. That's why I repeat things a lot, you notice? Just so that, you know, it's so weird how I say something and then the next week people don't remember it at all. They're just all, what happened? But this is important. Don't do drugs. Do yoga. I'm on yoga, man. It's amazing.

0:19:06
Laughter Because experiencing

0:19:10
the second attention in a balanced way is extremely important, because if you don't do it in a balanced way, it's damaging. That's why we do this in a way where you really develop yourself, your attention, and there's special magical things that are available for you, but you see your way into it, you work your way into it, so that you can acclimate to that experience. In martial arts, if you walk into my school or into any dojo, karate dojo, you will learn some basics so that you can start to develop the techniques so that you can do the kata's and forms, so that you can participate in the sparring. But if you're at this level, brand new, you have to start to develop yourself. And it takes time and hard work. Now, a black belt is way over here. And if you walked into a class as a white belt, and then the sensei started treating you and teaching you and putting the pressure on you that they would put on a black belt, you wouldn't have a constructive experience in martial arts. You'd go into your first sparring match, you'd injure yourself kicking wrong, you'd get punched in the face a few times, and then you'd feel terrible. So you wouldn't have a good experience in the art, number one, and number two, you would not learn anything about personal power or self-defense. All you would learn is that you can't kick and that you can get punched in the face. It's the same thing in spiritual study. If you don't do it right, you have a terrible experience, if you can get to the second attention. So very often, you go to a school and it's just like the pasta or something, and people are just all just sitting around, spacing out or whatever. Or hopefully chilling out, spilling their thoughts. But it's mostly a kind of like just basic experience. But if you find a school of enlightenment or a school where proper meditation's taught, then you will experience the Nahual in that practice. If you go to a teacher of mysticism or a teacher of an esoteric teacher, they can make amazing shifts occur for you. If they do it in a constructive way, you say, wow, I had all these amazing constructive experiences. I can integrate them and now I'm stronger and I'm more spiritual and more aware. But if they do things, if they're not good or they don't follow a good path or they are uncontrolled, they can give you amazing, weird experiences in the second tension, and they could be very difficult and happy and upsetting for you. That's why we do this in a particular way. It's a very, very good way, and it's a way that's more like martial arts. Very constructive. You have to do a lot of the work so that you earn the experience, you earn the power. An esoteric teacher can open things up to be so bright, such a strong experience of the second attention, that it, one, maybe brings you up into an experience that you can't integrate, or two, drives you insane, just freaks you out so much. I've had a lot of people freak out, and that's okay, because they didn't have what it took. Freaking out is okay, but I would never push, if there's anyone in the room who can't handle it, I wouldn't push the energy up enough to drive someone in a bad spiritual direction. If they just walk out or say, no, I'm never coming back, that's okay, but I wouldn't push so much energy that they can't handle it, like spiritually, and that they have a bad experience spiritually. So it's important to do it right. It's important for you to work on developing yourself, your first attention, second attention, second attention, first attention. You start to raise your states of mind by developing both your first attention and second attention. That's why there's so much first attention focus. Yoga, yoga, yoga. That's the template of first attention. But through that practice, you also gain a greater second attention and come up. So it's very important that it's done right. And, you know, in this study, you do the work, and you follow the teachings. It's just like martial arts. Here's a new kick. Do it right. You learn how to do it right, then you can use it. But if you don't learn how to do it right, and if you don't put the time into learning it, and practice into doing it, then you never have that kick. You always have that kick wrong, or you never get that kick. You can't use that kick. It doesn't become part of your self-defense It doesn't become part of your capabilities. You don't have that power But if you follow the teachings come to the class work on it work on it work on it Then you condition yourself to be able to do it to have and own that power And a kick is a power the kick is a mudra it moves energy in a certain way. And when you have that kick, you have that power. You develop that power. It becomes strong. And that comes from proper teachings, but it also comes from you doing the work. That's what this school is about. You have proper teachings in the first and second attention, no doubt. But you have to do the work. When you do the work, then you get the power. And then you're like, cool, I can kick.

0:25:17
I can do yoga.

0:25:19
You become a yogi after a while. And it's not just messing around. It's that you become a yogi. Your attention is impeccable and selfless at all times. You work through personal history, self-importance. And when you do work, it always has this spiritual vibration of impeccability and selflessness. You face difficulties, you can overcome them in a happy and constructive way with your impeccability and selflessness. So it's very, very, very important to develop yourself properly through meditation, mindfulness, basically, the study, this study. So, first attention and second attention. Now, Don Juan pointed out a couple very, very, very important things in the Sorcerer's Explanation. And the first thing that he pointed out was that the greatest aid in the whole study was stopping thought. You know, stopping the internal dialogue is what he called it. And he just said, you know, stop thinking all your internal dialogue. Stop thinking the words over and over and over. But when Carlos was able to actually stop thinking the words, he noticed that he actually stopped thought. So it went deeper than just the internal dialogue. The internal dialogue is kind of the exterior to stopping thought. Because as soon as you can stop the internal dialogue, you might still have worries of your job tomorrow or thinking about a friend. You might just have a vision of their face appear and all this other stuff. There's many levels of thought. The internal dialogue is kind of the peripheral, the first level. But when you can stop thought, you have the greatest aid to your practice. That's why meditation, meditation, meditation. We talk about meditation all the time. We meditate together all the time. You practice meditation. Take it seriously, be earnest in your meditation practice because it is the greatest aid to your enlightenment. So that was the most important thing that Tan-Wen pointed out. The second most important said, it's really important for you to be able to do things without expecting the results. And he said, you know, it's one of the most important things that a teacher can do to help a student, is to set them up to do things without expectation of, you have some expectation of the fruits of your actions from this battle that you're going into. Terrible way to look at things. Don't look at it that way. All you have to do is just do your stuff perfectly. And then when you do it perfectly, you're impeccable. And when you don't worry about what you're going to get out of it, then you're selfless. And what Don Juan does all the time is he sets up these ridiculous things for Carlos to do because it engages his first attention, and then he teaches him something spiritual while he's doing it. When he's giving him the sorcerer's explanation, he points out, yeah, I give you all these little weird tasks, like always wear a black hat, or take these pebbles and put them around in a circle. He gives him all these strange tasks. At first, Carlos was like, oh, okay, am I gonna learn something from it? And then afterwards, Don Juan would say, eh, you don't have to wear that hat anymore, whatever. And then, oh, I put the stones in a circle, who cares? So he would have them do all these little weird things, many, many, many, many little weird things. And then after he did them, for a while he expected some teachings or some explanation, and then when he didn't, he just started going, I guess I'll just do these weird things that he wants me to do for no reason. So he started to get this idea that there's no return on your reward. No reward for doing something. And this is what Milarepa experienced as well. Milarepa's like, I'm going to build this tower and then I'm gonna get the spiritual teachings it's gonna be fantastic but then after he went through it enough he came to this realization that I'm never gonna get the teachings I'm just gonna build towers for no reason right that's what Miller Rapa got out of it so Miller Rapa's all my life's things I'm building towers, my life stinks. I'm building towers for absolutely no reason. So he lost the concept of what he's gonna get out of it. Right? Isn't it wonderful?

0:31:02
And that's what we're working on right now.

0:31:03
You guys still think you're gonna get something out of things, but you aren't and you are. You get stuff out of it, but you can't be looking for the stuff. Because whenever you look for the stuff you get, it's not there. But when you're not looking for it, then it's there. If you're doing stuff. So, you know, and when you look at actual, a lot of the teachings, like, Don Juan's all, okay, hey, we're gonna go hunt us a, you know, puma. We're gonna hunt us a puma. We're gonna hunt us a mountain lion, right? And Carlos is all, oh, okay.

0:31:45
And then they're like going around, sneaking around.

0:31:47
And they're doing like all this weird stuff. And yeah, of course, the mountain lion comes and stuff like that, you know. Things go on, you know, they're going through these actions. But the reason that Don Juan's doing it is not to actually hunt a mountain lion.

0:32:03
Right?

0:32:04
Yes, we hunted a mountain lion. That was awesome, right? That's not what Don Juan's teaching. He's actually teaching Carlos a spiritual lesson while he's engaging his first attention. So Carlos is like thinking, I'm gonna catch a mountain lion. It's gonna be awesome. But Don Juan is actually teaching him something completely different. So that's what I'm doing to you guys. It's impossible for you to do anything selflessly, apparently. You just won't do it. Or if you do it, you won't do it with impeccability. You'll just be like, why am I doing this? It has nothing to do with me. I totally desire something different. So what I do, and teachers always tell their tricks, the trick is, I get you to care about yoga, your yoga project. And what do we focus on? We focus on the things you do. Like, oh, you've got to turn in a status report, oh, you've got to make these number of calls, you've got to finish that paper, you've got things to do. It's all the first attention. But this isn't about that. Of course it's about that. That's the first attention. It has to be in perfect balance. But the teachings here are beyond that. These are spiritual teachings. like Milarepa, stacking his bricks, building a tower. Lots of people build towers, right? But what Marpa was teaching him was actually karma yoga, job yoga, right? Your job, build a tower. And so what we're focused on here is we're focused on hunting a mountain lion. But that's not what you're, sure you're learning how to hunt a mountain lion, but everything that you're learning is well beyond that. But if you don't do it perfectly, there's danger. The mountain lion might bite you, your tower might fall on you, your code might not work. So if you don't do your first attention right, then nothing happens. And you get to a point where you say, I'm just not serious about it, because obviously my first attention's not working. I'm not working on it, I'm just not serious. Then you'll know something about yourself. But if you work on it properly, like Milarepa did, like Carlos did, then you will do the crazy tasks, building the tower, hunting the mountain lion, you'll do those things as well as you can, you'll do them impeccably. And you might think that what you're going to get out of it is a certain thing, right? Carlos is like, yeah, we're going to get a mountain lion. But the teachings, the actual spiritual teaching, is something completely different. And guess what? It's something that cannot be said in words. It's something that is completely in the second attention, in the unseen world, in the Nahual. That's the big trick in all of this. Don't you get it? You think things are so physical, and your life is so you, and all this other stuff, right? But something happens when you do this. You engage in the pathway to enlightenment, something happens, and it's good. And the wonderful thing I do, you know, if you're on enlightened media, happy to have you. You know, it's nice. And if you work hard, you can, you know, become a yogi. But, you know, you've chosen to kind of go a little bit slow or have, have, go at your pace. So if you really work hard, you can learn yoga. The structure is there. But for the rest of you who are on a yoga project, you are becoming a yogi. You are learning yoga for real and your yoga teacher makes you. That means that they say you need to do this and if you don't do this, we're just going to strike, strike, and then you're out. You're not really serious if you're not doing it right. And that's okay, because then you can go on enlightened media and just kind of hang out. But the other people are going to become yogis. And becoming a yogi is really awesome. It's very, very powerful. But for the rest of you enlightened media people, it's okay. You're pleasant to be around. You don't get angry so much. So it's okay. And you can, if you want to. Structure's there. You just do more. You do what you know needs to be done. And if you do that, you can become a yogi too. But it's up to you. I won't sit there and say, you've got to do it by this time. Because you've chosen, that's too stressful for you. You can't handle it.

0:37:07
You can't handle that.

0:37:08
Instead of saying, eh, just get out of here, I don't care. You don't have what it takes to go. Instead of doing that, I say, stay, here, here's some books. Go around the neighborhood, door to door,

0:37:24
door to door book sales.

0:37:25
That's our joke for enlightened media, that you have to do door to door book sales of Mystic Scuba. You don't really have to. But we promote Mystic Scuba. We're not really promoting it but we're in the process of planning to promote it. Because we'll see what the enlightened media yogis feel like doing. If they feel like doing yoga then we'll actually be out there promoting it and otherwise we'll be planning to promote it. So Enlightened Media, you guys are fun, it's nice, do it, it'd be great, it's wonderful, but if your life is stressed, if you can't do it with balance, then this is the way for you to engage in the teachings to some degree, to whatever degree you want to. Yeah, nice and easy. But for the rest of you, you guys are hardcore. You guys are becoming yogis. You guys are doing spiritual discipline. And if you're in the media, meditate hard. Or do yoga hard. If you want that spiritual black belt, if you want some mastery, if you want to be real, if you want to actually make this stuff change your life, then do it yourself. No one's going to make you at this point. You might change. You might change. So I make fun of it a little bit, but it's not a bad thing. If you end up getting kicked off of your yoga team, it's because you didn't want to do the work. You didn't want to do it. You didn't want to hunt the mountain lion. You didn't want to build a tower. You couldn't be impeccable and selfless enough. That's okay. There's Enlightened Media. I'll give you some books. You can go around the neighborhood. If you're on Enlightened Media, sure, I'll poke fun at you, but it's okay. It's good, actually. I want you to do what you can do, what you're comfortable with. This study is an advanced study, if you want to take it to the level of perfection that it brings you to. But it means that you have commitment, impeccability, selflessness, that you meditate hard, that you do your yoga hard, that you regard the study in a proper way. But if you're not there yet, it's okay. It's okay. Do what you can do. Do what you feel like doing. Meditate and have fun. The school is... The pool is open for that right now. But I don't know. Like my Hungarian students, yeah. They don't have yoga. They just come and meditate, talk about happy, bright things. They have a dharma that they're working on. It's bright and nice. I tend to like to work with really hardcore people who really want enlightenment. That's who I benefit the best, the most, because I'm a serious practitioner. So it's kind of hard for me to just sit around with people who aren't serious, or who are full of themselves and stuff like that. Just like, you're in your own little dream. That's okay, for now. But if you're a yogi on a yoga project, you're becoming a yogi, you're starting to really push it, really, really push it. And that's good. You keep it up, and nothing's going to happen. That's right. So I wanted to talk about the sorcerer's explanation in terms of yoga, and two of those very important things that Danhuan pointed out. Meditation is the most important thing. It's the greatest aid. And the second is that you don't expect any return on your investment into the things you do. You don't expect the fruits of your labors. Because if you're seeking that, you're You're off in self land. That's why there was the Milarapa Way, and then there's the Don Juan Way. So the Milarapa Way is, you just keep building towers until you just give up. But Don Juan and mysticism, they're a little bit trickier. They're like, oh, work on this. You know, catch that mountain lion, it's gonna be awesome. Oh, cool, we're gonna catch that mountain lion. But that's not what it's about. There's something completely amazing magical happening While you're going through that process of catching the mountain lion so those are the two important aspects of the

0:42:36
warrior's way as it applies to

0:42:39
the yogi The job yogi on the pathway to enlightenment Pretty cool stuff. I like it. We're scuba diving today. And I got to tell you, for those of you who are diving, scuba diving is this magical thing. Well, at least when you do it with me. I have a different way of teaching scuba diving. I mean, in the first attention, it's the same as any dive instructor, but when you learn it from me, if you do it with me, you learn a certain vibration, a certain way of doing it that's different than the way that most divers do it. And it's a happier way. It's a way where you have more of a connection with the spirit of the ocean, let's say. There's more magic because you're connecting with the essential element, the elemental energy more directly. And you're also able to open your aura a greater vibration, and you're able to let go of lots of stuff. You can let go of physical pain, emotional pain, lots of stress, you're able to let go of it. So a couple of the Bodie Woods students who are here, they're rescue divers, and they're working on becoming dive masters. And there's a couple who didn't go to the dive, but they saw all the people who came to the dive. And it's very easy to see, they mentioned to me that their auras are very bright. It's very, very, very easy to see that if you go, from that experience of diving, that your aura got purified, very bright. Because you guys, even though we were doing very, very basic discover scuba diving, just the very basic beginnings, because you meditate, because you had a great attitude, and because you listened to the vibration of how I taught, not just in the first attention, but in the second attention, you were able to practice mystic scuba, which is being mystically aware while diving. So that's a really cool thing. Because some divers dive and they get wet, which is good for them. And they breathe deep and so they get higher partial pressure of oxygen, more oxygen, healthy for the body. But it doesn't cleanse the aura the same way. So what you guys did was mystic scuba. Every single one of you. It was really good, really nice. So you're brighter and shinier. And it's a good way to come into a meditation. But boy, what a crazy weekend. Yeah, it's really nice. So mystic scuba is just one of the weird ways that we practice mystical practices because I don't know, it seems to work. Seems to work really well. So it's funny. But it's a bit of a strange practice. I guess this whole school is a bit of a strange practice. But what school isn't? If you get into Zen too much, you'll be like, oh, this is weird. And not to mention Tibetan Buddhism. That's just crazy. That's just crazy. Yeah. So we do our mystic scuba from time to time. We'll do it again, so if you want to do it, you can do it. It's really intense stuff though. I have to say, it's really, really, really intense. All that gear you got to put on. So, you know, don't expect to be perfect at it immediately. If you start it, be patient with yourself. You all did fine today. You all did fine today, so that's good. We went down about nine feet into the ocean. Some people made it to like 15, 16, 17 feet. That was like the worst visibility ever. Couldn't see five feet, but you all had the right spirit. Everyone was perfect, it was fantastic. So believe me, dives get a lot better than that. If you're really freaked out about diving,

0:47:22
give it a shot.

0:47:24
Even if it's hard and you're like, oh gosh, I just couldn't even go down, it's still really, really good. In diving, you face a lot of fears, you face a lot of difficulty that is, you know, if you're patient and you work on overcoming it, you really transform through Mystic Scuba or if you're even just learning to do diving, it's really fun. Someday, we'll do a Hawaii trip where we'll go into warm blue water where you can see more than five feet. And, you know, diving in warm water is really, really, really, really nice. You have a beautiful physical feeling of not freezing. And also not having to wear so many wetsuits and stuff. So we'll go to Hawaii someday. It's a little bit off. You know, I really want you guys to develop your careers a little bit more so that you can actually pay for it. Because you know, you just have to like stay in Hawaii and stuff. So someday, we're thinking about it. But cold diving, we will be doing cold Monterey diving a couple times more probably before we go to Hawaii. And it gets better. You know, you get to places where, I've had a hundred feet of visibility in certain places out there. And sometimes, a lot of times, it's 10 or 25 feet of visibility, but you know, you're close to a wall or a rock or something, so you can see enough. You just can't see the great white sharks swimming around. I was diving in Hawaii recently and we were going out and I told the two students with me, be careful, I saw when Savitri and I were doing the shark chief dive. Only, you know, yeah, I saw the same sign, which is generally kind of a big, spiritual shark. I see it with my, you know, with my seeing.

0:49:55
And I was like, oh, oh.

0:49:56
So I said, okay, when we go in, you know, let's be very, very careful. Let's look around. I want you guys looking around. Look behind you, keep looking around. And if you see something, let me know. Let everyone know. Because we need to be very, very aware and careful on this dive. And I told them, there's a very, very strong death lesson here. And they're Like, no, we like death. Yeah, we like death. Like Yama, right? Okay, so we go diving. So we jump in the water, we go about 12 feet to the left,

0:50:26
and then I see a tiger shark.

0:50:29
And I'm like, ah, that's a tiger shark. So then I say to Dharma, I see a shark. That means shark.

0:50:51
Big shark.

0:50:55
I won't do the obscene one.

0:50:57
Okay, so then, so there's a big shark. And then we decide to abort our dive. And then we decide to not, but just go out there and dive, even though that shark's there. And it was really, you know,

0:51:11
it was the kind, you know,

0:51:13
it was the shark chief kind of dive. It was so fantastic. And then afterwards we got out and we did, you know, kind of like a meditation. It was very, very, very powerful, nice experience. But, you know, I'll let you in on a little secret. When I went with Savitri and we went down to, you know, we went down a hundred feet or a little deeper, and we were doing the shark teeth dive. We didn't actually see a shark because it was pitch dark, right? But just meditating on it and becoming aware, you felt that there's a shark there. And so, you know, because we didn't have our lights on, could be a shark swimming right by us, hanging right next to you you just never know when you're scuba diving but don't worry the statistics are that when you're underwater divers almost never get bitten by sharks. Surfers get bitten by sharks. Just kidding.

0:52:21
Surfing's good too.

0:52:22
Yeah, Kana was surfing and a great white shark

0:52:25
popped its head up in the wave.

0:52:27
And he was like, oh, I just gotta catch this one last wave

0:52:30
before I run away from that shark. Surfers are like, oh wait, should I run now? No, there's a good wave coming.

0:52:52
All right, stay clear of the physical sharks.

0:52:55
Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. So I'd like to meditate with you again. I'm going to meditate for three songs. Excellent. You've got to have a sense of humor. You have to have a sense of humor. You have to be willing to laugh at yourself.

0:53:40
It's nice when you see yourself bringing up

0:53:42
self-importance, personal history, desires, attachments, and you say, look at me. There I go again. I'm a genius. Right? You come up with all these like ideas and schemes and just laugh at it. You have a hard meditation, laugh at it. Your yoga teacher gives you an impossible task, laugh at it, but not in front of them. Laugh at the idea that it's an impossible task. It's really important, otherwise you take things too seriously, you'll get angry and stuck.

0:54:36
You want to be more fluid.

0:54:37
So a very important aspect of mysticism is to have a sense of humor, and also the spiritual path, you've got to have a sense of humor. And we have a good sense of humor. And you guys are learning the mood of the warrior, which is to have a sense of humor. So, it's very important. You know, because a lot of the books that we're reading, they have Carlos... Carlos Castaneda is, of course, being very inaccessible in his writing. So he's not really writing what he really thought when he learned those lessons, but the lessons are very clean. And some of his experiences and his whole take on things, like thinking that the devil is a boogeyman and stuff like that, that's just, you know, he's just adding stuff to be inaccessible and also to make the story interesting. So he makes mysticism all spooky, but it's really not spooky. But he makes it all spooky and weird, but it's not that way. So a lot of the stuff that Carlos is talking about, his interpretations and his experience is just like spooky stuff, but Don Juan and Don Henero are properly portrayed as being bright and laughing and having a good time all the time. That's really what mysticism is. It's how the teachers are in this book. That's mysticism. But Carlos's weird take on things isn't. So you tend to do a similar thing. You get a weird take on things. Maybe not that this is a spooky process, but you get a weird skewed view of the study and this process. And it's all based on you. But what you need to do is have a sense of humor. Have a sense of humor about everything and then it releases your, you know, it releases the strange vibration. So if Carlos in the book had a great sense of humor, he wouldn't be all spooky about everything. He'd be cracking jokes about it, just like Don Juan and Don Henero do. So you've got to have a sense of humor about yourself, a sense of humor about what you're doing because it releases you from a weird, pessimistic, slanted, skewed view of this process. So the next book that we're going to read going forward into the next Castaneda book. And it's a great book. So please read it this month. We'll be talking about it next month. We have our desert trip coming up. Wait, not to a desert, to a mountain or a beach or something. We're going to be going to Big Sur. We have a beach trip coming up. Yeah, we're gonna have our little Equinox power trip to Big Sur. And Big Sur is a very strong place of power. Very interesting and very beautiful place. So we'll be going there and we'll have

0:58:16
wonderful meditation experiences.

0:58:18
The Equinox is a time of great balance. So it's a good time to balance and meditate.

0:58:32
It'd be very nice.

0:58:32
We're going to have Bodie Woods Workday next Saturday, since we had scuba diving this Saturday. And I'm going to start teaching the Defense Against the Dark Arts. defense against the dark arts. And that's basically, you know, how to deal with difficult people and things like that. You know, because I told you how when you get mad at someone, you know, but sometimes other people do that to you. You know, they might just have a bad day and throw a lot of negative energy at you and instead of getting hurt and trashed, there's a way that you can, you know, like jujitsu. Right, goes off, comes at you, goes away. You know, there's techniques that you can learn to brush those things off so it doesn't hurt your aura as much. So we'll be talking about that at the next Bodhi Woods Workday for whoever wants to. We'll be talking about, you know, defense against the dark arts a little bit later as well but what we'll talk about at Vodiewants Workday is a special class I won't repeat it so there's a number of different subjects let's say different techniques and we'll talk to them we'll talk about them at different times so if you want to learn the first then you Ha ha. Got a lot of dirt to dig in Vodafone.

1:00:00
I love it, I call it digging in dirt.

1:00:02
The yoga of digging in dirt. Yeah, but it'll be fun as well. Excellent, fantastic. I'd like to say thank you to all of you

1:00:11
and have a good evening.

1:00:12
And I'd like to talk to a couple people, Morgan, Fumito, and Aaliyah. So if you guys can hang back for a while, that's great. So if you guys can hang back for a while, that's great. Thank you all very much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
