0:00:00
There's two aspects of success in yoga that are very noticeable. So you can see that there's times while you're on the path of yoga, that in itself is a success. The pathway to enlightenment, to be on the pathway to enlightenment, it is a success. When you find yourself off of the pathway of enlightenment. You find yourself out of unity when you're in separation. That's where, spiritually speaking, there's no success. You're heading into a condition of egotism, selfishness and suffering. But when you're on the pathway to enlightenment, just to be on the path is a sort of liberation. It gives you the structure of enlightenment as a way of life. It gives you the pathway of enlightenment, the opportunity to move forward beyond suffering with every moment, with every observance, mindfulness, meditation, karma yoga. Everything that you do brings you to a greater degree of self-discovery, self-realization, and also a means to get you beyond suffering. So the pathway of enlightenment itself, being on your yoga project itself, is ultimately a success, even though you can't see it sometimes. Sometimes you're just going through the work, going through a meditation, and in your meditation you don't see anything particularly special. You're just sitting there trying to stop thoughts come up. You try to focus on the chakra. So you don't notice that you're making progress on the pathway to enlightenment. You just might be working on your yoga project, programming, maybe writing a user document or something. And you don't notice that you're making progress. You don't see how you're gaining personal power. You don't see how you're breaking away from karmas that would have brought you into suffering. You don't notice that. All you notice is what you're struggling with at the moment. So the pathway itself is a vehicle that leads you beyond suffering, that leads you to enlightenment. And to be on the pathway itself is in itself a great spiritual success. However, there are times on the path in yoga when you see that you are succeeding. And they're observed in two ways. The first is, you see success. You see that you are making progress. You see that you are succeeding. So in meditation it might be that you see over the months that you are having higher meditations, higher experiences in your meditations. You might see that you have great longer periods of time with no thought or longer periods of time with less thought. So you can see yourself progress and when you see that kind of progression, especially when you leap into great progressions, then you're happy. You have a very uplifting moment. If you're working on yoga and you see yourself break through a fear and accomplish a task, when you see yourself mastering your subject matter and you're able to do things, complete them, you're able to do things better, faster, then you're seeing success. And with success in meditation, with success in yoga, you experience brightness, you experience happiness, and you are aware and conscious of the transformative power that is within the spiritual path. So it's a wonderful thing. It's those epiphany moments where you see that it's working, the pathway to enlightenment. It's happening, that you're getting to those higher spiritual ideals or results that you've been looking for. And that's a great thing. So that's one way that you can mark success on the path. The other way is by seeing difficulties, having trouble, struggling. So when you're trying to push those thoughts away and just bring your focus back to your chakra, you can recognize that period of time of one of the best lessons in meditation. If you can constantly come back to a place of balance and focus when the outside world and circumstances, people, places and things in your life are in turbulence, then you can come to a place of balance and peace no matter what happens to you in life. And though in your meditation there's so many thoughts, so many bombarding impressions, if you can fight your way through, let those things go, bring the focus back, focus on the chakra, you are in that period of meditation becoming very, very strong spiritually. You're constantly working on getting yourself into a great balance, a balance of mind, a balance of spirit. And you're breaking the karmas of all those things that would draw you off, simply by letting them go, consciously, and bringing your focus back to the chakra. And when you do that again and again and again, you're becoming very strong and letting go of that which will pull you off into a karma, into suffering, that which will pull you spiritually out of balance. Again and again and again, you're getting a lot of good spiritual exercise So, when you have a very, very difficult meditation, when people are giving you a hard time, or you're stressed out about things, and when that occurs in terms of thoughts and feelings in your meditation, this is a success, but your ability to practice meditation even though the outside world is so turbulent, that is a success. You're able to practice your meditation, focus on your chakra, come into a higher awareness of light, even though people are giving you a hard time. That's a sign of success. So when you face the darkness, when you face difficulty in your meditation, even though it's hard, look at what you're doing. You're meditating in the midst of this great difficulty. You're choosing to go into light. You're choosing to seek spiritual balance, and just sitting there, just doing your meditation, just trying, earnestly trying to let go of darkness and come into balance and light, when you just do that, you are making tremendous success on the pathway to enlightenment. Because usually people will follow karma, and karma will bring them into a spiritual imbalance and into suffering. So karma would be the lack of spiritual practice. Like, oh I can't meditate because I'm too upset about this person or this thing. And then what are you doing? You're embracing that person and that thing. You're embracing those problems, you're following those karmas, and you're going to experience the full karmic effect of that suffering. But when you practice meditation, you're undoing karma. Sure, you're going to have to deal with people and situations, but is by coming into the greatest spiritual balance and illumination of consciousness. Then when you deal with difficult people and situations, it's not so bad. In fact, it's the pathway to enlightenment when you can see it that way. And you can find it, you can find that light, that way of light, through meditation, through stopping thought, through letting go of the karma, the thoughts and the feelings, and coming back to a place of balance and illumination. So when you are having a hard time with everything, the fact that you sit there and do your meditation is a great success, even if it's a really, really, really, really hard time. This is one of the principles in yoga as well. So how do you know when you're doing really well in yoga? Well either you're accomplishing things and saying, wow, look, I did that. Wow, I've learned this. Yeah, I have this down cold and I'm making a lot of progress. Or you see the other side. The other side is tremendous struggle. If you find yourself doing yoga, and working earnestly on it, and struggling, that's tremendous success. The fact that you're having a hard time is a great thing. You know why? Because it means that you're working on it. You're doing yoga. In the beginning, yoga is maybe intriguing, maybe interesting. You're open to seeing what it's like, but you have no idea. It's kind of like someone who starts off at a karate class. They say, oh yeah, you know, I saw the karate kid and I want to learn how to kick and stuff like that. So you're all sort of interested. You know, you don't know. It could be kind of scary if a sensei yells at you or whatever, kind of afraid of fighting or being confronted by a black belt in the class. You don't know what's going to happen, but you're kind of interested and you know that that's a school where you can learn that stuff. So then you go in and then you start learning. Now, very often you'll face a lot of difficulty in learning how to do the exercises correctly. Maybe in the sparring practices, you'll face a lot of fear, and you just won't be able to defend yourself. You'll have all sorts of difficulties. However, facing those difficulties in the structured environment of the dojo is the way to advance yourself. It's the way to learn the art. It's the way to master it. So if you're facing someone in Kumite, in sparring, and you're afraid, it's difficult, you don't have the technique, it's hard, they're fast, they're better, and then every time they After a while, you learn. After a while, you get stronger, you become more aware, your technique gets better. And then after a while, you see that you can defend yourself. You can, if someone comes with the attack, you're able to do the technique and it works, it defends you. However, when you're struggling, you're in that time, that period where you're not strong enough. You're not aware enough. You're not capable enough. And you're struggling with this thing. This guy keeps punching me. I can't stop him. My technique doesn't work. It's so hard. When you're struggling to get your technique right, and your sensei is yelling at you to stand in the stance, to do the technique, to face the opponent, not to run away, not to turn your head, not to close your eyes. It's very, very difficult. However, you're in the structure where you can learn. You have the techniques where you can learn. You have the sensei who's telling you how to do it right. And when you face your opponent, when you deal with that difficulty, and it is that power of defense. So in martial arts, when you face it, you face the opponent, you face the hardship, work through it. And do the technique. The technique works. It's a tried and true method many, many practitioners and many, many masters. So all you have to do is commit yourself to learning, commit yourself to working through your fears, and then you'll figure it out. And you'll see that you have that power of defense. It's the same in yoga. In yoga, at some point, you know, you get beyond the initial, oh, I'm going to try this out. Oh, I hear there's some benefits. Oh, I have some interests. And then you start getting into it. And very often, you find that you're all, wow, I just learned how to do Java over the last two weekends. Oh, cool. Oh, wow. Oh wow, I programmed the whole application last night. So sometimes you find that that's the case, and that's great, and that's a recognition of success in yoga. But sometimes, more than often, more practically for most people, you find that you struggle. I have five black belts, and I've been doing martial arts for a long time and when I was first learning martial arts it was really really hard for me I struggled I struggled I struggled but then after working through it and getting a black belt then I was like oh I like this stuff I'll do more I've been a master of in many past lives, but in this lifetime, I really stank at it. It was really, really hard. I was like, OK, so meditation is different than spacing out, but I really like spacing out. And meditation is so hard. So, I mean, it was very, very, very hard for me. But I kept on listening to my teacher's advice of facing life, like facing the opponent in the dojo, using the technique, because that's the way to get stronger, that's the way to get brighter, that's the way to win in life, that's the way to win in spirit. So I kept working on it, taking it seriously, facing my mind, facing my laziness, facing my spaciness, facing life. That's what you're doing in yoga. You're facing life. That's what you're doing in the dojo. You're facing life. That's what you're doing. When someone's coming in to punch and you do the technique, you're facing a very physical truth. You either can defend or not. And if you can defend, then you have some mastery over keeping yourself alive in physical conflict. And in yoga, even though it's computer yoga or whatever yoga, we're addressing your spirit. So when you're able to face it and work through it, all the difficulties. You know, it's like facing an opponent on the dojo mat, but it's, you know, it's you facing the difficulties of your own mind. And what you learn through going through that process is you learn truth. You learn a truth, a truth about your spirit. That's what yoga does. You got your yoga teacher right there behind you, telling you how to do the techniques properly. You're fortunate. You have the structure of yoga, an enlightened structure, and you have everything that you need. What you need to do is recognize what you're doing. You've got to recognize that Recognize that this is an opportunity for you to face life, face truth, to become stronger, to be able to overcome that which limits you. This is a spiritual lesson, yoga. So when you find yourself struggling with your computer program, or struggling with writing your user manual, or struggling with doing your quality assurance. These are the techniques of this dojo. These are the forms of yoga. These are the pathways to liberation. And if you see that you're having a hardship, I want you to recognize that this is the perfect lesson for you. This is what you've got to work on to become higher, brighter, stronger, more free. So you work on these techniques and you work through that which stops you. You work through that which is so hard and so painful. And instead of going off and playing video games, or hanging out with friends, or messing around with some other activities, you face the technique, you face the problem, the opponent, that you've got to work through to get to a higher level of attention, a higher level of personal power, so that you can break through that internal opposition, that darkness of mind. There's something in your consciousness, something in your awareness field which is limiting you to success. It's limiting you to the energy flow of succeeding in yoga. So when you're hitting that wall, when you're having that hardship, it's a great thing because it's showing you your lesson. It's showing you what to work on. It's showing you what you need to do. And what you need to do is you need to go through it. It's a great thing. It's your lesson. And you've got the technique, you've got the teachers. You just have to commit yourself. Recognize what it is. Not that it's a hard thing that's getting in your way and making your life miserable. Like the other, like in the dojo, the black belt is punching you and you can't do the defense. You can say, Oh, this is just making my life hard. Why do I even do this? You say, oh, I know I do this because out there in life, I have to deal with life. If I can block a black belt in the dojo, I can block an untrained street fighter, hopefully. So you're learning a power. You're learning something that will save your life. And in yoga, you're doing the same thing. In yoga, you're learning to gain more personal power, you're learning to be able to push through to new areas of capability in your mind and in your spirit. And it's something that is developmental, and it's something that is a reflection of your life. You know, meditation is a funny little practice, because you just, you know, sit down and try to stop thought, and that's the thing to do. But in trying to stop thought, you face your whole life. You face everything in your life. So anything that's out of balance comes up. It comes up. And your job is to put it into balance by letting go of it and bringing the focus to the chakra. But by doing that, all of a sudden these things don't come up. They don't draw your attention off. If they are things that have dharma, then they promote your stillness of mind. If they are things that come up and draw you into a thought, that draws you off of the pathway to enlightenment. So you should just focus on your chakra, and then when you see things come up, stuff comes up, appears in your life, and then you say, okay, balance it in your mind. And then when you balance everything in your mind, everything in your life, then you go into Samadhi. You go into the states of mind that are enlightenment. So meditation is a funny little practice, but in meditation you face everything. Everything. Now meditation alone brings you to enlightenment, but it's kind of hard. It kind of goes slowly. That's why we have other practices, or, you know, for most people. That's why we have other practices like yoga. Yoga helps you to address aspects of your mind that you're not directly addressing. Most people don't meditate with tenacity. They just kind of sit there and go, I'm going to try to concentrate a little bit. If you were meditating because you really want enlightenment, you're burning for enlightenment, you'll meditate so hard you'll stop all these thoughts, you'll go and face your fears in meditation, you'll go beyond the surface thoughts, beyond the internal dialogue, and you'll go to the aggregates of consciousness. And these things are things that have been karmically constructed by repeated patterns of habitual thoughts for lifetimes. And you'll go into that and you'll undo those karmas. See in meditation everything melts away. Karmas, samskaras, all your mental models dissolve into an unstructured reality of light. And that's the truth. that everything that comes into structure and form is actually one life. And in meditation you come to see that. You see that all these things that break life up into the illusion of opposition, the illusion of separativity, you see that all those things come together and that they're all one life. Now that's someone who's meditating with tenacity and in which case when someone meditates that well they're really pushing themselves along the pathway tremendously very quickly and then if they're doing yoga they tend to do yoga exceptionally well they're on that winning streak where they're like hey wow yeah I just built another product last night it was amazing yeah this time it only took two and a half hours. The night before it was three and a half. Yeah, so if someone's meditating like that, then they tend to automatically do terrific in yoga. But for the rest of us, you know, you struggle through yoga. I was recalling a story when I was in Hungary for my Hungarian students of Padma Sambhava. Now Padma Sambhava is on the win-win side of spirituality. First of all you have to understand his background. He's been a Buddha for millions of incarnations. So this is, Padmasambhava was one of the highest incarnates on the planet, who's ever incarnated here in history. At the time that the Buddha died, his students were very sad. They're like, oh my gosh, the enlightened one is dying, this is terrible. And then Buddha said, it's not so bad. And if you like enlightened people so much, in 12 years, there's going to be another enlightened teacher born north of here. He told them where, actually, the region. And he said, this teacher is 10 times, 100 times more enlightened than I am. And this teacher will teach the highest yoga, the highest pathway to enlightenment. So if you're that interested, then follow my teachings, meditate really well, and then go up to this region and you'll find this teacher. So of course, Buddhist students did so well with Buddhist teachings that they were okay with it. And they didn't speak Tibetan. But yeah, 12 years later, there was this teacher born in a miraculous birth, and his name was Padmasambhava. Now, Padmasambhava, they say his birth was like this. There's this lake, right, way up in, at the time it was North India, which is kind of like Pakistan right now. So there's a lake there, and all of a sudden, this beautiful, amazing, kind of miraculous, spiritual lotus appears in the middle of the lake, and it's shiny and bright, and everyone looks at it and says, wow. And then this boy appears, bing, in the middle of the lotus. And he's this eight-year-old or ten-year-old kid. And he appears, and then he starts teaching the dharma. And everyone's around the lake listening and saying, wow, amazing. And then he walks across the lake, and then comes over onto land, and he starts teaching. So, you know, he was, he just decided to be, you know, to come to this place, and he started off, not even as a baby, or through a natural birth, he started off capable of speech, and teaching the Dharma. Now he went through some teachings and as soon as he heard of the teachings, you know he would go to different Buddhist teachers, and as soon as he heard of the teachings he understood the essence of them. Just like that. So he didn't struggle with, how do you be humble? How do you be harmless? As soon as he heard of harmlessness, he agreed and he understood it. And he took it to heart. He was it. And all of his teachings, he quickly mastered all of them. Padmasambhava was the person who started Tantra in Tibet. So Tantra has existed forever. It's existed in ages and ages and ages ago in prehistory. However, at the time, Tantra was practiced by just a few people in northern India, mostly. So it was like a very secret, special path. And what he did is he came to Tibet, and he taught Tantra. And one of his first teachings was he walked into a village and you know, the main village in a small kingdom and he said, I am here for all of your benefit to teach you the pathway to enlightenment. And everyone was happy. He came with some of his followers. He was very young at the time, 16 or something like that. And he came with all of his followers who had seen him come out of the lake. They were like, yeah, this guy's cool.

0:32:14
So they just jumped in.

0:32:16
So everyone was happy. They were like, oh, that's the lake boy, the lotus boy. This is really great. The kind of king of the little city-state comes down with his wife and his young son, and they're like, oh, nice to meet you, you great, amazing, spiritual teacher. Please bring your blessings to our area, this is really wonderful. So then Padmasambhava says, OK, I will. Picks up a little pebble and he flicks the pebble with his superpowers at the little baby, the son of the king, and kills the baby. Shoots the baby right through the eye and kills the baby. a baby and everyone says, what are you doing? And he says, this is my first teaching of tantra for you guys. And they're like, this is terrible, you've killed my son. So they try to arrest Padmasambhava, but his followers, he's got a little security team, and they take him away. And then Padmasambhava was like, what? I was spreading the Dharma. And his followers were like, how could that be? And he had a great explanation. He said, well, that baby was evil, had this bad karma, and when I flicked the pebble there was actually a fly that he had karma with in front of him so when I killed the fly and killed the baby it absolved him of this bad karma which means that in his next incarnation he'll be beyond this terrible karma of being evil and having all this problems with the fly and then and then he's gonna you know have a great enlightened said, oh, makes sense. So from the perspective of normal folk, he just murdered some poor little babies. But from the perspective of enlightenment, when he can see that a death could be enlightening, when he explained the teachings to his followers, they went, oh, that's very nice. Now, the king still disagreed. He didn't understand it. He didn't get it. He said, this guy just killed my son, and he's just making up rules or reasons or whatever. So then what he did was he said, OK, let's go get that guy, because he killed my son. So he sends out his little army, and then they find Padmasambhava meditating in a graveyard somewhere. And they're all, see, he's crazy. So they grab him, and they bring him back over to the city. And then Padmasambhava was by himself, you know, meditating in the graveyards. And then they picked him up, and he didn't resist. And then next thing you know, he's tied up on a stake, and they're putting all this wood around him, they're going to burn him. So he's like, oh, I'm dark. But what happens is when they light the fire, the fire doesn't burn him. And then when the fire comes to its full height, then it unfolds and becomes a lotus. And then he starts sitting there teaching the Dharma. And everybody watching is amazed by the spectacle. And then he teaches the Dharma and he explains the death of the king's son. And then everyone, even the king says, OK, thank you for killing my son. Because now it's been proven to me, undoubtedly, that you are the Lotus-Born Enlightened Teacher avatar of the universe. Because, obviously, otherwise you would be dead. So then Tantra begins, and this really weird way of looking at things begins to be culturally accepted in Tibet. It starts with this king and this little kingdom and then it spreads. And everyone just starts to click with, wow, something that might look one way could be another way. And it becomes very prevalent in the minds of the practitioners. So Tantra becomes the, you know, it takes over the religious practices of Tibet, which was basically this religion called the Bon religion. And it was kind of a pagan religion. Pretty cool. But then they kind of merged the things together. Because Tantra works with other religions. Tantra works with whatever culture you want to fit into. You want to fit in Silicon Valley, computers. You want to fit into, you know, this pagan religion, we'll work with your gods. We'll make an agreement with your gods. You know, it works either way, anywhere. So Padmasambhava was this amazing teacher who had like every sit of power and did all these amazing things, and brought the dharma, really, to Tibet. And Padmasambhava had many stories of the crazy things he would do. He had all these wonderful antics. And so definitely did things that people wouldn't expect, you know, having sex, drinking a lot of alcohol, then being a monastic for a year. So he would start monasteries and stuff and then he would like leave and then you know go out and hang out with some girls in a cave. Stuff like that. It's just things that seem kind of weird. That's why it's kind of fun to read about Padmasambhava, because it's like, what the heck? And you can't know that what he's doing is enlightenment unless you know. So because he had so many Siddha powers and did so many amazing things, he was come to be understood through his teachings and through his Siddha powers that he was a very, very enlightened person. And once they saw the power, then they listened to the words and then they came to recognize his teachings were the teachings of enlightenment. So then when he would go off and do something insane, everyone went, hmm, I wonder, you know, they're just open to it. Okay, I wonder how that works, but maybe he'll tell us. So then they would start thinking, okay, so, you know, he's doing this because it's enlightening this way. And they would start looking at the other side. They would start looking at how life is, you know, not one way or the other, how enlightenment exists in both yin and yang, the union of everything and the separation of everything. So people came to really understand Vajrayana Buddhism, which is Tantra. Vajrayana Buddhism was the term for Tantra yoga is yoga that includes meditation, could include sexuality, could include alcohol and stuff like that. So Padmasambhava had the Buddhism and he also did the yoga. Completely I always say Tantra is like, you know, in Kung Fu, drunken Kung Fu. So you drink a little bit, and then it makes you loose, and it helps you to fight. But then you might just be a drunk. You might just be a brawling drunk, you don't know. So it's that edge, you know, is this guy just a brawling drunk, or is this guy a perfect master? So that's tantra. So Padmasambhava was this very, very powerful, what they call in India an avatar, which is the highest type of enlightened being. A very, a huge dharma changing enlightened being. And he started the kind of Buddhism that we do, but also the kind of Buddhism that the Dalai Lama does. So, you know, there's many different sects of Vajrayana Buddhism. Some of them have, you know, monastic life, some of them don't. Some of the sects are for lay people or for households. It has no rules like Tantra itself. But there are different schools of authentic Tantra. What I'd like to do is I'd like to meditate with you for one song from the Great Teacher's album. teachers album and this song is called Padma Sambhava. While we meditate to the song, I reflect on the feelings and awareness that I am talking about when I am talking about Padmasambhava. I would like you to focus on the navel chakra for this meditation. And then, there's the kind of students that have the hard time. The difficult part. The part where you've got to struggle a lot. Seems like you're never going to get anything done. But then, after a while, it works out. That's the way it goes. You want to learn something? It might be hard. It might be difficult. There might be a lot of trials and learning, but if you stick to it, you'll make it through. That's the way it is. And that's the truth of life. And the great thing about it is all you have to do is stick to it. There's a great saying my teacher used to say, what you focus on, you will become. So if you keep on focusing on martial arts, success, you'll get it. I spent a long time doing that when I was a kid, focusing on martial arts success. And struggled with it for a few years, and then got good at it and liked it. You've got to like the struggle, too. And also, I struggled with learning computers. It was difficult for me in the beginning learning computers. So when I was doing my computer yoga, it was really hard for me. It was very difficult. So I struggled with it. And I actually couldn't believe that I could actually learn this stuff. But I did. I eventually learned it. For me, having gone to an inner-city high school with a really bad like really I had really bad math teachers so I really struggled through mathematics through algebra and stuff so I when I heard about computer yoga I couldn't believe that I would ever be able to do it I said no I can't do that I'm bad at math and you know I flunked algebra two, three times. The only reason I passed is because I spoke Cantonese and I asked the Chinese kids to give me the answers. And for some reason in my class, if you spoke English, the teacher would say, hey, shut up. But the Chinese kids were always talking. I didn't register the teacher. He's just, oh, they're just muttering and they're gibberish and that's how I got a B in algebra it was great I had to break it down to you know because some of those equations got kind of long so I'd say what goes on the first line then what I have to put what the divide wait the But I went character by character. Because after you've slumped it the third time, what are you going to do? You've got to figure something out. So I learned to speak Chinese. It's easier. So I thought that learning computers would be impossible for me, but I was intrigued by the idea, and I was open to trying. But then immediately, in my first few months of learning computers, I faced all the hardships of my life, and my karma, and my attention, my fears and doubts and everything. But I kept working through it. Why did I work through it? Because my teacher told me I could. I could do it. And just like I'm telling you, you can do it. Work on your yoga. Work through your yoga. It leads to a very enlightening place. And recognize that the hardships that you're facing are the hardships of your own life, your own mind. And that by overcoming them through a dharmic structure, you are overcoming the limitations of your own consciousness. And then you're free and empowered. That's what this is about. So there was another enlightened teacher who had a lot of difficulties that I'd like to tell you about. His name was Milarapa. So this is a biography that I think all of you have studied. Now, Milarapa, you know, he got off on the wrong foot. He had his personal history. He did some difficult things. You know, he had a difficult childhood, and then a stressed out mother got him into sorcery and ordered him to try and kill his extended family. And then he killed, I think he killed like 25 people through mysticism and stuff. He had a terrible, difficult life, right? Much worse than flunking algebra three times. So when he got to Marpa, to the pathway of enlightenment, Marpa was like, hmm, how have I got the yoga for you? Which is a dharmic structure that would allow Milarepa to work through his mind. And that dharmic structure was building towers. So he said, okay, let's start building towers. And Milarepa built and built and built. You know, he quarried the rocks and he, you know, learned to build things and he learned, you know, they missed that part of the book, right? All of a sudden, he can just build a tower somehow. He had to learn to build a tower. And then he worked through the process of how to, and a lot of physical manual labor, and he built these towers. And it was a lot of hard work. And then the thing that was devastating is when Marco would come over and say, well, what are you doing? I didn't tell you to build it here. I told you to build it over there. And then Milarapa says, I'm pretty sure you told me to build it here. He's like, in the north? No way. Definitely the east. So take down the tower brick by brick and build it over there. And oh, boy. Milarapa says, OK. You know, because Milarapa, he didn't even think he was doing yoga. He thought that he was doing a favor for his teacher as payment so that he can then learn the dharma. But Marpa had him doing yoga. And through, you know, brick by brick, by making, building these towers and taking down these towers, and the desire for enlightened teachings. This whole magical process was the structure of yoga for him. And by doing this process he transcended some really terrible karmas. Karmas of murdering people. So he went through this very intense process of doing a lot of very hard physical manual work, but it was in a structure of yoga where he was able to actually, you know, hit his limits of mind and move beyond them. And he suffered a great deal. He had a really hard time doing his yoga because hard work, he's extremely stressed out, and he's got to do all of this work just to hopefully get the teachings right. Just to start on the path which he desired to learn about the Buddha Dharma so that he could get beyond his karma. So that he could be free of the from doing his evil dark magic and killing people. So he's just struggling and struggling and struggling, building towers, putting them up, taking them down. Second one, he's put it up in the east. Marpa comes over and says, What are you doing? I didn't tell you to put it up in the east. I told you to put it up in the west. And then Lilarapa is like, no way. You just made me move from the North to the East, and now you're telling me the West. And Marpa gets angry at him and says, I told you the West. Now take it down and build it over there. So he's devastated. And now he's like, I'm never going to get to learn the Buddhist teachings. Marpa's just messing with me. He's feeling so much despair, but this is his only opportunity. So he takes the stones down. And he tries everything. At one point, he says, you know what? Marpa is never going to teach me. I'm in complete despair. This is so hard. So he runs away and tries to find another teacher. And then the other teacher says, had some seeing and said, Hey, you can't study with me, you're in a process with another teacher, with an enlightened teacher. Go back. And then he's like, Oh, no, there's no escape. Which is definitely true. I mean, if you go to an unenlightened teacher, they don't know anything. But if you would go to an enlightened teacher, they'd say, oh, you're in a process here. So what's more enlightening for you? Probably to complete your process, even if the other teacher's enlightened. It's like, well, you're in the midst of some yoga here. And so he gets dismissed from the other teacher, goes back to Marfa, starts building the towers again. Marpa comes over. Oh, there was this one great part, right, where the monks come over to help him. Some of Marpa's monks, they don't understand why Marpa's giving Milorapa such a hard time. So they go, let's go help out that poor Milorapa guy. So they come over, and then they bring this big stone up to the fifth floor as a cornerstone. So they all carry it and help him out. And he's like, oh, thanks, guys. That's a huge help. And then, you know, the fifth floor. And then Marpa comes over and says, hey, how'd you get that big rock up there? And then Milarepa says, well, some of the other monks helped me out. And then Marpa gets all mad. He's like, oh, I can't believe it. He's like, take that thing down and build this thing right. So Milrop has to go up to the fifth floor, take this giant cornerstone that these five other monks had brought up, and he has to bring it down. And then he's just going through all this hardship. And then he's got to move it again. So Marva comes back and says, what are you doing building it in the West? You've got to build it in the North. And Milorapa is like, that's where I started. He's like, of course, that's where you should build it. And so Milorapa is livid and crazy. And he goes over there with Marpa, and he's like, are you sure, here in the North? Marpa says, yes. And then he says, wait a minute. He goes and gets Marpa's wife and also a couple of the monks, brings them over. And he says, OK, I've got witnesses now. He's like, this is where you want me to build the tower, right? Marpa says, OK, yeah. And then they all say, OK. So then he builds a tower. And then at some point, he really injures himself. He actually sustains a very bad back injury. But at the same time, he continues his work. Where most people might just give up and stop, he's like, well, I've got to finish this tower. And at least right now, I think it's in the right place. So I have to finish this tower. And even though I have an injury, I'm going to do it. So he works through his injury, works through his difficulties. And then he's going for it and going for it. He's almost done. I think it was supposed to be seven floors or maybe 10 floors. And he was like 70% done. But then he heard that Marpa was having an initiation for some of his monks. So he got in line, he got in line for the initiation. He sneaks in. So the monks would come over to Marpa and Marpa would do the initiation. Then all of a sudden, after the third or fourth monk, then Milorapa shows up. He thinks that he could sneak into an esoteric initiation. And then Marpa smacks him instead of initiating him. He's like, what do you think you're doing? You can't get an initiation. And he scares Milarepa so much that Milarepa, they're on the second floor of the temple. Milarepa runs out the window, falls down flat in the ground, and he's just miserable. Completely miserable. Then he runs away. And he's just like, hiding under a rock somewhere. And everyone's like, oh man. And they're like, Marpa's usually really nice. He's nice to the rest of us, but that one guy... Poor Milarepa. So a lot of the monks were like, talking to Milarepa, and Milarepa's all,

0:57:48
It's impossible. It's never gonna happen.

0:57:52
He's having this horrible, terrible time. And then, he's just like, you know, so unhappy and then Marpa summons him come come come back and then he says ta-da you've been doing yoga and then Milarepa is like what and says well you know so Milarepa came to Marpa because he was inflicted with the these bad visions and nightmares and then Marpa says to him, so when was the last time you had these visions and nightmares? And it was like on the second tower. It was like so long ago. And Marpa said, see, by doing yoga you actually moved beyond your karma. You burnt that karma off of doing that terrible thing and you had many other karmas to burn off and you did you burned off a tremendous degree of karma by doing your yoga and it culminated in you know you getting hit by me and hurting yourself jumping out the window and everything like that and now you're ready to learn meditation so at that point he had burned off enough karma enough bad karma from doing terrible things so that he could start learning the higher lessons, meditation, and the tantras, the higher tantras. And then at that point, Marpa put him in a cave, and he just sat there meditating. But he had worked so hard in his yoga that meditating was like a breeze. Meditating was, he had so much momentum to do meditation that he just really jumped into it and worked on it like crazy. So it was really nice. But he had it hard. You think you have it hard? He had it harder. I promise you. You guys do not have the complexities and difficulties that Milarapa had. But he did a similar thing. He had a hard time and he worked through it. He worked through it so that he was able to, as Marpa says, burn off karma, but also transcend the limitations of karma, limitations of attention, that which would hold him back from succeeding on the spiritual path. And then when he had burned off enough karma, then it was just like he launched into spiritual advancement. He sat in that cave. He meditated. He had burned through that karma. He had so much momentum that he just became enlightened tremendously like so fast. I think he became enlightened in like 30 days or something. And it was just like this huge amazing wonderful thing. It's like a slingshot. Right? Slingshot effect. Oh, I'm going down, I'm going down, I'm going he he had a he had a hard time with his yoga and he worked through it and then he had the slingshot effect he went higher and brighter so when you have a hard time with your yoga think about Milwaukee he had a hard time was his success in yoga. Him having a hard time got him to push himself beyond himself. That's when you're making that transformation, when you're pushing yourself through that difficulty, because you're really pushing yourself through the difficulties of your mind. So I'd like to meditate with you for one song. The song is called Mila Rapa. For this song we're going to meditate on the heart. Milarepa's pathway to enlightenment, him going through a hard time and seeing the way through. Do you all have the Great Teachers of Enlightenment album? All right, can we make that available today? We'll put it up on the music share. I think it's on the music share. It's on the music share, it's just not on the website. Okay, all right, good. Oh, it's on the music share, not the website. Okay, it'll be on the website. Yeah, so what we're doing is we are... I'm teaching you how to meditate. That's why we're meditating to these teacher's songs. And we're using these songs as a spiritual lesson. Each Each of these teachers on this album were enlightened teachers who had a city, an expression of enlightenment, and a doctrine, a way of teaching the pathway to enlightenment. is that you match dimensions. You know, art comes from some place. You've got to know something about art. It comes from some place. It comes from some non-intangible dimension. And Mudra, when he was creating the great teachers of enlightenment, he had studied all of these teachers, because all the teachers on this album are teachers that we study. We learn about their teachings, about their lives. Some of them might be teachers of bhakti yoga, and we don't do so much bhakti yoga, but we learn about enlightenment about that teacher, and we gain a dimension of understanding through that teacher's biography, life, or lessons. Or with Padmasambhava, we learn about the founder of Vajrayana Buddhism, which is the type of Buddhism that we practice. And we read all these wonderful stories and learn about this really, really enlightened teacher who did crazy things. It's kind of fun. But by learning about the teachers, their teachings, their lives, their stories become part of our understanding and our practices, our pathway to enlightenment. So there's this rich tapestry of enlightened teachings in what we do. It's a really wonderful practice. It's a wonderful practice because we have kind of an open-mindedness. We're open-minded to whatever works, whatever is enlightening, whatever is bright. We incorporate any teaching that is helpful. Any teaching that makes you higher and brighter, any teaching that helps you to succeed in your yoga, we can use it. Which reminds me of another teacher, which is Ramakrishna. Now Ramakrishna was a teacher that didn't live... he's not one of those ancient teachers, he lived in the 1800s, so it wasn't too long ago, one of those more modern enlightened teachers. And he was a great example of the kind of Vedic Indian tradition of enlightenment. His principal expression of enlightenment was direct God consciousness. So he had teachings, yeah, lots of teachings. But the principal way that he taught was just from his expression of enlightenment, his connection with the divine. So he would just sit there, you know, immersed in life, and then people would meditate with him, just be with him. And then they would gain spiritual illumination because of that being in his presence. And that was his principal teaching. He was, I'd say, primarily a bhakti, a devotional practitioner, in that he was so devotional to the highest form of God, or God consciousness, enlightenment. But since he came from a Brahmin class, he had a traditional Hindu awareness of life that was focused on certain gods, principally Shiva. So he started off with a background in being very devotional to Shiva. And from there, he was seen as a tremendous saint since he was a child. He would go into Samadhi, I think he started at the age of six and then became very regular at the age of ten. And everybody knew this is a special, really saintly kid. And so there was a lot of awareness of his spiritual prowess at a young age. And he, you know, eventually with his brother, you know, went and ran a Shiva temple. And they were, you know, he was a good religious person, also a spiritual adept. But his first teacher was a Tantra teacher. It was a woman who came over and taught him Tantra. He became a Tantra initiate and then he learned all of the Tantras and he mastered all of the Tantras. In Tantra there's sex as a concept at least or as a spiritual practice and it can be physical or non-physical. So he engaged in sex, in the sex with the spiritual aspect and not the physical aspect. Also as a good son, he married, so he married at a young age and then he became, even a monk basically. So he lived a monastic lifestyle where he had to be celibate, but he was married at the same time. So it's kind of funny. But he wanted to follow the tradition for the family of marriage, but then he also was spiritual. And he went into Tantra. Later on in his life he became also a Muslim, and later on in his life also a Christian. So the first thing is he was very, very, very enlightened. And at the same time he engaged in marriage, even though without sex, and Tantra, and Christianity, and everything, Islam. And he didn't see a problem with anything. He didn't see it as being separation. He saw it all as going to the same goal, which is the ultimate God, or enlightenment, or whatever you want to call it. The one great goal of all religions is to bring you beyond yourself to divinity, the greatest divinity of life. So he really engaged in everything in a way that brought him to a greater awareness of life. Now, for a lot of people, they can get very confused. Most people will see Tantra and Christianity as being vastly different, or Bhakti and Tantra as being vastly different. So in terms of looking at it at the surface, things look very, very, very different, but they can be the same, and they are the same, essentially. So he would say, as many religions, as many pathways to God. So every religion ultimately is a pathway to God-consciousness. And you don't have to have a separation. You just recognize that there's many different paths for many different types of people and if your mind is open enough then you can experience the path, many paths, and enjoy many paths. So it's kind of similar to us, you know, we'll study Taoism, we'll study Zen, even though we're primarily Vajrayana Buddhism, because in Taoism, in Zen, in Hinduism, we find that there are the same path. It's the way to God consciousness. It's the way to enlightenment. So he really lived Buddhist, I mean, an Islam initiate into a Sufi order. And he, you know, he loved Jesus Christ. In his room he had a picture of Jesus and would always burn incense in front of Jesus. So, he was really, really, you know, he really looked at different religions as, you know, the same thing. A way to God. And he lived that way and through every different religion he experienced a greater unity with God. To the Vedic and Hindu country that he was from, he was just a great Hindu saint because he had that Hindu background and he loved Kali and Shiva and he loved Krishna and he would just go into these illumined trances where he would go into Samadhi every day for hours and just light would pour out of him and everybody, whether they're Christian or Islam, would come and see him and everyone had a wonderful time. Everyone learned about their own religion by being in front of this spiritual master of all religion. So he was a very wonderful and powerful teacher. That's a good thing to know about him. So we'll do a meditation focused on Ramakrishna. This is a navel chakra. Navel chakra meditation. Alright, very nice.

1:15:29
So this is a way for me to teach you how to meditate.

1:15:35
To expose to you the city, the enlightened expression of different teachers that we study in our study of enlightenment, and to meditate on these songs that were created in the yogic process of exposing through music the dimensions of enlightenment. And by this discourse, consideration, reflection, and meditation, you connect with the dimensions of these teachers. And I am showing them to you, you know, I'm going through them with you, I'm opening your mind, your spirit to these dimensions, so that when you go home and meditate to this music, you can connect to the light in the most profound ways. So this is teaching, but it's also teaching you about your life, about your yoga, about having those good times in yoga and those hard times in yoga and understanding Ramakrishna's point of view. These are teachings of meditation, of enlightenment, of enlightened teachers and how they fit into your life. When I was in Budapest, I was there for a couple of weeks, so I had a lot of time to meditate with the students there. We went through meditation consideration of all these teachers. Unfortunately I don't have time for all of that today. But I may meditate with you in the future to go through more of these teachers. Hopefully I'll be able to spend a little bit more time with you. I'm going to be going away for a couple weeks, a couple weeks more. This is to Okinawa, I've heard many people say, I've heard them say it has the best diving in the world. I've never been there. So I've heard people who've been to the Great Barrier Reef and who've been to the Caribbean, and those are two places I think have wonderful diving, and I've heard them say Okinawa is better.

1:18:52
Wow.

1:18:53
Impressive. So, I've been interested in going to Okinawa for a long time, but never made it out there. However, a couple of my students have done something that brings them great merit. And as part of their teachings for that merit, I'm bringing them to Okinawa. It's Dharma and Tara. And they have helped a couple of the other students who are in Bodhi Woods stay in the country. So a couple of the Hungarians who had visa issues, they personally helped them. And that is a great thing. It's a great merit, and it deserves a great teaching. So because they helped someone out to be able to stay in the study with their enlightened teacher. It's something that brings tremendously good karma. And the result of the karma is, I said, well, hey, thank you for doing that. And also for doing that, I have a teaching for you. And the teaching takes place in Okinawa. So they went, wow. So it opens up a beautiful opportunity opportunity because they did something so helpful, selfless. And so, you know, I practice this thing called Mystic Scuba. And it's really kind of a desert trip, power trip, only in the water. So I'm going to be taking them on a special trip because they've done something that is quite fantastic. So I'll be away for a couple weeks. I'll be diving into enlightenment. And it will be a great, wonderful thing. When I come back, I'll probably come here on the weekends to meditate with you, probably to meditate with you on the teachers and talk about your yoga, your life, the enlightened teachers, so that you can have a connection with these teachers and these teachings and open these dimensions are open because mudra made this music. And this is yoga. It's in a structure of yoga. It's enlightened music. And it's very well done. So, through this teaching, in this music, there's my enlightenment. The lineage of enlightenment is in this. And the thing is to access that light. When you listen to a song, you might just kind of meditate and think, hmm, it's kind of a nice song. But when you have more information about the teachings, the teacher, and the light of those teachings, when you meditate to the song it opens up a greater dimensionality and when you experience the light after having the greater awareness of it, it is something that advances your awareness and luminosity many more times. So I'd like to be able to go through this process of meditation with you, meditating on the teachers and making it, and showing you how it relates to your life and your mind so that you can access these dimensions. You can hit the lights of the bright teachers in your daily meditation. See, that's how you learn to meditate. It's just a way that we do it with music, with just a little structure. But the way you really learn to meditate is you sit down with an enlightened teacher and you meditate with them. And then you go back to your daily meditation and you try to hit the same experiences. We provide this music and this dharmic discourse as a way for you to connect more easily, so it's easier when you sit down and meditate to go to those dimensions of life. Okay, so thank you all very much. Please, you know, work on your yoga. When you recognize you're having a hard time, recognize that that's the perfect lesson for you, the perfect opportunity for you to overcome enmity, selfishness, confusion, spaciness. You know, this is your lesson, your lesson that will bring you beyond the limitations, beyond the dissatisfactions of your mind. So, when you face it, even if you think it's another person, when you face it and you think it's an impossible task, remember Milorath. And remember that this is your lesson, your spiritual lesson, and work on it. You'll learn and you'll master it, you'll get through it. You'll see that the thing that was hard ends up being the thing that was powerful for your enlightenment. Thank you all very much. was powerful for your enlightenment. Thank you all very much.

1:25:06
Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
