0:00:00
Very nice. So you guys are reading the Tales of Power book. driving, the way that we do scuba, our mystic scuba, is really very, very similar to how Don Juan teaches Carlos when they go out into the desert together. It's very similar. They use the places of power, the energy lines, and the local dimensions, and also the local animals, sometimes plants. They use the things in the flora and fauna, and the power and the energy of the location as a means to gain a greater awareness of life. And when we do the mystic scuba diving, it's very similar. Very very similar. It's just that with mystic scuba, before you can even really do the mystic part, you have to be very very very good at scuba. Self is a discipline that takes a lot of time and attention. Some people are like fish, and they just get it right away. They just hop in the water. Even though they have 30 pounds of weight and a giant metal tank stacked to their back, they don't have a problem with it. They're OK with it. So some people are like that and some people it takes them a long time to get used to the water and a while to get used to the equipment. So, you know learning the ways of the water how to access the water, the water world is a is a trick, you know, it's like anything else. It's like maybe hard in the beginning or easy in the beginning, but when you just keep working at it, you just keep trying, you just keep doing it, just keep doing it, then it works out okay. So, when we read these books, they have a lot to do with our lives. The books are not you know, any particular

0:03:03
tacit information.

0:03:05
But the books are teachings. And they're teachings that if you, you know, if you observe, the teachings are things that we are engaging in, in our lives. It's not just that you're reading about tales of power. you're reading about Tales of Power. It's that in your life, those lessons are alive, and you're experiencing Tales of Power. So the kind of esoteric direction that we take when we go from month to month here, as we're learning about the way of the warrior. We'll read these books, and these books are really inner aspects of the warrior's way that you will see in your life, in your yoga, in your meditation, in your work, in your relationships, in your life, you see the reflection of these teachings. These teachings are ways of pointing out the warrior's way in your life, in your experience. If you had just come across the book before, a couple of you have, and you read the book, you say, wow, it's interesting. A couple of new ideas. But that's conceptual. And this school is not about conceptual knowledge. But when you experience the book, you read the book, but you're on the study, when you're following the pathway to enlightenment, then all of a sudden, through the pathway to enlightenment and the connection of the book, there's more deeper wisdom that you're able to draw out of your experience of life. That's what this is about. And again, that's why I don't often, I don't recommend reading a lot of books. I recommend reading the right books. You read a lot of books, you get a lot of strange ideas. And in a lot of spiritual study, there's no books to read at all. Like in Zen, they very often say, eh, who cares, why bother? And maybe in Tibetan Buddhism, there might be a lot of sutras to read, but not a lot of books. Sutras are actual spiritual practices. So there's not a lot of books to read. There's a big trap in thinking. And when you think you know stuff, when you think you know what's going on, when you think you know yourself, know what you want in life, you're trapping yourself into suffering. You trap yourself into a pathway to suffering. And that's why, you know, developing concepts of spirituality, you know, you read a book and you get an idea, it's not necessarily good. The conceptual understandings are limited. So thinking is tonal. Thinking is tonal. Thinking is itself an abstraction from the ultimate. And it's as granular as the thought itself. A thought takes all of life and wraps it up into whatever whatever thought you hold in your mind at the moment. So if you're just sitting there thinking, oh, I'm really pissed off about this one thing, or I really want this other thing. When you're holding that thought in your mind, you're holding in your mind all of life just in a very small package, in a very particular way. However, when you are open-minded at all times, you can be intelligent and pragmatic, you can have power in the way that you live, in the way that you work, in your expressions. But when you go through life, you don't have to say life is only this big. And meditation, yoga, the pathway to enlightenment, and reading books as a lesson way of collecting information. This is a way to ease up on yourself, lose your self-importance, and really open your mind, open your awareness to life. Because thoughts and concepts always lead you into conflict, always lead you into suffering. So you can't trust thoughts and concepts. But you can trust awareness and you can trust experience.

0:09:22
You can learn.

0:09:24
There's something beyond thoughts and concepts that you learn about life through experience. And you can be aware of the truth. And that comes from experience. That's why the study, if you haven't noticed, is a lot about experience. It's about the experience of meditation. Meditating, practicing meditation. That's the foundation of the practice. And then we practice job yoga, the yoga of work. And we're teaching you the template for it. It's very sophisticated. We're teaching you the template for it in your yoga project. But you give it a shot in your regular daily work. And eventually, after you go through the beginning parts of yoga, you'll actually become a yogi. And you'll actually be able to do yoga any time, in any job. So, we do this job yoga, right? Because it's an exercise. Since many of us work, we spend a lot of hours of our day working. We can learn to make our work spiritual practice. So right now you're learning that through the job yoga, through the yoga projects. But eventually you become so powerful in yoga through the project that the momentum that you gain transfers over. So this is what you start to learn by reading the Don Juan books. It's like, hey, can't I just be enlightened at any moment? Well, I mean, I guess so. But there's this process attention. Refining, refining, and refining the first attention. And you do it through the practices of losing self-importance, assuming responsibility. This is what Dunhuang called cleaning up your life. Losing personal history is extremely important. Otherwise, your first attention has always got a hole in it. A terrible hole in it. So, after going through the practice, you start to see in your yoga where your personal history is. Your yoga teacher will tell you. You're doing yoga, and your yoga teacher's like, you know, don't you see how this thing that's your excuse is getting in your way of actually accomplishing the task. And then you say, yeah. And you say, oh, okay. And the whole practice here is to be able to be efficiently do your work. And when you see yourself getting something done in the physical, you can probably by now acknowledge and see inwardly that you've gained more personal power, that there's some happiness and some brightness that you're gaining. This practice is a practice of balance, of first attention and second attention. And that's why it's such a fantastic way to see how you're progressing, because you do something and you gain personal power from it. So when you do it, you say, wow, that was stronger, that was more powerful. You're able to see that. You're able to witness it yourself. When you create the act of first attention, you're able to become very aware of the fact that you're brighter in the second attention. You gain a greater spiritual brightness. So when you see that something stops you, self-importance, personal history, you're able to say, alright, well, how can I deal with this thing, my self-importance or my personal history or whatever? How can I deal with this so that I can actually get the work done? And then you start to clean up your life. You start to manage your attention, your first attention, in a stronger way. Your toenail, your first attention. You start to manage it in a way that is less cumbersome or less blocked, less obscuring of life. And then that way you can, you know, clean up your mind, clean up your life. So many people have terrible sufferings and sorrows in their personal history. You know, they go back to these moments where somebody did you wrong, or some friend stabbed you in the back, or whatever. And with that displaced energy, you're always hurt, you're always wounded there. And you have to be able to clean that kind of stuff up, so that the wound goes away. You can think back to it and it doesn't hurt. You become detached from that suffering. But when you have a whole bunch of, like, you know, this happened in the past, this thing with this person, this desire for that person, you're holding a whole bunch of lines out there, energy lines, to the past, to your personal history. And that weighs you down. You always have a hole in your aura and the energy can't fill up because through these lines the energy escapes. So you have to clean yourself up, you have to moderate that. You have to heal the places that are hurt by assuming responsibility for your yoga principally. Don't indulge like a son of a bitch as Don once said. And you really tighten up your life and your mind. because the things of the past, the people of the past, don't hurt you anymore. And it's just a more intelligent way of being. It's a way of being about your life where you're happier. And then you recognize that when you get into the same situation again that would have caused all this karma, would have caused this big blow up, and then would have became the same roadkill in your personal history. You'll notice that when those new things come up into your life, that because you've cleaned up your past, because your attention's stronger, that you don't have to make a mess of the same situation. Your karma changes at that point So that's what this is about tightening up your life Tightening up your mind And when you're when your life and mind are tight when you're doing your yoga You'll see you'll get things done get things done get things done when you're getting your tasks done You're gaining personal power. You're gaining the ability to move and getting the momentum of personal power and your yoga becomes stronger and stronger and stronger. And then eventually, your yoga, the momentum within you is so strong in yoga and you have such a clean first attention because you've cleaned up your life and your mind that you can apply yoga to your job. Like right now, you guys are applying, you may be the first attention of yoga. And maybe you only see the first attention of yoga. So you're like, yeah, I'm learning to fill out status reports on time. I can do that at my job now. I couldn't before. I was always doing them late. You know, you might learn something like getting there on time. I always used to be late to work, but now, since my yoga teacher makes sure that I'm on time for my meetings, I'm able to go to work on time. So that's simple little things, but it improves your work. It improves your day job. And with that, you gain the awareness of the first attention getting better. But this is all about the study of the second intention. This is all about spiritual study. There's plenty of people out there who could do status reports on time, every time. You know, in the business world or whatever. There's plenty of people who can program. Plenty of people who could run businesses and make way more money than our business models, right? But they don't do yoga. They don't do yoga. They don't use the opportunity as a way of transformation. If they sat in here and started to do yoga, they would start to hit their personal history and say, no, I want to do it my way, self-importance. And then, my personal history will stop me cold. And then they go, nah, I'm just going to go and do things my way somewhere else. Which is the way of the self. It has nothing to do with the pathway to enlightenment. This is the pathway to enlightenment. This is totally different. Although we program computers like everybody else, although we do lots of things that everyone else does, we do it in a very different way. And it's a way that produces enlightening results. A lot of people built stone towers, right? But when Milarepa did it, there was a different effect. And Marpa would just say, yeah, you're burning off your karma. And that means that he's clearing up his first attention so that he would be in balance and his spirit could really shine. So that's what this is about. That's what this is about. Now, so we're talking about, we're starting to talk about

0:20:03
the first attention and second attention.

0:20:05
What I'd like to do is talk about the double, because the double is a good way to understand first attention and second attention. So, we've all read about the double, right? The double is apparently a second person appearing. Oh, there's a second you somewhere, right? And then the double is just, you know, it's like you're in two places at once, right? And in mysticism, there is an aspect of it called the double. And this is something that they talk about in Taoism, in Buddhism, in Hinduism. It's considered a Siddha power in Buddhism. So not everybody can do it. However, it can be done. And it has its uses. Like Don Hinero could be way down there in central Mexico, and then when he wants to give a teaching to Carlos, he just shoots his double over there when he feels it's right.

0:21:29
Boom.

0:21:30
Then Don Hinero's there and he thinks that the double is like the boogeyman or something, right? He's like, oh my God, it's something different, you know? But no, it's not at all like the boogeyman. The double is really the self. It's just that it runs on more of a spiritual operating system. It can be physicalized, the devil. The devil can look very physical and can touch things and stuff, but it is really astral or etheric, although it can appear and interact with the physical world. Very often, the double is something that's used for a spiritual reason. You wouldn't use the double for something wrong. Like, if you use the double for something that is not spiritual in nature, then you recoup a lot of bad karma. So a wise person uses the double and learns how to use it properly. You know, you wouldn't like get mad at somebody, and then just go over and smack them with your double. Hit them over the head, but then say you have an alibi because you were at a

0:23:03
party the whole time. That wasn't me.

0:23:04
Everyone follow me. Right? You wouldn't do that kind of thing. Because there's too much karma, karmic repercussions with the devil. See, what you start to learn is, when you start to learn about energy and power, you have to really understand that you can't use power for bad things. You can't use power for negative things, or even selfish things, because it brings too much bad karma. So if you use enlightened energy, if you use power for negative things, it brings tremendously bad karma back to you immediately and then you feel bad. So in our school we have access to, through me, enlightened energy and it's very very bright pure positive power and You guys have access to it and you guys work in it. That's what your yoga is working with It's working with the energy of enlightenment now if you use that power correctly, then you get this beautiful momentum of light in you and It's really powerful and beautiful and wonderful. Your meditations are bright. You just end up in this whole world of enlightenment and it's a great thing. If you use it wrong, if someone takes the energy of enlightenment and let's say gets mad at someone and inwardly slams them, that's our term for getting mad at someone. If you get mad at someone, immediately you're hitting them. You just think a bad thought, hits them, hits their aura, and it hurts them. Now, some people are more sensitive than others, some people don't notice. But you'll notice, because if you think bad thoughts about people, people here, people outside of here. If you have the enlightened energy that comes from this connection and you start to think bad thoughts about people, then you will throw a, you'll take enlightened energy and you'll throw it at someone in a negative way, in an attack way, and it will hurt them. So then there's an immediate karma that comes back to you. And that is that you go into a lower state of mind. It's true. It's very, very true. So you don't want to do that. That's bad karma. It's not the right way to use enlightened energy. You really have to recognize you're in a very unusual situation here. Because there's not a lot of enlightened teachers. And there are some wonderful things that are afforded through this opportunity, such as, let's say a connection. A connection to enlightenment, right? And that is a connection that is beyond the physical, and it's a connection to a very, very bright, refined, beautiful energy. It's the energy that uplifts you beyond suffering. It's the energy that brings things together in an ecstatic union of luminosity. That's what enlightened energy does. So you have a connection to it. You have access to it. And it is there to train you. It's there for you to work with in a constructive way. However if you don't work with it in a constructive way, then you make a lot of problems. In fact, you can make yourself quite unhappy. But it's better to avoid using it incorrectly. It's better to use it correctly. It's a good positive power. So if you use it to increase your meditation, get a better job, do your yoga, then it's really good. But if you use it to hurt someone, if you have a sloppy mind of anger and negativity, then you're just going to always be bringing yourself into lower states of mind because you're using this energy. How do you not use this energy? Leave. Quit. Because if you're my student, you have a connection. And you'll make tons of mistakes, I'm sure. You can make tons of mistakes, that's okay. As long as you are honestly seeking to get out of suffering, to get more powerful and luminous. Then you'll make mistakes, you'll fall down, you'll go into a lower state of mind, you'll get yourself back up, you'll learn how to do it right eventually. You know, it takes a lot of repetition. You have to see your mind, you have to learn how to be mindful, you have to have the desire to stop being such a jerk. And you have to see that when you are a jerk, it just makes you feel terrible. And then you say, oh, well, one, probably logically shouldn't be a jerk. Two, makes me feel terrible to be a jerk. Three, I'm going to stop being a jerk. And then you have to start watching your mind. You have to really, really work on it. So that's the right way. That's the proper way. But as soon as you use your energy against someone in anger, in negativity, then there's an immediate karmic rebound. Whatever happens to them happens, right? But you will immediately drop into a state of mind that is lower because you've taken a very, very beautiful refined energy and you've used it in a negative way. It's considered kind of bad to do bad things with enlightenment in general. Like, you know, like hurt it or something like that. Or use enlightened energy in a bad or negative way. It's considered to be a bad thing. Not nice. It doesn't elevate you. So you have to recognize that whether you're aware of it or not, there's something very, very, very special in this connection. And in terms of training your mind, in terms of being happy, in terms of cleaning up the negative thoughts in your mind, in terms of getting out of the suffering you have in your self-attention, in your life, that's what this study is about. That's what this energy affords you to do faster. Much faster. If you work with it nicely, you can jump out of terrible patterns that have been with you for years. You can drop terrible problems that have caused you suffering for years. You can drop it like that. You can change patterns like that. And you can just jump into really high bright feelings, really high bright states of mind, because these states of mind are afforded through this connection. It's something you couldn't have imagined yourself, but it's something that is in this connection, something for you to develop, to work on. In your meditations you start to see them more clearly, the bright luminous states of mind. And it's really, really, really important for you to recognize this is the point to experience this, to get higher. And when you find yourself thinking negative thoughts that bring you lower, that's wrong. Don't do that. Why do that? When God was handing out brains, you thought he was saying pains. He said, no, no, I don't want any pains. No, no, it's brains. You want to be smart. You want to be a smart being. You don't want to go out and make a lot of mistakes. You want to say, oh, someone put their hand in the fire. I see that it burned their hand and hurt their hand. I don't want that. I can learn from their mistake. I don't have to go and burn my hand in order to know the truth that that hurts. So we have to really take a look at this opportunity and what this study is about and to address it for what it is. It's the study of elevating yourself into a happier condition, out of the emotional disturbances that constantly dog you. It's the study of higher states of mind, higher and brighter ways of looking at life and getting out of your personal suffering. That's what this is about. So when you work with the study and the energy in this connection properly, then you're excited, you feel positive, you're looking at things in a brighter way every day or every meditation. And you're able to make really, really positive changes in your life. But if you look at it in a way of doubt, in a way of just frustration because it's so hard, that's not the way to do anything. That's not the way to succeed in anything. You're just being difficult. And there's room for difficult, but you have to really, really want to change. It's like we were out scuba diving today, right? And it is difficult. Scuba diving is hard. You got all this equipment on and it just squeezes your whole body. And you're freezing in the water. And let's say you're in the water and you want to turn over on your back, but you can't. And you're just like, I'm stuck. Getting through the frustration of the equipment alone is very difficult. But if you just sit there and get angry at it, it ain't going to help. Scuba diving is actually extremely beautiful if you learn to do it right. So you say, ah, all this equipment. You have to say, okay, there's equipment involved in this study. I have to learn how to use the equipment. I see somebody else using the equipment very well. I shouldn't get just frustrated because there's equipment. I should learn to use the equipment so that I can enjoy the underwater world. That's what it's about. There was a time where one of the older students in their previous stages of states of mind. We were diving in Hawaii, and we were at this extremely dangerous dive site where the most divers in Hawaii have ever died. I think for Kali, that was her first dive, actually. I said, hey, you wanna go diving? She goes, sure, I'll try it. So I was like, this'll be great. Anyway, so I took a bunch of divers out there and it was called the blowhole. And what happened is the waves would push, we kind of go in this cove and then the waves, if you went out too far, the waves would come and they would crash you up against these rocks. And if you're lucky, you'd go under the rocks and through this blowhole and shoot up into the sky. So if you weren't killed on the rocks, you would have a chance to make it back up on land through the blowhole.

0:35:21
But mostly divers would get thrashed

0:35:23
against the rocks and die. So of course on our dive, we went too far out and we came up in those waves and we're headed right towards the rocks. And this one diver saw that she was headed towards the rocks, so then she got upset about it. And she's all, God damn it, I'm going towards those rocks and I'm going to die. And there were some pretty big waves, so it's really, you know, it's like pretty Pretty bad situation. So then she started to just make frustrated noises.

0:36:01
You know, she kicked a little bit

0:36:03
and saw that it wasn't helping. Then she just started making frustrated noises. So then I swam over and I said, how's it going? And she's all, goddammit, there are fins and don't work and rocks.

0:36:16
And I said, yeah, that's right. I said, let's just stop for a moment and take all of this in.

0:36:19
So we just stopped and I pointed out the rocks and we saw this nice wave roll over the rocks, crash 20 feet up in the air, big explosion of water everywhere. And I said, that could be you. That must be the place where all those divers die. And she's like, but my fins. I'm like, yeah, you have fins.

0:36:51
And she's like, but oh God,

0:36:53
I shouldn't have dove today,

0:36:54
and oh, and everything's uncomfortable. And I said, yeah, anyway, so, getting angry at this whole process isn't gonna help you save your life. What's gonna save your life is if you focus on kicking in that direction, and it pointed to the exit. And so then what she did was she stopped complaining about the equipment and the fins and even that she went out and started even diving that day. And then she kicked, kicked, kicked, kicked, kicked, kicked, kicked, kicked, kicked, kicked, kicked, kicked, kicked against the current, kicked against the waves, and then got out. And I said, oh, that's very good. You didn't die. You succeeded in diving. To succeed in scuba diving is to not die. So that's why the first rule of scuba diving is to breathe. And if you're breathing, you know you're okay. Then you've succeeded. The purpose is to breathe and the goal is to survive.

0:37:51
Yeah, so, you know,

0:37:53
that's what you're involved in here. You're involved in an experience. And there's things about it. There's different currents, there's different structures. Your yoga project is your fins and your equipment. And we have different currents that we go through, and we have to navigate through them. And as you go through it, you'll see your mind appear. And frustrations and self-importances, and personal histories. And all of those things will actually just distract you. And they'll bring you into dangerous states of mind, let's say. And, you know, anger, frustration, just, no, I don't like this, I'm going to go do something else. That's fine. But what it does is it just brings you off. And if you want to succeed in the study, the study is all about action, experience. So it's like, okay, we're here to do something. Let's do it as a way of learning about life through our experience. And we are, like Don Juan teaches, we are erasing personal history. We're becoming inaccessible. We're working on assuming responsibility. We're letting go of our personal history and everything, right? So we're really refining ourselves in the way of the warrior, right? And this makes us stronger and more efficient. We can focus on a task and not be dissuaded by our personal history or previous mental models of ourself that say, I can do this, but I can't do that. I like this, but I don't like that. We actually refine that aspect of ourselves by working through all of our different yoga projects, by practicing mindfulness. So this is the practice. And then we do something. We go scuba diving, we do yoga projects, and when we find that we have frustrations, angers, or if our personal history comes up in our face and it's pushing us off, and it's stopping us from doing the task, then you have to really acknowledge something in my mind is coming up, preventing me from doing the task. Now, like that diver with me in the rocks at the blowhole, and like Don Juan, you know how Don Juan's always saying to Carlos, if we don't do this right now, you're gonna die.

0:41:07
Right?

0:41:09
So he's always putting him in this condition of letting him know, really, this is dangerous stuff. You can't mess around with this. If that moth comes over and you're not prepared, that moth's gonna kill you. It's a pretty big moth, right? So he's always telling him those things. And they happen to be true, but there's different ways to describe death, I suppose. But definitely, when I was at the blowhole with this diver, it was a very, very good chance of them dying. Of course I was going to pull them out if they were unable to succeed. There's always many chances, of course, right? But you have to really recognize, oh, my anger is getting in the way of me doing something. And in this case, if I don't do it, I'm going to die. But maybe for you, if I don't do it, I'm going to get a strike in your yoga or whatever. You have to really recognize that the practice here is to recognize when those things come up, when the self arises and prevents you from doing a simple yoga task. And then you refine your life by handling your business, moderating your life, moderating your mind, so that you can do it. Now, since we're Buddhists, we care about karma. So when that diver was able to stop her anger and save her own life. She got tremendous personal power, and she got a lot of brightness from it. She became a person who could do that, save themselves. Where other divers would die there, because it's frustrating.

0:43:07
Oh, can't do anything. Death.

0:43:10
But she was able to save herself. So that's personal power, ability to push off disturbing emotions that would block her. So she made a big change there, and that's fantastic. That's what we're doing. We do it in lots of little ways. That's what we're doing here. That's what this is about. We face challenges where stuff in us comes up, and we learn to work with our emotions and our problems to moderate them to clean it up so it doesn't get in the way and we can do things. So that's what it's that's what about that's what it's about that's what the study is about that's what you got to do something negative, when you have your nasty doubts and your angers and your depressions about you, yourself, your study, your sangha mates, your teacher, and everything, or even people outside of study, when you have negativity towards different people, then what happens is you get karma, bad karma. And it results, what Buddhists observe is we observe our thoughts. So when you start to engage in negative feelings and stuff like that, it creates bad thoughts and bad feelings. It perpetuates that in your mind. Now, if something bothers you but you're able to moderate yourself, get yourself into balance, then the karma kicks off. And then you follow this whole path of your negative thoughts. But if you are practicing Buddhist mindfulness, when some nastiness appears, you're not responsible for the nastiness, because that's already in you. It's possible, as a student, to be mindful and to practice what we're learning. Don't just sit there and keep thinking negative thoughts. That's not what this is about. When it comes up, say, Whoa, this is a problem. Stop it. I could just let this go. It's not a big deal. It's gone. But if you go, me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me then you will think all sorts of thoughts. And when they're negative thoughts about a person, every time you cycle around into that negative thought, bam, you're hitting their aura with your negative thoughts. You're taking the enlightened energy from this connection and going, me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me Oh wait, I forgot. I got confused. Wait, wait, wait, I want to go eat that. No, no, no. I'm angry. Yeah. What am I gonna wear today? Right Your little dark thoughts will cycle around again and again And if you're not mindful, you just keep going through negative thoughts. You could have dropped it, but no, you have a problem with it. You're not mindful, and it just keeps going, going, going, going.

0:46:56
So,

0:46:57
spending a whole day, or a week, or a month, or a year, thinking a bunch of negative thoughts, and a little cycle of thoughts that you keep doing, is no fun. It's not very happy. Of course, if that's the way you have to learn, it's okay, as long as you get to the end of it. But when you assume responsibility for what you're doing, then you could let go of a lot of that pettiness. And you could say, look, I'm doing this, right? And I'm going to do it right. And this little thing I don't have to worry about. You can be mindful and drop it. It's not a big deal. It's not a big deal. I promise you, it's not a big deal. You think it's a big deal? It's not a big deal. You just have to have the right perspective. In a little perspective, it's the biggest deal in the world. If you hold it all in one thought, it is the whole world. But when you can let go of thoughts Then the pettiness is not there. The problem is not there. Nothing's there. The whole world is open luminous and bright. That's meditation That's why that's why we meditate so that you can let go of your negative and limited thoughts If you're thinking about you know climbing a tree It's no big deal when you're meditating But if you're going around meditating or thinking about being mad at somebody, then you're holding in your whole mind, you're wrapping it all up into this one thing that you're holding, a negative thought. And then the power of your thoughts come into this negativity. And it goes over to the person, BAM! Bam! And hits them. And I for one notice these kinds of things when it happens. Especially when it happens to me. It's not a good idea to get mad at your enlightened teacher. It's just not a good idea. First of all they notice, second of all it hurts them, third of all, oh boy, what karma does, what the karma that comes back to you is more and more negative thoughts. And you're like, eh, that's not a fun way to go. So now you can just say, huh, it's not a big deal, no need to do it. You shouldn't get mad at your yoga teachers either. You know why? They notice. And they don't like it. And also, if you're the reason why your yoga doesn't get done because you're so mad and frustrated that you can't just chill out, we're here to work. We're here to learn to work. We're here to observe our mind, to let go of things so that we can do things, so we can move ahead. And your yoga teachers tell you everything that makes sense. But if you're just too into your self-importance, too into your attachments and your desires, then you will fight them. And it doesn't make sense. Because if you logically think, well, my yoga teacher told me this and it's true, but I'm mad because I like the thing that's bad, whatever. You need to change your mind. You need to chill out. You need to see that you're creating darkness. And you're coming at your yoga teacher with a bad attitude, and they feel it. That's not what this is about. You're not here to fight your teachers with your personal history and your self-importance. Especially when you can logically understand, like, my teacher's right. They're showing me something that makes sense. And it's right. It's just that me. When you do that, you need to stop doing that. You have to be a big girl now. Big boy. Big boy pants. Right? Yeah, that's right. You can't do that anymore. It's not the right thing to do. It's not what this is all about. I'm here to give you a hand up, and I'm like, oh, here, let me help you up, and you're like punching me while I'm doing it. I'm like, whoa. I'm going to help pick you up over here because it's nice. Oh, I keep getting hit. I'm like, whoa, golly. That was nice. Then they put you up here and you go, oh, okay, I feel a little bit better. And I'm like, oh, I feel a little worse. So yeah, I guess that's the job.

0:51:50
But I want you to feel better.

0:51:51
I want you to get up there and I want you to get there. But it's nice if you don't hit me in the process. Really, it is, I appreciate it. So, very good. So, there's that spin of karma. You don't want to get into negative karmas. It creates negative thoughts, brings you into lower states of mind, darker, more limited, see problems and stuff like that. But if you just do your tasks, have fun with it. When stuff comes up, you learn to deal with yourself. Chill out, let go, and do your work. And you just see, hey, I feel pretty good, actually. It's like, this is pretty bright. Actually, there's a lot of brightness when I do it this way. So when you do that, then it's happier for you. And that's what this is about.

0:52:46
It's about being happier.

0:52:50
Yeah, so the double, right? We're describing the double, slowly. Slowly describing the double. The double, again, is not just a second person. And we've already discussed, you wouldn't use the double to go and hurt somebody. Because when you start to learn mysticism, when you start to gain a stronger mind through your meditation, you never turn it on anyone for a negative reason. Power and siddhas and stronger mental clarity alone, these are all used to advance your life, to advance your happiness, or the lives and happiness of others. That's what you do with your mind. That's what you do with this light. That's what you do with the power that you gain in the study. If you ever find yourself advancing yourself over another, you're setting yourself up for a lot of suffering. When you use power to get over on somebody else, it's not good. If you use a double to get over on somebody else, it's not good. You don't use, especially when you use power, especially special techniques like the double or something like that. Oh, it's not good. So just remember, work on it in your yoga. If you can work through your yoga, chill yourself out and be more at peace and be able to get things done, then you're actually training your spirit correctly. Then, because when you have a double, if you're a nasty bastard, guess what you do? Your double goes off somewhere and does something nasty. But if you've purified yourself, then your double goes out wherever the Dharma needs to have the double. And then your double goes out and does wonderful, amazing, wonderful things like Dhan and Ero. you know, if you're going to learn Siddhas, you know, if you're going to gain these cool special effects, you have to really clean your mind, clean your spirit, clean your attention. So the devil, right, is the self, right, in an etheric body, we would say. And the devil The devil can go around and do things. It depends how the devil is developed. Don Hinero and Don Juan would, at least Don Hinero, had developed the devil so that he would look physical and was able to do physical things. Sometimes the devil is more etheric. But the devil can do things. There are special effects that the double can do. And they're usually effects of power or effects of an enlightening nature. Yes, the double. I remember the first time I saw my double

0:55:50
I was

0:55:52
really really tired laying down to sleep, and then I remembered that I was really, really thirsty. And I thought to myself, oh, I should have got a glass of water. And I said, you know what I'm going to do? I'm going to get up and go to the sink and I'm going to get a glass of water. So I got up, I went to the sink, and it was so tiring. I was so tired. It took so much energy to get up. Oh, God. I was so groggy. And then I went over and I got the water, but somehow, and I tried to drink it, but it just didn't work out so well. I was just all, I'm just gonna go back to bed. I remember not being satisfied with the water, but I decided to go back to bed. And then when I got near my bed, I saw myself sleeping there. And I was all, what? I was like, what's going on? What is that? And then I was wide awake. I was like, wait, something happened. That was really interesting. But I'm thirsty. So, yeah, so, you know, as I describe it in the book, you know, it's very, those descriptions are very, very, very, very, very common descriptions of the double. Now, in order to learn the etheric double, you really, really got to learn dreaming. And we do a little dreaming, if you haven't noticed, but we haven't really, you know, I haven't taught you guys dreaming yoga yet or anything like that. But you really got to do dreaming yoga to develop the etheric double, if you're interested. But what is the etheric double? And why does Don Juan and Don Tenero say that you develop it through dreaming? So easy. So easy. Let me explain. The etheric double is just like your physical body. A dream. There. There you go. Now you know. So when you go to sleep, what happens? You're laying in bed sleeping. The body's there, maybe it's snoring. Or as I call it, my evening mantra. Okay, so you might be snoring your head off, right? But then somewhere in La La Land, you're hiking up a mountain, talking to your friends, looking at the sunset, worrying about work, or something. You're going through this whole adventure. You know when you're dreaming, and you're in a dream, and you are there in the dream? Well, guess what you're doing. You're creating a double, which is a body that exists in a etheric place, we call it the, you know, the dreaming dimensions. And you have a body there, and you can even touch the body and feel the body. But you definitely experience life from that body. You experience life. You know that you are there. And you talk to people. You exchange information. You have experiences. And your actual consciousness and being exists in what we call a dream body. It's as real as a dream. Right? And that's where you are. And that it has an aura, the body actually has a subtle physical structure, but it just comes and goes real fast. You know, just like a dream. There, it's gone. So the etheric double is really, really, really the same as a dreaming body. It's just that when you get really good at dreaming and you start to understand the process of control and moving around that body in the dream, then you start to just say, oh, it's not so hard to do that in real life. Actually, it's much harder to do it in real life. It's very, very, very, very, very different. Well, that's the same. It's just harder because the world is so physical. It's such a heavy physical world that it's much harder to do in real life. But the same concept, right? So taking baby steps. You start to observe, oh, in a dream I am there, but where am I? Where are you in a dream? Hiking on some mountain somewhere, but you're there. But really at the same time, that's your double and you're actually snoring your head off in bed. Or something, right? So you could be in two places at once. They're not so amazing anymore as Don Henaro. Oh no, he is amazing. He's very good. But that's exactly what Don Henaro did, was, you know, you could be doing something somewhere, but your double, your etheric double, could be somewhere else doing something. And it works exactly the same as dreaming. That's why they say the way to learn the etheric double is through the dreams. And really, you need to do dreaming yoga before you, you know, really develop an etheric double. Because double because if you don't it doesn't work out. It's just playing around, pipe dream. But the etheric double is actually very real. So why don't we do a double meditation? We'll meditation. And what we'll do is we'll meditate for three songs. Let me find some songs.

1:02:37
Okay.

1:02:38
Okay, and what we're going to do is we're going to meditate on the navel. Slow your thoughts down. We're gonna meditate on the heart. Stopping thought. We're gonna meditate on the third eye. When we get to the third eye, I want you to open your eyes and look at me. And I'm going to show you right here, the etheric double. And don't be like Carlos and get scared. Right? And just, you know, look up here and this is a seeing exercise. So you want to see, right?

1:04:15
Don't worry.

1:04:15
It's not the boogeyman.

1:04:17
But yeah, you just wanna open your eyes

1:04:19
and you wanna look right here and just see. So that you can, when you see the devil, you can learn something about the devil. So after you see it, I'll tell you a little bit more about it so that you'll say, oh, golly. Okay, so who saw The Devil?

1:05:16
Woody Wood's. Wood's in the house. Oh, sorry. All right, good.

1:05:20
All right, so The Devil.

1:05:23
So I had a joke I said.

1:05:24
I just got back from Monterey.

1:05:26
That's what Don Hinero would do, right? Don Hinero would like pop from one place to another, kind of physically and be able to talk and do stuff. And that's pretty cool command of the double. But the double is not necessarily just a physical phenomenon. The double is actually, we call it the etheric double because it's actually, let's say an energy body. Now, when you look up here and see the double, it won't look like me sitting here in a physical body. So I don't have a physical double like Don Hinero shooting over in different places and being able to talk and do physical things. But I have an etheric double, which is really the energy body, an energy body. And so when you sit there and look up here, you actually see the etheric double, which is, it has the same light as me, the same aura as me, which is a kind of, if you see it, it's kind of a gold light. It has other things about it too. But it's easiest to see as a gold light. Now, every single one of you, except for maybe one of you, has experienced the etheric double while you were doing your yoga, maybe martial arts, maybe at work sometimes. You have experienced my etheric double coming over and teaching you something because I use the etheric double regularly. And that will be where you're sitting there working on your yoga project, maybe usually with your yoga teacher, but sometimes just by yourself. And things get gold. Things get bright. And you feel a very, very, very positive spiritual energy. That's a teaching. The etheric devil is a way that I teach. It's a way of directing enlightened energy, Siddhi. And so you'll be working on your yoga and then the etheric double will come over and things will seem to you that it just gets very bright and happy and that you make progress, usually. You usually don't have a reaction to the etheric the way you do to me physically.

1:08:25
You gotta go, ah, ah.

1:08:26
So sometimes you'll be doing work and you'll generate the light yourself and become happy and figure stuff out. But sometimes you'll notice that it's outside of yourself. The light comes and the effect of the teaching, of that enlightened teaching, helps you to do your work and generally feel really good and bright. That's the etheric double. Every single one of you, except for maybe one of you, has actually experienced that, the teaching of the etheric double, because I do it throughout the yoga. So, you have experienced it before, and sitting in this meditation, I went for a walk, but I put my etheric double right in the seat. So when you sat there, and I took off right in the beginning, the music started and I ran out of the room, screaming. And then I went for a walk and I put the etheric double right here. So sitting here felt like sitting with me and if you opened your eyes and didn't freak out, go, ah! Maybe you went, yay! He disappeared! He was in a therapy bubble the whole time. I was gone. Yeah, you know, if you didn't go through a lot of thought processes and you're able to just sit there and see, there is a light that you see. And what I want you to do is I want you to be able to pattern match these lights. You start to understand it. It's a certain city. It's a certain energy. And there's a certain, when I use the etheric double, it's a certain way of energy. That my physical body is a little different. Still feels like me, but a little different. Yes, it's very good. So you've seen it at times, you've experienced it at times. Who remembers it from your yoga? Okay, so a few more. Good. See, but as you start to remember, you start to be able to see better. That's why the Bodhi Woods people can see it more clearly. They're all like, oh yeah, there are some bars double wandering around the property. I do that a lot. It's like if I'm in Hungary, I wander around Bodie Woods a lot. It has a sound effect. But that's what, you know, in Tales of Power, that's what, you know, Don Henaro does this amazing weird thing in the trees or something. And then Carla says, hey Don Juan, could everybody see that? And then Don Juan says, no, only if you can see, can you see that. A normal person would probably just see like an extra big firefly.

1:11:31
They don't see it, they're just like,

1:11:33
oh, something's there, I don't know what's going on. Have to conform it to my mental model of the world.

1:11:41
So, yes.

1:11:43
Yeah, see, this is how you start to open your awareness. There's like, you know, all sorts of wonderful, you know, enlightening, fantastic, magical things happening, but you have to become aware of it. You have to open your mind. And we start to do this through pattern matching dimensions. We started this with focusing on learning the gold and white dimensions. When you meditate and you are listening to this music, the music draws from these causal dimensions, right? So the artist in our music, the artist is a yogi who meditates very, very well, Mudra or some of the other guys from the older music who are very good yogis, very, very good at meditating with their teacher, going to very, very, very bright causal dimensions and making a connection in their music. They really draw the spirit of their music from that place. So when we meditate with the music, you can start to connect to those dimensions and you can start seeing the white lights. You can start experiencing the white light, the gold light. And you actually merge your awareness and your attention with the light by focusing on the light, the light, the light that's associated with it. You meditate on light and then you experience this dimension of light. After a while, actually even in the beginning, you experience white lights and gold lights through meditation and then you're sitting there doing your yoga, maybe you're just shopping at Whole Foods or something, and then all of a sudden one of those dimensions comes back. And you're like, ah, everything's bright, I feel really great. And it's because you are putting yourself into these beautiful, bright, spiritual, selfless dimensions of luminosity. And when you experience that, it's always spiritually uplifting. If you had a problem, the problem goes away, and you feel great. And so, at first it only happens when you meditate. But then after you meditate, you go into those dimensions a lot. If you really love those dimensions, then you go into those dimensions. And then you're shopping in dimensions. You're at a job interview. Dimensions. Dimensions of what? You experience light. It's bright. And it's happy and it's bright, but at the same time it's very conducive to all of the physical aspects of your life. So it's not like you'll just sit there at work and go, oh, I'm spacing out. When you experience those dimensions, you feel great, you become aware of the luminosity, and you're able to code better. You're able to deal with people better because you're in a very bright, balanced way. So that's what we do in meditation. And we meditated from the first meditation class that you had with your meditation teacher up until now. You've been getting exposure to dimensions that are very bright, bright, bright, bright, bright. And then what happens is you start to make a connection to them and they start to become very, very, very strong in your sitting meditation practice, and they start to become evident in your real regular life when you're not just sitting around. And those dimensions are really the way you should operate. You know, if you're just going through that all the time, you're getting a good definition of self. But when you meditate really hard and these dimensions start to reappear in your daily experience, you experience light. you become aware of this luminosity, the lights that those Indian saints, or even the Christian saints, have talked about. These lights, where do these lights come from? But all the saints talk about the lights. And when you experience those lights, you feel better, you feel more balanced, you're able to do things better, things work out. And you're like, hmm, it's pretty good. And you're way beyond yourself. All of the heavy things about the self just don't matter anymore. And they're not in your mind. They're not limiting you and weighing you down. The dimensions of light that we experience in meditation are bright, beautiful, and uplifting. And also, this is a new one for you. A new expression of part of these teachings is the fear of double. It's a very particular expression of teaching. But it's a good one. And it sneaks up on you and makes you happy. It does. It generally does. I mean, usually people don't have a bad reaction to it. People usually say, hey, I feel pretty good, I feel pretty bright, hey, it's actually kind of, I like working, thought I hated working,

1:17:22
but now I start to like it.

1:17:24
Stuff like that.

1:17:25
And I always use it, I never use it in your meditation. So if you're meditating at home and you feel bright, that was you, that was you doing your meditation properly. But where I use this is I use it in work. I use it in maybe your work, maybe in your martial arts, maybe your scuba diving, definitely your yoga projects. And sometimes, just once in a while. It'll address you, but you'll see that it addresses your yoga primarily. So if you're just walking down the street, you see it's bing, then you're like, I can do yoga! I'm excited about yoga! These are second attention teachings. So when you sat there and looked here, you start to make a pattern match of the second attention. Nothing you can describe in words. There's no way to say what it is in words. An empty chair. That's what you can say in words. No big deal. But when you start to go, oh I saw that before. Oh, that was sitting right there. It wasn't a firefly. What would a firefly be doing in the Fairmont anyway? Just buzzing around. It's funny, because you have this model of the world that's based on conditioned attention. You don't see. You don't get, you know, it's like you miss so much stuff. You miss so much information of life. And that's why when you get in your state of mind of yourself and the limited ways you look at life and your dissatisfaction and stuff like that

1:19:16
and your depressions.

1:19:17
Yeah, all those things limit the way you see life. So we start through meditation, breaking into these really bright dimensions. You start with the recognition of the etheric double in your life. Hello.

1:19:30
Popping out.

1:19:31
These give you ways to start to see through your model of life. And then they become very powerful. They become like your new description. Your new description is that enlightenment exists, that you can experience enlightened states of mind, that these enlightened dimensions actually come through in your meditation and in your daily life as you practice. It takes a lot of practice. It happens after a while. But it happens sporadically, even now. But after a while, it happens all the time. You're always like, oh yeah, I know. There's this white, bright dimension happening. Normal for me now. It's cool. So you start to break out of your states of mind and get higher, brighter experiences that always make you feel better, balanced, stronger, clearer, and lift you up beyond your regular thoughts of suffering and thoughts of, you know, limited thoughts of self. So this is what we do, this is what we do, and there's more to it. So the etheric double isn't only a double, it's a triple. Just kidding, it's not only a triple. It could, you know, know I could do a dozen etheric doubles at the same time so it doesn't have a limit on numbers yeah so once you get to do one then it's kind of easy to do more than one well yeah it's just like caring about more than one person like if you're like oh I really care about this person I also care about that person. I care about both of them at the same time. The etheric double is there. It's not like it has to just be one place or another. It's a simple matter. All right. That's the etheric double. And the etheric double is a really good way to start to understand the first attention and the second attention. But why don't we take a little break, we'll come back and we'll talk a little bit more.

1:21:45
Dawa. I'll have some more coffee. I'll have some more coffee.

1:21:49
But the devil tends to make me more awake.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
