0:00:00
You know, these teachings actually are things that address your life. They address your mind. They're the things that you need to know to be most empowered, to be most happy, to be most enlightened. That's what these teachings are. You might not recognize that. You might not recognize that it's something that's actually important for you. But it is. You might think, uh, Sambara's talking about some stuff, whatever, you know, something interesting, but it doesn't have a lot to do with my life. But it does. I'm talking to you, each of you. I'm talking to you about the things that are most important in establishing yourself on the pathway to enlightenment. If you don't follow these teachings you won't establish yourself on the pathway to enlightenment. You'll find yourself getting drawn off in your karma. You'll say, oh I have this new idea today. Really? You'll go, wow I have a new weird idea that's going to make me float away. Or I have a new anger today.

0:01:43
And it's you.

0:01:45
And then whoosh.

0:01:47
I'm telling you. The ego will come up with all sorts of reasons. But you don't recognize sometimes that I'm actually talking to you. Because I'm sitting up here. But I am. Oh yes, I know. I'm talking to you. It's funny, remember when we did a series of sessions in Stanford where I said, okay, you know, you can talk to me personally. And I would, you know, speak with the group. I would have the meditation seminars down there and I would teach, and then I would speak with the group, and then you had a chance to speak with me one-on-one. And for the majority of you, about two-thirds of you who spoke with me, some of you had very specific questions that were logical and needed answers, but for about 75% of you guys who had questions, I said, yes, that's what I was saying in class. And I reiterated what I was saying. I said, no, yeah, I was talking to you. And I was telling you, because of this, you have to do this. Now, I hold things at a high level, so that, you know, I say, desire, anger, attachment, so that we don't specifically talk to just you or talking to several people who are going through the same thing. But yes, the teachings are for you and they are addressing the things that you have questions about. You have to open your mind and listen. You have to be more aware and less dismissive. Because, yeah, 75% of you who had questions for me, I said, oh yeah, so that's what I was saying in class. And I reiterated it, and that was the answer to the question, what I had said in class that you guys didn't really listen to. You didn't think it pertained to you. But yes, what I say here, I'm talking to you. I'm addressing you. I'm telling you what you need to do to establish yourself on the pathway to enlightenment, to get higher, the most powerful thing for you. That's what I'm teaching here. I'm teaching to you, not to everybody else. That's what you start to do when you find the ego going, oh yeah, yeah, Samara's probably talking to everybody else.

0:04:29
Not me.

0:04:30
I'm okay.

0:04:31
He's talking to everybody else.

0:04:33
Well, just open your mind

0:04:37
and see and try to see, how would this be my life? He's talking about desire and attachment and fear. How would that be? Or my selfishness or lack of impeccability. How could that be me? What ways is that me? How does this, what he's talking about, address my life? If you keep an open mind, you'll find that there are many teachings. There is more to the spiritual teachings than the words I'm saying. The words direct awareness to a state of mind. The words are directing your awareness to a condition of your spirit. So these are spiritual teachings because they are teachings of the spirit, showing you a place where you can learn something. If you're closed-minded, if you're like, oh no, it's everybody else, it's not me, you won't get the spiritual teaching. You'll be dismissive of it. You won't understand it. You won't comprehend it. But if you're simply open-minded, just let the information come. Don't say, oh, it's not me. Oh, don't think negative thoughts. You can think about it later. But when you're in the satsang, you want to just open your mind and listen and learn. You take the Dharma talk as a meditation. Just keep your mind still. And then the spiritual teachings, the energy, the conveyance, the transmission of the teachings has a very enlightening effect. But if you just sit there and say, oh, it's not me, oh, I disagree, then you're closing yourself from the possibility. You can think it later, but while you're sitting here, practice correctly. Just be simple and open-minded. Because then that way you can learn something. In the teachings, there are many realizations. So I'll say, you know, be selfless, engage in yoga selflessly. And in directing your attention to how to do the selfless work in yoga, there are many, many lessons. The energy of yoga, the spiritual lesson, helps you to reveal your mind. You say, ah, wow, you know, when So when Sambharo is saying, be selfless to do yoga, I realized this, this, this, this, this, and this about myself. It's true.

0:07:45
It's in the teachings.

0:07:46
So if you're open-minded, then you're open to those realizations. If you're closed-minded, then you miss it. And this is the teaching for you. The teaching that will help you.

0:08:02
Even though, you know, when you say,

0:08:04
oh, it's not me, or I disagree, then that's when you're running into the enlightened teacher is not saying something that agrees with your ego. You're saying, oh, you know, this is not what I want. And in that desire, in that attached viewpoint of self, in that fear, you are creating a path of self where you're holding back the teachings. So you just want to be open-minded. used to here is that I will point out things that are uncomfortable maybe to you. They might disagree with your desires and fears, but they're things that when you pragmatically take these teachings and move forward, they empower your life. They make you brighter. They make you smile more. They make you happier and more successful. They teach you to meditate better. So these teachings are spiritual teachings for your enlightenment, for your benefit. Even though you might have trouble with it, recognize that the trouble that you're having is your limited viewpoint, your ego, your attached and limited view of a separate self. And that that in itself is suffering. The story of suffering, the story of your life. Now, when it comes to desire, Californians are filled with desire. I mean, everybody is, but for Californians, it tends to be more desire than fear. They're just filled with, I want this, all these interesting desires. You have to recognize that you have attained some of your desires in the past, and that they still did not satisfy you. You still said, okay, that was good, but I need more. I need something else. I won't really be happy until whatever. But the guarantee of desire is that once you fulfill the desire, you will have another desire. So what you have to recognize is that the fulfillment of desire doesn't make you spiritually happy. It might be nice, it might bring you some joy. However, the fulfillment of desire is always going to be something that is dissatisfying. When you understand that and you look for satisfaction from within, you find your innate happiness through inner reflection, meditation, and yoga, then the nice little trinkets out there that you can get in the world add to your happiness. So if you're happy inside, and then you go out there and get that Ferrari, then you're more happy. But if you say the Ferrari is what's going to suffer. You're going to get the Ferrari, it's going to make you happy for a short period of time, then you'll be bored and unhappy again. I'm living proof. I'm all into that one. You know, whatever. The person, the place, the thing, the position, the fame, whatever it is. If you think that it is the thing that's gonna make you happy, you're wrong. And if you think that, you have a problem. You're gonna find suffering. So find happiness inside, and then the things outside will add to that happiness, because why not? It's not a problem. So it's important to recognize that. Because we're out there going, you know, in the world, saying, ooh, I like candy. I had a little candy once and I liked it. It made me happy, it gave me joy. So candy makes me happy, right? And then you go to candy land, and there's candy all around.

0:13:06
And you're like, oh, I gotta get me some of that candy

0:13:08
over there and over there.

0:13:09
There's candy all around. And then your friends who seem happy are into candy too. They're like, oh yeah, candy's great. And your friends, you know, say, oh. You look at their smile. They like candy. Candy makes them happy. They smile, and their teeth are rotting. This is the condition that people go through. They like things, it gives them a transient joy, but the overall oral health of the situation goes downhill. And this is how people are. You're like, oh yeah, you know, like guys go into the clubs to meet girls. Oh yeah, going to the club to meet girls makes me happy. Rotten teeth. Or whatever. Pick your desire. But everyone's out there trying to fulfill their desire. And they see people who are fulfilling desires, and they're happy. And you're in this whole movement of people fulfilling the same desires for money, or relationships, or whatever, or Ferraris. And you're going out there and getting candy, and everyone's doing it. And you see people smiling, but you have to really recognize that they're smiling, yes, because they're fulfilling something, but there's an underlying problem that spiritually they're going in a bad direction in a healthy way. So as a Buddhist, you want to find happiness within yourself through meditation, inner reflection. And then go out and have a chocolate bar. But see, if you're happy inside, you're not going to go crazy over candy. But if candy is the way that you think you're going to be happy, you're going to go crazy over candy. And then you're going to end up like everybody else with rotting teeth. And you know, you'll see the most happy, the person who you think is most successful and happy, and they'll be smiling the most. You know, you see the candy man, right? The candy man will have the worst condition. They're selling the candy, they're eating the candy, and they'll have the worst condition. They'll have the biggest smile and the most rotten teeth. So when you look at the world and you're looking at what you like to get, you have to recognize that everyone out there is trying to fulfill desires, and really spiritually inside, they're unhappy, really. They're unfulfilled. And they keep on looking out there to fulfill themselves. But you can't look out there, you have to look in here. So when you come to the spiritual teacher, the spiritual teacher starts to tell you things you don't want to hear. So the spiritual teacher is like the dentist. So if you need to cut back on that candy, and then you go, no I'm not going to cut back on my candy, the candy makes me happy. You need to floss. But yeah, on a separate note, you should floss.

0:16:42
Every day. It's good to floss.

0:16:47
So the enlightened teacher is like a dentist. The enlightened teacher's smile is pure. There's no suffering in their smile. There's no cavities that hurt them. Their smile is pure and healthy. The other people fulfilling desires who are smiling out there, their smiles are filled with cavities and suffering, or cavities to come for meeting that candy. So the enlightened person smiles and says, this is the way of health and happiness. Not that candy out there. I mean, have some, sure, but let's start with brushing your teeth and flossing your teeth. And then you say, oh, yeah, yeah, I had a cavity or two and I know what you're talking about. So I started to brush my teeth and floss my teeth. And then after a little while, you say, it's kind of hard to brush my teeth twice a day. I don't like flossing so much. It kind of hurts. And you start going into your old patterns of let me just eat candy. So the dentist tells you to do and then once in a while the dentist pulls out the drill and says we got to fix something here. And then you're all, ah! That enlightened teacher is harming me! It hurts! It hurts sometimes, but it makes you healthy. So if I give you a hard time, and give you a teaching that's uncomfortable for your desires or whatever, it's something that is actually healthy for you. So once in a while, pull out the drill. If you want health sooner and faster, do a good job. If you want me to give you corrections, I'll give you corrections. But I'm trying to be polite. I look around and I see a lot of rotting teeth. And I see a lot of people going to candy, and it's going to cause worse rotting teeth. It's following the path of everybody out there going to rot their teeth and feel bad. And I say, well, I've got my drills, and I've got a lot of instructions on how to brush and floss, right? So I can help out, but it's like, how much do you want help? Are you ready for it? Can you handle it? it because the drill could be painful but healthy. If you're ready and when the time comes, if it gets bad enough or when you're ready, there's many ways to help. But I'm just taking it nice and slow, brush in circles, floss at least once a day. You have to start to have more healthy behaviors. Meditation, yoga, not seeking outside to fulfill desire to be happy, but looking for happiness inside. Living your life in a constructive, pragmatic way that benefits your life, your physical life, your inner life. This is the way of yoga, the way of Buddhism. It's a spiritual path. So, you know, the dentist way becomes difficult, right? It's a difficult discipline, flossing every day, brushing every day. It's a discipline, but it keeps you clean and healthy. And when there's problems, sometimes the drill comes out. And, you know, that's why, you know, what's the famous thing? Kids don't like to go to the dentist. Because the dentist hurts them, you know, but they're... But at the same time, it's keeping them healthy. So you have to be mature when you're on the spiritual path. You know, you can't be a kid who's always like, no, I want to eat candy, and I don't want to brush my teeth. You know, that's, that's immaturity. But when you say, okay, you know, I want to live my life in a healthy way, in a constructive way, I don't want the suffering that comes from desire, fulfillment, chasing desires, or running from fears, or attachment to limitation. So, that's when the dentist tells you what to do, and it's hard, put that chocolate down, put that lollipop down, now floss your teeth, you know, things like that. So when it's difficult, the teacher starts to tell you things that you might not like to hear, but that are healthy, spiritually, and orally. So, you know, we're studying the enlightened teachers. And I think one of the greatest examples of this is Krishna and Arjuna. Arjuna is a warrior. His duty is to go into battle. And he sets off for battle. When he sees the army that is opposing him, he recognizes that his grandfather is on the other side. He's like, hey, it's grandpa.

0:22:14
He sees his cousins.

0:22:15
He's like, oh, hey, they were just over at Thanksgiving. And he sees teachers and friends and he's like, amongst this giant army, and he's like, I can't fight these guys. So I remember when I first read Bhagavad Gita, I'm like following it, and he sees all these people he knows and loves and he says, oh yeah, he says, Krishna, I can't fight, I'd rather die and completely lose than to go to war against people I care for. And I said, yeah, that makes sense. That's a good thing. That's noble. And Krishna says, oh, what you say sounds all noble and bright, but it's very limited. And Krishna starts to tell him, you know, you should go into battle. And I said, wait a minute, which one of these guys is enlightened again? Because it seems opposite here. Is it opposite day today? I thought Krishna was supposed to be, you know. So I was a little confused. But then I started to read it a little more and start to understand what Krishna's talking about. And Krishna really pointed out to Arjuna that he was attached to an outcome from what he did, from his actions. He was attached to an outcome from his actions. And that attachment caused him suffering. In that attachment there is sin, as Krishna calls it. in a way that has no attachment, in a way that's completely detached, selflessly doing your work, impeccably doing your work. In this case, his work was killing people. Which, you know, sometimes is your job. If you're a warrior or whatever. And Krishna taught him, you know, if you're not attached to an outcome, then there's no sin. There's the enlightened way. And it is most beneficial. It is the way of truth, the way of dharma. So he says, your problem, the reason you're suffering, you're seeing things backwards because you're attached. You have an attachment of your efforts. Now, this is very similar. Last night, after Bodhiwood's work day, we watched Bagger Vance. And Bagger Vance is based on the Bhagavad Gita. And, you know, who is the caddy for Juna, who is the Arjuna character. And instead of a battle, they're playing golf. But it's an intense golf game. So yeah, so it's very interesting. But there's this one thing that he says that is the same teaching as Krishna, that Bagger says. He says, okay, swing the golf club. And then the kid says, oh, but I don't have any balls to hit. And he says, it doesn't matter if you have the balls to hit. It doesn't matter where the balls go. It just matters that you swing. So this is saying that the action, doing the action perfectly and selflessly is what's important. Not the result of the action, not where the ball goes or the ball ends up. It's just that you do the action, the job perfectly. So he was directing the same teaching after Krishna's teachings, which is, if it's your job to do it, go in, you know, don't hold your, don't hold the considerations of self in there, do your work perfectly. it would throw you off. You would be partial to things. But Krishna taught the way to win, the way to be powerful here, the way to be enlightened here, is to go and be completely detached. Now, in this, so you think it's terrible. I'm going to go in and fight this battle, kill people, or contribute to killing people who I love and know. However, the truth is that the most enlightened action is also in the art of war, is to do things perfectly and selflessly and then that way you bring such a force in the art of war, they say, when you can, you know, when you can attack the enemy properly, the enemy will give up. So Krishna, knowing this same truth said, no, go in there like powerful, right? Go in there so strong, and like you don't even care if it's your grandfather or not. And what's going to happen is the other side is going to retreat. There battle there won't be a fight you won't sin this is the way of compassion. But it doesn't look like that from the surface does it looks like I'm going to go in there and kill grandpa. So that's the way of limitation but Krishna saw the truth and Krishna taught him you're going to create more trouble you're going to create more sin more problems if you go the small way. And that's that conflict. The self sees it as attachment to the outcome. You know, attachment to people, places and things, desires and fears, and the whole self story. And then Krishna comes in and says something completely different. Completely different. Different than what Arjuna wanted to hear. Arjuna wanted to hear Krishna say, yeah, you're right, let's not go out there and fight against our family and friends. But Krishna knew better. Krishna knew the truth. So, very often you come up with this whole idea of your life, and the enlightened teacher will say something that you disagree with, that is in conflict with your viewpoint. Because the enlightened teacher sees a greater way, a greater way of peace, a greater way of compassion, a greater way of spiritual advancement. And it makes the whole situation better. You say, no, it makes the situation worse. No, it's not true. Krishna says to Arjuna, go and fight that battle. Go in there. All your energy, impeccability, selflessness, don't care about the result. Just bring your greatest power into the spiritual action of your duty. That's karma yoga. At first Arjuna is in conflict, but then he comes along to see the power of Krishna's teachings. So he follows them and it works out in the most enlightened way. What I'd like to do is I'd like to meditate with you for one song from the great teachers of enlightenment. And this song is called Krishna. Almost all of us have read the Bhagavad Gita and have a new understanding from what I'm talking about right now about the Bhagavad Gita, Krishna and his teachings and your life. song that has the energy vibration of Krishna's teachings focusing on the navel center. I'd like you to consider the enlightened direction of Krishna's teachings to Arjuna and how this also relates to your life. So the reflection in this meditation on Krishna's teachings. Let's begin.

0:31:43
So we're studying the teachings, the dharma, the siddhi, the expression of enlightenment

0:31:50
of different enlightened teachers through our meditation music. We will be studying more about these teachers in the future, but right now we are learning their teachings in a more direct way. And this is good, this is what you should learn. When you meditate at home to this album, you should be coming back to this dimension of their teachings, this realization about how the teachings of these masters relate to your life. If you read a book about an enlightened person, just information. But whenever we read a book, whenever we study anything, watch a movie, or do yoga, we do it because it relates to your state of mind, to your condition of awareness, to your life, to your spiritual condition. These are spiritual lessons. It's not just stuff to learn, stuff to figure out, stuff to find out. Everything that you learn is a spiritual teaching. So it's important to do yoga. I heard over the past week that there were a couple people who dropped off of their yoga projects and like I said you don't have to do yoga. They dropped off their yoga because they were just you know didn't like it was too caught up in stuff in their lives. Now, these two people, or three people, had expertise in the area of knowledge of their yoga. So what they had was some impeccability, but what did they have, what part did they miss? Selflessness. They didn't have the selflessness to do the yoga. You have all impeccability and no selflessness. There's absolutely no spiritual advancement. There's plenty of impeccable people out there, right? People who succeed in business impeccably all over the place. And sure, it's powerful for them, but it doesn't bring them to enlightenment. It's not spiritual for them. So these people who had impeccability definitely didn't have selflessness. They lost the battle. They thought about it in the same way that they think about their lives. They thought about yoga as, oh, it's just more work like I do during the day. And it's not. You missed the point completely, right? It's through the selflessness of doing it that there's a greater spiritual awareness. And it's magic. But if you look at it the same way, if your mind is so conditioned of, oh, my work is hard, I'm good at it, you look at it the same way you look at it, you've built up this way of seeing life that is not a good way. And you've just thrown out the selflessness to see it differently. So this is where we come to that Zen concept, beginner's mind. You lack beginner's mind and everything sucks. You might be an expert, but you're not happy. So therefore, through selflessness, we always are a beginner. Through selflessness, there's a great innocence. And that's the teaching of yoga. Now, an interesting thing. It's harder for someone who's accomplished in their lives and has impeccability and knows something. It's harder for them to practice the spiritual practice. It's harder for them to do yoga than a beginner. It's easier for someone who was a Burger King burger flipper to become an advanced yogic practitioner because they're a beginner. They're humble, they're selfless. It's true. And this is the example. For the Queen of England, she's got her royal guard. You know those guys that wear the big fluffy hats? Well, each one of them is highly trained in many ways. And one of the principal areas that they're trained in is equestrianism, horseback riding. They're all excellent at riding ponies. They are, or horses. And there's something very important when they're qualifying people for this position. Sometimes, you know, they'll have candidates who are, you know, top notch, top skills, top grade, but they look at this one thing. Do they know how to ride a horse? If they say, yes, I have some training in horseback riding, they throw them out. They don't even deal with them. They only deal with the people who've never ridden a horse before, because because it's easier to train them properly. It's hard to train out bad habits. It's hard to train out improper ways of looking at things. So they always take the beginners because they're easier to train. They don't have to undo bad habits. It's very interesting. It's the same concept. However, in terms of enlightenment, you all have bad habits. And the process of yoga, the process of the spiritual path, is to undo bad habits. It teaches you to undo bad habits. But you've got to do the lessons, you've got to do the work. You have to meditate. You have to practice mindfulness. You have to practice yoga. These are the ways that you undo bad habits. You start to, if you take as a discipline, I'm going to do my best in my work, right? There's a lot of focus on that, that we have in our yoga. Then you gain impeccability and power, which directly translates to, you get a better job. And at the same time, when you see yourself getting angry, when you see yourself revolting, when you see yourself pulling away, disagreeing, all those things that come up with the self are thinking, oh, I have this new idea of doing something completely different. When all these things come up, you have the selflessness to do your yoga, to say, all right, let me put away this anger, let me put away this fanciful notion, and let me focus on the impeccability of my work. That is the process of undoing mistakes, undoing mistakes. I've seen this many, many, many times with someone who's expert at something. When they get into yoga, all of a sudden, they can't do it. The great thing is that you have the option to try again. Unless you criss-cross so hard that you don't even want to do it anymore. I myself have the same case. Martial arts is one of the teachings, not a mandatory teaching, an excellent one if you've got the time and you want to learn it. And my teacher taught spiritual development through martial arts, and I teach spiritual development through martial arts. That's why when you do martial arts and you're my student, it's magical and there's a whole greater dimension of power and light, because the inner teachings from me to you make it available. I had done martial arts from like 6 to 19 when I met my Buddhist teacher, and he taught me about how to do martial arts. He taught me exactly what I didn't want to do. I did Kung Fu, and he said, do karate. And I hate karate. I was like, karate?

0:41:45
What?

0:41:46
We made fun of karate in our Kung Fu class. We're all like, oh, oh.

0:41:52
Yeah, we made fun of him all the time.

0:41:54
And we thought that it was completely lame. And this is, yeah, just general egotism. And then, so I had to switch over to an art that I thought was not as interesting and was below me. And so that was one thing. And I had, in my personal experiences in the Guardian Angels and stuff, I had been through actual street fights where I was taking a knife away from someone or stopping someone from mugging someone with an axe or something. Really. And I had been through probably over a hundred violent incidents and fights. And I had a lot of training. And I had done a lot of Kung Fu, and I put it to the test. And I knew that I had some awareness and some capability. And I was very good at sizing up people, seeing how strong they were, dealing with aggression. I could fight pretty well. And then I went into karate, and then my teacher told me also to do the karate tournaments. And then I went into my first several karate tournaments. And just the dojo itself, actually. You do a little bit of sparring in the dojos. And I was sparring people who were white belts, who had never done martial arts before. And I couldn't do anything. Couldn't do anything. I couldn't punch or kick successfully. I couldn't block successfully. White belts were beating me. And I was wondering, what is going on? Yoga is going on.

0:43:54
Yoga is going on.

0:43:57
Yeah. If you try to do it the ego way, it doesn't work well. But what I did was I got very frustrated, I had a lot of hard times, I got mad at karate, but I stuck with it. I stuck with it, I went through it, and then I realized a greater way to be in martial arts. And then I was excited and empowered by following the spiritual teachings of martial arts. I found that karate was awesome and fun and powerful in a different way. And I enjoyed that. And I learned how to use a greater ability, a greater personal power. My awareness of martial arts expanded. So it actually worked out great once I figured out how to do it, in a selfless way. That's what you learn from the spiritual arts, how to do it selflessly. But when you do it selfishly, then it creates misery for you. You're trying to do your yoga selfishly, but it doesn't work. So you're just going to have trouble. You're not going to do it. You're going to be unhappy while you're doing it because you're doing it in the same way you've done it before. This is in the Enlightenment Workbook. It's one of the early on teachings, right? And so those of you who just quit, who are experts, but quit because you were hitting that wall. It's because you were doing yoga In a selfish way. It doesn't work you need to learn how to do yoga in a selfless way and Then it works and then it's happy and it's bright and it's amazing Then you can take your power and your impeccability From your ten years of experience in that subject and you can apply it selflessly to yoga and make magic. You already have the impeccability but it's hard. One of my other students, one of the older students, I won't mention his name. I won't. I want to but I won't. He was a computer genius when he came to the study. I mean, really, really strong technologist. And came to the study and I said, all right, I'm gonna teach you yoga.

0:46:39
And he says, okay.

0:46:40
Then I said, okay, so here's a small task. And he said, it'll take me 15 minutes. I said, okay, then do it. It took him six months. It should take 15 minutes,

0:46:56
took him six months because he was

0:46:59
hitting himself against the self. Yeah, it's interesting. So for those of you who kind of quit your yoga projects because you were hitting yourself against yourself, I'm telling you what's going on. You're not doing yoga. You weren't selfless. You lost the battle of selflessness. The same way I had when I did my martial arts, the same way this other student of mine, who's very successful now, who does yoga very well now, he spent six months unable to do three lines of code. And he is a computer genius. Because it's different. This isn't the ego way. This is a way of selflessness. And when your mind is so conditioned to look at your expertise and what you know and what you do, that's the ego way. That's a way of self. And you can't do yoga the way of self. So it's just a really fun and interesting and frustrating thing to do. But when you find that you're that person who says, oh, I'm good at this, but I'm not happy doing yoga, so I'm not going to do yoga, that means that you're very selfish. It's true. You're very selfish, and you are not succeeding in yoga. Yoga is just a problem for you. You're not realizing that to yield the self, to put your spirit into it, will transform your view of your work, of your life. Yoga is magic. It's just that you don't see it at first. You're just like, oh, it's hard. Oh, it's work. But it makes you strong. So if I always told you to do push-ups, you come in here and say, okay, push-ups now, everyone. And you're doing push-ups, you'd say, oh man, why is Sambar always making us do things that are hard? Because it makes you strong. I say, oh, it makes you strong. Then you would say, oh, it's just hard. It just makes me do hard things. But it makes you strong, spiritually. And at first it just seems hard, but after some time, you see that it made you strong. So for those of you who have that experience and you have the ability to do something, I'd say revisit your lessons of selflessness and do your yoga selflessly. There's a whole dimension beyond the self that is extremely bright and wonderful. I'll give you a demonstration. So this music, this music, we have the music a yogi. And this yogi is a professional musician with tremendous impeccability. Tremendous tremendous selflessness. Has the ability to not only do music, but do music that reflects high states of meditative awareness. And that's what meditation music is. That's an advanced yoga. So this is Mudra we're talking about. So Mudra took his impeccability and he selflessly applied it to yoga, to an advanced yoga. And was able to create music that is a doorway for all of us in our meditative practice. That means that he meditates well and he sees bright dimensions in his meditation, and he can make music that reflects those dimensions. That's not easy. That's not easy at all. We had the people amongst the group here, who are musicians, get together with Mudra. And we said, okay, let's try to get some music going here. So we tried and failed. And the primary reason why, for a lot of people they just didn't have enough first attention, they were not impeccable in their music. But a couple people were okay in their music, but they didn't have enough second attention. Meditation's not good enough. You can't make, your meditation is too many thoughts, not high states of mind, and you don't have the connection from your high states of mind to your music. So when you look at things in terms of that, your music's good and it's nice and it's lovely, but it's not that clean. It's not reflecting the higher dimensions. So don't be dismayed if you love music and you want to do music, our teacher said the same thing to him. He said, oh, it's, ah, ha.

0:52:33
You know?

0:52:34
But you know, keep, if you wanna. You know? And Mudra stayed on it, and stayed on it, and stayed on it. And then he ended up playing with the advanced musical students of our teacher. So, you know, if you really love it and you want to learn that sit-up, then, you know, keep on working on it. Work on it with your second attention. Make your meditation better and brighter. And be able to connect the dimensions. Listen to the music. The music that we meditate to does it very well. So you want to emulate the spirit. Feel those dimensions, feel that connection. How could you bring that out into music? So for the music team, it's like this So Mudra took his impeccability and his meditation and he put it into a selfless act of yoga and created something that advances all of us. And through that process, he didn't get angry about it. He didn't say, oh, I don't like it. I don't like the thing. I don't like that." He didn't go through all that egotism. You know what he did? He got stronger meditation, brighter meditation, better music. Everything got better and brighter and bigger. If someone's an expert in something, then they should be able to move very quickly, right? Very quickly. So this music reflects that. I would like to meditate with you for one song. Focus on the heart, please. So, enlightened teachers sometimes tell you about things that are helpful. They're enlightening. They're empowering. And once you engage in it, when you go beyond your self-doubt, your self-fear and all that stuff, you actually step by step by step follow the teachings, then you see where the enlightened teacher is coming from. And you will recognize, oh, this is a really good place. I've heard it from many of you. Oh, I struggled with this, I didn't understand this. But then when I did it, I found, wow, amazing, spiritual lessons, amazing empowerment, amazing success. That's what the teaching is bringing. And in Tokyo, we met up with, going back to that first story. In Tokyo, we met up with some old business partners from when we did business in Japan. And it was really wonderful seeing them again. And they took us to great places that they knew about, and they were fantastic, wonderful experiences. It was very, very, very nice. Now we did something interesting. We stayed about 45 minutes north of Tokyo. one of our old business partners who has a music studio. And he has, it's a three bedroom house with a professional music studio and three bedrooms. So he let us stay there. And we stayed there and had all sorts of fun with him. You know, we got there and he was working with a band, recording an album. And he went to Japan to be a rock star. And then he found himself in the position where introducing American, he was an American, introducing American companies to Japanese companies. And that's how we met him, or that's how we worked with him. And we were having a wonderful time with him. And he said, okay, you know, Thursday, you know, I have to block out some time. I can't hang out with you guys because I have my accountant's account." So I said, okay, no problem. He said, but there's a couple of Buddhist temples nearby, and you guys can go to the temples and hang out. And we said, great, yeah, we'll do that. So we had to go, we drove over to pick up the accountant's from the train station, because they were coming from Tokyo, and we picked them up and we started driving back to the house where they were going to do the accounting work. There were two accountants, and there was an older one and a younger one. They were really nice. And then Jeffrey, who was our business partner, he said, hey, these two guys are Buddhist monks. It was at that point, it was just Dharma and I. Tara had already come back, but she had to get back to work. And Dharma and I stayed a little longer. So, you know, Jeffrey said, these two guys are Buddhist monks, and I was gonna take them to some Buddhist temples. Would you guys like to come along? And the accountants discussed it for a moment and said, okay. So we went to a, a Fudo temple, a Shingon Buddhist temple. And Jeffrey knew the head monk there. So he introduced us to him and, and he was a very nice guy. And Jeffrey had actually talked to him about his spiritual practice, being a monk in modern day Japan. And the guy had some interesting views, a little bit more modern views of a monk's life. So it was kind of interesting and it was very nice. And he was a very nice fellow. Shingon Buddhism in Japan is Tantra. So we're all, hey, we do Tantra too. That means there's scary monsters, pictures of scary monsters, wrathful deities and stuff

0:59:46
like that.

0:59:47
Oh, it's scary.

0:59:49
It's great.

0:59:50
Anyway, there's a little more to it than that, but we'll get to that. So we had this wonderful time visiting his temple. It was very beautiful. beautiful and it was just really funny going around with these... I guess Jeffrey, myself, and Dharma, we were just dressed casually and these two accountants were wearing black suits and so we're just kind of going around the temple and there were these two guys in black suits following us around looking at the Buddhas and everything. It was very cute. And then we left there and went to another temple. And this one was a very beautiful temple. And Jeffrey also knew they had monk there. So Jeffrey went around knocking, knocking on doors, trying to find him. And then finally he came out and he said, oh, I was doing my meditation. And Jeffrey said, oh, I'm sorry for bothering you. Do you want to go back to it? And he said, no, no, now that you're here, I'll be happy to visit with you. So he brought us into the temple. He showed us the main hall of ceremony. And it was very nice. And Jeffrey said, hey, these are two Buddhist monks from America. Then he said, oh, OK, very nice. Pleased to meet you. And then he said, OK, well, I'm going to show you guys the special Buddhas. So he said, OK, nice. And he took us to a special room where there were these six foot tall, massive, I mean, they were just big Buddha, statues of Buddha. And they were very old, I think 800 years old, maybe more than that. And these statues were a little bit special, not just because they were old, but because what Dharma and I recognized right away is that they were made with yoga. A lot of statues, Buddhist statues, are made by artists who were commissioned by the emperor or something like that. And they might make something very, very beautiful, but it depends on their intention. And these ones were made by a Buddhist, someone who did yoga, really. And it was beautiful yoga. And it's very interesting because for Dharma, he said, wow, it's really, really interesting to see that someone did yoga 800 years ago and that the light comes through from their yoga even today. I said, yeah, that's right.

1:02:39
Cool.

1:02:40
So we're gonna make statues now.

1:02:42
Just kidding.

1:02:43
So we spent a long time in this room, it was very beautiful. So when we got into the room, we were looking at the Buddhas and thinking, wow, there's something special about this. And then the monk said, okay, well, you know, feel free to, what did he say? Worship. Worship, yeah. He's all, feel free to worship in your Buddhist way. And then, so we're all, okay. Okay. So we kind of sat there, stared at things. And I said, could I film this with my camera? So, yeah. So then he said, no, no, no, please feel free to worship. Because he thought that we would like to go over to the altar, there's an altar right in front of the big, there were five big, the Dhyana Buddhas. Very, very cool. And he said, you know, please worship. And I said, oh, you know what? Okay, I will. So then I sat there and I went into nirvana. And everything turned into gold light completely. And it was extremely amazing and beautiful. So we all sat in that room for a long time. And it was magnificent. So these statues had a beautiful energy from yoga. Much like, you know, in 800 years, if someone listens to Moodra's music, it will shine. It will. It will shine, even if it's old sounding funky music at that point. What will music sound like in 800 years? But this music will shine, just like those statues shine. And then someone who is enlightened can sit there and, you know, they resonate with the energy of yoga. So it was a very, very powerful experience, beautiful. After our worship, we walked out of there and then the monk said, now I would like to show you my meditation. So we said, okay. So he took us around behind the temple and he had a little work area and he had some clay was making. He was a clay maker. He did pottery. And he said, this is my meditation. And then we said, what? What do you mean? And he said... There was a Japanese word for spiritual discipline, and he told us what that word is, and that's basically the equivalent of yoga. He said, I do sitting meditation, he said, but most importantly for my practice is this meditation. I do my work perfectly. I focus on it completely. I'm completely selfless and in this I experience meditation. Now you don't hear this from Buddhist monks very often anymore. Not a lot of Buddhist monks do yoga anymore. This guy did yoga. I don't know how he got into it. I don't know the history. But he did yoga. And he did it with clay vessels. He would make plates and cups and buddhas and little other weird things. He made all sorts of stuff. practice and doing true yoga. It was bright and luminous. So we were like, wow. Dharma and I were like, this is so cool. It's very rare to meet a monk who does yoga. We were really, really happy. And then he said, traditional spiritual discipline is reading the scriptures, reading the sutras, writing things, the traditional things that monks do. He said that's kind of traditional stuff, reading things, chanting, Buddhist debate, those kinds of things are the traditional practices of a Buddhist monk. But he said, a special practice that is meditation. And he said that by focusing on one thing, you can meditate, even if it was a physical thing. And he himself said, this was the great part, he said, you can even do it with computers. He said, if you're doing your computer work and you're totally focused on it, it can be spiritual discipline. And I said, this guy is psychic or something. And it was fantastic. It was just really wonderful. And then Dharma and I were just nodding a lot. Yeah, but that was a wonderful experience. Wonderful to see these ancient works of yoga and wonderful to meet a monk who actually does yoga. I don't remember meeting any other monks. I've traveled a lot to many temples. Yoga, yoga, yoga. Oh yeah, yeah. In Nepal, some of the monks do Tanka painting as yoga. It's not common anymore. Yoga. Oh, you guys are doing yoga. You know, I know I yoga is not common because it's hard

1:08:30
It's true it's not common because it's hard

1:08:33
Yeah, so that was a wonderful and amazing experience Yeah, you know in Zen Buddhism, yes Zen Buddhism in America is very very very popular in Japan America is very, very, very popular. In Japan, not as much. Pure Land Buddhism is more popular. Jodo, I think it's called. Jodo Buddhism, Pure Land Buddhism is more popular in Japan. Most popular form of Buddhism. But in America, like these little Zen guys from Kyoto came over to America and got Zen very popular. And Zen is great. It's really wonderful. And in Zen, they really like this one guy, the founder of Zen, Bodhidharma. They call him Daruma. In Japan, they call him Daruma. They really liked this guy because he was the founder of Zen. And he really made some, he really flipped Buddhism on its head. Because Buddhism had become, you know, a kind of religion to some people. Not a way of life, not a clear discernment of truth, but just a bunch of practices, you know, kind of like, you know, the Catholic school. You go to the monastery and you end up kind of in a Catholic school. You learn some prayers, you do some writing, sweep some floors, then the nuns bakes you. So, you know, Buddhism over the years got out of whack, according to Bodhidharma. Now, Bodhidharma was the 28th heir of Buddhism. So there was the Buddha, and then when he died, one of his students kind of took over, sort of. Several of his students took over. But then the lineage passed on to Bodhidharma, and he was the 28th lineage holder of Buddhism. And when he attained his enlightenment, he thought that there was a problem with Buddhism, that there was too much book learning and not enough realization in the fundamental practice. So that's why he decided to make some changes. And the big change that he made was he founded Zen Buddhism. He actually, he also left India, so I guess he got fed up with, he got totally fed up with the way that things were happening. And he left India and he went to China. And then in China, he he came with this new, fresh Buddhism. And it was something that people weren't used to, right? Because Buddhism had become such a normal process. Buddha says all the positive things, and he didn't do that. He would say the opposite of what's positive. So he was invited to China by Emperor Wu. And Emperor Wu was a Buddhist. There had been other Buddhists who came out. They started building temples. And Emperor Wu said, hey, this Buddhism thing is good, so I'm going to put a lot of money into building temples and having monks ordained and all this stuff so that Buddhism could thrive. And then he sent an invitation to the enlightened teacher, the lineage holder of Buddhism, to come over and be the enlightened teacher, the head of Buddhism in China. So Bodhidharma came, got the invitation, and came over. And then he says, he walks in, and then he meets Emperor Wu, and it's this big, wonderful ceremony. And then Emperor Wu says, Master, what is the greatest truth? And then Bodhidharma says, nothing. Okay, well, then tell me how much good karma how much good merit have I gained from having all these monks ordained and having, you know, erected these Buddhist temples, and then Buddha and And then Bodhidharma says, none. And then you go, eh, he's not saying what I want him to say. We've got a problem. Then you go, who are you? Are you Bodhidharma? Are you the one who's supposed to be enlightening stuff? Because all these other Buddhist monks come here and go, oh, thank you.

1:13:38
You build us a temple.

1:13:40
Oh, you're a good man.

1:13:42
Right?

1:13:42
So he's like, who are you? You're not saying what I want to hear from you. So he says, who are you? Then Bodhidharma says, I don't know. So then Emperor Wu says, this guy's either not Bodhidharma, or he's crazy, or something's wrong, so get out of here. So he says, nah, nah, you know, I know I might have invited you, you have my invitation, but you're not the guy, so get out. So Bodhidharma left. And then he went to the north, found the Shaolin temple, and then he showed up and became the abbot of the temple. And early on, he started teaching them the meditations, mindfulness considerations. And then he said, I'm going to go and meditate in that cave over there. So he was already a liberated being with great insight. But he wanted to get to the final enlightenment, to become a Buddha, just like Buddha himself. So he left the Shaolin temple and he went to this cave that was nearby. And in the cave he meditated for nine years straight, they say. They're very specific about that, nine years. And he just sat there, meditated. And after nine years, he became fully enlightened, just like the Buddha. And he came back to the Shaolin Temple. Now, during his just meditating for nine years, apparently he also learned Kung Fu. He came from the warrior class in India. So he was already a warrior. He already knew martial arts. But when he was in his cave, the monks would bring him some food and some water every once in a while and look at him and he says, get out of here. But he would have to protect his food from other animals that wanted to take it. Or sometimes big animals would come over and want to eat him. So this is how the five animal kung fu was born. He would observe these different animals and how they fought and he would make techniques for fighting each animal. Like the praying mantis. You're like, oh that praying mantis is coming after me again. I don't know. Why would you have to fight a monkey? I don't know. Although, I might go off the subject here a little bit. This is funny. Chinese monkeys are difficult things. Yeah. I had a friend who was from Taiwan in the mainland of China, hiking in the Chinese mountains. She was by herself. She had a backpack with her passport and cash and everything in it, and she was hiking in the mountains. And then, all of a sudden, this monkey appears, and the monkey's following her. And she gets sort of scared, so the monkey makes some noise and then other monkeys appear and then she's really afraid and then the monkey blocks her path and then she's really afraid and then the monkey comes over and like hits her on the knee and she's all and then another monkey comes up behind her and grabs her backpack and then another monkey comes they grab her backpack and they take it from her and all the monkeys run off into the woods into the mountainside and they're gone. This created a lot of trouble for her. And I said, yeah, you should learn martial arts so that you don't get mugged by monkeys. So now I understand why Bodhidharma

1:17:51
had to develop monkey style Kung Fu

1:17:54
as one of the five animals. Very important, those Chinese monkeys. Oh yeah, also I think they have them in Japan too. Because when I was in the mountains around Kyoto they have signs on the road where they show the monkey, because there's monkeys out there, and they say don't look them in the eyes. That'll just make them angry. I'm like, okay, so I saw a monkey and I'm like, well, do not anger the monkeys. Serious business, those monkeys. So he learned his Kung Fu by observing the monkeys and other animals. And then when he got back to the Shaolin Temple after becoming a Buddha and learning Kung Fu, mastering these five animal techniques, he found a problem. He got back to the Shaolin Temple and the monks were having a lot of problems. They were suffering. They were being robbed. So the Shaolin monks, like a lot of other monks in China, they had to make their own food. They didn't go out for alms. What they did was they had farmlands and they would farm. And that was part of their yoga, farming. So they would farm and grow enough food for themselves. And then what would happen is a bunch of bandits would break in and say, ha ha ha, you Buddhist monks, give me your food. And they would steal the food from the monks. So the monks were going hungry. They were like, oh, we grow food, but then the bandits come and they take it from us, and all we can do is say, please don't. And Bodhidharma says, oh, you guys are very weak. You know, your practice is not strong. You need food to eat. You can't let people take advantage of you. So he said, you know, it is condoned by Buddha that you can fight in self-defense. So what I'm going to teach you is self-defense. So he taught the monks the 18 lohan Buddhist palms, which is a qigong exercise that I do, or I did, or I know. I really like it. It's really good. And then he also taught them the five animal kung fu

1:20:29
that he had learned in the cave.

1:20:31
He said, I learned something useful in that cave back there. So he says, so what we're going to do is we're going to learn to fight so that when those bandits come, we can beat them back. And the monks said, oh, no. We don't want to fight. We're Buddhist monks because we love peace." And then he said, No, no, this is important. You need to become strong. You need to become good fighters. Because the way that things are going, even though you think it's spiritual to let people steal from you, it's not. It's spiritual to learn Kung Fu and to be able to defend yourself. It was something that the monks didn't want to hear. It was in conflict with their way of understanding Buddhism. Just like the Emperor Wu, his conversation was in conflict. He expected to hear something, he didn't hear it, there was a problem. But fortunately the monks were more humble than the emperor and they listened. And they learned Kung Fu and they became very strong in their Kung Fu so that the next time the bandits came they were able to defend their temple. And then the bandits just wanted to walk in and get some free food. But then when they found that it was hard, that they had to fight, and that the Buddhist monks were a strong force, then they said, okay, I don't want a hard time. I didn't come here for a hard time. And what are these Buddhists doing, beating us up? You're bad Buddhists! Yet actually there was a lot of ridicule of Bodhidharma and the Shaolin Temple in the beginning from other Buddhists. They said, I don't know what's going on with this Bodhidharma guy. I mean, yeah, he's supposed to be the lineage holder from India, but he's doing crazy stuff. Everyone thought it was crazy. But then they recognized later on that this made the monks successful, and that other temples that got raided by bandits suffered. So what he taught was practical for the time and the situation. Very different than what Buddha taught. So he kind of made a huge change. And very different than what the monks wanted to hear, even though they were suffering. But he taught them something that they didn't want to hear, but when they followed it, it ended their suffering. Then Shaolin Kung Fu became their yoga. That was their yoga, martial arts. And they became very, very, very powerful and good at yoga. Now, two of the monks were previously in the army. When Bodhidharma started teaching martial arts, they were already experts in fighting forms. One was strong at punching and kicking and wrestling, and the other one was strong with the bo staff. So they were able to, by doing the yoga, help the other monks tremendously. So they took their impeccability and they were selfless and they were able to help the whole Sangha. And that's what someone with expertise should do. So Bodhidharma told these guys to do something completely outside of the possible realm of thinking about Buddhism. But now it's completely normal to us. Oh yeah, the Shaolin monks, yeah, they do Kung Fu. But the Shaolin monks are Zen practitioners. They do Kung Fu as yoga, but they do Zazen. They practice Zen. So Bodhidharma taught that for enlightenment, you must be spiritually strong, intellectually strong, and physically strong. You said that the whole picture has to be together. If you just get spiritual, you're out of balance. Your mind has to be strong too. So through meditation, you strengthen your spiritual aspect. Through other practices in Zen, you made your mind strong, and then there was the focus of the physical yoga, Kung Fu, to make your body strong. So again, a very, very practical practice for the situation. Now, outside of the Shaolin Monastery, Zen Buddhism became very popular, but they didn't do the yoga that the monks did. The monks became very popular, famous, but other Zen schools in China didn't do the martial arts part. And in Japan, they didn't do the martial arts part at all either. However, in Japan, the samurai heard about these studies and they hearkened to the Zen practices because the samurai having a true warrior spirit, they saw how, maybe they had heard about Shaolin too, but they saw how through Zen practice that their physical aspect could have a spiritual aspect. They So the samurai definitely, and Shogun for a period, really, really learned about Zet and made it their spiritual way. And it influenced their code of ethics and influenced conflict and resolution in the country. So this is just another example of the enlightened teacher tells you something different than what you're expecting, but it's something that leads to a greater success than the student could immediately understand. So I'd like you to meditate with me on the song called Bodhidharma. We're going to focus on the third eye. And I'd like you to consider And I'd like you to consider Bodhidharma's teachings as I've related them to you. Reflect Excellent. We're going to take another break. When we return, I would like the women to come inside and the men to wait outside. I'm going to talk with the women and meditate just for one song with the women. And then we're going to switch. The men will come inside and I'll meditate and speak with the men. A short talk and a short meditation so it won't go too long. You won't be waiting around too long. very important that I address the women separately from the men. I'm going to talk to you about spiritual issues that are relative to your situation according to your gender. According to your gender there's a different subtle physical body, there's different conditions conditions that affect your pathway to enlightenment. And so I'll address you in this teaching directly by separating the group. Okay, thank you. Okay, thank you. So, short break, just about five or six minutes.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
