0:00:00
Very nice.

0:00:14
So yoga, the pathway to union, to enlightenment, through spiritual action, selflessness and impeccability in action. That's it. In the structure of yoga, you make rapid advances into enlightenment. Fantastic. So, I'd like to see a show of hands. I'd like you to raise your hand high and leave your hand up. seen in your life since you've started practicing yoga that you've had a positive turn in your personal job. That means you've got a job, you got a new job, that's an improvement over the previous job. You got a bonus, you got some significant promotion, or you've seen directly that you've taken a positive step in terms of your cash flow, in terms of your career success. I'd like to see a show of hands who've gotten a job, taken a positive turn in their career. Show of hands. Okay. This is a positive thing. So when you do job yoga, when you do this yoga thing we're doing, you gain personal power. You gain, let's say, luminosity, right? You gain light from the process. And you'll have a lot of battles to get there. You'll battle your selfishness. The self will come up with, oh, I want to go play video games now, or oh, I want to go hang out with my friends, but I'm going to sit down and do this work. And you'll battle impeccability. And that's, oh, my work is so sloppy. I don't know what I'm doing. I'm afraid of my work. You know, you go through all of these battles of selflessness and impeccability when you're doing yoga. So those of you who have raised your hands, you have made some success. That means that in doing this yoga process, you've gained personal power. You've gained life. You've made some success in yoga. And this is seen when you can attribute from your yoga practice a greater presence of mind, a greater personal power that helped you to get a new job or to push your career to a higher level. So that's excellent. I'd also like to see a show of hands, could be the same people who got a new job, but maybe you didn't get a new job, but I'd like to see a show of hands if you've seen a significant change in your work in terms of selflessness and impeccability. So that means that in terms of impeccability, since you've been doing the yogic practice, that you can attribute your yogic discipline to a greater focus at work, a greater capability to accomplish your tasks, a greater efficiency in your work. So that's the impeccability part. You're able to do your work more perfectly. And selflessly, you're happier at work. Or you're not afraid of your manager, or you're not afraid of your work, or afraid of co-workers. You're able to work in a more balanced way. You're able to work in a way where you're not butting heads with other people at work, getting in arguments or feeling like people are taking advantage of you. This is selflessness. This is being able to work in a very even way and be happy. So if you've seen a significant improvement in your selflessness and impeccability at work, even if you didn't get a promotion or a new job, I'd like you to raise your hand.

0:05:18
Good, good, good.

0:05:20
This is also a sign that you're making progress in yoga.

0:05:25
Yes. So this is what yoga does. This is the path of yoga. You learn how to do yoga properly in the yoga dojo, which is your yoga project with your yoga teacher. But it gives you something that translates to job success, whatever your career is. It helps you be happy at your work and balanced at your work, helps you to do your work more efficiently and effectively, impeccably. And it also empowers you to make jumps in your career. So for those of you who made a jump in your career, that's one of many jumps that are going to occur. With my teacher, we did probably let's see 16 or 18 jumps in career and they were all up They're all jumps up to a higher income bracket, to a more powerful career path. And all of the students did it because all of the students studied and did yoga. Excellent. That is the path. And that's what we do. So, last month I said this is the beginning of the end, or the end of the beginning. Yeah, the end of the beginning.

0:07:25
Beginning of the end.

0:07:27
So, you know, in the beginning, I just make an opportunity for you to select if you want. And then, after the beginning, if you've selected to do yoga, then your life starts to take off, really. So if you're involved in yoga right now, this is where we really put it into gear. An enlightened teacher does not tell you what you want to hear. You might have your desires and your fears and your concepts of what things should be in your head and your life and stuff. But an enlightened teacher will tell you the truth. might push you past blocks of desire, attachments, blocks of fear. And these truths are very uncomfortable to an ego. So when we do yoga, it makes, you know, you're going to face different things you already have. You're starting to, right? And you're going to face things and the ego would normally follow a certain path. But the yoga directs you against the direction of the ego. Because the ego will lead you to limitation.

0:09:04
Always.

0:09:05
The ego is always defending. It's always choosing its limited definition. It's like, oh no, no, no, I'm uncomfortable with that. I mean, he's afraid, fear. Oh no, no, I want that. This is desire. And the ego is constantly, you know, shutting off life, perception, awareness, consciousness, and following a narrow and safe, defined path of and ultimately suffering. Yoga, through action, through work, breaks you out of that. You constantly will push against desire, you'll constantly push against fear, and you'll constantly see that there's an expansion of awareness, and that there's a greater success in your life. So the ego is a way that is always a way of limitation. And that way of limitation in itself is suffering. And it doesn't seem so at first, maybe, but it follows the path of suffering. If you were selfless enough to follow yoga, you break out of that, you challenge yourself in ways that you wouldn't before. In terms of selflessness, in terms of impeccability. And then you end up learning new things, having different experiences, gaining new awarenesses. So it leads to a higher and brighter place. In all ways. Happiness, selflessness at work, impeccability, your ability to do your work better, and just in terms of your work, it helps your work, helps you to be a more successful professional person, and you succeed more by following this yoga. It's very practical that way. At the same time, it makes you happy, and it opens your awareness. It improves your meditation. So this is a way that you become stronger and more positive and happy spiritually. So it's got that practical aspect, especially for the world we live in, where we have to work. And it also has a very spiritual aspect, which leads to enlightenment. So it's necessary to take many steps. You'll constantly be pushed into your yoga. Pushed beyond your comfort zone. Pushed beyond your desires. Pushed beyond your fears. But not really pushed, instructed. Instructed. Now, so an enlightened teacher, you're going to do it right. This is a black belt dojo. That means if you're in this dojo, you will become a black belt. I in Bodie Woods and also down in LA. And right now, the students are white belts. But if they just stick with the study, they will become black belts. Simple, right? Same thing in yoga. In yoga, you start off, you know, filled with desire, filled with fear, filled with selfishness. This is the way my life is, the definition and suffering. And then when you can follow the teachings of yoga, you break into a greater power, a greater energy field. Yoga is a very magical spiritual structure. And then you start to ride this energy that brings you to a greater and more unified awareness of life. That means happiness and success. So when you are doing yoga, you're going to do it right. You're going to learn to do it right. And you're going to become successful, both in a practical way in terms of your career, more successful than you might even imagine for yourself. And also spiritually more successful. So, you know, an enlightened teacher doesn't tell you what you want to hear, but tells you the truth. So I've been spreading messages to you. Usually through your yoga teacher, or directly from me, some of you, who are problematic. Yeah. Meaning that you're not doing your yoga right. So if your yoga teacher's been talking to you and saying, oh, you need to fix this, it's probably because they had a meeting with me and I told them that. And if it has a lot of energy to make you pissed off, it's because it definitely came from me. Yeah, so, you know, what you have to do is you have to learn to do things in an enlightened way. And that means don't get mad at your yoga. Don't get mad at your yoga teacher. Don't get mad at this process. This is a constructive process that will teach you something wonderful. If you're in a martial arts dojo, it's counterproductive if you get angry at the dojo, if you get angry at the art because you take your personal safety seriously, you want to be able to protect yourself, you want self-defense, you want that power, it's a very dharmic thing, a way to save your own life if something bad happens. That power is very, very helpful. But if you get frustrated in the process, I mean everybody gets frustrated in the process of learning martial arts, myself included, when you start. And everyone gets frustrated in the process of learning yoga, in the beginning usually. It's a little frustrating in the art. But if you're in a karate dojo and you get mad at karate, you're like, I'm mad at karate, it's too hard. Then it's not going to help you to learn the power of self-defense. And learning the power of self-defense is a great thing. If you want to be happy, empowered in your career, learn to have a career that you love, that you're happy about, you work well with people that empowers you. If you get angry at your yoga, it doesn't help you. It's counterproductive. So be positive. Think positively about your yoga. Think positively about your yoga teachers. They're putting in a lot of time and energy to help you. They're not helping themselves, they're helping you. If they wanted to, they could take all your tasks and do it themselves faster. The projects are going slower because they're spending 2 3rds of their time helping you. So that's what a yoga teacher does. So they're helping you. And instead of getting upset with them, you should think, wow, when they give you a hard time and say, this is all wrong, we do it. You should say, wow, they're helping me. That's good. thing. So, you know, in the kind of, when you're actually practicing yoga, not just trying it out and fooling around, once you've decided that you're studying yoga, then you have to face some difficulties. You know, you have to face your mind, you have to face the truth. And that's why I'll tell you the truth. You're not just, you know, sampling yoga anymore. You're practicing yoga. And you're going to learn to do it right,

0:18:15
because that way you'll gain the benefits of yoga.

0:18:18
If you do it wrong, you won't gain benefits from yoga. So right now you're kind of sitting around wondering sometimes, why do I do this? Why do I do extra work? It's just hard.

0:18:34
Well, some of you.

0:18:34
I could be playing video games. Why would I do more work? right? And the reason is because the majority of you, when you do this work, you gain personal power from it. You gain a greater light from it. Even though it's hard to see, but you gain it. And it translates to you get a better job. And it translates to you're happy at So, you know, it's significant to your life. If you don't want to be happy at your job, if you have fun arguing with people or feeling pushed around by the people at work, if you have fun being afraid of your manager, being afraid of your job, being afraid of getting fired all the time, you know, the regular things that people go through. If you have fun limiting yourself and your mind in terms of your livelihood, then you don't need yoga. You could be pretty much unhappy and afraid like most people are at their work. So, you know, if you wanna do that, then I hope you really like meditation. Yoga is not necessary for all of you to do, if you don't think you need it. But I hope you really, really meditate hard. Because you need to hit really high meditations in order to get through this world, especially if you're not practical and you don't learn yoga. Yoga deals with the working world, the life that most of us have to lead. If you don't have to work ever, if you're the heir to a fortune or something, you won the lottery, then no big deal. You don't have to work, you don't need to learn this yoga. Although it definitely moves you along the pathway of enlightenment faster. It improves meditation. But if you already have enough money or whatever, someone supports you and gets you everything you want, then you don't really need yoga. You just need to meditate. You need to really take your meditation practice seriously. And you should be, probably by the summer solstice, able to stop your thought at least two minutes in a sitting session. So when you sit down to meditate, you're going to sit for an hour, and you're going to sit there and hopefully in that hour stop your thought for two minutes. And that's decent practice. Then you're okay. Then you're taking the proper step forward in your practice. If you're not meditating hard, and you're not doing yoga, you're giving yourself a hard time. In a karate dojo, let's say, you go to the dojo, you want to learn the art, there's a way, an etiquette. And when you follow that way, you gain the spirit of the art, you gain the power of the art. And the power doesn't only come from learning the technique. Learning the techniques are the impeccability of the art in karate. So it takes a lot of practice to learn your blocks and your punches and your kicks. And that's the impeccability part. But the selflessness part is that you have the heart to go through it. That means that you have the heart to show up to class, you know, day after day, week after week, month after month. That's how you improve yourself in the inner arts. Continual practice, continual refinement, continual attention. And when you have the heart to pay attention, you have the heart to push yourself, that's how you succeed in martial arts. So that's the selflessness aspect of martial arts. Martial arts is a yoga, or can be a yoga. Actually, anything can be yoga. But martial arts is excellent as a yoga. And if we were in a world with more violence, we probably would focus on martial arts a lot more. If your job was to be a soldier, I'd probably teach you a lot more martial arts. But fortunately, we live in a world where we don't have to be soldiers. Because that's a difficult way to go. But we have to work out in the world, and that's a difficult way to go too. So we address the situation of our lives in the most practical way so that we can be balanced and powerful in our So an enlightened teacher doesn't tell you what you want to do. It doesn't tell you to face your fear, face your desire, and see the truth. In a karate dojo, to get that heart, you have to do more than just show up and do your kata. Very often, there's a way, there's an etiquette of the dojo. So you'll see that after class, the black belts start sweeping the mat, start cleaning the mat. And, you know, the white belts at first just look at it, and go, hmm. But then, they start to catch on. Oh, the mat has to get cleaned. So they say, all right, so after class, I'll help out. And they kind of involve themselves beyond just the technique. They have a care for the dojo. And when they have a care for the dojo, they are more making a selfless commitment to their study because they care about it. They care about the facility. They care about the school. They care about doing things right. The black belts have that. And then the white belts observe that and they say, oh, okay, see, I'm going to do that too. So it's the same way with yoga. Your yoga teachers are the black belts. Every yoga teacher is a black belt in yoga. That means that they have been selfless and impeccable. They're all like at the top of their careers because they've taken numerous steps in yoga practice, and they're black belts. So you have to observe from your yoga teacher how much they put in and their level of attention. You've got to work on it. And when they give you a difficult time, when they're showing you how to do things properly, don't get upset with them. They're trying to help you. And even if they're not perfect, a first degree black belt is not perfect. The fifth degree black belt might be much more powerful. It might be able to show you better. But they know what they're talking about. They do. And if you listen to them, if you follow them, and instead of getting mad when you can say, oh, they did it too rough, or they didn't do it right, or whatever, take what they're giving to you. Take what they are giving and do your best with it. Be selfless and use what they teach you to be impeccable. This is how we teach in the Inner Arts. This is how we teach in a dojo. The fifth degree black belt will have the first degree black belt teaching white belts. We'll go around and make some very particular corrections. You know, what I do is I look at all of your yoga. I look at your state of mind. I look at your personal power. I look at your ability to meditate. I look at how you interact, how harmfully or unharmfully you interact with people. And then through observing this, I can point out things to correct. And I'll either correct it myself, or I'll talk to your yoga teacher and tell them to make the correction. And you might have a harder time with them or whatever, but you've got to learn from them. They know what they're talking about. They're black belts, you're white belts. In yoga, it's true. So take the lesson, be selfless, and put it into practice, become impeccable. If they give you a correction, do it. If they tell you, this is wrong, recode it. Recode it. If they say, we need you to do this writing, write it. They're teaching you impeccability. Excellent. So my corrections are very often very difficult for people because I don't tell you to do what you desire and I make in your ego and a place where you have a sore spot. The ego is full of sore spots, right? And then what you do as an ego is you pull up these shields in both arms to try to defend your sore spots. But what I'm telling you to do is, this is not the way to do it. Put the shields down. There's another way to deal with these sore spots in your body. That's to, you know, like loosen the muscles, right? So that it's not sore anymore. And then you don't have to spend a lot of energy trying to defend it. Yeah. Basically, the way, when you're acting in a selfish way, what you're guarding a spiritual imbalance. And you are guarding it as if it was the most important thing and you're ready to kill and attack everything that's trying to mess with your spiritual imbalance. No, this is my spiritual imbalance. Stay away from it. Oh no, but you could fix it. No, no, here's my shield. It's crazy. But you lose perspective and that's what you think, right? You're like, oh wait, but after you meditate, you can gain that vast perspective and say, okay, let me just try to learn how to loosen my muscles so I don't have to guard this spot that I think is sore. So when the ego, when you're following the line of logic of egotism, it leads to a dark place. If you find yourself angry at yoga, angry at your yoga teacher, and, you know, upset with this whole thing, you're in a bad place. It's a bad way to go. It's a condition of egotism, right? The vast majority of yogic practitioners will notice that they become happier, less personal suffering. And that's because when you do yoga very badly, you're selfish, if you're unimpeccable, then it'll take longer. But if you can just sit there and go through it, go through the process, just try your best, be earnest, do the best that you can, you'll eventually catch on. You'll eventually catch on. Right now, even the ones of you, even those of you who raised your hands and said, yeah, I got a kick-ass job, or yeah, I took a jump in my career, that's very, very positive, and that's very good. And that's the first step, or it's a second step. However, you're just scratching the surface of what yoga is. And for those of you who don't have a success, you're still miserable at your job, you're still frustrated with your job, you're still struggling with your work, and you're still at the same work, then you're not doing yoga. If you've been here over six months and you're still in that condition, you're just not doing yoga. I don't care if you're showing up for the meetings, you're not doing yoga. So those of you who see improvement in your physical lives, yeah, that's a step, you're doing something. Those of you who are in the same place, you're not doing yoga. Which means you should do yoga, you should give it a shot. And you should take a new approach. You can't sit there and hedge yoga. Oh yeah, I showed up at a meeting two or three times in a month, and I kind of do my assignment half-assed. That's not yoga. You don't have any impeccability. You have to do impeccable work. You have to do the best you can. Maybe you work two jobs, because you have to, and you only have a certain amount of hours where you can spend on your yoga. Then, in that case, those hours should be focused hours. You should do the best you can in those hours. Now, if you consider, oh, I work a full-time job and then I have to go play football with my friends and I got my busy video game playing schedule. Then I would say, you can go play with your friends, you can play video games or whatever, but you're making a choice to do something that you enjoy, that you like, playing video games or whatever, right? But you're making a choice not to learn yoga. And so that's a choice too. If you're happy with the miseries of your work, if you don't want to succeed very much in your work, and you wanna be afraid and bothered by people, then that's okay if you're making that choice. Just be very clear about that. When you're sitting there going... It's not just video games. Those are the pastimes that one goes through that are not fruitful to your personal power. They don't increase your consciousness of life. They don't add to your happiness in an integrated way. They just, you know, this is a slacker mentality, right? Just go, oh yeah, I gotta chill out. Yeah, cause I'm so, you know, everything's going on so I gotta chill out sometimes. No, you don't, you gotta work.

0:35:08
Seriously, you gotta work.

0:35:10
You gotta work more. Yeah, you gotta work more. I think a lot of you are not spending enough time on your work because you have all these excuses. But the excuses are unempowering things. They're things that can be skipped. It can be skipped. However, you know, if you're working and doing impeccable work, if you're meeting your deadlines with your yoga teacher, and if your work is good, then you're doing okay. But if you're not, if you're like, oh, no, no, no, no, I can't. If you're coming up with excuses and all this stuff, then you need to make a correction. You need to make a correction. And if you're one of those white belts who's in a karate dojo and you see everybody else cleaning and you don't, you need to look at that in yourself and say, why don't I like to do that? Why am I so me and so, oh, I don't want to. Oh, I don't clean anything, or whatever's going on in your head. Why can't you get with the spirit of the program?

0:36:33
Why?

0:36:34
The reason is egotism.

0:36:36
That's it, the lack of selflessness. And that leads to something strange. Usually the white belts who go to the dojo and don't really get involved in the dojo, don't really care about the dojo, they're just all, yeah, okay, I came, I did my workout, now I'm gonna go and play my video games or whatever. Those white belts usually, they don't get the art, make it to their yellow belt, their green belt, and then they kind of flake out. Because they're just not into it. Just not into it. So when you find yourself in a mood, you have to look at your selflessness. Yoga is about selflessness. Yoga is about impeccability. If you have the selflessness to learn impeccability in these yoga projects, then you're following the path of yoga. And if you say, oh yeah, no, I already do yoga. No. You don't. That's selfish. You say, oh yeah, you know, I already do yoga because at my work I do similar things to what you guys are doing in your projects. Well, that's the definition of Selflessness is to do it in this yoga project because it will develop the power, selfless power. And then that selfless power in your day job will make you happy. But if you just go selfish power in day job, it won't make you happy. You think it's the same, it's definitely not. What we're doing in our yoga projects is actually something, something spiritual, it's a spiritual practice. However, if you don't notice that, then you're blinded by self, you're blinded by selfishness, by your own desires, your own definitions, your own fears, and you don't see it, you don't get it. But guess what? You should get it. You should endeavor to be selfless. Endeavor to say, Why am I like this? Why am I being like this? Maybe there is something to this that I don't get. Definitely there is. I saw a lot of hands go up who from their yoga practice have gotten better jobs. So a lot of hands go up through the yoga practice. They've been happier at work, more impeccable at work. This is what you get. This is how you develop yourself and it's very useful. So if you're on the other side of that, you've got your hand not raised, that means you're not doing yoga. It means you don't see any benefit. You don't see these benefits. And if you don't see these benefits, you've got to really ask yourself, what am I doing? Do I want to be happier at work? Do I want to learn to be balanced? Do I want to learn to be more successful? Because that's what this opportunity is. So I recently came back from Japan. Tara and Dharma and I went to Japan. And we had an amazing trip. A wonderful trip. Now we went to Japan because Tara and Dharma were helpful in making it so that a couple of my students from out of the country were able to stay in the country. merit. And as a result, I said, okay, let's go do something really amazing together. Because I appreciate that. I think it's an amazing thing. If someone's from another country, and they find their teacher, and then we have all these little rules and regulations. That means, we always throw up roadblocks in our country for someone to be in this country. But if someone helps them, and there's various ways to stay in the country, I think it's one of the greatest things. I saw there was a couple students who helped students of mine, teachers, stay in the country, and I saw them for 10 years go from brand new students to really happy, bright, powerful yogis and yoginis. And they wouldn't have had that opportunity if they weren't helped. Which is amazing, to help someone like that. It's a very, very, very amazing thing. And when you do that, it puts you in such a high, bright state of mind that you end up having great karmic merit and your enlightened teacher takes you to Japan. So, yeah, I just got to tell you, it was so bright what they did, that I was inspired to say, let's go have a great adventure. So we went to Japan. First we went to Okinawa to go visit Mr. Miyagi's family.

0:42:37
You know, that's pretty good.

0:42:42
In fact, we were on the Miyagi coast. We were on the Miyagi coast on the main island in Okinawa. I had never been there, but I heard that it was fantastic diving. I've been to the Great Barrier Reef. I've been in Thailand, in the Caribbean, in Hawaii. I've been around diving. And I've seen people, usually military guys who I would see off in Hawaii or something, and they would say, Okinawa's got the best dive, because they have military bases there, US military bases in Okinawa. And these guys would say, diving there is incredible, it's so much better than the Caribbean, it's even better than the Great Barrier Reef. And I say, wow, it's amazing. So we went to do some diving into enlightenment, some mystic scuba in Okinawa. And I have to say, it was amazing. It was very, very incredible. It had the most lush coral reefs of soft corals. And I've never seen some of these varieties of soft coral, and there was so much of it. It was so plentiful. It was beautiful. So we had many diving adventures. We did a lot of dives while we were in Okinawa, and it was wonderful, amazing. And one of the great things about scuba diving is that you overcome yourself, right? We're going to have some scuba diving adventures coming up in August. And scuba diving is just plain hard. I'm telling you right now, it's fun. You know, you have to put all this weird equipment on. You have to carry this giant tank on your back. In the water, it's not so bad. But outside of the water, it's a very strange thing. There's all this weird equipment and stuff. And then you've got to go into this atmosphere that you're not made for. And it's like under the sea, you're in a place where it's not made to sustain your human life. It's not made for you. So you transcend this barrier. And it's kind of scary. So when you learn to scuba dive, you actually face some very primal fears. It's really great. So we faced some primal fears and we got through them. It was really good. So in diving, it's beautiful, it's serene, it's wonderful, majestic and everything, but it's also intense. It's really hot. So, you know, but when you do it step by step, when you do it properly, the same way you do mysticism, the same way you do yoga, then you find yourself going far beyond anything that you thought you'd ever do or be. So a lot of people when they come to scuba diving say, no way, afraid of death of water. I can't put my head underwater, all sorts of things. Can't breathe from the regulator, all sorts of things. But when you learn slowly and do it properly, step by step, then you find yourself transcending that fear and experiencing the power of the deep. So we transcended some things through our practice of mystic scuba. And we had beautiful, beautiful dives. The other thing that we did was we met this dive master who we liked a lot. Her name was, I keep calling her Azu, yeah, that's her. I keep calling her Ponzu. Yeah, a little soft, anyway. So Azu, she was our dive master, and she was wonderful. She was a very precise and impeccable dive master. But the great thing about her was she had been an instructor for three years and she had that, she had that beginner's mind. She loved diving. A lot of dive masters and instructors, after about six or eight months of diving every day, they get bored. They're just like, oh, it's kind of a pain. And they get bored. They miss the magic. It's just like you, you guys miss the magic of life because your mind is so it's in such a routine of perception. You miss even above land, everything's magical. But you don't see it. If you dive four or six or eight or 10 times a year, it's magical every time. It's magic. So I really enjoy the magic of scuba, but it is a challenge for most instructors who don't practice Mystic Scuba, they just get into this pattern. And Azu didn't. She had the beginner's mind, and she was just delighted on every dive. Now, normally when I go scuba diving, I don't go with a dive boat with other dive instructors, because the way that most of them dive is not spiritual. If you go and get trained or go diving with regular instructors, they just have a very conditioned way of looking at things. I mean, sure, it's safe and everything like that. That's great. It's functional, of course, but they just, you know, they're not open to the magic of the experience. And then, you know, it kind of, I don't like diving that way. It's not fun. And it's very, it's very, it bothers me if I go out with another instructor. If I go out on a dive boat and the instructor says, okay, so this dive is to 80 feet, don't go below 80 feet, because I'm not going below 80 feet, and then I have to supervise you. When you enter that kind of contract that they're supposed to look after you, then they start like, you know, dinging on their tanks, ding, ding, ding, ding,

0:49:51
come over here, ding, ding, ding, ding. You know, and then there's this,

0:49:54
like you go on a boat, there's 20 divers, and you guys all jump in together, and then, it's so funny, the ocean is very big, but once you get into a boat with 20 divers, they all clump up and they start kicking each other.

0:50:08
So I don't like diving that way.

0:50:09
I have a different take on how to lead a dive. I have a different take on how to do scuba diving, the same way I have a different take on how to go to a place of nature, how to experience a place of nature. And the experience of diving with me and going to nature with me is very different because I have a Buddhist way, a mystical way, and it's fun and bright. So, once in a while you come across three divers like Azu before. And they're just, you know, ocean tribe, they love the ocean. They're on a spiritual connection with the ocean. And it's fantastic. So, you know, it was really, really, really wonderful diving with Azu. And we also did a lot of dives by ourselves. And amazing dives, amazing dives. Yeah, there's this ancient civilization that used to live in the Dragon Islands there, the Okinawa. And there is this underwater structure left over from one of the ancient cultures there. And we were diving on some of those walls. They say it's a pyramid, but it's just really kind of a pyramid-like wall. So it was really amazing, really interesting. The dimensions there, amazing. So we had a brilliant time. Now, I remember the first time I went to Japan, it was when I was doing the advanced teachings. I started experiencing Samadhi regularly, or actually, not even regularly, once in a while, and it was awesome. And I was like, wow, this is great. And I was coming from the Himalayas, and I went to Kyoto, Osaka and Kyoto. And when I was in Kyoto, I had a hotel and I went with a friend who was also a Buddhist monk from my school. And he had a good friend who was showing us around. And she brought us to our hotel. I went in and I said, great. Took a shower, got some clothes on. I was like, let's go hike around Kyoto." So my friend John and I, we went out to look around Kyoto and have a good time. So we walked about half a block from our hotel. And I turned around, and I said, where's our hotel? Now, this might sound strange to you if you've never been to Japan. But it's very, everything looks the same. It's very confusing. Yeah, the attention and interface is very different from an American's viewpoint. So it was very confusing for me. I said, we just walked half a block, right? John said, yeah. So we walked half a block back, and we were looking in the windows of the shops, and then, oh, we're like, oh, wait, this is our hotel right yeah okay good so we went into our hotel and then we got a card that said the name the address of the hotel and we decided we would take a taxi back because we knew we were gonna get lost and then we went around and got completely lost in Kyoto yet we had our little you know we got a taxi and say here and they took us back and we're like whew so you know and then you get used to it after a while, and you can find your hotel again. But, you know, there was this film that we watched, not this Bode Woods Workday, but the previous one, Enlightenment Guaranteed. And the first time I saw this film was in the theater, and I laughed so much when I saw it, because these two German guys go to Tokyo, and they're going to go on a Zen retreat, but their first night is in a hotel. And they decide to go out, go to a bar. So they walk out of the hotel, they go a few blocks, and they're completely lost. The bar that they went to, this is Tokyo, they go to a bar, and they have two or three drinks, and then the bill is $600. And they're like, whoa. So they spend almost all their cash at the bar. And then they come out, and they can't find their hotel. So they had a little pamphlet or something about the hotel, they thought. And so they said, okay, we're going to get a taxi with the rest of our money and have them take us there. It's not very far, so it should be no problem. So they give the little pamphlet to the taxi driver and the taxi driver takes them far away somewhere else. So the pamphlet, they were saying hotel, but then the taxi driver took them to the hospital. So there was a little bit of confusion, but they ended up far from their hotel and they gave the taxi driver the rest of their money. Oh, they had a little money left. So they tried to make a phone call, didn't work. Then they had just a little money left, so they decided maybe they would gamble with that money. And if they gambled with that money, they might make a lot more money and then have more options. But they went into a pachinko parlor. And pachinko is this game that you could play all over Japan, where it's kind of like, almost like a pinball machine game. You don't actually win money from it. They just thought it kind of looked like a slot machine or something. So they put their money in, and then they put their little pachinko balls in, and they go ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, and then it's over. Okay, so they had no money, didn't know where the hotel was, they were lost in Tokyo, and they became homeless. So having been to Japan and been confused myself, luckily I stopped after half a block and went back because if I didn't do that, I would have done the same thing, I would have been completely lost. And then I'd be lost in Kyoto, sleeping out by the river or something. So yeah, it's really, really different. And at the same time, really beautiful. So there's certain places that are places where there's been a spiritual imprint. And if you walk into one of the temples in Kyoto, there is a feeling there. There's an energy there. Now we're moving to Kyoto. And we went to visit a lot of the Zen temples and the Shingon temples, places that we had been in past lives, or at least Dharma and I. We went into these temples and there was a feeling there, an energy there, right? Right? And when I went to Osaka my first time, that's where my friend, John's friend lived. And she invited us to go to the places that she knew. And she invited us to meet some of her interesting friends. Like there was this one popular rock singer, music singer, and there was the sumo wrestlers. That was the first time I did karaoke. I met these two famous, very famous sumo wrestlers, and they took a shine to me, they liked me. And they said, let's go do karaoke. And I said, no, I don't sing. And they said, karaoke. And I said, no, absolutely not, I just don't think. Then the sumo wrestler moved alongside me and put his arm on me, and he said, karaoke. And he didn't take his arm off, and he started walking. So that was the first time I did karaoke. So I met these really cool, interesting people, right? And I did really fun things and went to great restaurants and went to wonderful places because John's friend was showing us around. She knew the place and she was helping us to have a very great experience there. Now, if I had gone to Osaka by myself, I wouldn't have had very much of an interesting time. I would have walked around, gotten lost. I would have found some food to eat. I would be like, well, Osaka's really not that interesting otherwise. It really isn't. But if you know someone who knows their way around, it's great, it's amazing. Same thing in Tokyo. Tokyo is a big city, and if you don't know, I know Americans who've gone to Tokyo, and they hated it. They went there and said, ah, it's just this terrible place. Ah, it's so busy, and you don't know what to do. It's all strange. However, when we went there, we were doing some one-team yoga in Tokyo. When we went to Tokyo, it was wonderful, because we had business partners that took us to different places that they knew that they liked for dinner or whatever. It was brilliant and wonderful and fantastic. When you go to a place that has a different energy that's outside of your normal energy energy pattern, if you don't know the place, then you're not going to be able to connect with what's great about the place. That's why if you have the person you know there who knows the place really well, you'll have an amazing time, a fantastic time. That's normal, right? Just like if you go to New York and you've never been there before. It's not gonna be the same as if you knew someone who's been there, who lived there, who lives there, knows the places to go. Then it can be remarkable. So it's the same way with spiritual stuff in places. So if you guys just went to, if any one of you just went to Japan on your own, you would have whatever experience. But if you go with me, it's very different. Because maybe not so much in Tokyo, but in Kyoto, it would be very, very different. Because I know Kyoto. I've been there before, you feel something. You feel something about it. Maybe it's a little bit quieter. Your mind could be a little bit more still. However, a lot of these temples were constructed for enlightened teachers. There were a number for a period of 800 years or so. So Kyoto is the spiritual, the Buddhist center of Japan. So there were many enlightened teachers and they taught wonderful dharmas and by going there and practicing it, I made a connection with it, with the teachings of enlightenment. Now, those enlightened teachers are long gone. There's not one enlightened teacher left in, I don't know, the whole of Japan, but not one left in Kyoto. But they kind of create an impression on a place. And there's an access, a connection that you can make, if you know how, if you know it's there. If you don't know it's there, you just go, oh, it's kind of neat here, kind of quiet, maybe a little bit still. But if you know what's there, you can access the teachings and the Dharma and make connections to very, very wonderful enlightened teachers and their energy. So we're studying enlightened teachers, right? That's what the great teachers of enlightenment... When we meditate to this music, we are making a connection with the dimensions of these great teachers, the teachings of these great teachers. So in places in Kyoto, in some of the temples, there were enlightened teachers who lived there, who taught there. There were lineages of enlightened teachers. Enlightened teacher after enlightened teacher after enlightened teacher in these temples. Sometimes a couple enlightened people at the same time. There's a powerful dharma in these places. And I was a monk in some of those places, and some of them, just because I'm enlightened, I can access these enlightened dimensions. So when I go to those places, I can access that light. And what it does is it makes a tremendously bright experience. Yeah, it's true, it's amazing. Actually, Kyoto is an amazing place. It has wonderful energy lines. And so when I go there, I just get clicked into that energy line. I'm clicked into the network. And I can feel all these wonderful dimensions throughout the whole area, throughout the whole region. It's amazing. But if I'm not there, if you went yourself, it would be very, very different. You wouldn't be able to click into the matrix of enlightened energy because it's totally covered over with other stuff. High population. So most people who live in Kyoto, you know, they don't have any awareness of the spiritual energy lines that are there. And they don't use it, they don't experience it. They don't regard it. They just say, I don't know. So they just go through a very regular life, which is interesting. But at the same time, they have some benefit from those energy lines being there. So that way, the teachers have left, let's say, connections of light, of enlightenment, lines of enlightenment. It becomes kind of a place of power. And because of the teachings and efforts. You know, it even happens here in this room. It happens at Bodhi Woods. It happens at Stanford. When we meditate together, when I teach the Dharma to you, it creates an impression of light that affects the energy of the place. It's true. If you come back here, you know, let's say a month from now or two months from now or ten years from now or whatever, and you walk into this room, you can feel the same exact energy. You know why? Because you're here now. You can connect with this energy. And if you come back at a later time, you can feel this energy, because the energy of the teaching affects the place. So the enlightened teachers of Kyoto had set down these enlightened energy lines, and it has affected the place. When we went there, we had amazing experiences. There's a lot of other people walking around taking pictures of the temple and stuff. And we're meditating. We're experiencing the beautiful teachings of different enlightened teachers. It's amazing. So Kyoto is the place, the Buddhist heart of Japan. It's really very wonderful. Yes. A Buddhist mystic doesn't get very explorative. They don't start exploring things very much. They usually follow the teacher's guidance. So, you know, Dharma's been to Kyoto a number of times now. And it was easier for him. He was able to automatically start connecting because we've been to Kyoto a number of times together. My students, my older students, when we go to places of power, they've been there a number of times with me. They're able to connect with the energy more directly. Now, if they had gone to the Anza-Borrego themselves, they go, oh Anza-Borrego, that sounds like a cool place to go, I'm gonna go there. They would probably find that they have a very bad experience, an incorrect experience. An experience where you can't really integrate the power. So if Dharma had gone to Kyoto by himself without going with me, he would go there and he would feel the people. Even though he's had many past lives there, he wouldn't connect to the energy lines himself. It was because I could, I could see it. And I could show him, hey look, you've done this too. Here's how you do it. So we, as Buddhist mystics, usually learn how to do it right. We learn, you know, where to go and what's there. That's how we address places of power. So places of power are the same. You don't want to start to go exploring places of power. You don't wanna start to explore it because you don't know what's there. If you go to, let's say, New York City, and you have a guide who says, oh, this is a great little lounge, this is a great club, this is a great restaurant, you're having a great time. Stay away from this side of the city. Don't walk over here. You're going to get in trouble. They're keeping you safe. But if you go there by yourself, yeah, maybe you'll find that great club. And then you walk into the bad part of the city. You run into trouble. Places of power have light, and that's great, but they also have where there's a light, there's a shadow. So they have energy lines that are difficult, and I take it very seriously. It can mess you up physically, it can mess your aura up, it can really throw you for a spiritual loop. So when you go to places, when you're a Buddhist mystic, there's a lot of etiquette. There's a lot of how to do it right. And I teach how to do it right, like now. So it's important to have the proper regard for the place. And it's a really good idea to follow your teacher and to see what they point out, to see what they show you. I told my older students, don't go there for a number of years. They'd say, oh, can I go to Shasta? And I'd say, no, don't do it. Oh, but I really would like to. I'm like, stay away. Shasta's very powerful. We're going to Shasta for the summer solstice. Lots of people go to Shasta. However, you should be very careful about Shasta. We're going to go through Shasta together. Follow me, see what I point out. But you shouldn't go to Shasta by yourself for a while. We've been to Shasta a number of times. And now when someone says, Oh, can I go up to Shasta on the weekend?

1:11:38
I'm like, yeah, sure, it's no big deal.

1:11:38
You know what you're doing. And I'll remind them of things. Remember this, remember this, remember this, otherwise you're fine. But that's because they have the awareness of it now. As you become a more powerful meditator, or when you have a connection to an enlightened teacher, what happens is your aura becomes brighter. There's a greater luminosity in your energy field. And what that means is that the way that you operate in mystical areas and places of power is different than it was before. So before, when you didn't have certain light in your aura, certain inner dimensions open for your development of awareness, when you went to a place of power, you just couldn't access energy lines. But now you have greater light, you start to see. It gives you a greater luminosity of seeing things, magical things. But you have to be very careful. These are powerful energies. And if you don't work with them correctly, you can really harm yourself. So you've got to be careful. It's very important. Very important. I had a student who, you know, I specifically told her, you need to be very careful about how you do physical things. I told her there's an opening in her attention where she might die. And I told her what to do to correct that. And then she, you know, and that had to do with one sport that she was engaged in. And then she went to Shasta's a mountain, it's a volcano, right? So hiking up doesn't seem like it's such a bad thing, it's kind of nice and beautiful, but the energy lines are very, very powerful. She did not manage the energy. She entered into an energy field that she wasn't aware of, and it was so strong that it shook her attention. She didn't perceive correctly. She slipped and she fell. And she fell pretty far, knocked herself out. And she woke up at four in the morning. And she was all cut and bruised and stuff. And she had to crawl her way back to her car. Not a good way to go. And I definitely warned her, just as I'm warning you. You don't mess with these places, you've got to do it right. When I go to these places, we don't have problems, we do it correctly. And when you learn to do it correctly, then you can engage in it correctly. So Buddhist mystic, because we have a greater light in our aura, when we go to places of power, we have more things that we're aware of, and more things that are aware of us. So it's kind of like if you wear red when you go to the east side of Long Beach,

1:14:58
it's a problem.

1:14:59
You might not think so because you got a new red sweater or something, right? But it's not the right thing to do because of the crips, the gangs. So there's different things that occur through the process of mysticism. The dimensions are open for you. When you meet an enlightened teacher, things change. Your energy changes, your energy body changes. The dimensions that you're aware of change. This is a process of opening consciousness, opening awareness. And it's not normal. You can look at things out in the world and it's totally magical. Whereas before it wasn't. It was like whatever way it was. But now you can go out into nature and you can see light, you can see brightness. Sometimes you can go to work and see light and brightness. There's all sorts of places where in a constructive manner, as you do yoga and follow the teachings properly, the light comes out in a beautiful way. But there's a way to do it, there's a way not to do it. So we work on how to do it properly. How to do it properly. All right, we're gonna take a break. Some people are like, I've got it. All right, so we'll take a break for 10 minutes, come back, and we will meditate again. come back, and we will meditate again. Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
