0:00:00
So we are involved in an exercise, an exercise of taking action, spiritual action, impeccable action, selfless action. We are involved in a process of yoga. Now, in order to do this practice you have to take action. You have to be selfless and you have to be impeccable. And then that's when yoga really works. That's when yoga becomes very powerful and enlightening. Even on the way there, even when you're on the way moving from being selfish to selfless, it's powerful. And when you're on the way from being not impeccable to impeccable. That process of transformation is enlightening. Now it's very important that you work on it properly, that you move in the right direction. Because if you become less selfless, you're doing it the wrong way. So if you find yourself being more selfish, dark minded, doubtful, unhappy, you indulge in confusion, then what you're doing is you're being selfish ultimately. And you're not practicing yoga properly. If you find that your work is getting worse, that your attention to detail is worse, that you just feel all confused and frazzled, and your work isn't as good as it should be, as good as it could be, if you find that your work is not in its quality, it's going backwards instead of forwards, it should be getting better, stronger, more capable in your work. Then, if that's the case, then your impeccability is going in the wrong direction. You're not making yourself more impeccable, you're being sloppier with your attention. So that would be the two points of yoga. Selflessness and impeccability. You should be becoming more impeccable and more selfless as you do this practice and not the other way around. Because the other way around doesn't lead to enlightened awareness. But when you constantly become more impeccable, you constantly push, you constantly do better and better and better, until you reach impeccability. Until you do your work perfectly. Then you need to work on it. And you can't degrade. And you have to be selfless. You can't sit there and go, Oh, me and my problems and this and that and confusion and bad feelings and doubt. That's all selfishness. And when you put that into your work, it doesn't make you happy. It makes you very, very unhappy. But you can have a change of heart, and you could learn to whistle while you work. You could be positive, like the little seven dwarves. Hi-ho, hi-ho, hi-ho, hi-ho. And they're happy. Happy little people. You could be a happy worker, if you have a change of heart and if you're just positive, if you look for the positive side of your work, it's a much better way to go. But most importantly as a warrior is that you do it. Right? Is that you see it through, that you get it done. Whether you're impeccable or not, you will get your software done. You will write your program. You will write your marketing plan. You will do your test case. You're going to do it. And even if your yoga teacher gives you a hard time, you're going to get it done to an acceptable level. And even though you have hardships and difficulties, doubts and confusions, you're going to get to the end of it. You're going to get through it. You're going to do it right. That's what a warrior does. Now, you've got to fight right, because if you're too much of a problem, you're going to get kicked off your yoga team. But getting it done, fighting through to the end, is what a warrior does. And that was like Milarepa. Milarepa was not whistling while he worked. He was having a hard time. He was having a lot of difficulties. However, he pushed and pushed and pushed and he saw it through. So that's what you got to do. You got to be impeccable. You got to be selfless. And you got to be strong. You got to have the will to do this right. Now a lot of you are having trouble with selflessness, with negative thinking and doubt about your own capabilities to get things done in order to be able to do the job. So it's very very important for you to recognize that you can do the tasks that you're given in yoga. Your yoga teachers are giving you assignments and tasks that you're capable of coming up to. So maybe you're at first unable to, but then they teach you a little more, they give you another task, and another task, and then they say, okay, now do this, take responsibility for this task. And you say, oh, I can't do that. I've never done it before. But they've actually given you a challenge that you're capable of doing. You're capable of doing. So every task that you have, each of you, you're capable of doing it. Now in order to do it, it's always good to be positive, to see that it's possible. And seeing that it's possible takes the ability to push out negative thinking. So negative thinking will always enforce your karmas, it will enforce your limitations. And negative thinking is always the opposite of yoga. It's the opposite of selflessness. So you really have to focus on being positive. You're given a task, be positive about it. Know that you can do it. You wouldn't be given the task if it was not possible for you to do. And the task is a chance for you to grow. The tasks are a chance for you to come up a level in terms of impactability, in terms of yoga, in your practice. So it's important for you to recognize that. That these tasks are tasks you can do. It's very important. Let's do a little exercise actually. In this exercise, I'd like you to see yourself on a basketball court or you can use golf if you want.

0:07:46
Let's do basketball.

0:07:47
The hoop, you're standing at the free throw line, right? And the hoop is about 12 feet away or something. You have a basketball in your hands, I would like you to envision throwing the basketball and making the point. It swooshes right through the net. So, just for a moment, just for 10 seconds or so, I want you to have a very clear vision of throwing the ball through the hoop. Let's begin.

0:08:31
Yes. Not so hard, right?

0:08:33
You're like, my ball! Back at me!

0:08:40
But it's not so hard to envision making a point.

0:08:44
It's not so hard to envision throwing a ball through a hoop.

0:08:47
However, if you get your ego involved in that, if you say, oh, my yoga teacher told me to do it, then maybe that ball starts to not go through the hoop. If you say, oh, but then at the same time, the whole game is bothering me, and my team is bothering me, and the weather's not so nice outside. The more that you let yourself get attached to the problems, the harder it is to throw the ball through the hoop in your mind. So right now, you're all at a free-throw line. You're all at the point where you've got a task to do, you've got to get that point for your team, for your yoga team. And if it was just ego-less, you could just sit there and go, and throw it through, and it wouldn't be a big deal. But what's happening with a lot of you is your ego has been riled up, and your ego is becoming attached to all of the matters of the game, all of the matters of the task, of the team, of the stadium, of the hoop, of the color of the ball. You're getting all attached to your ideas and concepts of limitations. They're all coming up and they're all getting stuck into this effort. And what it does is, it makes you, you know, you're about to throw the ball, but then you start thinking about, oh, but this problem, oh, but that person. And then when you're throwing the ball, you start to think about all the problems. And then the ball just doesn't go. The ball doesn't work. The ball doesn't go through the hoop.

0:10:51
It wants to go through with it.

0:10:51
But it doesn't get there because your mind is filled with so many other things, so many other concerns that you're attached to, that you're riled up about. But it's very simple, it's a very simple thing, you have a very simple action to do. It applies focus, it applies you pushing it through, doing the action, but when you start putting your model of what you can do and what you've done before and who you are in the way, then it starts to not happen. It starts to become all confused with so many other thoughts and things. So what you got to do is you have to be selfless. And you have to let go of all your doubt, let go of all your negativity, let go of all your confusion. Just do the action. Put all your negativity aside because it's just blocking you, it's just derailing you from succeeding. So it's a simple action that you have to do, each of you. It's not that hard. It's something to take a step up in, something to push for, but what really, really derails you is yourself, is your thoughts, is your attachments, is your whole personal history. And you've got to stop it, you've got to stop that negative thinking. A really good way to do it is by using positive thinking, and thinking, yay, I'm going to throw this ball through the hoop. This is great. I love this stadium. I love my team. Everything's fantastic. Look, the color of the ball. Wow. You do better. So if you have positive thinking, positive thinking actually supports you in throwing the ball through the hoop. So you should practice positive thinking because you're gonna probably think something while you're doing your work. So you might as well think positive things instead of negative things. But you've got to cut the negativity. Negativity is selfishness, and it blocks the light of yoga. And that is a very, very important thing for you to recognize that you can do it. Each of you, every single one of you, you can do it. But you've got to do it. Drop the negativity. There's a lot of negativity, a lot of self-doubt. But you're given tasks that you can do. Really, you can do it. You can throw the ball through the hoop. Put aside negative thinking and pick up some positive thinking. Be mindful. Really, really, really be positive. Be very, very, very positive.

0:13:39
It's important.

0:13:41
Yes, yes, yes.

0:13:42
There's this old story. No, I won't tell you this old story. It might scare you.

0:13:46
The old story.

0:13:49
I'll tell you the old story. So there's this old story of a monk who was painting Tanka's made the pictures of the Buddha with a very, very, very, very, very beautiful, beautiful face. Right. And then the and so somebody saw these, these pictures of the monk was painting and said, Wow, these are so beautiful, I have to meet the artist. And then the other monks were no, no, no, no, you don't want to meet the artist. And then the guy's like, no, really, really, I must meet this artist. He's doing so many beautiful pictures. And look at Buddha's beautiful face. And then he goes, all right, all right, we'll introduce you to the monk. But we warned him. And then so he brings the guy over to meet the monk who's sitting there painting. anything. And the monk has this hideous face, just this hideously scary, deformed face. And so the guy goes, ah, oh, well, beautiful work that you're doing. And then he leaves quickly. And then he goes over to the lama and says, what happened to his face? Right? And the Lama said to this person, this is a true story by the way. The Lama said to this person that in a previous lifetime, this person, the monk who was the painter, was angry when he was doing his yoga. And he painted pictures of the Buddha. And that in this incarnation, his face was hideous because he was painting with the hideous or angry attention the Buddha's face. And so as a reflection of bad karma from his yoga, he has an ugly face. But in this lifetime, he's transformed through his yoga. So he has made a beautiful picture of the Buddha's face and he's not angry anymore. So then in his next lifetime, of course, he'll have the beautiful face of his pictures in this lifetime. So it kind of works like that. It really does. This is a span of incarnations that we're talking about. And that's what we have here too. Whether you believe in previous incarnations or think that you're going to reincarnate again or not, we're talking about an experience of what happens now leads to the next moment. And that's karma. And that's an obvious law. So we want to do our work with a bright feeling, with a positive feeling, not with anger, not with doubt. Because when you do your work with anger and doubt and confusion and all this negativity, then what happens in the next moment is you have an ugly face. So, this story is incarnations, but we can just say from moment to moment, we don't want to see any more ugly faces out there. It's hideous. Don't like them very much. In England, everyone's got these teeth. It's kind of a thing where the English people are brushing their teeth with sugar. I was like, no, it's not right. You're not supposed to do that. I think it was a joke. Anyway, so that's the old England. New England's much better.

0:17:44
They brush their teeth.

0:17:47
They might even floss.

0:17:48
Did I tell you guys about flossing?

0:17:51
You know, flossing your teeth? You should floss your teeth. That's a real big reason why sanghas have problems with each other. It's a bad breath.

0:18:02
So it's really important.

0:18:04
So if you come over to talk to me and I'm like,

0:18:05
hi, nice to meet you, how's it going?

0:18:07
And then you start talking and I'm like, ugh. It's mostly, you should first say, did I floss today? Yeah, it's important, really. I mean, a lot of things are dying between teeth. And some of you have little cemeteries there. A morgue, a real ground cemetery, and small lives. So, flossing is very good. You have a little hygiene, shiny happy teeth, gums. Did you know that 38% of your teeth,

0:18:40
I heard this on a Crest commercial,

0:18:41
so I don't know how they got it. It's that 38% is the part between the teeth. I'm like, well, 38, no? Well, maybe... Yeah, so the part that you get with flossing is very important. To be clean. And in that way, you can know that you're speaking cleanly, with great purity. Yeah, it's really important. So, flossing. Yeah, but it's very important to have a positive mental attitude towards everything that you do. Especially towards your spiritual practice. And even though you've got challenges, you've got to throw a ball through a hoop, you've got difficult things to do, be positive about it. Be positive about it. Because when you have hard work to do, being negative never helps. You've got to learn to do hard work with a smile. That's the Buddhist way. So, put a smile on your face, be optimistic, know that you can throw the ball through the hoop, know that you can do it.

0:20:05
You can do it.

0:20:06
You can do so much more than you think you can do. We're talking about just a simple little step right now. And it might seem like a hard step, but every one of you can do it. your negativity, think positively, and work hard. your negativity, think positively, and work hard. Thank you all very much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
