0:00:00
Okay, so now you guys will learn the way we officially begin meditation meeting. It's by bowing. Okay? So, all you do is kind of like lean forward. Yeah. Hey. Good. Perfect. Hey, good, perfect. Alright, so this is the way that we begin all of our meditation. Remember when you were, oh please, sorry. Remember when you were a new student and you came into the classes here and then all of the older students, all of your yoga teachers, they would stand up Because that was the thing they were doing. They were preparing to bow. But since you were new and you didn't know how to bow yet, then I didn't go through all that formal stuff with you. So bowing is quite simple. We have a basic way of doing it. and you move your hands at your side, right? Not in front, not behind, and your feet are not together, not like an attention, just comfortably apart. And then you just lean forward and back. And if you're a martial artist, always look the eye. Just look the eye.

0:01:29
Just look the eye. Okay, we're going to begin with meditation.

0:01:40
Fantastic. So we have several nervous people. I picked up on that. Yeah, it's funny. Especially the one who was like, oh my god, I think I forgot this. So they're sitting there meditating. Oh my god, I completely forgot this. And then a few minutes later, oh no, I remember now. Meditation's good for something. At least in the presentation, you'll be okay.

0:02:22
All right.

0:02:25
So anyway, this evening is a very, very momentous occasion because this is a time where you will present your yoga. And presentation of yoga means that you have something to present. And that's very big. That's a fantastic thing. So tonight we will have two or a few or one, a few people from the yoga teams who will be coming up and presenting their progress in yoga. And this, you know, although we might have one or two people presenting, what you're presenting is the progress of the whole team. So you'll be, you know, a little bit nervous speaking in front of a group and presenting, but you'll be demonstrating for the whole team. The whole team's power is behind you. So that's a fantastic thing. It's a very, very, very good and powerful experience to present, although it's a little difficult. I remember the first time I presented to my teacher, oh boy, there were 200 people in the room and I was nervous because I had never spoken to such a large group. But then when my teacher was there, I was only worried about, I was only nervous about him. The other people didn't matter anymore. I was just like, oh no, what will he think? And he was, you know, pretty intense. So you guys should feel much more comfortable presenting in front of me. Because I'm not nearly as intense. Yeah, it's true. I'm just like really easygoing, smiling a lot, talking about enlightenment and computers and martial arts a little. And yeah, you know, so you should feel well at ease. It's much easier to present to me. I was driving up with Parvati and Dharma, and they used to have to do presentations for Mandala. And Mandala was more intense, and so she's far more intense in her outward demeanor than I am. So it was harder for them. So for you, no problem. And if you feel a little nervous, then just breathe. Breathe deeply. Just take a moment, have a few deep inhalations and exhalations, and then continue on. You know, it's something that is very empowering for you to present. And the people who are presenting are very lucky because they're the ones who get to be in the place of power. The presenters, the one in the place of power, you're presenting the power of the whole team. So that's great, but it gets to, it really comes through you. Back when we used to study at this one martial arts dojo, the sensei was very, very, he was very, very strong. And he really, when he did the techniques on you, when he demonstrated on you, it really threw you around really hard. And he would always like to use me to show the techniques. So he would throw me around. And I was like, oh my gosh, this is so intense for me, it's so difficult. However, I realized that I really, really, really was learning because he was actually demonstrating the power via me. And so I was really learning those techniques, even though it was very, very intense and difficult for me. So when you go out and put yourself, when you're representing your yoga, you put yourself in a position of power as a presenter, or as a salesperson, or as someone really making a step, really doing something with the yoga, then it's always a very, very, very powerful position because you're not only developing your skills in yoga, but then this is the outward form where you're presenting it, where you're doing something with it. And the presentations are spiritually significant. Yes. So, it'll be good. So we're going to present Piggyback first, and after Piggyback, wait, what's it called? AppBuddy, right? I'm calling it, it's an old code name. And then after AppBuddy, then Hobson. Then we'll see how the presentation's going, we'll talk a little bit later.

0:08:05
Yeah.

0:08:06
Okay, so the presenters will come up. You can come up in any fashion or order you want. This is where you'll be presenting. I only ask that you don't sit in my seat, but you can definitely stand in this area, use this table when you're presenting. Excellent. So without any further ado, we have a lot to cover tonight. All right, let's do another short meditation. We'll meditate for three songs.

0:08:36
Excellent.

0:08:39
presentations. This was the first time you, as a yogic group, presented. And a presentation is sort of like, it's kind of like a black belt test. No, not a black belt test. So I know that a few of you have in August coming up your tests for karate, jujitsu. And what happens in a test is you work on your technique, you work on your kata, your form, and after you've reached a certain level of capability, your sensei sees while you're training that you've improved. And then you go to the test. And when you go to the test and you perform, you present what you've learned in your martial art, then if you've presented well, if you bring your best attention and you perform at your greatest capability, then the sensei says, okay, you have a higher rank. Maybe you go from a yellow belt to an orange belt or a sixth cue to a fifth cue or something like that. And getting a higher belt ranking is something in your attention. It's a way of measuring that you're increasing your power, you're increasing your capability. presentation was your first yogic belt ranking test and you definitely passed the test. You all did very very very well. Good presentations. It shows that you tightened up your yoga. You presented it well. There is creativity, humor, and all in all, successful technology. So this is definitely a step in the right direction. In my jiu-jitsu system, we only have three belts. You start off as a white belt, then you get your bodon, that's a red belt with a black stripe, and that means that your next belt is black belt. So there's only three belts. And in yoga, in this yogic endeavor, there's also three belts. You guys have moved from white belt to whatever this is now. Okay, let's call it bodon, that's what I call it. And the next step is black belt. Now, in my jujitsu system, similarly to this system here, to get your Bodon, your red belt with a black stripe, you have to be able to do the techniques properly. You have to show that you're able to do the techniques. So you know you can kick, you can punch, you can do the nikyo, sankyo. And similarly here you've shown that you could build software, right? It's very good. Then in the black belt test In my system in order to get your black belt you have to be able to spar Fight and beat another black belt from any other system So you got to be able to go out there and actually beat someone at the rank that you want to get Now that's the next step here. That's what I call reality Is it real? Are you a real black belt? Well, if you could be another black belt, then I guess so. Is your software real? Does it really work? If it sells, it works. So in the beginning, you just are learning the technique, being able to build. And that you have done successfully. That's definitely a step forward. It got to have the software and it's got to be working in order for you to get out there and sell it. But the next step is the step of the really real reality and that is get your software out there and sell it. really shows us that it's a successful yogic project. So that's the next step. And this next step will be occurring between the equinox and the solstice, or it may not occur at all. We have a limited time. This should tighten up your attention on development, get it focused on sales. Now you're going from, you know, being able to code to being someone who's coding for sales. Coding, you know, it's more of a market focus than a I'm just trying to learn and just trying for my first screen or something like that. And I know some of you have just done your first screen, but the way that we can move your progress along much faster is when you recognize that you are coding this for sales. You have to get a product out. And getting a product out means that there has to be software, there has to be a product, it's got to work. But you have to be very, very focused on the sales of this software. Lots of people build computer programs that don't have the proper attention and don't make sales. But when you build a piece of software with the proper attention, it will make sales. And that means that you have to be sales focused. It takes more intention, takes more attention, more energy. So you've done very well, that's very good. But we have another step, and a very important step, and that's between the equinox and solstice, to get these things out there and making sales. Oh yes, that's important. Not all of you, but most of you have done something in yoga. You've done something in yoga. And that's good. You've gotten your belt ranking. And that's good. That's something that's real. You might not be able to recognize it at the moment, but it is something in terms of power and attention that is real. It's something that enhances your life. It's something that you can use in many, many other ways. So you've got your belt ranking. There's a big step between a brown belt and a black belt, though. There's a big step in just improving improving and reaching a level of competence. So that's our next step. It's huge. But, you know, improving is good. There's something real there. There's some real development. So that's a very, very, very, very positive thing. That's really good. You should acknowledge that. You've done something, most of you. Now, I'd like you to do an assignment for me. It's a simple assignment. I think it was a month ago or a couple months ago, I said, who here has seen a direct improvement in their job situation, or in their abilities to do their work, or improvement in dealing with people from their yoga practice. And the majority of you raised your hand. The majority of you have either had a new job or a rate increase or a bonus or something that you saw in terms of your actual job and your income, you saw it improve. And or also had a direct knowledge that your yoga has helped you in working, in being stronger at work, more impeccable, greater attention, greater ability to deal with, let's say, difficult people at work. So you've seen that you've had very, very positive effects from your yogic practice in your work. Now I would like you to write a paper for me. Could be one page, could be two pages, could be longer if you want, but I'd like you to write a paper for me about how yoga has improved your life. Specifically, your working life, your livelihood. And I'd like that by next week. It shouldn't take you very long. Comes to mind real quick. Just write it down, right?

0:19:41
Yeah.

0:19:42
This is a very, very important exercise because we're just finishing this, let's say, belt ranking, this presentation. You guys have pulled your attention and your focus to a strong point, and now we're launching into a very, very important step, and that's the black belt is the next thing. The next step is what we call becoming a yogi. Right now you're, let's say, an apprentice yogi. You're trying to figure out how to actually do yoga. You're learning how to do yoga from your yoga teachers and that's fantastic. is actually you being competent in yoga, you becoming a yogi yourself. And that's a very, very, that's a very powerful thing.

0:20:30
Very powerful.

0:20:31
When you're learning yoga, you're like, what is yoga, I don't get it.

0:20:36
I just seem to be doing a lot of stuff.

0:20:38
But after a while, you start to learn the power of yoga. If you haven't already. Some of you are catching on. Some of you aren't. But as long as you do the work, you're gaining the personal power. You're gaining the awareness. But there comes a time where you recognize, aha, I am gaining personal power from this exercise, from this yoga. And when you see that, then you accept the hardships more. You're more selfless at that point because you recognize that the work that you're doing is spiritual work. The work that you're doing opens up your awareness, makes you happier, makes you more successful, gives you more energy. So it's important to recognize that, to see that, and that comes over time. That comes after some practice. Some of you already see it. Some of you don't. If you're on the eMedia team, you have to personally motivate yourself to do the work. We have a couple project managers, but you're on the eMedia team because you want to go at your own pace. So that means you could be a white belt, you could take a year to be a yellow belt. You won't necessarily make it to be a yogi unless you want to. And if you want to, that means that you're going to work on it every single day. I mean, that's what it takes to be a yogi. And you're going to connect to the unseen spirit of e-media. There's some very beautiful inner dimensions in these projects. But if you want to be a yogi, if you want to be in a structure of attention that brings you to a greater awareness of the unity of life, you will work with it. You will work on your yoga. But that's up to you. If you find yourself passionately working on your eMedia yoga, then it's going to happen. But if you can't find your passion and you can't get your life in order so that you can actually spend time on it, then you're not that interested. You're not interested enough to develop yourself. You're not interested enough to focus on it. And that goes for all teams. You have to work on yoga really. You've got to put time in. You've got to put attention in. You have to work earnestly. You have to persevere. You have to be impeccable. Otherwise, you're not going to be a yogi. And if you're not working on it to become a yogi, you'll most likely fall off of your yoga team. And you'll be put onto e-media, because then you want to go at your own pace. And that's fine. It's just that this is where you're going to see people take off. You're going to see people get strong. In a karate dojo, we all start off with white belts, but then what happens a few years later when you're still a white belt and some of the same people who started with you are black belts? You see them with power. You see them capable. You see them doing cool stuff, and you sit there and say to yourself, well, why can't I do that? Why am I not there? Because of your choices. That's it. That's it, your choices. So I recommend that you apply yourself to yoga. This is what we're talking about here.

0:25:06
Yoga, right?

0:25:07
If you fall off of your yoga team from now until the solstice, it's probably because of two reasons. Two reasons I see amongst this group where people are having trouble. One is just plain old ignorance. You lack the presence of mind. Now really what it is, the reason why you lack presence of mind is because you get drained by your life. Right, that's it. You get drained by your life. You get drained by your friends. You hang out with people who are into, let's say, different states of mind. And just hanging out with them drains you, and you don't notice it because I guess you just don't notice. Or maybe you don't care. You like them anyway and you don't mind that you get drained. You don't mind going into their states of mind and you don't recognize that in that interaction, in looking at life from their perspective, you can't do yoga. Yeah, that's right. So some of you get very drained by your lives. Principally, not all the work you have to do, not all the difficult appointments and things and stuff and stuff, right? It's not that. It's the people you're hanging around. People are draining you. You don't recognize it or you don't care or something. And therefore, you lose presence of mind, you don't have enough, all of a sudden you don't have enough energy to do yoga. You don't have any personal powers, what's happening, because you're hanging around with people who drain your personal power, and therefore you can't do yoga. Now I tell you this, it's a choice, you're choosing it. So if you don't want to succeed in yoga, then continue to get drained by them. You can hang around people and not get drained, but it takes you taking command of the situation, observing your mind, actually being mindful, saying, oh, wow, look what's happening to me. And a great way to measure it is to look at your yoga. How much time are you putting in? How much effort? What are you accomplishing? And if you say, wow, hung out with this person, and then I didn't accomplish anything. I hung out with this person and then I didn't feel like putting any time in. Yes, yes, yes. And it's complicated because you could have a tiring day, a lot of work, driving traffic or whatever, and then you just have five minutes with somebody and you don't have the energy. The world's hard enough, but if you work on your yoga, you're able to deal with the challenges of the world, of your work and commute and everything, shopping. But at the same time, you come back and you put your power into your yoga. You develop yourself in your yoga. And then you'd be able to do yoga. But when you add that other factor of the people who drain you, then it doesn't work out. So, you know, it's a choice. You might not see it as a choice, but it is something you're choosing not to practice mindfulness. You're choosing not to observe your personal power level. You're choosing really not to do yoga. And therefore, guess what? You won't do yoga. So, I would recommend that you practice mindfulness. That you start to recognize that people who you hang out with might be great people, might be fantastic people, but you're going to start to need to hold your mind differently, to hold your energy in, to be inaccessible. That's it. Okay, and then the other reason is self-importance. So some of you are too self-important. I thought we got rid of all the self-important people. People who are too self-important to do yoga. That means that they're all, why am I doing this? I could be doing something else. I'm important. So I just got back from teaching in Budapest. And I have a large group of new students there. So I go over there. This was my first meeting with them. And I go over there. And I'm like, okay, new students. Boy, boy, this is going to be tough. And then I met with them and taught them, and it was very nice. They had very good etiquette, and the meditations with them were very, very good. And I said, hey, what's missing here? What's going on that's different? Because I remember those meetings with my students in San Francisco, especially the first ones, and they were so painful for me. Oh, and what's different here? Oh yeah, that's right, self-importance. Out here we have so many important desires. I mean really important. And we have like important problems. And we're so important. Our problems are very important. And self-importance aware of life. Yeah, and it gets you completely caught up in self-reflection. And you miss the point because you're too busy looking at yourself.

0:31:37
And saying, oh, do I have a pimple on my face?

0:31:40
Yeah, well that's important, and you miss the rest of life. So the new students in Budapest, they have tough lives. A lot of them have, in fact, most of them have much tougher lives than you guys. You guys are like princes and princesses. And they have a harder time, actually, much harder time. However, I think they're a little bit more realistic about their suffering. They're more realistic about the suffering they have from desires, suffering they have from their physical lives. They're just more realistic about life. And their self-importance, because of that awareness of suffering, their self-importance is far less than your average Californian. Your average Californian is so important to yourself, it really, really, really gets in the way of doing yoga. And in order to do yoga, you have to be selfless. That's one of the principles, selflessness and impeccability. So that's why it was so difficult to start doing yoga. You're like, hey, this yoga is getting in the way of my self-importance. What am I going to do about that? The yoga seems like a good idea, but it's really messing up my self-importance. And eventually, when you do yoga, you start to really let go of self-importance. And you start to see a bigger view of life. And that's why yoga is magical. You know, it's that spiritual kind of magic. It gets you beyond the traps of the self, but only by doing it. Only by doing it. Yeah, so a lot of the self-important people who are too self-important just never could do yoga. You just can't do it if you're too self-important. And so, if you're doing it, then I think you're moving along, like I say. You're moving up in your belt ring. And the great thing about yoga is that you learn so many powerful and invaluable spiritual lessons by doing it. It's in the doing where you learn it. It's the experience that you gain from doing it, where you learn. So a lot of spiritual schools or spiritual teachers might sit around and talk about stuff, right? Talk about all sorts of fanciful things. And then you're at a conceptual level, understanding life and understanding things. But at the same time, you're not gaining personal power. You're not doing what really, really, really matters. So you're not experiencing much, you're just talking about stuff. But as my teacher said, here we walk the walk. And that means that we do stuff and actually doing is far more important than you know all the confusions and questions you have and and all the Weird interests of strange things that you have You know put yourself aside do your yoga and in that experience you will have spiritual lessons. You'll have awarenesses that open up and arise. And you will have epiphanies. In this yoga, there is a tremendous spiritual lesson. All sorts of them, many of them. And when you engage in this yoga, then you're engaging in this body of spiritual unfoldment. And you just start to address your mind directly. And you start to see, oh, I always did this. Oh, wow, here's a way out of that. Oh, here's how to be happy. beyond looking at myself all the time. So yoga is magic. Yoga is magic. And a lot of you are experiencing that magic. Some of you are not. And the difference is doing it or not doing it. If you're doing it and you're still pissed off, you're still self-important. So do it more. And also chill out a little bit. Relax. Yoga is relaxing, like Hatha Yoga. Relax and stretch. Stretch into your yoga.

0:37:39
Yes, yes, yes.

0:37:42
So, self-importance, and then also, some of you are not managing your lives very well, you're getting drained. You really need to do the Enlightenment workbook and start to take stock of your life and see the places where you're getting drained. Because you'll get drained, you'll lose presence of mind, you'll find yourself not doing yoga, you'll find yourself not doing the study, the pathway of enlightenment is just a concept, and you're gone. And yeah, whatever, it's okay. But if enlightenment's important to you, then it's very important for you to really, really, really be mindful, recognize what's going on in your life, and make changes. Handle things better so that you have the ability to do your yoga. Yoga is, one of the great things about it is it's so, karma yoga, job yoga, is so easy to see. Are you doing it? If you're doing it, then you're taking a step in the right direction. Now, if you're doing it bad, then you can improve it. But it's through doing the actions, and through improving the actions, that you refine the spirit. So there's that wonderful balance in Karma Yoga. So if you want to see if you're doing good yoga, start by seeing if you're doing anything. And if you're doing it bad, or if you're doing enough of it, if you're doing it right. And you have your yoga teachers there who are telling you exactly what to do. They're showing you the way to do yoga perfectly, then you'll see that a lot of your sufferings and confusions start to diminish, that you start to become aware of the power and fantasticness of yoga. And then you start to make your way into a motion towards a great act. So we're talking about karma yoga. A great act. Great karma. And when you see your software selling, when you establish your revenue model, when things start to really click, then we have the saying, cash flow equals energy flow. That revenue model, you have that flow and the revenue model works, then there's a lot more energy. So it's very, very powerful when you start to succeed, when it really clicks. And that's what we're heading into now. We're looking for that great act where it becomes real, where it clicks. And when that happens, there is a significant shift in attention. So, yeah, that's a great act. That's what we work on. It's very important. Just as far as a great act, I want to point one out. There was a time where Zen was working on a product idea, artificial intelligence, and he was working on it through his karmic mode of, you know, a little bit of this, a little bit of that, good and bad and ugly. And then there was this one time where he got very serious. He actually, you know, made a pact with himself. And he pushed beyond his karma, beyond his regular mode, and he accomplished the creation of his product. And it worked, which meant it made money. And that was a great act. That was a very, very powerful act. And so completing software and having it actually do its revenue model is a great act. And in doing that, he became happy and bright. Happy and bright. So that's what we're heading to now. We're heading to completing software and establishing revenue models. And when we do that, it's happy and bright. But you've got to get serious about it. Zen was doing his software thing, debugging forever and everything, having problems that would just kind of block it from ever getting done. And then he finally just went, I gotta do it. He got serious about it. And he pushed himself beyond himself. He was therefore selfless and impeccable. And that's how he got to break out of himself. I mean, that's what karma yuga is about. You break out of your states of mind, your limited states of mind. You break out of your description of who you are, your description of self. And then you end up in new territory, new territory where the possibilities in your life are bigger, more broad, where your meditations are brighter, where your life is brighter. That's what yoga leads to. It leads to a brightness that you can't even imagine, that you experience when you push yourself beyond yourself. So we seek to do yoga. You've got to be serious about it. You've got to be serious enough to look at your life and identify where you're getting

0:44:34
drained.

0:44:35
You've got to be serious enough to do your work properly. If you're doing a great job according to your yoga teacher, then you're doing okay. You're doing great. It's very simple. If your yoga teacher is telling you good work, you're doing very well, then you're on the right path. But if you find yourself where your yoga teacher is saying, oh you messed up on this, you messed up on this, you know, you're getting a strike, you're not doing this right, you really need to take a look at yourself, be mindful, see where you're losing energy because you probably are, or you're being self-important. In which case it's easy to identify. You're coming up with all this like excuses in your head. We read a book, Journey to Ixlin. And that was our first book to study the warrior's way. We've learned some important concepts such as self-importance. That's a good one. Personal history. Taking responsibility. Very important. taking responsibility, very important, and inaccessibility. So it's very important to recognize that these are the foundation of yoga, really, for a warrior. A warrior, Krishna is our great warrior icon, yogi icon. And the way that he speaks to Arjuna. He's teaching him the same things, the same ways. It's just in a different language. I find that the castaneta, danwan teachings are fascinating and they're a little bit easier to access for us. So it's very important to put them into practice, to understand them, to put them into practice. Being accessible, having personal history. Yeah, taking responsibility for your yoga. And I like to have a little bit of that contrast between the ancient Indian teachings and also the Native American sorcery. Yoga is the pathway to enlightenment, but there's many different ways and forms that you can operate through in Karma Yoga. So the warrior is a way. It's a way of karma yoga. In the Don Juan teachings, sorcery is a, or being a warrior is a way of a sorcerer. They're not separate things. They're things that are headed in the same direction. They are things that lead to the same goal. There's another caretaker personality that I'd like to also have you study. And it also leads along the path of Karma Yoga. It also is the path of the warrior, not the path of the sorcerer. So the sorcery lessons of Don Juan are fantastic and they stand on their own. But when we observe the warrior, the sorcerer, and the yogi, these are all ways that lead the same direction. Now the third one that I'd like to introduce you to, the fourth one, the third within the fourth, is the hero. The hero is someone who is very much like a yogi. They are selfless. They have impeccability. They have their skills or their powers. But the hero has one other attribute that is very, very key that the warrior should have. A sorcerer would be nice if they have. But as a defining quality of a hero, they have the defining quality attribute of courage. So a hero always has the courage to take on life, to take on a problem, to take on a difficulty, no matter how big it is. They have the courage to take it on. And courage, as I said before, courage is not the absence of fear. Courage is perhaps having fear, facing something difficult, but having the ability, the personal power, the presence of mind, having the ability to do the right thing, even when you're afraid. So that's courage. And kind of that never give up, never surrender kind of feeling. Somehow, even though you're facing this terrible situation, somehow there's a way to understand the hero that I'd like you to do is to understand the superhero. You know, like Batman, Spider-Man, Superman. So the superheroes are, you know, lots of great films, or if you're a comic book lover, you know the stories of the superheroes. And the superheroes, they all follow a certain, you know, pathway to greatness. And the pathway to greatness is through, you know, a kind of karma yoga, being a warrior, but being a hero, there's a certain energy to being a hero. And when you're a hero, you have great selflessness, because you're going out there and saving the world from evil or natural disasters or something. And they also have impeccability. They have the ability to deal with extreme situations and circumstances because they have developed an attribute or they've developed skills or they have powers that they're able to use. And of course, they have the attribute of courage. So whether it's saving a cat from a tree for a little old lady or it's a train that's plummeting out of control, or a comet that's going to hit the earth. The superheroes face all dangers or evils or problems with courage and a knowledge that there's a way to succeed. There's a way to overcome the problem. There's a way to perform the heroic act. There's always a way. So this is the way of the hero. Now Krishna and Arjuna were heroes. They weren't just warriors. I don't know if they did sorcery, maybe a little. But they're more like warriors, total karma yoga. But they were definitely heroes. They were fantastic heroes. And you might even say superheroes because they had powers. But when you look at our our Western superheroes, it's kind of interesting. You know, you got your Spider-Man, Superman, these great fantastic heroes. You know, yogis are the heroes of the Far East, I guess, right? Before we had Superman, you had some Siddha Masters, you know, in the Far East who could fly, you know, or had super strength, or could, I don't know, I don't know about that x-ray vision thing. Maybe not that. But there was these great stories of yogis who did noble things, heroic things, with their powers, with their Siddha powers. And they were the superheroes of India, the superheroes of Tibet, or whatever. And they were real. Krishna, Arjuna, and all the other yogis with these powers who did noble, amazing things. So when we look at Spider-Man and Superman, these are kind of the Western equivalents, who are fantasized, of course. But you can see that these guys have the same path as a hero. Krishna and Arjuna going into battle, they have the same path. And you see in some of their movies or comic books that they go through the same selfless considerations. So it's kind of interesting to observe. A really good one is Spider-Man, the first Spider-Man movie. It's an excellent one. I really like the first movies, where the person discovers their power, becomes the superhero. It's really, really good to watch those films. Batman Becomes or Becoming or something. That one's very interesting. Batman's an interesting character because he doesn't have any superpowers. He just develops himself, develops skills, learns how to use his utility belt. He learns how to use skills. Very, very good. He's a good one because you can see if you develop yourself properly, if you have the right attention, you can be a superhero like Batman.

0:58:06
It's true. Very true.

0:58:07
Or if you get bitten by a radioactive spider, you can be a superhero like Spider-Man. So the Spider-Man movie, first one, very good movie to watch. Maybe Batman Becoming or Becomes. It's a very good one too. Very interesting to observe the superhero. We look at the path of the warrior. We're in yoga, the same way Krishna and Arjuna were in yoga. The pathway to enlightenment is the ultimate goal here. But we use different ways to understand our path. We use different techniques, different what we call caretaker personalities, different capabilities. So you have the warrior and we're learning about the warrior through Don Juan. And then we have the hero, and we're going to be learning about the hero, the superhero, especially, just by watching a couple movies. But when we have these different ways, the warrior, the hero, the sorcerer, within our pathway of yoga, computer programming, doing sales or developing our website for hospice. These are ways that give us a very broad understanding of our spirit and how to use these different ways and techniques so that you can make progress on the pathway to enlightenment. For example, we talk about learning inaccessibility. So we read about inaccessibility from Don Juan's teachings, Don Juan's teachings about the warrior. And we come to understand, okay, so you want to build up a fog around yourself by not telling people exactly what you're doing. Yes, that's kind of what Don Juan said, right? And yeah, that's exactly what we want to do. In fact, I do that all the time. That's what I'm doing right now. I'm building up a fog around myself because I'm talking to you, telling you about heroes and warriors, but I'm completely inaccessible, you don't know what I'm really doing. Yeah, because I'm really doing something else. Besides sitting here and talking to you and stuff, I'm addressing you in a spiritual way. But I have to actually draw your attention one way in order to address the other way. This is inaccessibility. Because if it was accessible, it wouldn't be powerful. If it was accessible, it wouldn't be esoteric. The way of inaccessibility, as Don Juan teaches it, is the way of the esoteric teachings, it's the way of the superhero, right? What does a superhero do to become inaccessible? They wear their mask or their costume, right? You know, Superman just has to take his sunglasses off, you know, his glasses off. He's all, ah, there. Put on the little S and take the glasses off and then all of a sudden he's like, boom. Or Spider-Man has to put his little Spider-Man outfit on and Batman is Batman outfit. And then, voila, you know, there's the superhero. The superhero, you know, all the superheroes are always inaccessible, right? They have their secret identity. And the reason why, there's the same reason that, you know, I talk but at the same time the powerful thing is the thing you can't see. It just wouldn't be. They would be found, they'd be accessible, their power would fail them. They have to be inaccessible and then they have to use their power at the right time so that it works, so that it's magical, so they can do the heroic, fantastic act. That's the way it works and that's why it's so interesting to observe the superheroes story and observe why they have to be inaccessible. So if you just watch Spider-Man, then you learn something. You go, whoa, oh my gosh, I better start being inaccessible. So you could read the Don Juan book and you go, oh yeah, inaccessibility, I gotcha. But then when you start to, you know, when you also watch Spider-Man 1 or 2, 1 is good, 2 is better. It's a better film. I like it. But anyway, either one. But when you watch Spider-Man. Because it gives us a more broad way to understand. It's going from the ancient Indian teachings to Mexico and then to the movie theaters. It's kind of fun. Yeah and that's the way we learn. It's a fun way. And then we also, you know, that broad learning, you know, changes our way of looking at our own lives. That's right. Inaccessibility is important. Yeah. You should, you know, be inaccessible. Because when you're accessible, you're drained. So some of the people who are doing yoga are drained by people that they're accessible to. And you're accessible to them, so they bring you into their state of mind. And then you find yourself unable to do yoga. See, what you learn in this study is so very, very precious, even though you might not think so, you might not notice. But when you go through meditation, when you sit in a meditation seminar, when you engage in yoga, you might just notice it as a spark. You know, you're like, oh, there's something cool here. There's something powerful-ish or interesting or fascinating. Now, if you develop that spark, then it turns into a raging fire. Yeah, really. You know, it starts as a little spark of light. You go, oh, there's something here. I know there's something here. And then if you develop it, if you keep on focusing on it, if you take care of it right, then that light grows. And it grows, and it grows, and it grows to be tremendously significant. And then that light casts light on your whole life. And it shows you where to fix things. It shows you great things that you didn't see before, it illuminates your life and eventually enlightens you completely. However, the hard part is when you only have a little bit of light and you're not sure what it is, and then you hang out with people who bring you down, they squash the light, because they don't develop that kind of light. They don't sit there and meditate. They don't do any yoga. They're into, you know, muggly things. Right? So they're into, you know, the regular world. And that's nice. And it's good. There's nothing wrong with that. But enlightenment is very, very different. Enlightenment is very, very different. What we're doing here is very, very different. It's a special thing for people who are interested in enlightenment and light. So you have to recognize that what you develop in a meditation seminar and going on a power trip and working on yoga, you're developing light, a connection with light rare and

1:07:35
when you hang out with

1:07:37
People and stuff and you're not watching your mind. You can't manage it you just fall down into a state where that light vanishes and then when there's no light there you have absolutely no recollection of There being light and then everything then there's a whole bunch of problems and then yoga is impossible yoga is crazy. And this whole spiritual thing doesn't even exist until you start to develop the light again. So it's kind of like the sparks there and you know something's there, the light's starting but it's not too big and then it goes away. And then you go, I don't remember light, you forget about light. You are only aware of the state of mind that you're in in the moment. So if you can get into a very bright state of mind through meditation, through yoga, through the cultivation of the light through meditation, then you experience great brightness and beauty. You can have, you know, spiritual awakening and be really happy and bright and say, yeah, that's right. That's good. That's fantastic. This is wonderful. And then, let's say the next day you're stuck in traffic and you lose all your mindfulness or you talk to someone who drains you and then boom, you're in a bad state of mind. Light doesn't exist anymore, all you see is problems, no more opportunities. That's the state of mind that you exist in. That's the way you see life. And that way is not right. That way is limited and that way is the lack of light. But if you can cultivate that light, be mindful, cultivate that light, practice meditation and yoga, then after a while it will be bright, it will always be there. You'll have tough days for sure, but you won't lose the luminosity of your state of mind. It's very important. Yes. You know, when you become accessible to someone, you know, Don Juan talks about it in terms of relationships, right? So he said, hey, you remember that girl you used to go out with? And you just became completely accessible to each other. And that's why you split up, because you made each other sick of each other. And that's what happens if you become accessible to each other in a relationship. And that's one way that people get very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very drained is to become accessible. And accessibility is just, you know, opening up too much, sharing the wrong information. It's like, you know, barfing on somebody. We're all like, hmm, I like you. Let's share some information. Here's some information. They're all, ugh, I don't know if I like this information. That's what we call being too accessible. And so people generally in this world sit there, bleh, bleh, bleh, bleh, just barfing on each other back and forth all over each other. And then they wonder why they're not happy with their relationships. Because they've become too accessible. Sharing the wrong information. But if they were inaccessible, then there's etiquette. And then there's the ability to foster a magical and strong, powerful relationship. That's what we do in the Sangha. That's what a Sangha does. You know, in the beginning in a Sangha, you always have a few people who are sitting there going,

1:12:09
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,

1:12:12
talking way too much about, oh, I had this experience, that experience, and oh, let me tell you about this about me, and that about me, and that's...

1:12:19
Right?

1:12:21
But after a while, they learn the etiquette. And then what they do is they don't talk as much. They shut up. That's it. That's good. It's good to shut up. Hold your energy in. When you start to do this thing, when you start to get the etiquette, then your relationship with the other people becomes stronger. You see that yoga moves faster. You see that meditations are nicer in the group. It's much nicer. You start to learn something because you become inaccessible. So being inaccessible is very important for someone in the Sangha. It's very important with the people that you know in your life. You don't want to barf on them. You don't want them to barf on you. It's draining. Yeah, because if you're doing that with somebody else, then that's where you lose energy. Then you forget the light. It's covered up. And it's important for the superhero. The superhero's secret identity is very important. So, yeah, so superhero is a good one. Very good one. Another good superhero movie that I saw is called kick-ass. And kick-ass is good. The reason I like kick-ass is because it's it's it starts off realistic almost and it goes crazy but it starts off a little bit a little bit real. It's a guy who doesn't have you know it's a guy who's got the selflessness and the right inspiration, and he wants to be a superhero. So he starts to develop himself. But then it's also he hits some realistic experiences in trying to do that. So it's good. But for those of you who've seen it, what's the difference between kick-ass and hit-girl? Impeccability, right? Both of them are selfless enough to put themselves out there, but hit-girl has the skills, and kick-ass doesn't. He hasn't developed them. So that's what's very important for a warrior, for a hero. It's very important, and also as a yogi, the impeccability quality, to develop the skills. If you develop the skills, then you will be able to be a strong warrior, strong hero, capable hero, capable warrior, and you'll have the impeccability in your actions to go out there and kick ass. Yeah, so that's a fun film. Kick ass, Batman, Spider-Man. We We watch films from time to time because we can learn a lot from observing the inaccessibility. And also just the path, the path of the hero. It's very interesting. And we see these things about responsibility, taking responsibility. Taking responsibility is what I call, you know, for the hero, it's making a hero's pact. Taking responsibility, you know, for the warrior, like, if I'm going to do this, I'm going to do it totally. We used to have a saying, are we going to do this like Buddhists or what?" Like our teacher would give us some task, and then we'd be all like, well, are we going to do this like Buddhists or what? And that means we take responsibility for it. We don't just go, okay, I'm going to try and suit up and see if I like it.

1:17:09
I say, I'm going to do this all the way.

1:17:11
I'm going to do this all the way. I'm going to do this all the way.

1:17:15
Yes.

1:17:16
So, you know,

1:17:18
you can see in the story of the superheroes where they take responsibility. They make a pact, you know. Basically, for the superhero, they decide at some point that they're going to do it. They're going to be a hero. They're going to go out there and fight crime. And at some point, Arjuna takes responsibility and he says, I'm going to go and fight. I'm going to go and fight in this battle. And it's going beyond yourself no matter what. It goes beyond yourself when you take responsibility. And that's the way that makes it spiritual. Because when you don't take responsibility, you know, Spider-Man's out there and he's like, I might try to do a little bit. I'm going to hang out crawling on some walls and swinging around and maybe if I see something happen I might do it if you know if it feels right to me. That's someone who's speaking from a point of self-importance. That's the way I hear a lot of people talk. And that's not a heroic way. That's not a warrior way. That's a that's a way of a phantom.

1:18:51
A civilian, a phantom,

1:18:53
someone who's not doing the spiritual path. But when you really commit yourself to the spiritual path, you go for it. You do it like a Buddhist. You know, take on something that's dharma, that's constructive, that's positive. And you say, well, if I'm going to do it, I'm going to really, really do it." So then Spider-Man goes out there and looks for the problems, finds the problems, and then has the courage and resolve to engage and the impeccability to win. So taking responsibility means that you make that resolve of selflessness to carry out the act, which is very important for the Karma Yogi. Yes, very, very, very important. So it's necessary for you to look at your own yoga and say, am I doing this? Have I taken responsibility for my yoga? Or am I just going, oh, I might, but then there's this other thing that came up. On Wednesdays, there's all you could eat at the Sizzler. All you could eat shrimp or something.

1:20:12
So I can't go to the yoga meeting on Wednesday

1:20:14
because I'm going to Sizzler. It's a great deal, I have a coupon. Right, so I mean, it's kind of funny, but people come up with all sorts of things based on the self. When they're self-important, they come up with all these little weird things. All You Can Eat Shrimp at the Sizzler sounds funny to some of you, but everybody comes up with all sorts of crazy stuff. I got to go bowling. My boyfriend wants to meet me and take me to Sizzler. And then bowling. You know, so all that kind of stuff. It occurs. And that's when you're operating from self-importance. And taking responsibility for your yoga puts you beyond yourself, beyond your self-importance. And it's not that you'll never go to Sizzler again, never go bowling again, it's that you can push beyond your limits of self-importance, your self-focus, you go beyond it and then you do something that's powerful and then you might have some sense of learning bullying. You know self-importance is like a mirror of self and you're going around looking at the world like it's self all the time. It's like you're holding a mirror in front of you all the time. And if you have a lot of self-importance it's a big mirror and you're like, yeah that's me, great. And then just on the periphery of your mirror you see the rest of life. So you're like, oh yeah, there we go. Oh wait, what's going on over there? I don't want to see it. Oh, but there's me. And it's true. And you're looking at life and you're seeing yourself all over the place and then you know there's some things happening on the side and then it all filters through into your reflection of self and then as you start to lose self-importance then your your mirror starts to shrink until you just got this little pocket mirror you see all of life and then there's a little reflection of you and then with yourself. And then eventually you smash the mirror. It's gone. That's enlightenment. So yeah, self-importance is a point where you hear a lot of excuses, a lot of opinions, But if you take responsibility for what you're doing, when you're doing something powerful like yoga or meditation, sit down to meditate tomorrow. Take responsibility for your meditation. Yeah, think about that. Sit down, before you meditate, think about that. Sit down to meditate and take responsibility for your meditation. You'll have a vastly different experience. A very bright one, powerful one. You'll see, do this tomorrow. It'll be a powerful, powerful meditation when you take responsibility for it. When you take responsibility for something that is powerful. It's amazing. It all of a sudden opens you up past yourself. Because self-importance is limitation. It limits you from seeing life, from understanding life, from connecting to the possibilities that exist in life. It stops you.

1:24:20
But when you assume responsibility, then you go beyond yourself and there's so many more

1:24:22
possibilities. There's so much more. So assume responsibility for your yoga. Think about that. Assume responsibility for your meditation, your morning meditation tomorrow. It's very powerful. So, you know, this is what we're doing. We're learning about the way of the warrior. And we have a fundamental understanding of the Bhagavad Gita. And then we start to learn other ways of understanding the warrior's path, the way of the hero. The superhero, Spider-Man, that sort of thing. Excellent. Good. Alright, Good. All right, so I'd like to meditate with you again. Excellent. Very nice. So we have a great month of August coming up. Our book for August is another book by Carlos Castaneda, it's called Tales of Power. Tales of Power. So if you would, get that book, read it for our September seminar. And then in September we'll talk a little bit more about the yaki way of knowledge, sorcery and the warrior's past. And probably Spider-Man, Batman, and kick-ass. Also, in August, we're going to be doing scuba diving for those of you who wish to. So I'm going to be doing a Discover scuba diving class. And this is, I was going to do the open water certification, but I decided to do the DSD, Discover scuba diving, because it's less pressure. In Discover Scuba Diving, you have a couple confined water sessions where you learn in a pool how to use scuba diving equipment and how to do the scuba diving skills. And then you have, after you're comfortable in the pool, you go to the open water and you go to maybe 10 meters, 30 feet, not too deep, and you go underwater and have a dive in the cold Monterey Bay. So yeah, we'll be going to Monterey. I think we're gonna try to rent a house with a swimming pool, unless anyone has a swimming pool. Because it's more fun that way. You know, I've done classes where we've rented the swimming pool at the YMCA and stuff, and it's just not as fun. So, yeah, so we'll probably do a weekend towards the end of the month, though, like the 27th. I think that's the weekend we'll do it, the weekend of the 27th. So if you're interested in learning about scuba diving, then please come. If you're not interested, there will be another time you can do it. So we'll just be doing a day of confined water, and then we'll go to a beach and walk into the ocean. So quite exciting. Yeah, scuba diving is very magical. But you know, in the beginning it's learning a lot of new equipment, getting used to the equipment, learning the apparatus of breathing underwater. And then when you go into the ocean, it's dealing with a very immense power called the ocean. It's very wonderful. It's a very, very spiritual practice. So anyone who wishes to, you can try it out. And if you only want to do the confined water, that's okay. If you only want to come and watch, that's okay, too. And anything that you learn, any skill that you do, that you learn in the Discover Scuba Diving course will be counted towards your open water certificate. So when you, you know, when you do things you'll master those skills, or you'll have those skills and they will count towards your certification. For those of you who are comfortable after discovering scuba and want to do the open water, we can continue and do open water. We'll just have to plan it and see who's comfortable. Scuba diving is something you don't want to rush because it could be kind of scary. So we'll take it nice and slow. We'll start with Discover Scuba and then if there's people who want to go on then we'll go on and then if there's people who want to do it later, we'll set up a time to do more later at a slower pace. Good so thank you all you guys did a great job tonight. Definitely tonight was a step up. It was a step up in your yoga adult ranking. And I'd like you to, when you have a chance, watch Spider-Man and Batman and kick ass. Probably in that order. Spider-Man won first, and then Batman. And then, you know, observe these things about them. Observe their inaccessibility. Observe their assuming responsibility. Those are very, very huge. And their erasing personal history. You have to erase personal history to become a superhero. Otherwise Peter Parker would always be Peter Parker and never be Superman. So you have to erase personal history. Observe how they do that. It's very simple, but you do it. And when you see them do it, it opens your mind to Don Juan's teachings. And, very important, apply this to your life. Apply this to your life. Inaccessibility. That doesn't mean that the next time we get together, you know how they have those stupid costumes that they wear? They wear them for a reason. And when we come to a meditation, it's good to wear a stupid costume. One such as this. Right? You get to, guys have a wonderful thing they get to do. They get to wear silly ties. Right, we get to wear, you know, you have to wear a little suit and a jacket and it's always gray and boring, but you can wear the goofiest tie in the world. You know, and it's considered cool. Wearing a red tie, or whatever. So, yeah, so for guys, when you think of, when you look at Superman and his silly tights and all that stuff, Spider-Man, what is he wearing? Then you say, oh yeah, would I put on my superhero costume? It's always impeccable and good, but especially your tie is where you get to be weird. Your tie is your superhero power. So next time we come to the meeting, gentlemen, jacket and tie please. A superhero wears the proper costume. It's part of their inaccessibility. And if you haven't gotten that by now, you're still a thing. It's okay. The yoga teachers, would you please stand up?

1:34:29
Yes.

1:34:30
So, look at the yoga teachers, right? If you're a girl, look at the girls.

1:34:36
If you're a boy, look at the boys.

1:34:38
Dress like that. So try to, you know, you look at their superhero costume, try to wear something like that. You can be like kick-ass and make your own costume up, but make it, you know, within the realm of the proper inaccessibility. Okay, please have a seat, thank you very much. So guys, you can have a lot of fun by wearing a jacket and a tie. And the tie is where you get to have fun. Guys have to dress a lot more boring than gals. Gals have a lot more fashion options. But yes, so next time dress better. You know I always come here wearing a suit or something like that, right? Jacket and tie. And this is the way that I'm inaccessible. This is an etiquette. It's a way of being that works. And you should be a superhero. You should wear your costume. You should be inaccessible. Follow the etiquette. And it works. So apply the teachings of Don Juan to your life. Apply what you learn from the superheroes to your life. Be inaccessible. If you're accessible to people and you're getting drained and you're not doing yoga right, you need to learn to be inaccessible. Absolutely. Take it seriously. It matters. And be less self-important. Do us all a favor. Excellent. Yes, so please apply these teachings to your life. That's why we're not just reading about them, we're actually putting them to work in what we're doing in our yoga. All right, thank you all very much. And sometime this month we'll get around to it they're fun though good going but then the other thing is you know you ever go to a martial arts class it's an intense experience okay but it's good all right thanks everybody but it's good all right thanks everybody but it's good. All right, thanks everybody.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
