0:00:00
Alright, so the final consideration for how to succeed on the spiritual path is the consideration of the teacher. you can learn a lot. You can learn a lot more than you can by yourself. So this is obvious if you're talking about something like brain surgery. You wanna learn to do brain surgery, right? And you could read some books.

0:00:41
You want to learn to do brain surgery, right?

0:00:43
And you could read some books, you know? You could practice on some friends. However, the preferred way to go about this is

0:00:53
to learn from a teacher or a number of teachers

0:00:58
who know how to do it. Yes, okay. It's the same in martial arts. In martial arts, you can learn from a book or video and you can learn some things. However, especially in the inner arts, you don't really get the transformation unless you learn from someone who has been transformed through the art. So a teacher, a spiritual teacher, a teacher of inner arts, is someone who's been transformed by the art. They're someone who has mastered the art and who can use that mastery to teach you how to master the art. So on the outside, it doesn't look different. Someone who's learning meditation on their own can sit there, and an enlightened teacher can sit there, and they just kind of look like they're sitting. So outwardly, it's no big deal, no big difference. But inwardly, it's significant. It makes all the difference. So when you are learning the inner arts, it's very important to have a authentic teacher, a real teacher who has mastered the art, because they can teach you how to do it. If you try yourself, it's probably not going to happen, unless you were Buddha in a past life. So an example that I've seen is in martial arts. I've seen a couple guys who watched Van Damme movies, and they learned how to do these amazing kicks, and they were strong and fast and young and healthy. From watching these movies, they learned how to do all these great kicks, very advanced kicks, jumping, spinning, split kicks and everything. And to look at them, they looked very, very advanced. But when they came into my dojo, they couldn't stand against an intermediate belt. They couldn't spar against them. They would lose. They had physical development. They even had great technique, but they didn't have the internal transformation that comes from the power of the art. So it's the same way with spiritual study. When you're learning on your own, or from a book, or from this seminar, that seminar, this teacher, when you work with an enlightened teacher and you go through the disciplines that they expose you to. Now it's important to learn how to work with an enlightened teacher. Not only that you get one, but you learn how to work with them properly. I would say the first thing that's required is for you to be open-minded. You come to an enlightened teacher with a proper attitude. And that is, you know, open hands instead of clenched fists. You know, coming to learn and not to fight. Not to say, oh, you told me something I don't like, therefore I'm mad at you. To really recognize that the lessons are things that will help you in your spiritual progress. This is very important. Your attitude should be an awareness of your suffering and limitations in life, your spiritual condition. You should recognize that you experience suffering. And you should say, Oh, teacher, I recognize that I experience suffering and I'm looking for a way out of this suffering? Can you help me?" That's the proper attitude to approach a teacher of spiritual liberation, instead of, you know, your whole agenda and your desires. It's important Because then it opens you up to a benefit. If you come with your hands clenched, and fists, you're reactive. You like this, you don't like that. If you're liking and disliking, and pushing and shoving and taking and causing a lot of trouble like this, you don't gain a lot from it. It might happen in the beginning that your mind is so reactive because you're defending your ego and yourself and your description of the world and your personal history. But after a while, if you're going to succeed on the spiritual path, you will eventually unclench your fists and you'll be open to the teachings and you'll have the right attitude. You'll recognize your suffering and take it seriously. If you don't take your suffering seriously, if you don't get it, if it's not present in your mind that you're actually suffering, if you're playing video games and satisfied with that, then you won't hang around. You'll be too They'll say, ah, that's going to get in the way of my video game time. So it's important to have the proper attitude. You should also have respect for a spiritual teacher. You don't necessarily have to like them or think they're the coolest person in the world, but you should recognize that they have mastered their art. They have mastered their spiritual art. And that is something that's helpful to you. Because if you could learn the same thing, you will be out of suffering and you will be in a greater condition of light. So proper respect for the teacher is helpful for you. Because if you don't respect a teacher, then you don't learn anything from them. And respecting a teacher because they have mastered an art, is respect for the art, and it is the opening for you to learn the art. If you don't have the proper respect, then you'll close yourself off completely. So it's important to have a bit of respect. It's not a big deal. And it's also important to recognize that you are responsible for your enlightenment, for your life, for your happiness, for your conduct, for your you're responsible. In the West, we have kind of these hallmark card ideas of what the enlightened teacher is and what they do for you. We tend to see the enlightened teacher it as some jolly old Santa Claus. No, jolly old monk or whatever, sitting around on a hilltop and then when you get up there, mountain top, and when you get up there, they say amazing things to you and they tell you what you want to hear and make you happy and bright and And that could be, but it also may not be. In the Far East, they have a very different way of looking at the enlightened teachers. In the West, we've evolved this kind of New Age positivity thing. Now, in the Far East, a lot of people wouldn't see an enlightened teacher if they had the opportunity because it's too intense and they're uncertain of what's going to happen. Because when you see an enlightened teacher, change happens. And for an ego, it's unsettling. So a lot of people wouldn't even want to do it. Wouldn't even want to go there. Because enlightened teachers are known to be intense. And they cause an intense transformation. A lot of people don't want transformation. See, in the West, we want the transformation we have on our agenda. We're like, wow, I could use a pot of gold and some spiritual luminosity over here and over there. So we have an idea of what we want. However, when you interact with an enlightened teacher, the result directs you toward truth, for sure. The energy always directs you towards truth. The teachings direct you towards truth. But they're not necessarily what you want. And that could be very disconcerting to you if you have very vested ideas of what you want. I'm talking about the ego. I'm saying that the desires that you have are a problem. So, you know, the attachments that you have hold you back. So I tell you things that are not necessarily what you want to hear. I can tell you things that are true in directing you to enlightenment, to a greater spiritual awareness, to direct you to be liberated from your suffering, but it's not necessarily what you want to hear. The teachings of the energy of enlightenment might not be what you conceptually think you want. In fact, they might be the opposite of what you think you want. So you might be like, okay, I came here for this, and then all of a sudden, the opposite happened to me. I came to fulfill a desire, an idea, and then I all of a sudden had to face fear, my fears. So an enlightened teacher might make you face your fears or might detach you from your attachments. And that's very difficult for the limited self to handle, to deal with. And you never know. The enlightened teacher might do something that's indescribable to your description of the world. You're dealing with life in a way of limitation, where you're attached and you're under the operating system of fear and desire. But the enlightened teacher isn't and can direct the dharma, can direct spiritual lessons that are real and very powerful that make you face your life, face life beyond your description. So you never know. a person who sought out an enlightened teacher in the Far East. And, you know, looked and looked and looked and finally found this teacher and said to him, I would like to be your student and learn about enlightenment. And the teacher said, Oh, I don't know if you really want to. It's really hard, difficult. And the student said, yes, I really want to. And the teacher warned the student, well, it's very difficult. I'm not sure if you really want to go through the practice. And the student said, no, I really do. And then the teacher said, OK. And then the teacher transformed into this giant, Okay. And then the teacher transformed into this giant, scary monster, and started chasing the student around. And then the student runs, and the teacher is chasing, or this monster is chasing the student, yelling, now, now, now. he gets away from the monster, all of a sudden he turns around and there's the monster scaring him and yelling, now. So the student runs around for a while, having a hard time, but then finally the student realizes what's going on. The student is facing a fear and recognizing it in the moment. And this brings the student to enlightenment. So, you know, this is a good example, a good story that shows when you come to an enlightened teacher, you have an idea of what's gonna happen. But it might not, it might work out a different way. But if you go with it, it does lead to a very enlightening condition. But sometimes it's a little hard. So you have to be humble and open-minded. Excellent. Yes, yes, yes. So, these are our Hollywood visions. But you have to recognize that these visions, these ideas, aren't necessarily true, and that you are responsible for your happiness, your success and your enlightenment. An enlightened teacher can guide you, can point to the areas where you're stuck, can point out the problems. Sometimes the way to point out the problem is to become a monster and yell at it. And then you figure out, oh, there's a problem. That is enlightened assistance, even though it's pretty difficult. In the Zen temple, you know, the tradition is that the Zen master walks around and when they see you thinking when you're meditating, they hit you with a stick. You know, you could think, what a jerk! Or you could say, oh, thank you. That was excellent. Now I can stop thought perfectly, because I don't want to get hit by a stick. Yes. Maybe Maybe we should do that in here.

0:19:16
We'll have to.

0:19:18
You all have sore backs. So, yeah.

0:19:28
There is something, though,

0:19:30
that an enlightened teacher does that no other teachers do, and that is transmission. Transmissions and empowerments. There's these internal lessons that enlightened teachers do transmissions. They teach spiritual things inwardly, directly. It's like you can give somebody higher states of consciousness, just hand it to them. It's like handing someone money, spiritual money. You're a pot of gold, right? And that's something that enlightened teachers are able to do to help. But even though I can bring you up into very high enlightened states of consciousness, you have to be ready for it, and you have to work on your meditation, mindfulness, and yoga in order to integrate that into your life. So there's a long period of time where you're working on your life. And when you sit with your teacher, I'll raise you up. I'll raise you into really high, bright states of mind. I will infuse your aura with light. I will open the doors of very bright dimensions so that you can have a direct experience of enlightenment. And then, when you go home, you still remember it, but you have to integrate these dimensions by doing your work, meditation, mindfulness, yoga, effort, open-mindedness, humility. You have to keep on working on those things. And then the light that you experience with me in transmission, the direct spiritual connection, starts to come through all the time. You're always aware of it. That light and that brightness is always there. And then you start to live in enlightened states of consciousness all the time. So we're going to do a transmission. We're going to do a meditation where I will open up the dimensions of light, and it will be outrageous. So, I think I will introduce you to some new music. And this is way out there. They spent some time interested in techno music. And you know, it's kind of cute and not everything, but it hits good dimensions. So, yeah, be open-minded. All right, very good. That was a special transmission. Good. All right, so you all did very well. Now tomorrow we have our yoga meeting. We're going to have a special meditation tomorrow at 11 a.m., so a little earlier than we usually meet. And I will be there. It will be a special meditation. I'm also going to be available for questions tomorrow. So if you have any questions, you can ask me. You'll have an opportunity to speak with me one-on-one. I will make myself available even if everyone wants to talk for a long time. So if you have any questions, tomorrow is a good time to ask them. So, yes, special meditation. And, if you have any questions, please do. And, if you have any questions, please do. Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
