0:00:00
I'm going to ask a question. I'm going to ask you about our application because I'm very curious. I'm going to ask you about your relationship with Dave. I'm going to ask you about your relationship with him. I'm very interested in your relationship with him. I'm going to ask you about your relationship with Dave.

0:00:44
I'm going to ask you about your relationship with him.

0:00:47
I'm going to ask you about your relationship with Dave. I'm going to ask you about your relationship with him. I'm going to ask you about your relationship with Dave.

0:00:53
I'm going to ask you about your relationship with Dave.

0:00:55
I'm going to ask you about your relationship with Dave.

0:00:57
I'm going to ask you about your relationship with Dave. I'm going to go ahead and get out of here. I think that's what you need to be able to do. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay.

0:01:14
Okay.

0:01:15
Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay.

0:01:25
Okay.

0:01:26
Okay.

0:01:27
Okay. Okay.

0:01:29
Okay. Okay. Okay.

0:01:32
Okay.

0:01:33
Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. and and and I'm going to go ahead and get started. I'm going to go ahead and get started. I'm going to go ahead and get started. I'm going to go ahead and get started. I'm going to go ahead and get started. I'm going to go ahead and get started. I'm going to go ahead and get started. I'm going to go ahead and get started. I'm going to go ahead and get started. I'm going to go ahead and get started. I'm going to go ahead and get started. I'm going to go ahead and get started. I'm going to go ahead and get started. I'm going to go ahead and do that. I'm going to go ahead and do that. I'm going to go ahead and do that. I'm going to go ahead and do that. I'm going to go ahead and do that. I'm going to go ahead and do that. I'm going to go ahead and do that. I'm going to go ahead and do that. I'm going to close my eyes and think about it. I hope we got all of it. I'm going to take a deep breath. I'm going to close my eyes and think about it. I'm going to close my eyes and think about it. I hope we got all of it. I'm going to take a deep breath. I'm going to close my eyes and think about it. I'm going to close my eyes and think about it. I'm going to be doing a lot of work. and and and and Okay.

0:05:19
Yeah.

0:05:20
So, attachment. Attachment is disgusting. It is. It creates nastiness in your aura. When you sit there and go through your attached thoughts,

0:05:48
it creates these dark little pieces of attention that you're grabbing onto in your aura. It looks like little dirty mosquitoes flying around your head. Yeah. Versus when you are meditating, when you're unattached, when your mind is still and clear, then there's a luminous aura around you. And then when you go into your attachment, I want this, this is what I want for my life, then it creates all this darkness in your aura. And it's kind of disgusting. It's both painful and disgusting. That's why it's important to recognize there's a reason to move from that condition of darkness and nastiness, to a condition of light and freedom and the bright luminous power of enlightenment. So accepting your desires is important, but also recognizing that you shouldn't attach to your desires. That you should say, yes, I have this desire and I'm going to meditate. I have this desire, it's true, I'm going to focus on my yoga. You have to watch your mind and see what's going on and understand it, but at the same time you practice methods of dharma. So you're directing your attention, you're directing your energy towards constructive ways versus clinging to the thing that is a desire. If you don't cling to a desire, it comes and it goes without hurting you. But if you say, oh there's a desire and you cling to it, then you put energy on it and it hurts you. And it creates a karma with that desire and you start a relationship with it. So, desires will come and go. But you want to, just like in meditation, you're sitting there and you say, well I want cake, let it go. If you sit there going, chocolate cake, creamy cake, cream cheese, cream, cream, So then you end up attaching to something, and your thoughts are going in that way. And your mind is not luminous. So if you just let the desire come and go, and then you say, Ah, this is wonderful. Now, this is no reason for you to not respond to your yoga teachers. Some of you are very late, like they'll send you an email and you'll not get back to them the next day. Some of you are being not professional or impeccable. When a yoga teacher sends you a phone call or an email, you need to respond. You have to be impeccable. You have to respond within at least 24 hours. So you can't use the excuse, yeah, Dharma sent me an email, but I didn't open it because it had attachments.

0:11:18
That is not the right way.

0:11:22
So, accepting your desires, but not attaching to them. Putting your energy into meditation, mindfulness, and yoga. This is it. This is a good way. This is how you dissolve the self. You dissolve the self. You see life as a dream. You see that everything comes and goes. Everything in this world is transient. The only things that are not transient are enlightenment. You find enlightenment through meditation, through the inner reflection. That's where you should bank on your happiness, in your meditation, in your yoga, in your mind, Now, there is an esoteric teaching for detachment. And this is an especially powerful one. I don't know if it's pleasant. It's actually wonderful if you're not attached, if you're not clinging to what you're designing. And it's really wonderful for angers because nobody likes being angry. But yet you find yourself attached to it. So this esoteric teaching is a teaching of the katana. You know what a katana is? It's a sword. So there's a couple esoteric teachings of the sword. One is Manjushri. Manjushri has a sword of discrimination, so you cut through illusion. But then there's the second sword. The second sword is the cutting attachments. Manjushri's sort of discrimination is a higher teaching of the third eye. It's a more advanced teaching. This is an esoteric teaching, but it's a teaching of power and it has a very strong effect. We're going to go into this special teaching of the sword that cuts attachments. How exciting. It's like you go to a doctor and say, hey look, I got a thorn stuck in me. And then the doctor takes out the tweezers and removes it. And you go, oh, thanks. Oh, look, I got an arrow stuck in me. The doctor takes it out and, oh, thanks. So in the same way, this is an esoteric means, it's a mystical way of power for breaking attachments that cause suffering. So it's important for you to prepare for that by recognizing that you really actually want enlightenment and that you don't have to put a leash on your cows. Let the cows in your life be free. You have to set yourself this way. Otherwise it could be uncomfortable for you. You'll be like the man once the leash snaps, you'll chase the cow around and be upset. But this should not be an upsetting teaching. This should be a teaching where you recognize that you suffer from these kinds of attachments. And you would rather be like the yogi and the student where you're sitting in the field talking about enlightenment and there's lots of cows walking around. There's a great abundance but if you intend to grab on to, attach to your desires, then there's great suffering. And when you put energy into those attachments, then the cut of the sword might bother you. But if you say, no, I want enlightenment, I do see that there's limitation in my desires. So I want to seek a higher way in enlightenment. Then this technique is very happy. It frees you and it allows you to refocus your energy in your mind on the practices that give you inner illumination. So it's important for you at this time to make that commitment to enlightenment and to recognize that this attachment to desires creates just suffering ultimately for you. Because when the sword comes, it's good. one song. One happy song. And you should look up this way. I'll introduce you to the katana. All right, let's see, which song?

0:17:43
I like this one. We're going to do Vita, because I love this song.

0:17:50
So just look at it this way. You don't have to focus on any chakras or anything like that. Still your mind. Relax. the

0:18:11
the the the Thank you. the the the the the the the the the the so the the the the the the the the the the the so the the the the Very good. There's an energy in that cut. If you find yourself clinging to your desires, you can imagine yourself just like in last night we watched your

0:24:06
Jimbo, pulling your sword, cutting your lines. The katana I really like because it's a very precise instrument. The man with the cow on the rope, the yogi, broke it, broke the rope, snap. And the man wasn't ready to accept that there's lots of cows that'll be around. He started chasing his cow. But you're ready to accept that there's a higher condition of peace and balance that's found in meditation and yoga following the pathway to enlightenment. So, when you engage in the world without attachment, then you're happy. You can work on a software company trying to make millions of dollars, trying to make a big success without attachment. You're just like, I'm doing this because it's yoga. No greed, no, I want to get this, just because it's yoga. And then there's great enlightenment and luminosity from that. So we engage in the world in a way that is really selfless, unattached, and therefore it's fun and it's happy and it doesn't lead us into misery and suffering. We find our happiness in our meditation, inwardly, in our spiritual cultivation. And then we find even more fun from interfacing with the world, because we have cool things to do. There's a lot of fun things in the world, lots of cows hanging around. It's cool to interface with them without having to put a leash on it. It makes life more fun. So we engage in work. A lot of people become very attached to their work. I am this professional. I am this. I am that. I'm only this. I'm only that. And people are very attached and defined by whatever it is they do for their work. But we do work in a different way. We do work selflessly and impeccably. So we interact with the working world, we do work, but we do it differently. There's a spirit to how we do things, a selfless spirit that makes things much more bright. And we interact with people differently than most people. A lot of people go over to other people and they line them out, they want to know everything, they want to put the person, everybody in a certain place so that they can operate well, you know, structure it in their specific way, dealing with people. And we learn a different etiquette. When we're working on our yoga teams in the sangha, we learn a selfless etiquette of how to work together, how to be with people. And then this way you engage in social events and work events in a way that is selfless and not draining and not a way of clean attention that's functional. So you can engage with people in a positive way. We have a way of dealing with the world, dealing with people, that's unattached and powerful and helpful. Now you have to be careful, right? If you find yourself getting angry at work, you need to say, I need to be selfless. And if you find yourself making errors with people, you say, Wow, I need to practice etiquette and accessibility so that I don't run into trouble. So, you know, we deal with the world, the network of life, in a way that allows us to operate in it, but not be trapped by it. A lot of you are getting trapped by not practicing etiquette with your work, at work, and not practicing etiquette with your friends. So you might find, since you got back from Hawaii, that because you were grasping at old attachments, that you started to think of old friends, or even current friends, in deeper ways. You lost your Buddhist etiquette because you started to become more attached. And then what happens is you end up in other people's designs, other people's desires and patterns. So inaccessibility is very important. This is a very important etiquette for navigating through the world. So it's important to be able to deal with people in a very clean way, but a way where you don't let them get a lot of power over you, a lot of attention into you. You can deal with people professionally and socially in a very positive, way clean and inaccessible. And then that way you don't sit there going through this whole thing. Like if someone ends up desiring you, they put a lot of attention into you. They're focusing on you. They're bombarding your attention field with their thoughts. And then it makes it harder for you to have a still mind or a still aura, a clean aura. So it's important to deal with people, even good friends in a way, but there's clean energy. A lot of friends just sit there kind of regurgitating on each other. You're all, oh, you're my friend, so I can barf on you. I have an opening to you, so I'm going to tell you, I'm just going to be gross and a mess. A lot of friends do that. They line each other up. In Buddhism we learn a totally different way, a cleaner way. So it's important that you don't find yourself with the people that you work with, or old friends or family. It's important that you don't do things in a way where you're accessible, where people are throwing bad energy at you, where you're sitting there being open to it, where you're engaging in things with people that are draining, that don't lead you to light. Especially when you're with friends, it can be very draining. You're like a psychic sponge as you become sensitive, and then you'll just pick up all their negativity if you're open to them. So you have to actually be inaccessible, even with really good friends. I have a really good friend since high school, and the last time I saw him, I had a great time with him, we had wonderful conversations, but at the same time I was inaccessible. I was holding my attention so that the situation wouldn't go down. And when you maintain positive inaccessibility, then you actually elevate the friends and the family that you're dealing with. You elevate them to a place where things are clean between you, where you don't take it down to that level. And you're not gonna get taken out by it and they're not gonna degrade to that level. So it's a way, and this is how we act in our group. We always keep things at a high, positive, tight level. And this is etiquette. You have to practice etiquette with friends and family and with co-workers. You can't just say, oh, I act a certain way during yoga and with the Sangha, and then when I go hang out with my friends, I act like an idiot. Right? You'll get totally drained. Your energy will be flattened. If you start going to clubs with friends and and going into what everybody else does, you're going to get totally wiped out. I've seen you guys do that. I've seen you come and be totally wiped out because you were partying with some friends. That means it's actually OK to party with friends, but you're getting thrashed. You're not practicing inaccessibility. So you have to be inaccessible. You have to be able to hold your attention in a clean way. And I don't know about you, but going to clubs or parties is kind of like going to Ikea.

0:34:38
Don't you notice that?

0:34:41
There's just like tons of people sitting there throwing nasty energy around.

0:34:46
Right?

0:34:48
I don't know. So don't cling to a desire of, oh, I like to go to a club, and cling to that as seeing that as happiness. Let go of that. You can go to a club, sure. But you need to start practicing inaccessibility so that you can go and have a high time instead of a time where you get trashed by people. You can't let your ore get trashed. We interface with the network society in a way that's clean. Additionally, you network with people through social media like Facebook. Now think about, if you have a Facebook page or whatever it's called, what do you have on there? What are you saying about yourself? Who are you open to? And what are you putting out there? So the first time I saw anyone's Facebook page, Ajna showed it to me, of one of the girls in the study. And she had pictures of herself, lots of them, and pictures of her in a bikini. And I'm like, what's that about? What energy are you trying to elicit from people when you show something like that? That's the opposite of inaccessibility. This is the wrong way to be. What is your Facebook for? It's for a clean way for you to network to people. So what are you saying about yourself? If you're saying blah blah blah blah blah blah blah, accessibility accessibility accessibility, then you're opening yourself up to your whole network being, pushing weird stuff on your aura into your attention. It's okay to have a network, but you have to have a network where you are actually, you put up a clean way of looking at you, you're inaccessible, but you put important points and then that way people say, ah, yes, this person is a cool, nice person with positive things going on in their lives. Instead of like so many ins because of your pictures and the weird things you're saying and all the garbage you're putting out there. So when you're doing personal networking with friends or social networking with Facebook, you need to clean it up. You need to clean it up. And then people are saying weird things on their Facebooks all the time. They're putting up updates or something that are just like being... You're just showing too much accessibility. You need to make your Facebook... It's good to have one, but pictures and statements that are inaccessible. Inaccessibility doesn't mean that you wear sunglasses and a dark hat and a cloak and you're walking around and trying to hide. It means that you present yourself in a strong way without being open. So it is good to have Facebook. But it's good to have Facebook where you're not putting out provocative pictures of yourself. A lot of people when they have Facebook, they're trying to make themselves look cool and they're saying all sorts of garbage about themselves and putting up all these pictures of themselves. It's very strange. A lot of you also have a lot of personal history in your Facebook, right? You've got pictures of you and some weird friend that you knew back in high school, right? That's personal history. Clean your Facebook up. Wash your Facebook.

0:38:54
Yeah.

0:38:56
You guys are, you know, when you're networking with people outside of the Sangha, personally and through social networks, you're doing it in a way where you're too accessible. You're picking up bad vibrations back from people. You're getting drained from people. So you wanna clean up the way that you interface with people and talking at work, talking about family, talking about close friends. You're getting drained because you're just open. You look like a mess, you're not presenting yourself correctly. And then that way they have openings in to drain you of energy, or they start pushing designs of I want this from you. When you present yourself in a strong way, in a strong positive way, they say, wow, I get this really good vibe from them, that's a cool person, but they don't see an in, how they can start like lining you out. That's what people like to do. They just naturally like to do it. They like to line you out. They like to get a line in there and start yanking on it. They get a line in there, then they got a leash on you, and then they start pulling on it. This is the way people are. Lying each other out all the time. So you have to be inaccessible so that people can't get a line on you and start trying to pull you. Because once they start pulling you, then you might fall for it. You go, oh, I want to go the way they're pulling me. And then you end up rolling off into some karma, into some drama. So inaccessibility, the etiquette that we have, the etiquette that we teach, the etiquette of our interactions, the etiquette of our yoga, this is the way to be. It's a way where you can be strong, powerful, you can have a good time, you can laugh, do fun things, but you don't get lined out. It's not something that takes energy away. It's something that promotes a way for you to deal with people, to bring out the most positive things. family and your network a disservice if you're being accessible. Yes. Okay. Very good. So what time is it now? 1030. 1030? Alright. Perfect. with the LA girls from the Yoga Dojo, and Josh and Mudra, and Dave and Elizabeth, and Fumito and Sarah. I think that's everyone. After this, I have a little meeting room that we'll go to. Additionally, I'd like to meet with Dave, Joe, and Julian. So we made a change to the Yama team. Those of you on the Yama team may have noticed. Now, if you're still on the Yama team, then that means that you're doing a And more importantly you are in a momentum of yoga where you have harmless energy. Harmless energy. The Yama team needs to have harmless energy because Kamala is coming back onto the Yama team. And with all the tantrums that the rest of you guys were doing, it's unacceptable. I'm not going to let that energy, I'm not going to let Kamala interface with that energy. So all those tantrums that you were having, those are harmful. You're off the team, get it? So you need to clean be positive and recognize that it's not okay to have those tantrums. It's unbecoming a Buddhist. So we needed to make a change because the team had a lot of people being brats. Rascals, as Ramakrishna would say. Rascals sort of rhymes with asshole. And I tend to go that way. So, yeah, I'm not kidding. So, you have a reassignment. You should take it seriously. Now I'm going to be offering to Dave and Joe and Julian an opportunity to work with me on a new yoga project. So anyway, yeah, so yeah, so if you're off Yama, don't feel bad about it, but recognize it happened for a reason. And you have to work better. You have to work better, more selflessly. You have to work more selflessly. That's it. Because when you're selfish and you start creating all these dramas, then you're creating pain. Your head's getting all dark, you're drawing into all this craziness. So you have to work better, more selflessly. Yoga ends up being this amazing, powerful thing, just because you have to be impeccable, and you have to be selfless. And with every task, all these wonderful challenges come up. So it's a great opportunity. This is a spiritual practice, yoga. It's not just doing some tasks. It is just doing tasks. But it's within this amazing, magical structure where enlightenment comes out of it. You're given spiritual lessons within the structure of the task. It has an amazing, amazing, amazing structure of life. So be more selfless in your work. And for Dave, Joe, and Julian, oh, we have something really exciting. So I've been looking at the progress of the yoga teams for a while, and I realized that after one team went away because they failed in their yoga, I realized that we need another yoga project with the possibility of a revenue model. And I've been reflecting on it for some time, ever since one team went away. And I was reflecting on it and reflecting on it. And it was kind of fun. But I came up with something. And it's something that could be very, very big. It should be very, very big. And it has to do with the internet.

0:47:24
The internet.

0:47:26
The interwebs.

0:47:27
Yeah, the interwebs.

0:47:27
The internet.

0:47:28
And it also has to do with social networking. And it's a very, very, very exciting project. So here's what it is. The internet is a network. It's a network of minds. A sangha is a network. So I've talked a lot about sangha. Ever since, remember that desert trip where I said, Lake over Lake, we started talking about how to be a sangha, what a sangha is, how this organic fellowship works. It's a network. And a network, a group, a sangha, has certain aspects, certain methods, certain means. There's certain dimensions that we work with. It's very complex in a way. And there's also an etiquette in the group, so that it stays high and bright and enlightening. But there are common attributes to any network. There are common attributes to any network. And so what I did was I looked at what the common attributes of networks are, and I looked at the Internet. Now a spiritual network versus an Internet computer network is different. There's different things that you can do in a spiritual network, whether it's computer or spiritual or anything. And I said, okay, so what's missing from the Internet? And I came up with something that's very applicable to the social networking. And what it is, is it's what I call a voice. Every network has a voice. That's where the people in the network have a way of saying, this is what we think. In a spiritual network, the voice is a psychic voice. We all feel certain things. That's why we go through certain lessons and people have certain things come up like attachment at the same time so that we can go through the lesson in a certain way. So there's a voice. 90% of you say, I'm attached. And I go, oh, OK, I hear you. Let's talk about that. That's the main thing to talk about, to address right now. Or, very simple, in the American landscape, the people have a voice that they feed back to politicians in different ways. They write letters to their congressmen. Or there's polls, right? There's a gallot poll. So the president says, what do people think about this? Ah, I see what they think about this. Well, I'm going to do what the people want, right? Yeah, so there's, in a network, there's a way for people to say what they think.

0:51:11
There's a voice.

0:51:12
So what's missing from the internet is a voice. So the new yoga project is going to be a voice for the internet. Wow, how exciting. What does the internet think today? What does this network, everyone on this network, think about this subject. Yeah, it's a voice. Now there are little voices in different places on the internet. But the reason this is such a big idea is because it has to be big. It has to go viral. It has to be the thing. And it's, you know, the same way there's Facebook, there can be this voice. It should be something that's very, that everyone knows about and everyone says, oh, I wonder what we think about this. Oh, that's what we think about that. What does the internet say about this? This is something that can be, that it can be a very big thing. It can be as big as Facebook.

0:52:26
Really it can.

0:52:26
And it should be. There should be a voice for this network. And there isn't a voice for the network. Even I knew that because I never heard of it. Now, this voice is, I'm not exactly sure how it will manifest. But I have an idea. There's a template for a voice, right? Yelp, right? Yelp is a voice. It's people saying what they think about services. I like this restaurant. And 700 people agree that they like this restaurant. And everybody says why they like it. So, these are voices about little things. Services, restaurants. But they're valuable voices. You say, wow, I want to go to a sushi place. Wow, that place has five stars. And 875 people have commented about it. That's probably gonna be a good place. And if you look at another sushi restaurant with one star, then you're probably not gonna go there. So that voice is a meaningful voice. So this voice of the internet will not be about restaurants. It won't be about specific services, it will be about what people think about political and social things. So it will be something that's very world conscious, policy conscious, at a very important level. Like what do we think about important things? Not, you know, sort of like, kind of like a poll. But it could be kind of like a Yelp-style poll. Like, you know, do we think Obama's doing a good job? He gets three and a half stars. And then people will say, I think Obama's doing a great job. Someone else will say,

0:54:53
I don't think he's doing a good job.

0:54:55
And then that way, there's one place

0:54:57
where the internet's voice of Obama is coming through. And it's similar to a poll. He gets three and a half stars, or this percentage of people like him, this percentage of people don't, something like that. Now this has to be, this can't be a little thing, it has to be a big thing, because then that voice is valuable. So this is a exercise in going viral. This is an exercise in bringing out a very important attribute of any network that is missing. There's a hole. And we can build something there. So it's quite an exciting thing. The other thing about it is, like Facebook, when you start getting into social networking and things, people end up being idiots like you. Like putting all sorts of weird pictures, networking in the weirdest ways, and just like putting yourself out there. I'm all, oh, look at me. Kind of stuff, or I'll, oh, look at me.

0:56:11
Kind of stuff, right?

0:56:12
So people start, they bring it down to their desire levels. And even Facebook, you know, he knew that. He knew that people are gonna wanna show their egos and make their networks that way. Now this would be a little bit different. People will have their say, they can say things like what their opinions are, but we'll ask the questions in different ways. So think of, there's different ways to ask a question. You ask it one way and it creates deeper reflection. So asking questions is, the right way to ask questions is a very important aspect of this. Because then we can enlighten the voice of the internet. The voice of the internet goes from, you know, like, just tell me the garbage you think to reflect on a certain way. Now this is like a koan. A koan is a way of asking a question that gets someone to think deeper. Now if it's not asked in the right attention, then it doesn't get someone to think in a deeper way. But if these questions are asked in a certain way, then they cause someone to look deeper. A koan is also an aspect of yana yoga. You know, yana yoga is the yoga of discrimination. Seeing what is true and what is false. And the primary means of practicing yana yoga besides meditation is asking yourself, who am I? It's a question. You say, who am I? Am I this body? No. Am I the thought I'm thinking? No.

0:58:10
Who am I?

0:58:11
Am I the person in this picture? Yeah, no. And then you keep asking, who am I, until you find enlightenment. So the koan is a question. Yoni yoga is a way of asking questions that get people to look more deeply, a deeper reflection. So the voice of the internet, and someone's gonna do this eventually. They have to, because it's a normal thing in a network. So we might, as we'll do it. And then we can ask questions in a way that bring out a more, a deeper reflection. It's a way of enlightening and elevating the voice of the internet. So for example, if you say, are you pro-war? Then a lot of people will say, yeah, because I'm afraid of terrorists. So if you said, are you pro-war? Then people would say, yeah, 90% of Americans are pro-war. Because when you ask them that question, they start to think, well, I'm afraid of terrorists, so yeah, we've got to stop them. There's a certain way that people are going to think. But if you ask, instead of asking that question, if you say, should we end the war, then a high percentage of people will say, yes, we should end the war. Because then they're not thinking about their fear. And then when we look at the voice of the internet, the voice of the internet says, hey, we're against war. So it gets people to look at things in the right way, reflect in the right way. So you've got to ask the right questions. Now, this is something very normal with polls. The way you ask it, it's a different answer. So it's very important that since we're going to be the voice, that we create the right tone and the right questions. Because we do want to have, we want to ask straight, simple questions that get to the point but they get people to reflect in a higher way. A way that brings them to their higher nature, not their lower nature. And then that way we elevate the voice of the Internet. And it gets people to think, yeah, instead of thinking about their fear, they're thinking about nonviolence. And they're thinking about how much money we're wasting on the war. big thing this new yoga project I don't even have a name for it. The Voice. I am The Voice. Alright. 10.51. We have to be out here by 11. Yeah, so, this is a very, very good scene. It's a scene of the nature of networks and something that's missing. And it's something that if we do correctly can be huge, huge, positive and uplifting and enlightening for everyone. Can we tell people not to talk about the IK outside

1:02:15
of this room?

1:02:16
Oh yeah, that's right.

1:02:17
I have non-disclosure agreements in the back. Yeah, so I'm trying to get a script all of you because we're a network. And any ideas or feedback, I mean this is just in the second attention, it's formless completely. But if you have any ideas or feedback it would be very helpful. Like I mentioned this to Kamala, and she said wow, I just came across this really cool website called Votizen, like citizen, Votizen. And basically people would write letters to their congressman and put them up there, and then you could read it and go, I agree, I have my signature. So that's a great thing. It's a way of making a voice for specific reasons. And then it goes to the congressman and says, whoa, all these people agree with this letter. So that's a really cool voice. But it's not the voice of the big picture of the country. And that's what we're going to cover. The big picture for the country and the world. Okay, well, see, that's a non-attached view. Very good. All right. So, yeah, so I'd like Okay, well, see, that's a non-attached view. Very good. All right. So, yeah, so I'd like to talk to the people, the people I mentioned before, and everyone else. Wish you a good night.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
