0:00:00
All right, very good. So we're going to begin with meditation. And this is our warrior's way. As the foundation of our practice, as spiritual warriors, we always begin with meditation. Alright, we'll begin. So three songs. Very nice. So, The Warrior. And the warrior, that was the first spiritual ideal that we have profiled. So we started talking about being a spiritual warrior. And that is one of the primary descriptions of our school. The description of a member of the Sangha is that you learn to be a spiritual warrior. You might start off a spiritual wimp. You might start off a warrior of self, a warrior of ego. That's how we all start. And then we eventually let go of the harmful ways of self and we learn to be warriors of spirit. Yeah, that's good. It changes your viewpoint of yourself when you learn the way of the warrior. Do you remember what you wore to work on Friday? And if you didn't go to work, what you wore on Friday, do you remember what you were wearing on Friday? Clearly bring this to mind. What was I wearing on Friday?

0:02:09
So long ago.

0:02:10
Remember your top, your pants, your skirt, your shoes, your jacket, your socks. You remember? Okay, good.

0:02:33
Excellent.

0:02:36
Okay. So, when we were studying Don Juan, we studied some very important dimensions of the warrior. The warrior, in the case of Don Juan, is this really crazy thing. These guys who go out in the desert and have these wild spiritual experiences, these powerful experiences. They are very important dimensions of the warrior. The warrior is primarily concerned with preventing the loss of energy and gaining energy. and through their impeccability in their disciplines, they gain power. And warriors come to love their disciplines. They come to love the discipline that gives them power because they see that when they gain greater personal power, they have a greater awareness. That is the path for the warrior. And then we look into other dimensions of the warrior, such as the samurai, right? So Katsumoto. So the samurai is a different dimension of the spiritual warrior. Tremendous discipline, tremendous power and a commitment to a code of conduct. When there's a commitment to a code of conduct, Additionally, the samurai, like the spiritual warrior, is always looking out to use their discipline of power to help that which is the Dharma. So this was the first kind of profile we spoke of, the warrior, the way of the warrior. If you're a wimp, you won't make it long. You won't last long as a wimp. I mean a spiritual wimp. I mean like someone filled with egotism and attachment, unwillingness to shift and change, unwillingness to be open-minded. If you cling to self, then you're not a warrior. You're not a spiritual warrior. The way of the spiritual warrior is the way of enlightenment. It's the way of selflessness. It's the way of aligning yourself with the Dharma, the way to truth, and engaging in disciplines that get you a greater degree of brightness, luminosity in your attention. So in this school, eventually everybody becomes a warrior. You turn from wimps full of self-pride, self-importance, into a warrior of light. That is one of our primary disciplines. It's a good thing. It helps in August. You guys don't realize how psychic you become from meditation, from yoga, from following the spiritual path. This is August, and like I was talking about in the Dharma talk last night, August is a difficult time. It's the lowest vibratory month in the year. So this is a cycle that you could say it's not a cycle of power. It's a cycle, it's a time where things are more difficult. But not only is it August, the country is kind of freaking out. And these act upon us as psychic pressures, as stress into our awareness field. And by following the spiritual path you become actually very sensitive and very open and these things affect you probably more than you realize. Or maybe some of you do. are facing these great difficulties, these stresses, and just the heat and the people who are all bothered and muggled out. It's very good to use the techniques of the warrior is and beyond. So the warrior is a classification. It's a profile, a way of a spiritual practitioner. It's not the only way. We call these caretaker personalities. Caretaker personalities. The warrior is a caretaker personality. So we've been working on this discipline of becoming a warrior through all of our methods, meditation, mindfulness, yoga, we've had a strong focus on becoming a spiritual warrior. You have to be tough, right? A warrior shows up for the battle. This is the battle, you know, not of any particular task. Sure, there's the tonal of every task, but ultimately it's the battle of the spirit. Are you going to side with light? Are you going to win light? Meaning you push your attention past all of your negativity, past all of your personal history, past all of your doubt, past all of your confusion and you push yourself, you fight to be in light. Because when you're upset and angry and going through your regular self-karmas, you're definitely not in light. And you're not following the way of the warrior. You're following the way of the self, the way of the ego. And that's why when you... you got to fight for light. You don't just like sit there and chant and then all of a sudden it happens. That was like India in 1984. The time is gone, right? And yeah, so you have to, you actually have to will yourself to change your mind from negativity to positivity. You have to direct your mind, direct your thoughts. You have to say, I'm not going to sit here and go through this garbage. I think you've had enough cycles of anger, frustration, depression, that you recognize it's a self-karma that leads nowhere good. But when you apply your willpower, you fight for light. You fight for a better condition. When you fight for a better condition, you can do yoga, you can do mindfulness, you can meditate, and you can push yourself through your own willpower out of your karmic patterns into a greater condition of light. You can experience bliss in meditation. You can experience power and light in yoga. And you change yourself from basically a civilian to a warrior by fighting for the light. So warrior fights, fights for the Dharma, fights for the light. And you can't just give up, you can't just say, I'm in a bad mood. I'm just going to do whatever is in my head at the moment. You've been through it enough. You recognize your lower aspects. But a warrior fights for life. Just do yoga. Plunge yourself into yoga. It totally changes everything. So warrior fights. And you've all fought enough to be here, which is actually something. You've had to go through many battles to be able to be this far along on the spiritual path. Many battles with yourself.

0:13:15
That's it.

0:13:18
Many battles with yourself, with your lower aspects, with your darker aspects, with your lower karmas, with your doubt, with your anger, with your frustration, with your depression. You've had to fight it and fight it and fight it and fight it and push beyond it. Otherwise, if you didn't push enough, you would not be here. You wouldn't. You would let your doubt and frustration and all your karma just pull you off. So, you know, you guys are going on the path of a spiritual warrior. It's a very, very powerful and beautiful thing. So, let's talk about what a caretaker personality is. A caretaker personality is a way of describing the application of attention from a mystical

0:14:27
point of view.

0:14:27
You could describe it in other ways, but from a mystical point of view, we describe it as a caretaker personality. And we use caretaker personalities, these different methods of applying spiritual and powerful attention, we use them for the proper situations. So let me give you an example. Let's say you go to a martial arts dojo. You're going to do karate or judo. Now when you go to the dojo, you put on a gi.

0:15:04
Right?

0:15:06
You don't walk in in a business suit. If you walked in wearing what you're wearing now to a dojo, it wouldn't work very well. First of all, it would be kind of hard to do your techniques probably in what you're wearing. And second of all, it's just not the way they do things. So when you put on your gi and you start to go into the structures of the lessons in the dojo, you are putting on the right clothes for the activity that you're engaging in. So the clothes is the analogy of a caretaker personality. you go to work on Wall Street. Now, out here in California, you can probably wear shorts to work or something, right? And sleeves with t-shirts or something. But in New York, we had to wear suits to work. Now, if you showed up to work in New York without wearing a suit, it would be terrible. It would be horrible. It just didn't happen. No one would come to work not wearing a suit. It just wouldn't happen, the same way you wouldn't wear a suit into a dojo or on Wall Street, you would use a caretaker personality. It's just that they are kind of very defined ones, and within the larger category for us as spiritual warriors, they're part of our disciplines. When you go into a dojo, you might in the beginning act whatever way you act, but after a while, you start to act differently in the dojo. You probably do it immediately because you see everybody else is all serious and stuff, quiet. But after a while, you start to act differently. You start to hold your attention differently. You start to learn the way of the dojo, the way of the school, the way of the martial art. And what you end up learning is a caretaker personality. So it's a way of using your attention, directing your attention in a powerful method. Now if you went to a dojo and you had a goofy attitude and you were silly and cracking jokes, then you would not learn the martial art as well because it's an inner art. It's an art of attention. So if you're goofing around in martial arts, you actually don't learn the martial art well. The attention that they hold, you know, in their seriousness, right, that develops your power in the art. And so the attention is a caretaker personality. It's a way of applying your mind, your attention, to the art so that you can gain the power from it. So for all of you who go to martial arts schools, you have been learning a caretaker personality. And if you go into a different martial arts school, you would go with the same attention, and they would recognize that you have the proper way. You would have the proper way. And then they'd say, oh, this is good. You can learn. Maybe they would recognize that you're already trained or something. So the attention that you also gain in martial arts is an attention that is directly in line with the power of the art. So if you're walking down the street and then somebody attacks you or something, instead of you getting all like wild and freaked out, you would probably assume the same dojo attention, the same caretaker personality. And you would tighten yourself up, you'd get the same attention that you have in the dojo the best. So the caretaker personality of the dojo teaches you how to learn the power and then when something happens, how to use the power. So same thing in every business situation. So we're in Silicon Valley, but at the same time, at most businesses, maybe not all, but at most businesses, there is a way to dress. People dress a certain way. It might be blue jeans and t-shirts, but it's certain t-shirts. There is actually a vibe of what's acceptable and what's not acceptable. And not only that, there's an attention in Silicon Valley. It's more subtle than a more formal environment. For example, when I was in New York, we had to wear suits, so it was obvious. You put on your suit, it's just like putting on your gi, only putting on your gi for the office. And so we would go to the office and in the suit you have a certain attention. That's why it's good to be a little bit formal or maybe not formal but to have a very specific or intentional work wardrobe. Because you say, I'm buying these things because these clothes are good for working in Silicon Valley. See, if you have that attention versus, oh, I like this, this makes, I like, you know, just like what you like, then what you like is just you. But if you are intentional about these clothes, sure, I like them, but they're good for working in Silicon Valley. That means that you have looked at what other people wear, you understand the vibration, the attention of people in the good companies in the Valley, and that you are matching that with your clothing and your attention. You're creating a caretaker personality for a Silicon Valley worker. It's more subtle than Wall Street, but it's a definite thing. If you dress right and hold your attention right, when you walk into Apple or Google, they'll say, ah, that's the vibration we like. That looks like a cool person in in Silicon Valley. If you walked into an interview wearing a suit in Silicon Valley, although it would work in New York, it doesn't work in Silicon Valley. So you have to create the caretaker personality of how a professional dresses and acts in the Valley. So it's a little more subtle. But these are caretaker personalities that are definite. They're definite forms of attention. Martial arts and business. And these are two developmental disciplines that support or I guess add to, enhance your caretaker personality as a spiritual warrior. So the spiritual warrior is something that we've been talking about for a long time. Little by little you've been getting the idea of what it is. that in our school is one of the primary aspects of how we engage in our etiquette of study, the spiritual warrior. Good. So you still remember what you were wearing on Friday, So, the warrior, these principles that we speak of, you know, non-attachment, impeccability, humility, erasing personal history, these are all ways of the warrior. The warrior is intelligent, intelligent about things. The warrior is always looking around for trouble so that they can avoid it, so they can deal with it if it comes their way. The warrior is impeccable in their disciplines. And the warrior likes being a warrior. The warrior has a good time with all of these disciplines. We find that it's really fun to do the hard work that Someone who really allies themselves with a group to be stronger. No warrior would go into battle by themselves if they had the choice. Going in by yourself just means it's going to be hard. It's going to be hard or maybe definitely it's going to be impossible. A real warrior, when you're facing a life and death situation, allies themselves with others who are fighting for the same cause. So when you're a spiritual warrior, you recognize the truth that you're fighting for light. And there's a tremendous force of darkness in your karma and in the world. And if you fight by yourself, you're just going to fall into your karma. But when you ally yourself with a group of a bunch of people who are fighting for life, then you do much better. Even though you look at the people in the group and you're like, meh. I don't like you very much. You know, it's true, you know, because you're unaware, right? You don't get it. But it's true. Everybody in the Sangha has been through some of the same hardships you've been through. You know, fighting against your doubt and your fear and confusions and your angers and your ideas of self and personal history, everybody's fighting the same battle, trying to get beyond the limitations of the self, trying to get to a greater degree of power and light. And the fact that every... And you think you've had a hard time? Everybody. Yeah. Everybody's had a pretty hard time. Yeah. So when you have a recognition that you're fighting for the light and that everybody here has also had a hard time, at least as hard as you probably, or similar experience facing the darknesses of themselves and pushing for the light. So then you say, oh wow, everyone here is actually trying pretty hard or facing some hard stuff and sticking around. So you start to recognize that there's a great push in this whole group to get higher, to get brighter, to break free from the self that limits you, the self that gives you suffering. So you go, oh wait, this is actually good. So if you consider this whole experience a battle for light versus falling into the ego's trap of darkness, then you recognize that if you go into battle by yourself, you're probably to a lot of suffering. But it's better to be in a group. The warrior is very humble because the warrior recognizes the difficulty of the battle. When you really look at it and go, wow, I could barely stop my thoughts for ten seconds. I'm no master at this yet. Or, gosh, my mindfulness slips all the time and I just follow my depressions left and right and my angers and my confusions, all that stuff, right? Once you really recognize the truth of your suffering and the difficulty it is to stop thought, the difficulty that's involved in just maintaining a bright state of mind, then you start to say, yeah, this is a tough battle. And there's a momentum when there's a group. When you're in the group, there's a momentum you to have a greater degree of mindfulness or a greater concentration of meditation. There's a spiritual power involved in being with a group of warriors. Warriors are humble because they recognize the battle's tough. Even though personally they might not normally agree with certain people in their group, they'll recognize that they're all fighting in the same direction. They're all fighting for the same cause. And that's why we function as a Sangha. It's funny because a Sangha is a funny thing. Lots of different people come together. Lots of different soul types, lots of different past life profiles. You got the Egyptians, the Indians, the Atlanteans. People who had strong lives and different kind of path like profiles with different teachings. And you know, you guys don't, wouldn't be a friend either with anyone here, but I'd be an ally with anyone who wants to follow the pathway to enlightenment. For warriors, there's no friends. You recognize that friends are just the realm of personal history and desire and attachment, you start to recognize that there are only alliances. You will ally yourself with someone who you can be stronger with. And if you find you're allied with someone who makes you weaker, as a warrior, you have to change the situation. Either lift them up or let them go. Those are the things warriors do. Dealing with attachments in a powerful way versus a wimpy way.

0:32:46
Excellent.

0:32:48
So that was our warrior caretaker personality. There's another caretaker personality that I encourage you to practice as well. The warrior is probably the most important one, but there's another one that's good. This one is the caretaker personality of the child. Now in Bodhi Woods, we focus on this one the most when we're just all together, the Bodhi Woodsians. Because the Bodhi Woodsians, they're strong warriors, strong yogis, maybe not the new ones, but the older students, strong warriors, strong yogis. And it's very important when we're together, just living, for us to not be so intense. So we practice the caretaker personality of the child. The child's a really fun one. I remember I was in Hakuin, Hakuin was a great Zen master, I was in Hakuin's main monastery in Kyoto, Japan. And there's this one room where there's these panels that are painted just with black on white. And it's all these little monks, little monks, and they're messing around with stuff. They're just like, some of you guys went to Japan with me, we saw this, right? They're like, they're just getting into all sorts of stuff. Like there's a couple of them are fiddling around with a bucket, and then these other ones are chasing a frog. And it's just a perfect picture of the Buddhist caretaker personality of the child. They're all just fascinated by life. They're all getting along. They're all playing. They all have this positive, curious attitude. So when I saw that, I was like, wow, the child. See, Hakon was teaching his monks to be like children. It's good. So, a child is innocent. And a child has no personal history. A child doesn't invest themselves in things working out, like plans and stuff. A child just exists in the moment and just is there to explore, have fun, and just be. So it's really important for us to look at our experience sometimes and say, you know what? I'm going to do the caretaker personality of the child so that I can just be a little bit happier. So when you're facing certain situations, the child is the best caretaker. And these are situations where you're having, maybe you're at a Scottish Highland fling with fling party. It'd be kind of ridiculous if you were acting like a warrior the whole time. Where is my claymore? You know, something like that, right? So when we have a dance party or something, that's where we're actually encouraging a different caretaker personality. It's the caretaker personality of the child. I mean, like how silly was that? Silly party, but it was really fun. And then we act very different there. When we go there, we act, we have fun, we dance around like crazy. You know, we laugh and do funny, silly things and wear weird costumes. And that's like the way of the child, to dress up funny, do funny things and have a good time. Don't worry. Just have a night, an evening where you can just have fun. You don't have to use it at the right time, the same way you use the dojo attention at the right time. Because if you act like a goofy kid at work, it's not going to work out well. They'll be all like, what? What are you doing? You're acting like a child! Exactly! Yeah. So, that's the thing about the caretaker personalities. You use them at the right time. And then it works wonders. So, if you're hanging out with some sangha mates, it's great to be the child. It's great to change and to say, hey, we're gonna have a good time. You don't take things all seriously. You just hang out, have a good time. You're curious about life. You don't have to think about how people bother you very much. You just go, whatever, I'm just here hanging out, having a good time. Yeah, it's good. It's a way to let go of things. It's a way to be light. It's a way to be happy. So in Bodhi Woods, we practice the child a lot. And then sometimes we get together and do our warrior thing. But generally, if we're not doing yoga or something, we're practicing the way of the child. And it's a good caretaker personality. It's a happier way. Have you seen the film, Being There? Didn't we see that at one time? In Being There, Chansey Gardner is the caretaker personality of the child. He's just like, oh, real simple. But at the same time, he's really an amazing being. So, yeah, it's good to be innocent and in the moment and really not attached to outcomes. It's a fun way. It's a bright way. It's a way that conserves energy, it's a way that makes you just happier. So sometimes we use that caretaker personality. You can use it in safe situations with people you love or with Sangha, when you're in a safe situation, it's good to be a child. It's a wonderful thing. We're going to have a meditation now. We're going to meditate on the navel, heart, and third eye. This will be our child meditation. Today we're gonna be going through different fields of energy. First meditation was our normal warrior meditation. This meditation will be a different energy. So tonight we'll be going through some different fields of energy that give you a template or a feeling for these different caretaker personalities.

0:41:14
All right. All right. Very nice. All right. Very nice.

0:41:18
All right, so we're going to take a break for about 15 minutes and we'll come back and we'll meditate some more.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
