0:00:00
The caretaker personality is a way to give yourself a break from yourself. Yeah, it's true. That's why we do it. Because your normal self acts a certain way. You say, this makes sense to me, I'm going to do this, I'm going to do that. And you act within the frame of your karmic personality profile. And as long as you're acting within that, then you remove yourself from yourself and you start to act in different ways and find power outside of your normal characteristic way of being. So for me, I was a martial artist since I was like six and I had no plans of being a computer programming professional. I had no idea that I would be a person who could work in a professional environment. So for me, it was a huge challenge for my ego to do karate, because I was into Kung

0:01:36
Fu.

0:01:37
So it was like this huge thing, oh my God, Kung Fu is the best thing in the universe. And now I've got to do karate. This is terrible. And you wouldn't imagine the insanity of egotism But eventually, I put on the gi, I learned the Shotokan intention, and I learned to have a caretaker personality of martial arts and not a self-description of martial arts. Then when I went into the professional world, it was really easy for me to just, in a very clean way develop a professional caretaker personality, because I had no self-investment in it. Now, most people that you run into in work have a self-investment in their caretaker personality as a software engineer or business professional. See, I'm wearing a computer t-shirt and jeans and I'm all good or whatever. That is their self-definition. Caretaker personalities are outside of self-definition. They are just we utilize as a tool to gain a certain power, to have an experience that gives us more power and luminosity. So we don't have a self-investment in it. Therefore my whole career has been fantastic. I was always selfless in my career. I didn't have the same problems other people had because my career was the career of a caretaker personality or where I utilized the caretaker personality. And martial arts was harder for me, but eventually I got my Shotokan black belt and then a little while later I had really detached myself from my Kung Fu description itself. And now when I do martial arts, I do it as a caretaker personality. I don't do it as, oh, this is me, mur mur mur. See, it's great. When you think about who you are, who are you? A lot of people are very attached to their career, their family. They're just like all of the ways that they describe themselves, their self-descriptions are a certain thing. Now, when we practice the caretaker personality, we learn to let go of all of those ways of describing ourselves and we act in this way because it's powerful to do that. And then we say, oh, that was great, that was awesome. But we don't then attach yourself to that definition. We just really see it as a uniform that we put on, the martial arts uniform, the business uniform, the spiritual warrior uniform. We put these on, these uniforms, a uniform way of using your attention, of holding your mind, of acting, of etiquette, degree of luminosity, personal power, and an expanded consciousness. So caretaker personalities, when you engage in them, they make you more selfless. Because if you always walk around always had the white sweater with the shaggy always had the green shirt and the brown pants. So it's just like those characters, if they put different clothes on, you'd be like, who is that? And that's kind of the same way with yourself. The way that you the way that you live your life in a certain uniform way of thought and attention is just like Shaggy or Velma. It's the same. But when you start to say, I'm going to put on different clothes and the whole uniform is a completely different action. Martial arts is a different action. Work is a different action. Then you start to see that you're not necessarily the person who wears the orange sweater and the glasses. You can put on different clothes, engage in different activities, and your uniform attention changes. And then that way you gain the ability to be selfless.

0:07:41
So the two primary caretaker personalities

0:07:45
that we engage in are the caretakers of the spiritual warrior, which has many dimensions, like martial arts and especially business, career, and also the child, where you can lighten up and have a good time. It's important for you to utilize these, with, you could say, okay, in this situation, I am going to intentionally practice the child. You have to be intentional about it. Just like when you go to the dojo, you put on a new uniform. So you have to say, this is the perfect situation for me to be the child. Not an idiot, but just happy, easy going, innocent. So you remember what you were wearing on Friday, right? Okay, we're going to do a special exercise of selflessness. So let's assume what you wore on Friday is just your regular karmic self. You followed your karma into buying those clothes for whatever reason. So just like your normal conditioned karmic attention, that was your uniform that day. What I'd like you to do is I'd like you to go home, take your clothes from that day, even if they were special, even if you just got a new jacket or whatever, put it in a bag and then give it to Goodwill. I would say throw it away, but there's probably people out there who could use your clothes. Give it to Goodwill. And I'd like you to buy two new outfits. Two new outfits. The first one is a child outfit. So when you consider the child caretaker personality. How would you dress as a child? As an innocent, happy, in the moment, uninvested person. How would you dress? And you can have fun with it too if you want. But go out and get yourself a new outfit. And if you're broke, that's okay too. Then while you're at Goodwill, giving them your old outfit, get yourself a new outfit there. And also, get a job. So that you can do these things. Okay. And, okay, so that's the first one. The second one is get a warrior outfit. So consider the spiritual warrior, everything that you've learned, from the teachings of Don Juan to the character of Katsumoto, and the way that we consider and integrate those teachings into our practice. Consider the spiritual warrior. And this is the caretaker that we've worked on the most. Consider all the times where you fought through hardships, changed your mind from the dark to the light. That's the warrior. Didn't give up when you could have. Decided to be mindful instead of mindlessly sloppy. That's the warrior. So consider the energy of the spiritual warrior and then buy a new outfit. Your warrior outfit. Very good. Now just like the analogy of uniforms, these will be your uniforms where you can really engage in acting your role. we're going to have a Bodie Woods work day. And what I'd like you to do is I'd like you to come to Bodie Woods work day in your child outfit. And then I'd like you to practice the child caretaker personality. So when you physically throw out your regular way, your regular uniform, and get one that's dedicated to the child, then you connect with the child caretaker more, and we'll have a whole day of practice and digging in dirt. And then, it's really important that you go out and get new clothes. You gotta do it because it's fun that way. It can't be something you already have. You can't apply your old self to it. You have to go out and get a new thing, a new attention. And then Sunday, we're going to have our yoga meetings. Sunday you wear your warrior clothes. So you're wearing a meeting, you come as a warrior. So next weekend will be our uniforms. Child uniform, warrior uniform.

0:14:22
Quite exciting.

0:14:26
Now

0:14:28
We have

0:14:30
another caretaker personality I'd like to discuss And this is one that you're also very familiar with. This is the yogi Now the yogi Is very complementary with the warrior. But the yogi has specific things that are a little bit different. The warrior is, let's say, a very large class. But it has many things within it, like martial arts and karma yoga is an aspect that makes you a strong warrior. So a warrior is someone, if you imagine a warrior, they're good with weapons. They discipline themselves with different weapons. So they might have the warrior spirit, but if they don't know how to use a sword, they're not gonna do so good in a battle, right? So in this, you can recognize that yoga is one of the ways that you develop the warrior capability. But yoga in itself, just like martial arts in itself, is a separate and unique caretaker of its own. It's its own discipline. And in yoga, we work on the two primary aspects, impeccability and selflessness. These aspects become foremost in the consideration of yoga. So in karma yoga, it's a really fun path. You act. You take action. when administered by an enlightened teacher or an esoteric teacher, is a dojo. You go to the dojo, you learn all these techniques and forms, and you get powerful that way. You get a black belt in karate or something like that. When you do yoga, there is a structure. There is a form. When you engage in it, you have a yogic result. You come out with a yogic mastery. You come out with an accomplishment, an attainment of certain dimensions of awareness. So when you do yoga, it is a very structured path. It's very balanced because the spiritual structure is balanced with what you actually accomplish in the physical world. So when you go out there and do something, you're doing yoga, you know, task after task after task. You go out there and you do something and then there's the spiritual result. Impeccable action, selfless action, returns a concrete completion of action. And then that's where you see your spiritual energy rising. You work on something, you make a push impeccably and selflessly, and then there will be a result, the result of action. The result of impeccable and selfless action is an enlightened result. do something with this yogic way, and then something will happen. And what happens is maybe you complete your task. You wrote a piece of code. You made a sale, right? But you didn't just make a sale. You exercised the actions impeccable, you're not going to get a result. You know, it won't work out. If you're not selfless, you're not going to get a result. It won't work out. That's the magic of karma yoga. It's that you have to practice both and selflessness, and then you get a result. And the result is a yoga result. So you can see yourself practice and get results, practice and get results, practice and get results. And that's how you elevate your attention in yoga. Now when we engage in yoga, it's also something very, very, very different than what we normally do. When we engage in yoga, we are going beyond our normal, conditioned ways of doing things. We're striving for a greater degree of impeccability. And we end up being more impeccable than normal, because we also practice selflessness. You have to go beyond yourself. You have to put your heart into it, you've got to want it, you have to hopefully be excited about it and just say, I'm going to do it no matter what it takes. I'm going to do this. That's where you're putting yourself out of the way. I'm going to do it no matter what it takes, instead of your personal history, and I've done this before and I've done that So, yoga is a very, very specific practice in its spiritual essence. It's a practice of taking actions, whatever actions you have to take in your project, and doing them impeccably and selflessly to achieve the results of impeccable selfless actions, which are a yogic result. So it's very, very, you know, so every time you're working on something, you just have to do your best. And you have to have this inner attitude of, no matter what it takes, I'm going to do it. No matter And then you will have a yogic result Yeah, that's a winning attitude no matter what it takes I'm gonna do it that was a really important aspect of Our yoga when I was a student That attitude developing that attitude You should all have that attitude. That's the selfless attitude for a karma yogi. Even if it seems impossible, it's not impossible. Not at all. If you put yourself beyond all your ideas of what's possible and what's not Just really develop that ability to be selfless. Even if you are selfish, if you can't have a good attitude, if you're always mad at your yoga and like, oh, this is taking up my time, and I've done stuff like this before, and this is not working out. Even if you have that attitude, if you just keep on doing yoga, eventually you will see that there's tremendous light in yoga. And then you'll just give up your bad attitude and say, wait a minute, there's something powerful here in this silly practice of just doing stuff. of impeccability and selflessness. And just that ultimate spirit of, no matter what, I'm gonna do this. I'm gonna get it done. I'm gonna achieve my goal. Okay, now we're going to have a little meditation on yoga, you have to meditate. But at the same time, you have to recognize that it's a tough time, psychically. I mean, all the same things are there in August, that's there any other time of the year. It's just that there's, it's kind of accented. You can see it more, you can see the influence of other people's auras and minds on you more. You can see that it's a little more difficult to meditate. You can feel that there's other pressures that bother you. And this gives you the ability to see your suffering a little bit more. It's kind of like the first time when the gas prices went up to $4. Went from like $2.65 to $4 pretty quickly and all the Americans were like, oh my God. Now, you know, had it done that very slowly, they wouldn't have freaked out so much, but it did it quickly. So it was an accented gas price hike, which got their attention. So August is kind of like that for us. It's a time where there's kind of a spike in the auric influence. And it should give us cause to freak out. And recognize that we have to take our practice more seriously. You know, suffering informs you. It tells you that there's something to do. If everything's fine and you're not suffering, you probably won't do anything. But if you recognize that you're in a situation that's unhealthy, a situation that's unwholesome, that's harmful, then you're going to work on, you're going to be more motivated to do something about it. That's August. So in August, it's a good time to learn about the caretaker personalities, because caretaker personalities are tools that you can use to dislodge yourself from being stuck in suffering. You can just this caretaker and when you switch to a caretaker, when you do it intentionally, then you start to switch out of a self way. You start to actually break out of your suffering. You say, oh, guess what? I'm going to do my yogi caretaker. And there's actually energy, there's fields of energy, there's a structure of energy, a structure of dimensions involved with each of the caretakers. When we're meditating to these caretaker meditation mixes, there's actually the kind of essential dimensions of life that are involved in these caretaker personalities. And we actually use and engage in these feelings, these energies, these dimensions of life. And we utilize them to be more successful and also to get higher by using light. It's their tools of light, their structures of life. But not only are you engaging in a structure of light, but you're also primarily detaching yourself from your regular way your regular condition karmic way and Then that gives you a break Doing a caretaker personality doesn't make it automatically a hundred percent better You still have to you know, you'll still struggle they're still still pay attention there's still a lot of work, there's still difficulties. But what it does do is it breaks you out of yourself and gives you dharmic methods, dharmic means, the structured dimensions to succeed. Just like if you go to a martial arts class, just because you put the gi on doesn't mean it's gonna be easy.

0:27:41
No, as soon as you put the gi on,

0:27:42
you actually are, you start to engage in the structure of the class and it takes tremendous attention, tremendous willpower. You have to, you know, you start working out, sweating, having a hard time. You'll be challenged by the class itself. When you engage in yoga, it's a very powerful thing. You engage in a very, very strong yogic spiritual second attention structure. And when you engage in it, it's not like all of a sudden it's easy. In fact, it's hard. There's more stuff to do. And you're challenged with things you haven't done before. And you're challenged with overcoming yourself. But when you do impeccable selfless work, when you engage in yoga and you do it intentionally, you drop yourself behind, then you have a means and a way, a way of dharma where you get higher and brighter. If you engage in the caretaker personalities, You detach yourself from your limited self altogether. Eventually, this is a magical means. And you become someone different, someone capable and powerful in a different profile. Not a self-attention profile, but a dharmic profile. The next two caretakers I'd like to talk about are also primary disciplines that you guys engage in and are exposed to. They are stalking and dreaming. So we've learned about stalking and dreaming, and actually you guys engage in stalking and dreaming as your two principal means in yoga and also as a warrior. So as Don Juan says, there's two types of warriors, the stalker and the dreamer. But stalking and dreaming are actually just different of dimensions. So you might get, you want to get something done, you might use it in a stock, you might do it in a stocking way, you might do it in a dreaming way. Just like, let's say in martial arts, right, the goal is to take down the opponent. In karate, the karate way is you're going to punch him and kick him, and the judo way is that you're gonna throw them down and wrestle them. So both ways are very different. The very different disciplines physically. However, both ways have the same result. You can take down an opponent. You can win against an opponent. So, stalking is kind of like the karate way and dreaming is kind of like the Judo way, the wrestler's way. One is hard, one is soft. They're just different, but they get the same job done. Now, you guys are actually exposed to both aspects. You're exposed to the stalking dimensions. So if you're a stalker. So we learn both ways here. And we also, everyone's exposed to the dreaming dimensions. If you were awake last night, or asleep last night, you might remember dreams. So the dreaming dimensions are ways of doing things, ways of getting things done in a mystical kind of way. And so is stalking. They're just different ways, different dimensions of energy. So stalking is the more practical, pragmatic way. There's a lot more first attention that's connected to stalking. So, stalking is, you know, it's like, oh, I wanna go do something, I'll find out what it is, I'll start doing it, I'll learn about it, and then I'll follow it until I get it done. It's actually, it can be described, you know, linear, in a linear manner. But stalking actually is an inner feeling. They call it stalking. Sometimes we call it hunting. Because it is a direct way to get something done. It's following the path, closing in on what you want, on the goal, and executing it in a very efficient manner. So it's actually very practical, very pragmatic. So we all focus on that in our yoga. If you start being wishy-washy and spacey, your yoga teacher will say, wait a second, you need to clear your mind, you need to work on this thing with a strong tonal. And that is all the dimensions of stalking. Strong tonal, clear mind, efficient way of getting things done, being practical, being simple, not having a confused mind, are, you know, we probably talk about this 90% of the time when we're engaging in yoga. It's like, do it in the best way possible. This is all stocking. So stocking is definitely the toenail aspect that we see throughout all of our yoga practice. But at the same time, stocking also has subtle qualities. And that's where, if you're a good stalker, you'll say, okay, I want to get this done. I want to achieve this goal. And you'll just feel it out inwardly. You'll feel out the best way to get there. And then you'll do all the tasks. You'll have a clear mind. You'll set up all the tasks, and you'll just go at it and get it done. But stalking is finding it inwardly first, and then having the clear steps to achieve the goal. So stalkers feel out. So that's really important for a stalker. When you want to get something done, you set your mind and you say, yeah, okay, I can do that, because you find it inwardly. And then stalkers also tend to have a strong first attention. They tend to be very good at carrying out tasks to find results. Stalking dimensions. So we're going to meditate for one song on the stalking dimensions. Let's see. Let's focus on the navel center. And dreaming is the other mystical methodology. It's the other way. So a lot of you are dreamers by nature. Some of you are stalkers, some of you are dreamers. But we all learn both. But we all tend to be lean Dreaming is a lot more subtle than stalking. So, dreaming is a way of creating. It's a recognition that you can bend the rules. Stalkers will follow the rules. They'll follow the trail. Dreamers won't follow the trail. They'll change the trail's route to lead back to them. Well, whatever I'm chasing is going to show up. I do that all the time. So yeah, dreaming is changing the rules. It's seeing that all of life is an illusion. This is just a dream. If you consider a year ago and all the stuff you were doing and the people you knew and stuff like that, if you think about what it is now, you look back at your memories, and it's not any different than a dream. You can have a dream where you're, you know, some emotional thing happens or a horrific thing that happens, and it gets those feelings out of you that are just like, oh my god, the most intense thing. Then you wake up and go, oh, it was just a dream. And you can look at a couple years ago, five years ago, yesterday, and the same things that you see as memories are no different than a dream or within our memory exist now. There's a transient experience. There's an illusion. And when we recognize that there's an aspect to our experience that is transient and illusory, then we can exercise control over our world, over our life, over the illusion. It's kind of like in a dream when you have a lucid dream where you wake up in the dream. Sometimes you say, oh wow, I'm dreaming. And then at the moment where you recognize that you're in a dream, you can exercise your will to do something. Like you say, oh, since I'm dreaming, I think I'll do something fun, like I will fly. I tend to go scuba diving more now. I used to fly a lot, but now I fly underwater. Sometimes It's true, it's a strange thing. Yeah, but when you wake up in your dream, then you can say, oh, I want to do whatever I want to do. I'm going to go talk to Buddha. Why not?

0:39:02
You totally can do that.

0:39:03
I'm going to go talk to Krishna.

0:39:06
Why not? In the dreams, in dreaming dimensions, there's a lot more available.

0:39:07
Like you can have a dream where Buddha's there and he tells you something. Yeah, totally. And if you wake up in your dream and you say, I'm going to exercise my will to go to Buddha, then it's not just a thing that happens. It's something that you've created. So dreamers, if you're a good dreamer, it's hard to be a dreamer with such a crowded planet. It's hard to develop dreaming skills. But if you're a good dreamer, you can wake yourself up in the dream. You can say, oh, I'm awake. You can have lucid dreaming. You have the awareness that you're dreaming. And then you can do stuff that you wanna do. Like, what I do often is I come and visit you guys. I'm like, hey, we're 12. And you're not kind of on guard. I can catch you off guard in your sleep because most of you don't know you're But yeah, and these are through, I do a lot of teaching through dreaming. And I use these, I use the dreaming dimensions, dreaming dimensions of creation. I create positive interactions, positive actions, positive ideas, positive experiences, show you the way to enlightenment and dreams. And it's a method. Now dreaming isn't only something that happens while you're asleep. As I said before, it's a recognition of the fact that when you're asleep, it's just like this moment. When you're when you're in a dream, everything seems real. You think it's real. You're like, oh my gosh, there's an eight-headed monkey coming at me with a banana machine gun. This is terrible. You know, all sorts of crazy things will happen in your dream

0:41:29
and you'll think it's real.

0:41:30
You'll be like, oh, it's terrible. Then you'll wake up and say, oh, it was just a dream. But the same awareness, the same perception, the same feelings, the same, yeah, the same assemblage point, the same ability to perceive exists right now. You think that this is real, I think it's solid. And it's just as transient as a dream. It's transient. So when you have this recognition of the transience, the illusory nature of the reality we call reality, then you can start exercising your will to make changes. You can create things with dreaming. So as I said, the way that a dreamer will get something done is they'll create the outcome. They'll create an outcome. They won't follow it. They'll create it. So dreaming is a really exciting set of dimensions. It's very magical. We'll probably at some point in the future talk about dreaming a whole lot more and actually practice dreaming yoga or exercises of dreaming. But right now, the dimensions of dreaming that you guys are exposed to is fine. You're developing yourselves, both stalkers and dreamers. You're doing what it takes to be able to do yoga through your stalking skills and dreaming skills. But to be able to develop the ability to be awake in your dream anytime you want and exercise your will to go hang out with Buddha or someone, that's something that you can develop. You can develop the ability to wake up and you can develop the ability to will yourself to find things. Yeah, and it's dreams, so it's funny. There's a whole bunch, there's so many different qualities to the dreaming dimensions. It's a fascinating world. But the world of dreaming is as big as the world of stalking. It's just that stalking is, I guess you might say more tonal and dreaming is more novel All right, we're going to meditate again on the navel chakra It will be the dreaming dimensions Dimensions of the dreamer. Yeah, so again, these caretaker personalities are kind of tools that you use. So, you know, it's kind of like in golf. Oh, I gotta, you know, hit the ball over there. Maybe I should use a seven iron. Maybe I should throw the stalker at this. I mean, and not only do you intentionally do that, but you start to access and utilize the energy like yogis. That means impeccable and selfless. So, what I'm doing tonight is I'm calling out to you distinct fields of energy that are within our study. These are the techniques It's a whole tapestry of dimensions, but it has specific techniques, specific ways. We engage in these ways with our attention. When we get ourselves out of the way and intentionally utilize these ways, we ascend beyond our conditioned karmic mind. It's fantastic. What I'm doing is, you know, when in Karate Kid 1, where Daniel was just painting the fence and wax on, wax off. And then eventually he's like, Oh, look, the stuff you're doing is actually the art. It's like, Oh, this technique is for blocking. This technique is for doing or doing something else. Yeah, it's really good. Okay, we're going to take another break.

0:46:27
We will come back and meditate more. We will come back and meditate more.

0:46:30
Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
