0:00:00
So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. I guess I could put it over.

0:00:14
Okay.

0:00:15
Okay. Okay.

0:00:17
Okay. Okay.

0:00:19
Okay. Okay.

0:00:21
Okay.

0:00:22
Okay.

0:00:23
Okay.

0:00:24
Okay.

0:00:25
Okay.

0:00:26
Okay.

0:00:27
Okay. Okay. Okay.

0:00:30
Okay.

0:00:31
Okay.

0:00:32
Okay.

0:00:33
Okay.

0:00:34
Okay.

0:00:35
Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay.

0:00:39
Okay.

0:00:40
Okay.

0:00:41
Okay.

0:00:42
Okay. Now, you can get a chance to get a free access to the full version of the book. I'm going to sit down and talk to you. I don't care. I'm just going to sit down and talk to you. I'm going to sit down and talk to you. I'm going to sit down and talk to you. I'm going to sit down and talk to you. I'm going to sit down and talk to you.

0:02:40
I'm going to sit down and talk to you.

0:02:42
I'm going to sit down and talk to you. I'm going to sit down and talk to you. I'm going to sit down and talk to you. I'm going to sit down and talk to you. I'm going to go to bed. I'm going to go to sleep. I'm going to go to bed. I'm going to go to sleep. I'm going to go to bed. I'm going to go to sleep. I'm going to go to bed. I'm going to go to sleep. I'm going to go to bed. I'm going to go to sleep. I'm going to go to bed. I'm going to go to sleep. I'm going to go to bed. the the the the the the the I'm going to go ahead and get started. the the the the Yeah. Yeah.

0:04:42
Yeah.

0:04:43
Yeah.

0:04:44
Yeah.

0:04:45
Yeah.

0:04:46
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.

0:04:53
Yeah.

0:04:54
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. the the I'm going to try this with spinach. I'm going to take this. I'm going to try it with the garlic. I'm going to try it with the green. I'm going to try it with the red. I'm going to try it with the yellow. I'm going to try it with the green. I'm going to try it with the black. I'm going to try it with the green. I'm going to try it with the black. I'm going to try it with the green. I'm not a fan of the British culture. I'm not a fan of the British culture. I'm not a fan of the British culture. But I'm not a fan of the British culture. I'm not a fan of the British culture. I'm not a fan of the British culture. I'm not a fan of the British culture. I'm not a fan of the British culture. I'm not a fan of the British culture.

0:07:33
I'm not a fan of the British culture.

0:07:35
I'm not a fan of the British culture. I'm not a fan of the British culture. I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. the the the the the the the Okay.

0:08:56
Oh!

0:08:56
It's pretty funny. Thank you. Q. I have a question. Right. Okay, great. All right, we're gonna begin with meditation again. So we're gonna do three song meditation. So, let's get started. the the the the So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. So Thank you. you the the the the the the the the the the the the so You So, I'm going to play a little bit of the song. the the the so So, I'm going to go ahead and get my stuff. so the the the Oh, So So So long So long So long I'm going to go ahead and get started. So, when you're following the lessons of the past in terms of your physical life, moving, Getting a job, getting more money. This is something that challenges you. So many people have this ingrained, conditioned fear of success, fear of change, fear of money. So then they get stuck in whatever their comfort zone of awareness is. And so they make less money, they don't have as promising a career as they could, they settle for things because they don't push beyond it. So when you are pushing beyond your fear, when you're following these lessons, you challenge yourself to break

0:26:07
past that conditioning of fear. You also face another, in this lesson, you also face another primary fear that people being accepted or rejected by other people. So when you're going out to get a job, you're going out to talk to new people. When you're going to get a job, you're saying, will you accept me into your company and pay me more money? So you're actually dealing with the world, you're dealing with people. And a great fear that we have is a conditioned fear of being accepted or not. So a lot of times someone will go out and do one interview and they'll get turned down and then they'll stop and go, oh, I feel terrible. I'm never going to try again. And yet, if they continue to work through this fear, they go to another interview. And then they might get rejected again. And they might say, oh, this forces it even more that I can't do this. But that's just fear. So if you go to another interview and another interview, then you start to become good at interviews. And then you start to go to the interviews and have fun. And you see that you can do interviews well, and that you can make everyone like you at the interviews. So in doing this task, you will interview, and you'll interview a lot. Remember last time I said, you should just keep interviewing every three months. Even if you're in a job that you like, after three or four months, start interviewing. You know what? Practice interviewing. You want to become good at interviewing. Because you're constantly going to be facing that fear of dealing with people, of being accepted by other people. And you will see that there's nothing to fear if you're good at interviewing. Many, many, many people are afraid of interviewing, hate interviewing, they hate that whole process of going out there to say, will you accept me, no, oh, right? They don't like that process. But in this school, we like that process. Right, we take the worst thing and we make it the most fun thing. So we say, well, if that's the challenge, if that's what everyone's afraid of, I'm gonna get really, really, really good at that by practicing it. You know how you do it?

0:29:07
Do it! Right?

0:29:09
So if you're afraid of interviewing, if you think you're a bad interviewer, then line up a dozen interviews and go and work on your interviewing. See, we take the thing that creates fear and we make it our practice. So you can't just be job-focused. You have to be interview-focused. If you work on going to interviews, being able to answer questions, deal with people, smile, follow the rules of how to win friends and influence people, you try to make a bright experience, you try to do your best, you use it as a challenge. You'll see that interviewing is powerful, it's fun, it's exciting, and it just brings so many opportunities. So we interview a lot, and we get good at interviewing. That is our practice. And by the way, if you're very good at interviewing and interview a lot, then you will have many job opportunities. And you'll have a good career path because you're good at interviewing. So this is something that a lot of people are afraid of being accepted. So we work on it. There was a time where Buddha was sitting there. He said, we're going to go over there to that little state over there, and we're gonna start teaching. And this student said, oh, but there's all those Hindus over there, and they're kind of mean, right? So if we go start teaching there, they might not accept us. And then Buddha says, well, you know, it's the right thing to do. It's the Dharma to do it. It's the powerful thing to do. So we're going to do it. Then the students said, no, but you know, they might say bad things about us. And Buddha said, so what?

0:30:58
So what?

0:30:59
They can come here and say bad things about us and it's not gonna do anything. And they say, well, you know, the way that we have our, how we get food, they might not feed us because we go around asking for donations almost. They might not give us any food. And then Buddha says, well, we practice fasting. Those Hindus are mean. They might actually come over and punch us. They might come over and throw a rock at us or something. And then Buddha says, if we get punched or hit by a rock, it just hurts a little bit. And then finally one of them said, but Buddha, they might kill us. And then Buddha said, then we'll go to the Hiranyaloka. Because we're following the Dharma, we're following the way of enlightenment. This is the right thing to do. It's the powerful, wonderful thing to do. So if someone stops us while we're doing it, kills us or something, we die following the most noble way. That's what we also get from the last samurai, right? They're all, oh, it was a good death. These things I call a good death are powerful deaths. It's a powerful death when you're following your dharma, your duty. Especially when it's something like spreading enlightenment or spreading your yoga instead of spreading your knife, your sword, spreading somebody with your sword. So there's a great dharma to teaching. So he said, yeah, Buddha was not afraid of the people not accepting it. It was just completely unafraid. So then they went there, they taught and many people learned about Buddhism and the Dharma flourished and it was a really wonderful thing. But if Buddha said, yeah, you're right, they might say bad things about us and they might not give us some food. They might throw a rock at me. Let's stay here. Then what is that doing? It's what fear does. It limits you. So that's why when there's the dharma, whatever it is, we follow it and we do it. And if we have fear, we push beyond it. So if you have fear, because you're just not completely a master and you still have fear and all that stuff, right? If you have fear, then what you want to do is you want to learn to deal with fear and to push beyond fear. Even if you're afraid, you do the right thing anyway. You do the most empowering thing, the most noble thing, the most enlightening thing. You do it anyway, even in the face of your fear. And then you move beyond that situation and you say, oh, okay. I dealt with the fear. I experienced the fear and I moved beyond it. Then you realize that there's nothing to fear when you get beyond it. When I was challenged, when I was a new student, when I was challenged with getting a job, getting a better job, I was completely afraid. I was filled with fear and doubt in my ability. So, you know, it was just very, very, very hard for me. I don't know if I told you guys the story of how a big fear changed for me. I was afraid of computers, afraid of them when I was first learning. And I was trying to program and all this stuff, and I was like, okay, I'm going to get a job, I'm going to do this, but I was afraid of everything, and I was afraid of succeeding in computer science as a programmer. And I remember I had a dream one night where in the dream there was a big, giant, scary monster which represented the computer. And it was like a giant rat monster, it's going to kill me, and I can't do anything against it." And then it just kept coming at me, and I was like, but I really want to be able to defeat it. So I struggled with the rat monster. And as I struggled with the rat monster, I realized that when I grabbed it, it was almost like it was a sheet. And I grabbed the sheet, and there was nothing there, and then eventually the sheet just fell down and it was this giant massive sheet but then I saw this little thing wiggling around in it and I opened it up, there's a little mouse. And I said, wow, that's not a big deal at all. And in that dream I realized that I shouldn't be afraid of a computer. Not only a computer, but a career in computers. That's what I was afraid of, and I realized it's not that big of a deal. So then I said, okay, I'm gonna move beyond this. And I woke up the next day, and I had overcome that fear, and then I was able to proceed without limiting myself. So it works out. Now this is exactly what fear is. You perceive things incorrectly and you think, oh, the world is big and scary and hard and difficult, and I am powerless against it. That's what defines your fear. So then why should I even... even, like anything I'll do, I do weak because I know that it's too big. Or why even do anything because it's too big and I can't do anything. So when you look at the world as a big problem or anything as a big problem and that you don't have the power to deal with it, then you're in a condition of fear. Then any action you'll take will be an action without the conviction and power to succeed. This is what we saw with the sales team. The sales team sat there doing stuff, doing yoga and you gotta do yoga to face these things. So the sales team's doing their yoga, but at the same time, they had so much fear that it made the spiritual energy that they were putting into it ineffective. Ineffective. And therefore, nothing really happened. But sales yoga's tough. It's a harder yoga because it has, it has, it's a harder yoga, it's a more powerful yoga. It's a different kind of energy. It's good, I like it. But it's, but when you're doing it with fear, there's a much more immediate result, which is you don't get a sale. If you're learning QA or something and you have fear, you just kind of learn slower. But if you're doing sales and you have fear, you don't make a sale. Sales don't happen. So you have to really recognize, I have fear, and you have to say, I can do it, I can overcome this, I can make this happen. You have to believe it in your heart and push yourself beyond your mental models of the past and who you think you are, and then you can do it, and then magic happens, powerful things occur. Yeah, it's interesting. But the other thing about the sales group was that after they completed, after the yoga ended, then one of them made a sale. It's because it's easy to make sales when you're not doing yoga. Because in yoga you have to overcome fear at a very deep level. But if you're not doing yoga, if the group, if the organization of what you're doing isn't spiritual anymore, then it's just a normal activity. It's a lot easier sometimes. Yeah, interesting. Fear. Fear just stops you. When you think, I can't do it, then you're stopping. You're stopping because you think you can't, because you're afraid to try. But you've got to try. So if you're afraid to get a job, you have to practice. Interview. Practice interviewing. So the way that we look at job security is we develop very marketable skills. And then we really work on over and over being able to market ourselves for those positions. So we have skills that are helpful for companies and then we're very, very, very good at talking to companies and explaining

0:40:53
this to them.

0:40:55
So companies are always hiring, even in the Great Depression companies were hiring, even in the Great Recession companies were hiring. And a lot of the people at Bodie Woods during the worst part of the recession, they jumped They jumped in their career to higher rates, to higher levels. They pushed their career higher. We had a couple Hungarians come over. They got their first jobs, their first computer programming jobs, when the recession was at its worst. So if you do yoga, you break from the gravity of everything else. You get more power and more capability to do things. And it seems like fantastical to people. Wow, how did you do that? You do it by following this path of yoga. This path of yoga is smart, it works, it's powerful, and it keeps you in a strong way. During the worst part of the recession, every single person at Bodie Woods was employed. Lots of tech jobs got slashed, lots of people lost jobs left and right, but everyone at Bodie Woods was employed and even about half of them improved their positions. They said, oh, okay, I'm just gonna keep interviewing. There's not a lot of jobs out there, but there are some. And they went out there and they got them. They jumped in rates. So I think that proves it. I think that proves that job yoga works. And now the market in Silicon Valley is excellent. The whole nation, eh, still struggling to come out. But this area here is an excellent job market. You can do it. You should just really, really, really, really, practice. Practice interviewing. Develop your skills. You've been developing skills in yoga. You are developing your skills. Your skills are as good as they are at the moment. But now go out there and market yourself. Go out there and learn to interview really well by interviewing really well. Go and interview and interview. Maybe you'll have ten terrible interviews, but in every interview you learn. You learn, they ask you questions, maybe you'll have a problem with the question, but later on you say, wow, I should have answered the question like this. I should have said this. And then you'll say, okay, so next time someone asks me that, I'll sound awesome. And then you'll realize over the course of interviews, for the job description you're going for, people ask the same questions. And then you'll say, oh, okay, now you learn how to answer those questions really well. So we had the interview day at Bodie Woods and a lot of you came over to interview and that was very good because you start to you had like about four or five opportunities to interview and it gave you a lot of practice and you've got feedback from the yoga teachers who are really, really amazing interviewers. So this was very good. And then right after that, three people that week got new jobs because they're practicing interviewing. They came, they practiced interviewing. I recommend you practice interviewing. You can even interview with a friend. You could say, hey, let's do an interview together. You know, maybe you have a friend in the group who's a programmer, maybe you're not yet, and you say, just interview me, like what people say to you on interviews, and then you can practice. That's a really good thing to do. And then, go out there and set up 10 interviews. Just say, my goal is to market my resume so that I get 10 interviews. And you'll go out there and you'll be facing this fear and you'll be learning through the process. So you can do it. This big giant monster isn't really that big. It's empty. It's actually a little mouse. And you can handle that little mouse. You have the power to do it. Don't let fear stop you. If you have fear, then face it, work through it, you know, do what I say. Go out there and do 10 interviews. After 10 interviews, if you're still afraid of interviewing, do 10 more. Yeah, but really, you should interview every three, four, five, every three, four, or five months. So that you just are like, I'm really good at interviewing. You know, just go out there, really, you know, I'm excited to meet people. I just know the things to say because I've been working on my interviews for so long and so well. And even if someone says, well, you know, you're just not qualified for this job, but we like you. I've been hired so many times for that same reason. You're not qualified for this job, but we like you. So you can have the job. You know that most of the time, people hire who they like. They'll say, OK, I got this PhD, this guy with a master's degree. But then this other person comes in, and I like them. I would like to work with them. This PhD, he's too stuffy, he might be condescending to me because I'm not a PhD. This guy has a master's degree, I just don't like him, he's arrogant, or whatever. People hire people who, yeah, they have to have enough of the qualifications, but they hire people they like. I remember after I got my first programming position, I was in my boss's office and I saw my resume on a stack of resumes. He interviewed all these people. Well, he was out of the office, I just fingered through the resumes. I was all, oh, who was I up against? And I was up against a guy with a master's degree in computer science. And I didn't have any education in computer science. So that guy was obviously more qualified than But I was excited and I was just like, I'm here to do yoga. My teacher told me this is yoga, I'm here to do it. I was excited about yoga. I was like, I'm going to do this. This is exciting. This is the way of enlightenment. And then I walked in and my boss went, wow, I like this guy. He's an idiot, but I like him. But it's true. It's true that people hire you if they like you. So when you go into an interview, even though you're afraid, get in touch with your excitement about succeeding. Get in touch with your excitement about succeeding. And then you're like, I'm so excited about this opportunity because this is the step that I have to take in my spiritual practice, in my yoga, in my career. This is just great. Instead of like, oh, I'm so afraid, and oh, I suck, and oh, this is never gonna happen. No, you have to change your chi, as we say in Sunrise Healing, or your ki, sorry.

0:48:48
Sorry.

0:48:49
So, yeah, so go out there, do it. If you keep on working on having marketable skills, and if you keep on working on interviewing, then even if another great recession comes over, you will be in a very good way, in a very good way. You'll be able to get higher paying jobs. This is the way, right? But everybody else is so afraid in the world. Well, not everybody else, but most people are completely afraid, clinging to a sucky job, because they're afraid, right? They're attached. A lot of people, because of fear, they become attached to things that are not great for them, that are unhealthy for them, that are bad for them, that are disempowering for them. People become attached to these things because they're afraid of change. They're like, oh I got a terrible job, but I'm afraid to change because at least I have this terrible job. At least I get this, you get my crust of bread once a week. You get something out of it and you're afraid to change so you don't push yourself to change. But take it from me, it's good to change. It's good to push yourself beyond your fear, make more money. It's a very good idea. A lot of people are stuck in this fearful pattern at places where they're like, they think that they owe it to their company to stay there. I owe it to the people who hired me to stay here. I owe it to this company because they hired me at one point. And this is an aspect of fear. I'm afraid to tell my boss I'm leaving. I'm afraid to leave this team. They need me. They're counting on me. This is actually fear that you have.

0:50:51
This is fear.

0:50:52
You think it's being loyal. You think it's being nice. You think it's giving back to someone who gave you an opportunity.

0:51:00
But it's not.

0:51:01
It's your personal fear. Because companies are businesses. They make business decisions. So they say, oh, we need somebody. So they hire you. They go, oh, this person's doing a good job. So they promote you. And then they say, oh, you know what? Our stock dropped because of something stupid that happened in another state, and we're going to fire 13% of our staff, including you. Do they have loyalty to you?

0:51:33
Oh, but we want to keep this guy.

0:51:34
No, they don't. They make business decisions. Businesses make business decisions. If a business was attached to things, if a business was fearful, it wouldn't be a business for much longer. They have to operate in a fearless way. Otherwise, they don't win. So what we must do, what you must do, is you must consider yourself a business. So if you're making $50,000, and then I say, go make $100,000. And then you say, wow, what would I do as a business decision? What would a business do as a business decision? Would a business say, I want $50,000 rather than $100,000? Never. They would always say, I don't care what's involved with that $50,000. Who's there, what employee I had at whatever, I'm going to drop all that and get the $100,000. Because that's intelligent. That's what businesses do. They always go for more money. That's what a corporation does. That's their charter, make money. Of course they do some nice things as well. But overall, companies, when they need to make a business decision, they say, we're very sorry, we've got to let you go because business is hurting. They will fire you for business decisions. Therefore, you should quit for business decisions. I got a better offer. That's it. I got a better offer. Go out and seek better offers, get them, and then you can make that decision. I got a better offer. Now if you really, really believe in that loyalty stuff, then you can say, okay, you know what? I know I'm making $50 an hour here, but I just got an offer for $75,000. Sorry, $75 an hour, $150,000. So you say, I really like you guys, I feel loyalty to you and everything, so I'm gonna give you the chance to match it. And you know what they'll say? No. Because it's not what they wanna make as a business decision. They'll say, well maybe they'll say yes. But a lot of times they say no. They'll say, whoa, I don't wanna do that, or I don't want to allocate my budget. I don't want to go out and get more budget. So they'll say, so they will make a business decision one way or the other. So you can go out and get a better offer, and you can say, wow, we've been together for so long, and we've been so loyal to each other, that I'll give you the opportunity to pay me more and keep me. And very often, they'll say no. They'll make a business decision not to keep you. They'll say, we wish you well on your next job. So long. So that's always a good way to go. However, I do, I did, that's what happens usually. But I did know one or two students who were in one job and then they just, they were so well liked there that they made a lot of jumps. And I know someone who went from $50 an hour to $250 an hour over three years at the same job. And they were just very well liked. And they said, you know what? I'm worth double. And then their boss said, you're right. I'm going to get you what you're worth. I can go somewhere else and make more. You're right. So I actually want to pay you what you're worth. And that's a business decision. So they can make those decisions if the business wants to. So I say, go out there, get another job, and move. And if you really, really, really are attached to the company that you're at, you want to stay there for whatever reasons, you can. But just get them to offer you the same amount of money, and not a dime less.

0:55:43
Ha ha.

0:55:44
Okay, so this is ways that we break from attachments to things where we have fears. But if you can negotiate the deal, then that's a good thing. But don't stay at a company just because you have an idea of loyalty for them. Because I think your ideals of loyalty stem from fear. You're afraid to change. We generally move from place to place. Because when you stay in a place too long, you get lined out by people, you end up in a lot of red tape, you know, bureaucracy, and company politics. And then, you know, it's like people start to, like, annoy you and know you and know your patterns and give you a hard time, right? But when you're actually a contractor going six months here, eight months there, up to a year here and there, then people don't bother you as much. Because they don't have enough time to get to know you and see where you fit in on office politics and then keep on complaining to you about the same things. And then even if someone's very annoying, they're only annoying for six months and you go somewhere completely different. Then you have a totally different situation. So it's very liberating that way. I liked changing contracts often because I got to be more awesome in every new job. So I was like, oh, I'm a normal programmer here. And then I got a job that pays more. And I walk in and they're just like, ah, you're the senior programmer. And I'm like, ah, yeah. But I made jumps in personal power very easily by being a normal programmer. And then my next job I was a senior programmer and my personal power was all of a sudden up at that level. Because they accepted me as that. I made that money. And then I was never just a regular programmer again. You can make amazing jumps like that. And you make those jumps when you face your fears. You face your fears. Because I was, how old was I? I was 24 before I got my first senior programming job. When I got my first senior programming job. So I was like, I had two jobs before and I was a programmer. And now I'm writing on my resume, senior programmer and asking for more money. And so I'm walking in and I was young and I only had two other jobs. And I'm like, I'm a senior programmer? But I was working on my interviewing, so eventually I was like, I'm a senior programmer.

0:58:43
And they're all like, yeah, you are.

0:58:48
And then I come in and they're like, ah, cool. And then after that, I was never anything less than that. Then I got really senior. And whatever goes higher than that, right? Just keeps going. So, you gotta face your fears. Don't be attached. Attachment is a... Attachment causes fear. Fear causes attachment. When you're attached to the body and to the limited ideas of self, then you're afraid of death. You're like, oh no, when the body dies, it's terrible.

0:59:28
I'm going to end.

0:59:29
But you know what?

0:59:30
You don't end. So when you're not attached to the body and not attached to the sense of limited self, then you're not afraid of death. And death is one of the greatest fears that we have deep, deep down inside. Because we think that the limited self will end. And that's all we pretty much are aware of. Now, the best way... Now let's talk about the ways of dealing with fear. The ways of dealing with fear. Of course, what I've been talking about is facing your fears. It's one of the best ways. Facing your fears. So you're afraid of success in life, you see yourself in a bigger way, a way with more money. So you face your fears and you move beyond these fears. And since we do job yoga, being fearless in work is so empowering. Since we have to work 8 to 12 hours a day, being fearless in work is so empowering. Since we use job yoga as one of our primary teachings for enlightenment, being fearless at work is so empowering, so enlightening. That's what you want. You want to be able to go out there, get any great job for lots of money and to do it and be happy. To be on the job going, yeah, I'm doing cool stuff and I'm happy. And that's what happens when you follow, when you face your fears and move beyond your limitations. dealing with fears, there's things to do. There was a man who had these terrible fears, terrible fears that there were monsters living under his bed. And he's like, this might be a true story. Terrible fears that there were monsters living under his bed and he goes to a psychologist. The psychologist keeps on going and saying, what do I do? And the psychologist says, well, you know, just realize that this isn't real. There's no such thing as monsters and, you know, just try to get to sleep. And the psychologist keeps on just working with him and telling him that, you know, your fears are an illusion and, you know, and what happens if you look under the bed and he's all I can't bear to look under the bed I know and so just like struggling and struggling with all this stuff and then finally he says you know my psychologist is not helping me very much so he goes over to a Buddhist master he says Buddhist master it's it's terrible there's these monsters under my bed, and the psychologist can't help me, and what should I do? And the Buddhist master says, monsters under your bed, huh? You should cut off the legs of your bed. Problem solved. So there are things to do. You can do things to overcome your fears. And the main thing that you have to do is face your fears. And that's what we constantly work on. We take action. If we have fear when we're taking action, then we have the courage to continue to do the right thing, to take the action and move beyond the fear. That's the main thing we do. Luckily we study Karma Yoga, the yoga of action. So we know we just have to do something. If you're doing stuff in the right direction, then you know that you're making some positive movement beyond fear. So it's good to, when you're taking action against a fear, to do things that are physical and do things that are mental. So if you're afraid of interviewing, then you say, I'm going to go interview, and that's a physical action. If you're afraid of interviewing, you imagine yourself interviewing. You go through tons of role plays in your head, and then you go out there and interview, and you're better. If you're afraid of certain things that are really, really scary, then you start to deal with them more on the mental side. So if you're afraid of lions, even though probably you're never gonna run into a lion, but if you're just sitting there going, I'm always afraid of lions, and my life's terrible, I'm suffering because of it. You're walking down University Avenue, where's the lion?

1:05:08
People have strange fears that they're always looking out for everywhere.

1:05:11
So if that's your situation, you have to deal with it mentally. You wouldn't say, okay, walk over to the lion and say, I'm going to deal with you now. I'm going to deal with my fear, because that's foolish. You actually might get hurt. So you have to start to mentally deal with it. I remember there was a time where I was told to overcome, work on overcoming my fears, and I was afraid of guns. And so at that point, I was new to the study, and I was still in the Guardian Angels. And from time to time, I remember an incident where someone pulled a gun on me and I was paralyzed with fear. I just got there and went, oh my God, I might get shot right now. And it didn't do anything useful. I could have moved away or something, but I just stood there because I was paralyzed with fear. So I said, I didn't know what I was afraid of, so I was like, what am I afraid of? Oh, I'm really afraid of guns. But how would I overcome that fear? Because if you're afraid of interviewing, you should go out there and interview. But if you're afraid of guns, you shouldn't go out there and try to find someone to pull a gun on you. That's not something that promotes your continuation. So it's not really empowering if you put yourself in so much danger that you get hurt. But if there's no thing that could really, really hurt you, then face that fear. We actually dealt with a group of salespeople, salespeople and sales trainers in Chicago when we were doing sales yoga. Their group was called Samurai. And we're like, wow, neat. And we did some training with them and we did some co-sales with them and it was really great.

1:07:24
I really liked it.

1:07:25
And there was this really wonderful, amazing, fantastic salesman named Ted. And I remember when we were talking, he was actually giving us some training on how to do sales. And he said, you know, he said, you know, ask for the sale. Say, hey, will you buy it now? And he says, he says, so many salesmen are afraid to ask for the sale. He says, but why? Why are you so afraid to ask for a sale? Ask for it, ask again. When they say no, ask why, and then ask for it again. He says, if you're constantly trying to sell someone, ask them, and he says, nothing happens to you. They might just say no. And then he's like, I'm gonna ask for the sale. What's gonna happen?

1:08:11
I'm not gonna die.

1:08:12
He died. Yeah, that's right. He died of asking for the sale. Poor Ted. Yeah, we might find his obituary someday. Ted died of asking for a sale. It's never happened, well maybe it has, but generally doesn't in civil society. So that was a good point. It's like, ask for the sale. Go out there and try. Try to succeed. Try to do well. What's going to happen in an interview where you're going to die? You're not going to die. Go to it. Nothing's going to happen except for you're going to learn through the experience and get good at it. However, if it's a dangerous thing, like a gun or a lion, then you can't do that. So for me, when I was afraid of guns, I was like, that's the only thing I'm afraid of. I'm paralyzed with fear when it comes to a gun. And then I started to, because I was kind of a natural dreamer, I started to have dreams where people pulled weapons on me, pulled guns on me. And at first I was always so scared, but then after a while I started dealing with it in my dreams. And And then I got to a point where I wasn't afraid. And I did that in dreaming. I became unafraid. And then the next time someone pulled a gun on me, I was able to not have my fear paralyze me, and I was able to do something about it intelligently. And then that kept me safe. If I had, the second time around, if I had been paralyzed, I might have gotten hurt. But because I had no fear stopping me, I was able to use my attention and my power to take care of the situation. So this is what I was talking about in the beginning. Remember the samurai riding into battle? And you can, as they say in the Hagukuri, meditate on death. Overcome your fear of death or anything in life by envisioning yourself going through it, dealing with it. What's the worst that can happen? Think about it. Envision it. See it happen. It might end in your death. But if you play it through in your mind and play it through in your mind, then you understand it. And you say, all right, well that's what could happen. A lot of times you're afraid because you're just afraid. You're just like, I don't know what's going to happen, but it's not good. But when you really think things through, say, this can happen, that can happen, this can happen, you actually deal with it in your mind. So you can deal with it physically, if it's something that you can do safely, speaking in front of people, interviewing, succeeding in your career, or you can deal with it by envisioning it, or if you're a dreamer, you dream about it. It just starts appearing in your dreams. Like you guys will probably see that you interview in your dreams. You get better jobs in your dreams because you're working on this in dreaming. So those are ways of engaging a fear. You face a fear through physical action and mental action. Physically go out there and do what you can and you also dream about it and you envision it. You got to envision yourself walking into that interview, sitting down there having a great interview and you have to envision them saying, yeah, I want to hire you. Yay, very good. And that feeling of winning and succeeding. You don't want a feeling of fear when you're going through this vision. You want the feeling and vision of success. And then you'll see that when you go out there and interview that you actually come in the physical to that feeling and actuality of success. And then you say, all right, that's great. There I did it. And you move beyond that fear, is the main thing that we do, both physically and mentally. Now there are some other little tricks you can do. They're not really tricks. They're things that you can be mindful of, things that you can do to help you deal with fear as you go through this big transformation of not having, going from being fearful to not having fear. Another thing that's very helpful is your little mantras. You can have these little slogans or little mantras that you say. And this helps a lot.

1:13:41
It helps a lot. It's pretty cool.

1:13:44
And it's simple. When you're facing a fear, you can just sit there and say to yourself things like, there is nothing to fear. So, like, for example, something really scary, if there's like a demonic entity that's there. You can just look at it and say there's nothing to fear. There's nothing to fear and just repeat that there's nothing to fear there's nothing to fear because there is nothing to fear. And there's actually power in that there's nothing to fear there's nothing to fear and you can just face this terrible, scary, horrific thing and say, there's nothing to fear, there's nothing to fear. And you can deal with it correctly. That even helps against a tiger. So if a tiger jumps out of the jungle, you're walking down the street in San Francisco, there's a jungle and a tiger jumps out. You'll deal best with it if you say, there's nothing to fear, because you're clearing your mind of the past models which create future expectations of that tiger attacking you and biting you right now. So you can deal with the tiger most effectively with your total attention, unparalleled by fear, by saying, there's nothing to fear, there's nothing to fear. So this really helps. So when you're scared, you might be in an interview waiting for someone to walk into the room and start asking you technical questions, right? You're like, there's nothing to fear, there's nothing to fear, there's nothing to fear. If you're feeling fear, saying that helps. So that's something you can do, that actually helps a lot. is this might be for something. Yeah, this is something you can do. You can even do this in an interview. Or say you're waiting in the interview. You could do a mudra. So this mudra, right, two hands up, I give up. This is a mudra that means no fear. This is a mudra that means no fear. The energy that comes out of here is a fear dispelling energy. And it's actually a spiritual energy that emanates from chakras in the center of the palm. And when you hold your hands like this, then if you can operate the spiritual energy, then an energy comes out that is a dispelling fear energy. It's a great thing. And you can do this for yourself. I do this sometimes, you guys, right? I'll meditate on something like this. Because it's a good thing.

1:16:54
But you can do this yourself.

1:16:56
Sometimes I do it with one hand. Sometimes with two. So you can do it with one hand and you can do it even in an interview. You can do it around people. Now here's the thing. It's best for you guys, in order to open up the energetic meridian, it's best for you, unless you are very aware of, like if you could pick up your hand and feel the chakra right there, then you have awareness of it. But if you don't have awareness of it, the best thing for you to do is to sit there for for just about seven or eight seconds and to make fists and and make them strong right so you make your fists real strong you go without making pieces just you just tense up your fists for like six or seven seconds but really really tense and then and then you let the tension go and then you can just open up the hand and you can feel the chakra. So the open hand is the energy. So you can even have it down on your lap and open your hand and you can, yeah, that'll be fine. So if you're in the middle of the interview and there's a desk here, because if you clench your fist in front of people, they might take it as a wrong way. So, if you're at the desk, even in the middle of the interview, you can say, Oh, they're asking me technical questions. Tense up your fist for 10 seconds, and go like that. And then you go, I've got an answer. You're all, they ask you a really hard tech question, you're all give me about seven seconds. So this is a cool way. You guys might not notice it like you know generally in meditation when I'm meditating by myself I just sit there with my hands wherever but when I sit here with you guys I do these mudras. You guys just might not notice it. Sometimes when I have you look at me, I'll do certain mudras, just a couple basic ones. But sometimes I'm doing them while I'm talking to you. And I don't have to tense up my hands because I'm aware of the energy in the hands. It's just a little thing I notice. But you can do that. It actually really helps. So if you're afraid of ghosts, tense your hands up. If you're just thinking all these fearful thoughts, tense your hands up and go like that. So if you're by yourself and you're thinking all these fearful thoughts, tense your hands up and go like that. That's all you have to do. It really, really, really, really helps. Now see, you have a mantra and a mudra for fear. Gosh, you got all this spiritual junk for fear now. Well, you've got to do something when you're afraid, right? You've got to do something. Yeah, but this stuff works. It's really cool. Speaking of Mudra, I don't know if Mudra was talking about his experience doing the music yoga and he said, I'm facing my fears. He's like, I'm facing my fears. And obviously by facing those fears and making a song, he's moving beyond them. So he's taking the action and doing things. So it's really, really intense. He was like, he's like, man, it's so intense. And I'm facing it. And that's yoga. You know, that's the path. Yeah, that's interesting. Remember that dinner where we had these big crabs on our plate? You're all, I'll order the crab.

1:21:06
And then you're all, AHH!

1:21:08
And it's a whole crab. What's the matter? They look like monsters. They're tasty little monsters. That was fascinating. But that's very, very true that Mudra was in touch with a very deep aspect of his spiritual process in facing his fear directly. It was really intense. And he faces the fear and moves beyond it. You can see it because he takes action. The song gets done. The album gets done. And especially when you're a musician, when you're an artist, artist. You're dealing with a lot of fear. You're dealing with also acceptance, right? So people are afraid of acceptance of their art. So it's like there's a lot of stuff in there. And it's like if you tell an artist, if you tell a musician, oh, your baby's ugly. Artists are always like that. Oh, you don't like my ugly painting. Oh, you don't like my stupid song. And that's all ego. The thing is, when Mudra and the music team are working on something, it's actually really intense. It's intense when there's five people with all these different music backgrounds and all these different tastes, and they're all working in the same energy field, creating a meditation album. It could be that someone's all, I don't like that sound, I don't like that bell, I don't like that rhythm. There could be all this negative stuff, but that's the kind of thing that closes things down. There's all this selfless energy that goes in there to create this beautiful dharma of music. But at the same time, it's like you're an ego, you just go, I made my music and I feel pushed by somebody else's mind and I don't like it, so it feels uncomfortable and I complain. That's how it is usually working with people. But when people are selfless, when the yoga is working well, there's a beautiful interaction with people's selfless intentions and the energy and dimensions of the yogic endeavor. And then it creates amazing, beautiful results. So music yoga is interesting. In music yoga, you can move very quickly. I remember my teacher was talking about Bodhi, the guitar player, him moving very quickly and doing very well in his yoga because he got album done after album done after album done. So every album was like a real intense yogic project and he completed them. Meanwhile, the software companies were like, we built some software and we're struggling with it, but music yoga can go very quickly. Yeah, it's interesting. Sales yoga is very powerful too. Sales yoga is great. It's hard, but it's great. But it's hard. Yeah, that's why it's good. Now we're focused on markets and having your software in a place where people can find it and where people are looking, where people are interested in. Because if you have to call people and try to get someone interested and sell them, if you're trying to sell them instead of them It's much, much, much harder. So sales yoga, where you're a salesman calling someone and saying, I have a product, you want to buy it? That's hard. Yeah, that's why we're trying to be smarter about our technology businesses. Yeah, so it's interesting. But when you're working on your yoga, your job yoga, your personal yoga, and also the yoga projects, you're very commonly facing fears. When you're given a new challenge, a new task, very often you're facing fears. And what you gotta do is you have to recognize that your difficulties, your pushback, all that stuff, all the stuff inside of you, a lot of it's fear, and you have to say, this is my lesson, I need to overcome this. I will push past fear, I will become more powerful and more successful and more enlightened by doing this. This is the spiritual lesson. And you go forward and

1:26:41
you get it done.

1:26:44
Alright, why don't we take another break and we'll come back and talk a little more. Thank you.

1:26:52
we'll come back and talk a little more. we'll come back and talk a little more. Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
