0:00:00
not just random vision, but oral vision. That's what we call undersea awareness. there is a sense and awareness, a feeling of tremendous stillness and calm. So it appears when you just sit down and close your eyes that you just start seeing fish. You're like, oh, look, there's fish. And you see coral as well.

0:00:58
You look up, and you say, oh, look, there's coral.

0:01:02
Someone hit the door. And then they took us around to the local Buddhist monasteries where they do the head priests of the monasteries. And they introduced us to them. They're all, look, these are American Buddhist monks. And then they're all, hello.

0:01:27
Hello.

0:01:27
And then they say, take a little scuba dive and meditate.

0:01:30
It's weird.

0:01:31
So that was kind of fun.

0:01:37
Yeah, so mystic scuba, in terms of a spiritual practice, really doesn't feel like you describe.

0:01:46
On the surface, it sounds pretty strange.

0:01:48
But then when you do it, it's really magical. It's really an amazing and transformative experience. So we're fortunate. Fortunate that we can engage in something so strange, so odd, yet experience such magic. I want to hear a sentence from it. Today I heard a lot of nice dives. I heard the boat divers got down to around 100 feet, 110 feet. And some of the Cobalt Coast divers got down to 110 feet. And that's good. So you made it into the zone. I call 100 feet the death zone. Because once you get to 100 feet, it's just like you can't make a mistake. You make a mistake at 100 feet, you're going to drown, or you're going to get bent, or you're going to get an air abortion. It's like, it's serious, serious business as you get towards 100 feet. So the fact that you guys crossed into that is great. Because when you're at like 40 feet, or even 60 feet, you're like, I could always bolt for the surface. I could always just go if I need to.

0:03:18
I freak out.

0:03:19
But then when you go like 85, 90 feet, 100 feet, it's like the surface is so remote. You can't feel the surface anymore. You're really in the depths of the ocean. So it's really, really good. I was telling my open water divers, even on the first day, we were doing the exercises in 10 feet of water, but I told them, you need to be able to, if you get into trouble, you know, water in your mask, or if you feel anxious, or if you feel panic or something, you need to be able to deal with it underwater. Don't just think that you can, you're only ten feet down so you can jump to the surface, because if you're a hundred feet down you can't just bolt for the surface. So it's good practice to deal with stress, to deal with difficulty, to solve whatever problems you have, solve them at depth so that you can really actually master your capability to deal with the underwater world and all of its difficulties.

0:04:34
So, practice is very good. So I'm glad that you guys went down to 100 feet

0:04:39
and I'm glad that you guys survived. You win. You won the scuba game. The point of scuba is to dive and not die. So that means that you succeeded. It's an easier score to keep. This is a sport where the score is just very easy to keep. Win or you lose. It's good to win all the time. But if you go down deep, it becomes very, very, very real.

0:05:20
It's getting real.

0:05:21
Yeah.

0:05:22
So yeah, it's real important.

0:05:27
So that's why I was saying,

0:05:29
when you go deep, it's serious business. Serious business. You gotta keep yourself calm, balanced, relaxed. So, because when you're calm and balanced and relaxed, you can deal with many difficulties. You have to have good buoyancy. You have to control the sense. And then, you're just fine, even on very deep dives. So, tomorrow, morning dive. We're gonna go to deep sites. So we're not gonna do any sunset houses. At the horizon is where you can see that really wonderful energy. And especially when, you know, night is turning to day, there's some really beautiful light and energy to be seen. So just, you know, soft gaze out there, and we'll be out there for probably about a half an hour. And we'll come back, we'll talk about our, I think it was yesterday, I had just completed doing a rescue diver course for the advanced divers, and the dive masters helped me with that course. So we jumped in a freezing pool and we did all sorts of rescue exercises. But out at Sunset House, I did a rescue on a dive who was a panicked and then shocked diver, unresponsive at the surface. And it was really good, because Safitri is there, and she ended up helping me with the rescues. And it was just like in the rescue videos. You had an unresponsive diver at the surface. And it was like a common thing that I've seen time and time again. When a diver is under stress, they don't do things that make sense. They do things that don't make sense, then they panic, and then they just go into shock until they die, unless you stop that cycle. So what happened was this guy panicked, just freaked out by the water and the equipment, not dealing with it well. He was trying to descend and he was making multiple descent attempts but then he kept popping back up until finally he just was panicked at the surface and with his panic at the surface he just sat there with his BCD not inflated enough, and his regulator out of his mouth. So when he came up, and he's like, oh my god, I've had enough, too much panic, he dropped his regulator from his mouth, and the water was coming up to his nose. And I think he was there with his kids or something. His daughter was going, what's wrong? Tell me what's wrong. And he couldn't, he just really couldn't talk. And so then I came over and I said, hey, I'm a, you know, I'm a dive master. I can help. And he was like, I'm just going to, you know, tow you over and give you some buoyancy. And I, I, first I grabbed his tank valve and I started pulling him and then I inflated his BCD all the way. And guess what? His head came up out of the water and he breathed. And then that was really a nice thing. And then Savitri helped me when we got him to the edge, and we took off his equipment and then got him up the ladder and stuff. Then he was fine. So that was really good. It was just like in those rescue videos. Now this is something that I've seen a number of times. Now this is something that I've seen a number of times. A diver just dealing with the stresses of equipment.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
