0:00:00
I'm going to show you the room. Okay.

0:00:27
Thank you.

0:00:29
Okay, so we'll meditate again. All right, so three songs. All right, so three songs. Thank you. the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the So the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the you. Thank you. the the the you so Thank you. the the the the so the the the so Thank you. you Thank you. So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. the the you Thank you. So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. Thank you. you So, when you train correctly, earnestly, in a dojo, you develop your awareness, your power, your capability in self-defense. So then if you're outside of your dojo and you're threatened, because of

0:15:42
your training in the dojo, you are effective. You can defend yourself. So our dojo is our yoga projects. And you've gone through a period of time of developing yourself in yoga. You've had wins and losses, you've done good, you've done bad, but you've been working on it. This is just like a dojo. If you put your heart into it, if you've developed yourself strong in your yoga, as you should Then the result outside of the dojo is that you're stronger. Now, unlike a street fight, in a martial artist, it doesn't happen every day for most people. But work happens every day. And you are in yoga that teaches you how to work properly. So when you go out into your day job, then you should be stronger in your day job. And there's also the spirit of getting ahead. So in our yoga projects, we're doing everything to create a new revenue model, right? A way to bring in cash flow so that we can build something. There's a way up, there's a way of increasing. And you should also observe that in your day job. So if you are working in the world and you see that you're not doing a good job at work, that you're getting fired, or if you're in all sorts of inner conflicts with people at work, then you're not practicing yoga. And the outcome of your yoga is that you have all these problems. That means your yoga's weak, mostly probably because of the lack of proper selfless attention. However, if you've been doing your yoga properly, you'll see that in your work you might get promotion, you might get a raise, or you might get another job that pays more. Now, in the computer science field, it's very, very easy to gauge this, to judge this, because there's so many opportunities to get a new job, to get a promotion. It's just a field that is very lucrative, and there's a great market for someone who's got technology skills. If you're not in the technology field, then you could also see it. You could see it in just, you know, are you getting a job? Are you in the same job? Are you moving up? Are you moving down? Are you in the same place? Whether you're in computers or not, we say cash flow, this is the thing that all job yogis talk about, cash flow equals energy flow. So if your cash flow has increased in your work, then that is a positive outcome of your yoga. There is a balance between your work and your spiritual practice. This is what yoga is all about. You could sit there and have all these fanciful special thoughts of your special meditative spiritual uniqueness. You're like, I'm a wondrous being. And stuff like that. However, we always balance it with what's happening in your job, your livelihood. If it's going down, then there's a problem in your spiritual practice. If it's going up, then that shows you that you're actually doing something right. Because we do Karma Yoga. If you do Karma Yoga right, then you see positive things happen. If you do Karma Yoga wrong, then both spiritually and physically things come down. So that's why Karma Yoga is a very, very excellent way to see your, it's an excellent study because you see your progression. When you have a bright, wonderful spirit and you do your yoga in a powerful, selfless, constructive and impeccable way, then you see that the effect is that your life, your livelihood becomes stronger. And you start to say, wow, cool, I got a new job. Wow, I'm making more money. And that's basically what you gotta see. You gotta see that you're moving higher in your career. And that shows you that your yoga is going in the right direction. If you're moving down in your career, then you have to make a change. If you're flat and not making any changes in your career, then that means that you're not doing anything. You're not doing anything. So it's very important that we focus now on your day job. So we've been doing a lot of focus on just the exercises in the dojo, but now I'm talking about the street fight. Now I really want to focus you on the results of your training. So right now you're at a certain place. Some of you have been doing good yoga and you've seen yourself come up. Some of you have not been doing good yoga and you've seen yourself go down or not do anything. And that means that you haven't been doing, you have not been doing good yoga. You haven't been positive in your work on yoga and therefore nothing or bad things are happening. So we're going to make a shift. And the shift starts with respecting the dojo, right? The yoga is where you develop yourself. And you have to see the connection of that development in your life. So if you go to a dojo and you learn all these wonderful techniques, but then you go out into the street and someone attacks you, if you're timid and afraid and not using your power, then you won't win. But if you use your training, you will win. And for beginners, I've seen black belts get slapped in the face and be totally terrified in a street fight, and that's because they're not using their power. They haven't connected the power they gained in the dojo with their capability in a fight. So what I'm bringing your attention to now is that you have been in a yoga dojo for a while, you've been developing yourselves, and now for those of you who have been slapped in the face, it's time to wake up and do something. Use your power. Use it in a positive way. And make sure that your training is strong. I started martial arts when I was around six and I joined the Guardian Angels when I was around 16. And I loved just the forms and the discipline of martial arts, but then when I got into the Guardian Angels, our training sessions were sparring sessions. And every single one of the guardian angels would just mop the floor with me. Even though I had lots of martial arts training, they were focused on the bottom line. And then I had to say, okay, wait a minute. What do I know from what I've learned that I can use? Because in Kung Fu there's thousands of moves and techniques, but I'm like, okay, what can I actually do? What can I use? So I focused myself with my discipline, with my power from my martial arts, and then I became effective. And I went, ah, now I know what I can use. Now I know what I can do with that. So this is the realization I want you to make, that you're gaining in your yoga. And so we're going to be observing for a few months you, your livelihood, your progression up, you coming up, waking up and doing something about your livelihood. Because that's a way to get you unstuck. A lot of you, the ones of you who are not doing well in your careers are stuck. And I want you to be aware that the power you gain in yoga is usable. And therefore you can get yourself to shift and you'll see yourself get unstuck from all sorts of states of mind. And when you make a jump in a career, you'll see that cash flow definitely gives you energy flow, gives you more energy. And you say, wow, this is cool. Those of you who have gotten new jobs, those of you who have gotten into technology, those of you who have made a jump in your rates, you know that. You see cash flow equals energy flow. You say, yeah, cool, this is great, this is better. And that's what I want for everyone. I want everyone to really apply themselves to getting higher in your livelihood so that you can get unstuck and see the balance of your spiritual practice in yoga and your physical life. And then you'll say, oh, this is good. I mean, that's how it was for me. I was all stuck, but then when I saw myself making progress in the physical, in my job, then I said, oh, wow, this is exciting, and my meditations were better. And then it goes like that. You get higher and higher and higher,

0:26:24
versus lower and lower and lower.

0:26:26
So you're either going up or you're going down. And we need to focus on going up. Yes, every single one of you who is having a hard time, you can do it. You can do it. There's a couple ways how. First of all, it's very important to take stock. Take stock of your financial situation. It's important to know the field and know what's going on with your finances. So the first thing I'd like you all to do is just take a look at your finances. Get it down on a spreadsheet. How much money do you have coming in? What do you spend your money on? When you understand how much money you have and what you spend it on, it gives you a stronger awareness of your finances. And then you might say, oh gosh, this isn't so good. And it gives you some motivation to get a better situation. What if you made 15% more than you make now? What if you can get a job that gives you more money? Then you'd say, wow, this is great. This would help a lot. This would relieve a lot of stress. And it will give you not only financial stress relief, but it will give you an energy flow that makes you happier. So I'd like you to spend some time in reflection and make a spreadsheet so that you'll understand your finances. A lot of people just don't know. They just don't pay attention. And if you think you're in the most pathetic situation, write it down. Understand it. Take a look at it. Consider your life and your financial situation. If you don't take stock, then you might not be clear about the positive changes that you need to make. So take stock. What money do you have coming in? What do you spend it on? Then when you see what you spend it on, you might make changes in that so that you have a more balanced life. And you might see that you can, you know, if you did a little bit better in your work that it would help a lot. So I want you to make a spreadsheet. This is simple stuff but a lot of people just don't focus and don't know what's going on. That's why we always take stock. We take stock of our happiness, we take stock of the positivity of our mind and for this exercise we're taking stock of our finances. We do this in Bodie Woods once a year, or even sometimes twice a year when we change priorities of what we have to do. So we're doing this right now in Bodie Woods, and I think you guys should do it as well. It's very helpful. It'll get you aware of your situation. Another thing that will be very helpful for you is if you put yourself on the right energy line. We are mystics and we always focus on places of power, right? So we go to places of power during solstices and equinoxes. But what we might not recognize is that where we live is kind of our primary place of power. So if you live in a bad place, in a draining place, then your energy is zapped. If you live with people who you argue and fuss with, if you lose energy with the people you live with, then your energy is zapped. That's your base. So it's important to live in a place with good energy and live with people who you can get along with. It's nice when you live with people of like mind so that they don't drain you with their lower states of mind or their desires in a different direction or something. So we follow places of power, we go to places of power, we hunt power. And everywhere that I've lived since I started the study has been a consideration of the energy that I live in. How has it helped my yoga? How has it helped my meditation? And by being a mystic and being sensitive to these things and by following power, by hunting power, by living in places of power that are conducive to my practice, I've been able to get higher and brighter and more successful in my yoga and practice. So, right now, you have to recognize the energy lines that we work with, right? What are the energy lines that we work with very commonly? We were meditating in the Fairmont for a long time, but now we're not, because we're backing off of thinking about SC1s. We're backing off of trying to connect to that network. So we're backing away from there. So San Francisco, nada, nothing more. We're cutting off San Francisco from our energy pattern. San Francisco has some positive things if we want to use it, but now we're not using it. What else do we have? We have Bodhi Woods where I live and where we have meditations or Bodhi Woods workdays and stuff like that, right? And that is really a place of power. Bodhi Woods 1 and Bodhi Woods 2, yoga dojos are places of power. places where there's a lot of energy, it's out in nature, and it's a very strong place to develop meditation. So this is an energy line, an energy field, a place of power that we use. And then the other primary energy line that we use is Silicon Valley. So we go to Stanford, it's a wonderful energy line for learning, focusing. We use this place, this is our new meditation meeting place. And this is in the heart of Silicon Valley, a really wonderful energy line. And the majority of my students who are doing well are doing well thriving in their job yoga in Silicon Valley. So since we are talking about increasing your livelihood and since so many people are doing it in Silicon Valley, I recommend Silicon Valley. There's very strong energy lines for technology, business, and success. So even if you're not ready for a tech job or you're not into a tech job, then you have lots of business opportunities in Silicon Valley. So I recommend Silicon Valley as a place to work and also a place to live. If you live in Silicon Valley, you live on the energy line. You can be more open to the energy line. If you live outside of Silicon Valley, then you can access it by coming here, but it's best to live here. I don't recommend that you live in the Santa Cruz Mountains unless you live at Bodie Woods or Bodie Woods 2, because the Santa Cruz Mountains, if you just moved up there by yourself, wouldn't be so rewarding. Bodie Woods 1 and Bodie Woods are powerful because basically we have a very, very strong tone out. We meditate, we do martial arts, we have lots of spiritual considerations. Everyone there has a very strong tone out. And that's the way we're able to use the energy line in a positive way. A lot of people go up into the Santa Cruz Mountains and space out. They don't have a strong enough attention. It's a good retreat maybe for them, but it's not a good place to live because they can't deal with that heavy yin energy. They have to balance it with their mind. Their minds aren't strong enough. So I don't recommend the Santa Cruz Mountains as a place to live. a good career and a strong mind in Silicon Valley. San Francisco, a lot of people space out. It's all weird. Half the town is like smoking crack or something. Half the town. It's very weird. So, yeah. So that, so San Francisco, not on our power list anymore. Oh yeah, so we'll go to Marin sometimes. Marin's still up to Mount Tam or something like that. Still good, for sure. So Marin's good, good place to go on a weekend once in a while.

0:37:10
Budweiser's good.

0:37:11
If you can come up, it's very powerful for meditation. And Silicon Valley is good for work. Now, especially if you live in Santa Cruz, you should move to Silicon Valley. Santa Cruz is an energy line that doesn't help you be very successful, unless you're already successful in Santa Cruz. So there's a couple of my students who are PhDs and they work in Santa Cruz. They're at the top of their game already, so they've got strong careers going. So then that's fantastic. It would be great to live in Santa Cruz and have a strong career. But if you live in Santa Cruz and you don't have a strong career, then I would suggest that the energy is not helping you. You should move into Silicon Valley, anywhere from San Mateo to San Jose, and you should start to make friends with that energy line. It's stronger. It aids success. Santa Cruz is nice and mellow and all sorts It doesn't help you with making your career stronger for the purposes of the energy that we're dealing with in this dojo. So if you live in Santa Cruz, there's a problem. You need to move to Silicon Valley and you need to make a change. Don't get stuck, right? Get stuck in that energy line and you'll just, you know, fall off. You won't have a strong enough attention. Silicon Valley is a much more powerful place. We shift into places of power to make these changes in our lives that will help us be more powerful, that will break us out of the condition of the way we see the world that has us in limitation. If you're not at the top of your career in Santa Cruz, there's a huge problem, and you should move to Silicon Valley. It'll be better for you. It'll be more powerful. If you don't because of your attachment, then you're choosing attachment. And you're going to see that things don't work out with you. You're not going to be mindful. You're not going to practice the study. So I recommend that you live in Silicon Valley. And if you live in San Francisco, Silicon Valley. Because I'm not empowering the energy lines of San Francisco.

0:40:27
Silicon Valley is a stronger place to live.

0:40:29
Yeah, we go to different places of power, right? So let's say we were gonna go to the Anza-Borrego Desert. We go to the Anza-Borrego, and I'm taking most of you up the gorge, and then some of you kind of wander off to another valley by yourselves, because you're, oh, I like it over there. It's not going to be the same experience. You're not going to be able to access the power of the place in the same way. So I illuminate energy lines. That's what I'm doing in this room right now. I'm illuminating this energy line. I'm opening it up and I'm using it in an enlightened way for your success and enlightenment. You might notice. And that's what I'm doing in Silicon Valley. So Santa Cruz is like, red alert, get over to Silicon Valley. And some of you in San Francisco, it's red alert too. But if you see that you're doing well in your career and you've used the energy right, then you're doing okay. But if you're in that transition point where you're not doing so good or you're making a change, then make the change to Silicon Valley. I'm just telling you how to succeed. You don't have to. Don't have to succeed. But it's helpful. Making changes in the place that you live is such a little change, just 50 miles or so, 30 miles or something. But making changes in the place that you live changes the way you see your life. And making a change to Silicon Valley will be powerful for you. It will be helpful for you. It will get you unstuck. But again, if you're in Santa Cruz or San Francisco and your job is going strong, then it's okay. But you could look into Silicon Valley if you want. If you want. But if you're not doing great in your career, then Silicon Valley might be a good place to live. You'll make a change there. You'll make a transformation there. It's a place of power for what we're doing. It's a place of power for exactly what I'm talking about. Seeing that you can use your spiritual power to make your life better. And then that will add to the realization that your training in spiritual development in yoga works, and you'll see yourself coming up in both ways. Excellent. Doesn't that make you happy? Isn't that exciting?

0:43:27
Fantastic.

0:43:29
I remember when my teacher said, guess what, we're going to move to New York. I was like, I hate New York. I had been to New York several times because my grandparents lived back east. And I was like, it's dirty, people are nasty, it's all mean, ugh, I hate it. But I went anyway. And I just succeeded in yoga because I followed the teachings. So, that's selflessness. If you want to get ahead in your spiritual practice, you'll just follow the teachings. You'll get ahead. You'll get powerful. That's an agreement.

0:44:25
Yes. So, we're talking about job yoga. Okay.

0:44:28
Job yoga is your personal job.

0:44:29
How you're doing in it. Right.

0:44:31
Cashflow.

0:44:32
Cashflow is your job.

0:44:33
Okay.

0:44:34
So, we're talking about job yoga.

0:44:35
Okay. Job yoga is your personal job.

0:44:37
How you're doing in it. Right.

0:44:39
Cashflow is your job. Okay.

0:44:41
So, we're talking about job yoga.

0:44:42
Okay.

0:44:43
So, we're talking about job yoga. Okay. So, we're talking about job yoga. Okay. So, we're talking about job yoga. Okay. So, we're talking about job yoga. Okay.

0:44:51
So, we're talking about job yoga.

0:44:52
Okay.

0:44:53
job, how you're doing in it. Cash flow, the more cash flow, the more energy flow. That's right. When you see yourself making positive changes, moving up, getting promotions, getting new jobs, making more money, getting along well with the people you work with, then you see that you're moving in a positive direction in your personal power, in your job yoga, and in your spiritual practice. You see that your meditations become brighter and your outlook on life becomes brighter. But when you don't address your job yoga, then this is the key area you are stuck. You're not addressing your job yoga and you're stuck and you're not doing good in your yoga. You're not bringing a bright mind to your yoga. So if you want to, you know, it's like a karate kit, right? If you want to get good at fighting, you go to the dojo, and then you're good at fighting. So if you want to do good in your career, then you do good on your yoga project. But then you also, on that, you know, in your career, you work hard, you address it properly.

0:46:07
Yes.

0:46:10
So there's a new template for understanding yourself in job yoga. This is the basic way that you have to consider your career, your personal career. And this is the way of the samurai. That's right. Samurai. So the samurai is a warrior. So we do our job yoga like warriors. Warriors warriors, warriors in all the spiritual sense that we've learned. But there's something a little bit different about the samurai. The samurai is a warrior who has a disposition of selflessness. That's why it's very, very good to apply to job yoga. The samurai is a very excellent, impeccable warrior, but they have the foundation, the spirit of their work is selflessness. So when someone becomes a samurai, they really dedicate themselves to a code, to a certain set of principles, and they dedicate themselves completely. They don't question anything about themselves. They've dedicated themselves to what they're doing. They become so dedicated to the samurai code that if their boss or shogun or whatever comes over to them and says, if their retainer comes over to them and says, oh, you did something bad. I want you to commit harakiri, sabuku or whatever. That's where they have to pull out their daggers, stab themselves in the stomach, cut themselves across the large intestine or whatever.

0:48:31
They just do it.

0:48:32
That's how selfless they are. They don't argue and say, hey, but actually you're wrong, I was right. They just say, when their boss says, do that, if their boss says, go do this, go do that, they just go and do it. If they say, you know, fight him, pick up that, clean this, kill yourself. Whatever they say, they just do it. Now, of course, if your employer tells you to kill yourself, you have to remember that you're a Ronin. You're like, oh, I'm But really, the Samurai have really committed themselves to a way. And it's a way that has a certain code of ethics. And they've committed themselves so completely that they would even take their own lives to follow that code. And that's very selfless. Very interesting. We hold that model, we esteem to that model of committing ourselves to our work selflessly. This is completely congruent with yoga, being selfless. At the same time, the samurai is an impeccable warrior. They practice, they have very sharp attention. They fight with great spirit. So they are both selfless and also impeccable. Now there's also the bhakti way of looking at things. So Ramakrishna says the happiest way to be is to be the servant of God. And that's a completely selfless disposition. So the samurai selfless. They say for the person I work for I am here to serve them completely. I have myself so much out of the way that my life doesn't even matter. I am here completely as a impeccable tool of service for my employer. That's the samurai way. That's the way we look at our work. Now, Ramakrishna would be like, you know, enrapture by his service for the divine that he's completely selfless. It's just a little bit of a different way. The Samurai way is a way that has more of that warrior spirit and then the Ramakrishna way is a happy way where you don't have to But when we look at the samurai, of course we wouldn't don that armor and pull out a sword and cut someone's head off if our employer said to. But we look at the spirit and the commitment of the samurai. And there's an energy, it's a martial arts commitment. It's got that martial arts warrior energy. And it's very applicable to your job. Very applicable to your job and your yoga. But we want to address it with your job. So the samurai, they are selfless because they've committed to their work. It's a powerful way. So you are all job yogis. You are all samurai in your work. But you have to understand how to be a samurai. The main thing that you have to understand is that you can't be so selfish. Many of you are very, very selfish in your work. The way that you look at it, the way that you complain, it's a lot of selfishness. But you're a lot happier when you're selfless. When you just accept the way of the samurai and just do work impeccably. You're a lot happier. A lot happier.

0:53:14
So the way of the samurai.

0:53:16
You know, there's a book I'd like you to read. It's called Samurai Selling. And it's a book about sales, but you could also look at it as a book about selling yourself. better job yoga position, a better job. And this book really gives you that awareness of the selfless intention, selfless intention of the samurai. And it's a pretty quick read, so you can read it definitely along with your Ramakrishna. So Ramakrishna, we're going to be reading it for a while. But it's really good to just every day read a few pages, maybe every night before you go to bed just read a few pages. Just keep reading it continuously because you get a vibration. You get an energy. And it's like you're like, oh he's talking about, he's asking another person, do you believe that God could be manifest or unmanifest? He's asking again. Right, so, yeah, that was very good. Some reoccurring conversations. But that's why we just keep reading it, just keep on listening. And then you can read your samurai selling book when you get a little bit bored. But the samurai selling book is a very quick read, it's a very fun read. And I'll be giving you guys little happy, fun reading assignments in between so that you of, is God manifest? And you could like, enjoy understanding. You can enjoy that koan, right? Why didn't Ramakrishna just go, I am God manifest, okay? End of story. Oh, this is great. Yeah, so Samurai Selling. It's a fantastic book. Also, it's probably a good idea to watch the film The Last Samurai again. There's some very good things in that film. It definitely shows some great aspects of the samurai spirit. It's addressable for Westerners. So maybe watch that film again. It's good. So how do you do it? How do you get a better job? First of all, you have to have the will, the intention, to do it. You have to recognize that if you're not one of the people who's gotten a job recently or who's gotten a raise recently, that there's something for you to do. This is your task. Yoga, your yoga project, aids you. It's the place where you develop the skills.

0:56:57
But out there in the world,

0:56:58
you gotta make something happen. Now, the sales yoga group that failed, the one team sales yoga, they had something very powerful that they were working on that not all of the teams work on. Direct sales, right? Talking to people, trying to make sales happen. Now, sales yoga is a very powerful yoga, very rewarding yoga when you do it right. It's also very hard. But when you do it, even when you engage in it, even if you don't succeed, it makes you so powerful in your ability to make those sales, make those changes in your life, in your own life. So I remember when I did sales yoga, I worked on it really hard and I actually made sales. And then when sales yoga was done, I found it so easy to make jumps in my personal job yoga because I had developed the ability to sell something. I knew my product, I knew myself very well. I was very good at selling myself. So that's why Samurai Selling is a good book. Because when you're trying to get a new job, you're selling yourself. But you have to first understand and have the intention that there's a reason to do it. If you're not aligned with the reason to do it, you won't do it. If you don't understand that I'm talking to you and telling you, you need to make a change in your life, you're stuck in negative states of mind, limited states of mind. This is not okay. This is not acceptable. If you want to follow the spiritual path, change. And the principal way for you to make this change is for you to get a job, or get a better job, or make more money at your current job. I want to see this shift in you. And you'll see the reward yourself. You'll see the reward in your pocketbook. And you'll see the reward in your energy. You'll see the shift. You'll see that you can break yourself out of negative thoughts and negative patterns. It's a simple thing. But you got to know that you're going to do it. You got to know that you want to do it. If you don't want to do it, you need to ask yourself, what are you doing here? Because I'm pointing out that you're a problem. You're a problem with your thoughts. Your thoughts put you in your situation. And if you're unwilling to change it, to make it a better situation, then you're saying, I want to stick with the current level of whatever in my life, my karma, my suffering. I call it darkness. I'm not pleased with it. It's unacceptable. don't intend to change, then what are you doing here? You're just, you're not in the right spirit. So I recommend that you align yourself with the intention to change, to change up, to transform yourself from the current state of your job and money to a higher state.

1:01:06
You can do it.

1:01:07
But you have to, you have to recognize that it's time to do it now. And then what you do is you go about doing it right. The first thing you do is you target a career path. So if you're in technology, you go for technology. If you want to get into a technology job, but you haven't yet, you can. But you just have to focus on it properly. You just focus on it. You say, I want to do it, I'm going to do it, it's going to happen. For everyone here, if you want to switch into technology, you can do it. You have to want it, and you have to do what it takes. But you can do it. Everyone here. I have no doubt. If you're in a different line of work, business or something, and you want to take a step up, you can do it. Absolutely. And if you're already at the top of your career, if you're at the top of your career, if you're making progress in your career, you're doing well. That's what you've got to do. But the problem is we have some people who are dragging, going down. And you guys got to come up. You've got to come up, and you can do it. So you target what you want to do. You say, I want to do QA, I want to get into programming, I just want to get a project management job, or a business analyst job, or whatever your next step is. You see what you want to do. You stalk the market. Go on Dice and Monster and look at job descriptions. Be pragmatic. If you're looking for some weird job all of a sudden, count how many listings there are on Monster. If you want to go into technology. If you're looking for some weird job that you like, and there's 20 jobs on the market, go to Dice and type in the keyword search QA, and then say, wow, maybe I better get into a career where there's more opportunity. If there's small opportunity in your career path, then you're going to fight for those jobs against other people who really want them. So unless it's really lucrative, and you're going to work on your resume. So if you write a good resume, then you will be called into interviews. If you submit your resume and you're not called into interviews, it means your resume is not

1:04:45
right.

1:04:46
That means you need to ask for help to have your resume correct and your yoga teachers can help you with that because they're all very good at writing resumes. Now your resume is your personal marketing, you're marketing yourself. So like if you an ad on TV and someone says, oh, come to my hotel. It's the best hotel in Reno. Is it? I don't know. They think so. I remember in New York, I was walking down the street and I saw this sign that said, oh, have some pizza here. It's the best pizza in New York. And I went, whoa, I've got to try it. So I went in, I ate it, and I was all, it tastes like any other pizza. But they said it's the best, so it made me want it. And, you know, if I didn't see that sign, I'd probably say, oh, I want some pizza, I'll just go anywhere. But since they said they're the best, I was attracted to it. And it was just as good as any other pizza. Was it the best? I don't know.

1:06:05
Rome has the best pizza.

1:06:07
So, you've got to be the sign that says you're the best pizza. And a lot of you are very modest, but you've got to say you're the best pizza. Gotta say it, it'll get you the interview. You gotta have that energy that you're good, that you're worthy, that you're the best pizza. You gotta have that energy. And the book, Sunrise Selling, talks about that energy. They call it key. You'll learn all about Ki by reading that book or by taking a martial arts class. So you have to have good Ki. You have to have a positive mental outlook on yourself. Your resume is where you write your, you know, you're making up this character. You're like writing a script, like you're an actor, right? You're playing this part. You're presenting a part. Here's a role. Here's an actor. Here's the samurai yogi. Someone reads it and goes, whoa, this guy's cool. This girl's totally awesome. So they're the best pizza, says on your resume. I'm the best pizza. And then the people say, oh, I want to try that. I like pizza. So it's very important that you make, that you're making a very positive marketing statement. You can consider it dressing yourself up. So at the last seminar, you all wore wonderful gowns and beautiful tuxedos, and you all looked excellent. It was really nice. It's good to dress up. It gives you a nice tone out, a refined attention just by dressing better. Oh, dressing better. When we come to these meetings, dress better. Unless you're dressing really well, then you know because you're dressing really well. You're paying positive attention to yourself. You look good, right?

1:08:30
Yeah.

1:08:32
You know, see, you know if you're doing it, just like a job. But at the seminar, everyone looked wonderful. It was fantastic. So, your resume shouldn't be you in jeans and a t-shirt. Your resume is you in a tuxedo or a ballgown. Yes, Ajna in a ballgown. They're all, oh, this is a great resume. Oh, we didn't quite expect you to be like this. Ajna's like, yeah, I've done it before. So, you have to write an amazing resume. And then you have to read your resume. And you have to believe that you are that.

1:09:27
So I've helped people write resumes.

1:09:30
And after I've written them, I've taken their experience and rewritten them, then they read it and go, whoa, oh my gosh, is that me? It's you and a tux.

1:09:48
Yeah.

1:09:52
Read those job descriptions that are out there because people are saying, this is what I want. And if you read 50 of them, you'll see people are saying they want certain things. Your resume has to say, I do those things. I have experience in those things that you want. If you can't draw your experience to say that you're doing and have done what they want, then you don't have a lot of hope. So, stalking the market is knowing what people want, and then writing your resume in a way where you give them that. So, you never lie, but you bring out your abilities to do things. And you can even say, oh, this technology, you're all like, you say, that technology I have studied on a job. Not that I did it on a job, on my current job I am studying it or something. There's all sorts of ways to get the right attention without being explicitly dishonest. So you have to market yourself. This is the best pizza in New York. You have to market yourself. You've got to market yourself to what people want. People want pizza! Right? So you're the best pizza. That's it. This is your mantra. I am the best pizza. I am the best pizza. It's a magical mantra. And then when you've got that written down, this most amazing resume, you look at it and you say, this is me. And for a while, you won't feel like that's you, maybe. I remember my first couple resumes, I was like, whoa, very interesting. But then I said, okay, let's pretend I'm an actor. Because, you know, like, me, myself, I consider myself a loser, but my resume said I was someone special, someone cool, someone capable of doing great things. So I said, okay, I'm going to pretend I'm an actor, and this is my role. And then all of a sudden, my energy put on that tuxedo. And then I went and talked to people, and they said, oh, looking good. So you have to read your resume after you've written it well. You've got to read your resume and become it. Because once you've written it well, then you'll start getting interviews. And you have to be that resume. You have to act, be an actor. Interviewing is a game. And it's a game that you should learn to have fun with. So one of the things that we do as job yogis is we interview often. We just interview often. Even if we're not really looking for another job, we just put our resume out there and interview. And we get very good at that moment because the interview is kind of a time of power. When you sit down with someone, they're offering you an opportunity for money, right? Maybe for more money, maybe for a whole new career path. That's a time of power. And in that time of power, you have to learn to shine. You have to learn to have fun. You have to learn to be powerful, to speak well, to answer questions well. You have to learn to be good at interviews. The way that you learn is by doing a lot of interviews. So you just keep interviewing a lot, and you get good at it. Even if you don't want to take the job, just interview. Get the offer and say no. Yeah, it's totally fine. You're not wasting anyone's time. You're seriously just interviewing to see if it's an opportunity. I mean, what happens if they offer you a million dollars? Of course you're going to take it. Right? So you're looking for opportunities. And if it ends up being like, you're like, I'm not really interested in this job, but I'm going to interview anyway. You might go there, and it might be an amazing opportunity. You might say, oh my gosh, this is the most amazing thing that I didn't expect it. So you're not wasting their time. If they have an opportunity that's good for you, just by interviewing, you start to get experience. You start to figure out how to interview well. It's good to have fun with it, to see that it's a game that is fun and interesting, that you like meeting people, you're excited about meeting people, you're excited about the opportunity. You're excited about, it's an opportunity. It's a time of power. Every interview for a job yogi is a time of power. Interview a lot, enjoy it. Now, if you're making a transition to a tech job or a new technology or something like that, one of the great things is that as long as you interview a lot, you will stock the market so well that you will become it. So let's say you say, okay, I've just been doing my yoga and I don't know if I'm good or bad, but I'm going to try to get a job. Let's say in QA. And then you put your resume out there, you write a good resume, you finally start getting interviews, right? And then they ask you a bunch of questions you don't know. Then you go, whoa. You'll get on the first interview, you'll probably get the questions wrong, and they probably won't hire you. But you know what they asked, and then you have to research to find out the answers. And then in the next interview, they might ask a couple of the same questions, but they'll ask others that you get wrong. But then you go and research what they've said. So I've changed technologies several times by just saying, I'm going to go to as many interviews as possible, hear all the questions that they're asking, learn what they're all asking. It's always common when you're going for that job, they're asking for this, this, this, this, and this. And they all ask for it because that's a job description that people want. And then you become that job description by finding out and learning and researching and being able to provide the right answers. You become it. So a great way to consider doing it is go for a dozen interviews. And you'll probably get a job along the way. And that's if you're really bad. Usually on your second or third one, things start to work out. You start to figure it out. You figure out how to interview. You all have what it takes to be a great programmer, a great business person. You have what it takes to be great in your career. And getting the opportunity to shine is very important. And that's why you have to be good at interviewing, so that you can get that opportunity. That's excellent. Once you get that opportunity, when you're on the job, then you must be selfless and impeccable. Now, a huge problem with many people in their occupation, and a lot of you guys too, even some of you who are doing well, is that you're not selfless on your job. Not selfless on your job. I've seen so many times where people are at work arguing about things, like getting really worked up and mad about how to code something one way or the other. It's ridiculous to get angry at work. You have to recognize that at work you are a servant. The company has hired you to be a servant. You are a person of service. You are the ronin, the samurai, who is hired to do the job. You're there to do what the company wants you to do. So, if you come from that selfless point of view, it cuts out a lot of problems. I've had a lot of jobs where people getting all worked up, people are arguing, and because I had a selfless point of view, I wasn't bent out of shape. People would say, do this, and even if I thought it was a bad thing for the system or the company, I'd say, are you sure? Because I think that this is a better way. And they'd say, no, do this. And I'd go, okay, I'm just going to document that this is a decision we're making, and I will do it. Because that's what you're paid for. That's what they want you to do. I've seen so many people get so upset because, oh, at work they asked me to do a stupid thing. So what? Are you expecting something? Are you expecting the fruits of your labor? Just do what they want you to do. That's your job. It's not your enterprise. It's not your company. You're there as a servant. When you have that disposition, it gives you a way to be happy and also a way to be less egotistical. You don't have to fight for what you think is right. You have to tell them a couple times what you think is right. But if they don't want to do that, if the company doesn't want to do that, you're there to serve them. They want, I've had contracts where they told me to do stupid things, and the whole contract was to do something silly, you know, I'm like, whoa. We're gonna do a data warehouse concept, but we're not gonna implement it. In fact, after six months, we're just gonna not do anything with it, but we want you to work on it. It's going to have no impact to the business, but we're going to pay you your rate. Okay.

1:21:21
I've heard so many people say,

1:21:23
what I'm doing doesn't really impact the company, I want to do so much more and stuff. Don't be so selfish. Don't expect the fruits of labor. You simply are there to do the work that they set before you. I've also had times where they said, do something stupid, and I said, this is stupid. And they said, oh, you're right, thanks, let's do it right. But if they're pushing me, do it, do it, do it, this is what we want you to do, then I say, okay, I'll do this my best. However, I will note that on this date, I said we should do it a different way. And then months later, they're all, why did you do it that way? Because you told me to. Right? Communication, just making sure that you know what, clear with them of what you told me to do and what I said and what I was directed to do. You have to be able to go into contracts or jobs where they want you to do really fast-paced, intense deliveries, right? You have to jump through hoops, flip backwards, and do all sorts of crazy stuff. And you are selfless enough to work that hard. Sometimes co-workers throw you under the bus and do all sorts of crazy things to you, but it's just your job to do your job the best you can. And sometimes they ask you to do stupid things, and you just have to just do what your job is. You are a servant to a company. Really, you are. You get wildly egotistical when you start thinking otherwise. You start going into all sorts of weird stuff of what you want to get out of it and all this other weird stuff. You're there to do what they say to do. When you have that samurai point of view, you're a lot happier. And you're also very constructive for the company, because that's what they want you to do. If you're in there to be constructive for yourself, and you start to expect the fruits of your labor, and you start to say, oh, I want this, and all sorts, and argue with people and have problems with people, that's where you're in the world of selfishness and it's not good yoga. So this is the way we work. We see ourselves as servants to the companies we work for. And we don't have fights with people. And we do the best we can.

1:24:20
We're impeccable.

1:24:22
It's the samurai way. The leader, the company, the shogun, might be making some very terrible decisions that might make bad karma, but the samurai doesn't concern himself or herself with the shogun's decisions. The samurai just is selfless in their actions. They just do what they're supposed to do. Kind of a weird way of looking at things for some of us. But in the US job market, you're safe. And it's very, very powerful to work with the Samurai code of ethics. Now selflessness, seeing yourself as a servant, is very important. And recognizing when you start saying, oh, I want a result for my work, that's where you're starting to say there's a problem. The only result you want from your work is the paycheck. Because cash flow equals energy flow, right? So if you wanted, you know, like if you were going to go into a job that pays half because you can have more say in what happens, that would be egotism. There's a real easy way a job yogi works their way out of egotism and that is going for more money. That's a simple way. Oh, I can get a job that pays more. I don't ask, oh, what technology is it? Or what do I get to do? Even if I have to sit there and do silly things, if it pays more money, you can get the job, take the job. And then that way you're not being egotistical. And then when you're on the job yogi way is that we don't stay in the same job very long. Because if you get attached to the same job, you're probably finding that you're getting caught up in bureaucracy in your office. And that means that people are, what we call, lining you out. They're figuring you out. They're learning how to push your buttons. And getting caught in that bureaucracy, same kind of energy day in, day out, you've been there for over a year or something like that, then you start to become hindered by other people's perceptions of you. One of the greatest things about being a technologist is that you can go from contract to full-time to contract where you're not spending more than a year at one job. Three months to a year is a good time to spend at one job. And then you're able to go to the next job and completely reinvent yourself. What if you rewrite your resume for a new technology and you go and push yourself to get into a higher rate? And then all of a sudden you're a new person on that next job. So it's like rapid reincarnation. And it really is. You really change when you change jobs. If you're stuck in the same job for a long time, you get stuck in states of mind. When you're stuck with the same people, you're limited by the people. You find yourself in the same kinds of thoughts, the same kinds of considerations, the same kind of thinking every day. For a while, it's very constructive. But after a while, you just change. You change because it keeps you a beginner. It keeps you fresh. That's why we interview a lot, because it gives us opportunities to change. Now, it's true, even if you love your job and it's the awesomest programming job, if you've been there for a year, you should probably get a new one. Go get more money, because you're stuck in arguments with people, the same states of mind, and you know what, you're not doing yoga, you're getting stuck. Get higher, get higher, that means say, okay, I wanna make more money. That's how we get higher in job yoga. You go for a higher cash flow. So if you just follow those rules, when I'm on the job, I'm a servant. I do my work as impeccably as possible and after three or six months if I don't like it, then I go to another job that pays more. Then you're going to be selfless, impeccable. You're going to have lots of challenges and changes because you're going from job to job to job. You're going to be free of people's ideas of you that hold you down and get you stuck in bureaucracy and complaints and problems at work. And you'll just follow a higher cash flow, which means energy flow. This is the method of job yoga. If you're in technology, it's pretty easy to move pretty fast. You can stay at a job, let's say you get your first job. Your first job might pay 50,000 a year, 60,000 a year, 70,000 a year, something like that. It's usually what happens in your first job. And then you stay there for six months. Maybe if you're really bad, you stay there a year.

1:30:33
But you guys are pretty smart,

1:30:34
so if you're there for six months, you'll say, okay, first month, I don't know what's going on, I'm all confused. Second month, I'm still new to it. Third month, you say, I get what's going on here. Fourth month, you're like, I can do this stuff. Fifth month, you're like, I am this job.

1:30:53
I have become.

1:30:56
And then it's probably time to start looking

1:30:58
for the next job. And then you say, okay, now I'm gonna look for $50 an hour, that's $100,000 a year. Now, some of you make that on your first job. Some of you will make that on your second job. But it's pretty positive if you're in technology, you're going to do that. If your first job is not $50 an hour or $100,000 a year, your second job will be. And then your next step is $60 an hour, 100 an hour. $100 an hour is $200,000 a year. And it's very possible for all of you to climb that scale. It's very possible to go on your second job from 50, then 60, then 70, 80, 90, 100. It is possible. And you could do that every six months, making that change. And then when you get up to about $100 an hour, you're at the top, pretty much. I mean, you can go higher, but that's an A in job yoga. Very simple, be like a samurai. You are a servant, that means you're selfless. You are impeccable in your work, like a samurai. And we just follow this thing. After six months, move on to a contract that pays more. Now if you're in a job where you can't make such rapid changes, then you'll go slower. If you're not in technology, if you haven't done what it takes to be in technology, you'll go slower. But you can go, you know, you can still do it. Project management, you can move a little bit faster. Business analyst, you can move a little faster. But, you know, if you're in a job where you're doing, I don't know it's probably not as good of a market. So you might want to get into a market where you can move faster. If you're already established in your career at the height, at the top of your career, then good. If you're already making $100 an hour, good. Should you do more if you're at the top of your career? Sure, if you see an opportunity to, but if you're getting an A in your job, then that's good. Everyone here should get an A in their job. We're job yogis. We do karma yoga, we do work yoga. If you're not getting an A in your job, if you're attached to your job, be unattached. Get a higher paying job. So getting a job and following the job yogi way, the way of the samurai, that is our caretaker template. This is something that will address the people who are having a hard time. It'll get you from going down to up. If you choose dark and you go down, that's your choice. But these are the teachings to go up. Very good. All right. I'm going to give you another break. I'm going to give you a break. Jiu-Jitsu break. Just kidding.

1:35:09
Okay.

1:35:10
Yeah, so we'll take another break for 15 minutes. We'll come back and we're going to have a special meditation and then we'll be done. We'll come back and we're going to have a special meditation and then we'll be done.

1:35:30
Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
