0:00:00
So it's important for you to have a strong, capable financial situation. And the reason why is because... Where are we here? Hawaii! Oh yes. Alright, so the summer solstice trip will be to Hawaii. The winter solstice trip will be to Grand Cayman. Both amazing places. So the thing about it is they're also a little expensive. And if you can't afford to come to the power trips, then you miss really amazing experiences. The power trips that we have are places, they're kind of these places where we have, we use the power and the teachings as a catalyst to change, to get to a higher level of practice. And if you miss too many of them, then you end up falling behind. So both solstices, we're going to be doing mystic Mystic scuba and there's really really profound spiritual Experiences involved in mystic scuba So I want to give you that opportunity and At the same time that opportunity has a cost so for the people who are doing well in Their yoga they can afford it. For the people who aren't doing well, it'll seem like very expensive. But if you start doing well in your yoga, then you can afford it. If you can't afford it, then you need to change so that you can afford these things. But you're kind of dragging the whole group back if I don't make it available. The people who are doing well need this kind of energy. okay, we'll just spend the summer solstice on the ocean beach in San Francisco. Then I would be holding, because of the lowest common denominator here, I would be holding back the people who are doing things right. So I'm no longer gonna hold back on the things for the people who are doing things right. For the people who are doing things wrong, you need to do it right.

0:03:15
Okay, good. All right.

0:03:17
So, Hawaii costs about $2,500. Here's the breakdown. I think the flights cost about $800. If you've got a better price, good. It's a pretty high price, it's usually around 600. But for some reason, it's 800. Hotel, I assume that you'll be sharing a hotel room. It'll be about 400. You might get higher, you might get lower. If you really focus, you can get a cheaper price probably. The dives on this trip, diving is going to cost about $1,000. And this is because we're going to be chartering boats. I usually like to do shore diving there, like in the book where we've gone on all these shore dives. But if we have greater than 20 people, then we can't do shore diving because we'll just become too much of a spectacle. And it would be hard to do. I mean, if we went to the place of refuge and we all have to go in at this one spot, it would just take like, I don't know, it would take like 20 minutes to get everybody in the water. So we won't be doing shore diving in Hawaii. We will be doing boat dives. So I am telling you this, Price, because I need to know from you tomorrow if you're coming on that trip, because I need to plan. I need to plan now. I assume it'll be about $100 for car rental if you share, and about $200 for food, something like that. So it comes up to $2,500. It could be more, it could be less, depending on how you plan your trip. Okay, Grand Cayman is a little more expensive. It's about $3,000. The flight's a little more expensive, the hotels are more expensive. The diving's cheaper because we can do shore diving there. They have facilities for a lot of people to do shore diving. So we'll go to Lighthouse Reef or Cobalt Coast, and they have a dive shop and they have a pier, and it's common that there'll be 40 people in the water out there. So it's doable. Or maybe we'll go to the Sunset House. There's all these really wonderful places to dive there. Grand Cayman Diving is the best diving in the world, I think, and I've been to many of the best dive sites in the world. It's an amazing experience. These are my two favorite places, Hawaii and Grand Cayman. Coming on these trips, you're going to hit really beautiful places of power, really amazing, wonderful places. I want to share this with you and the experiences of Mystic Scuba because it's amazing. And so you have to afford it.

0:06:30
Good. Very nice.

0:06:41
Additionally, I'll be giving you some more support by raising your tuition. Yeah. So I'm going to be raising the minimum tuition to $100 a month. $100 a month. If you can't do it, then what you need to do is make a plan so that you can pay $100 a month within three months. So when you make your financial plan, you can plan it out. So that you say, okay, I have to cut back on this or I have to get a job within three months so that I can afford my tuition. And that's a minimal thing. That's for the people who probably won't even make the Cayman trip if you apply yourself properly. Absolutely. Maybe you're not going to make the summer solstice trip, but if you apply yourself properly, if you follow these teachings, I guarantee you'll make the winter solstice trip. And Grand Cayman is wonderful, amazing diving.

0:08:02
So

0:08:03
tuition comes up to a minimum of a hundred dollars and if for some reason you can't then you're going to be talking to your yoga teacher and showing them your financial spreadsheet so that they could help you identify what you need to do to be able to pay tuition. And if you find it too prohibitive, then you don't have to do it. Additionally, there's going to be a separation. I'm going to have a $250 tuition level. And this is for people who are doing things right. And if you're able to pay $250 in tuition and you're doing things right, it's not that big of a deal. And for those people, we're going to have additional events. So there will be an additional event every month. And we'll do some interesting things together. anything from me teaching you how to stock, me teaching you how to shop, me teaching you how to dine.

0:09:19
Dining is important.

0:09:20
I remember teaching some of my students how to dine. I'm like, what are you doing?

0:09:25
That's wrong. Don't eat that with your fingers.

0:09:26
So yeah, you know, good table manners is important. Etiquette is important. So this is where we're making a separation and it's based on tuition levels. The minimum's coming up and then for those of you who are doing things right, you can afford a tuition of $250 and then you're going to, this is where I'm making a separation in energy levels too. When we have our common meetings, then I'm usually talking to the lowest common denominator. I'm just like, wow, these guys are not doing well. I have to address them. It also helps the other people. If someone practices mindfulness really well and then I'm sitting here for hours saying, be mindful, be mindful. If you practice it well, it's nice. It's the basics and basics are always good, but you're ready for more. start an inner energy toward the people who are doing things right, who have the cash flow to pay a higher tuition. And it will be an energy that addresses them, just like they're ready for going on the solstice trip. Now you can't start paying a high tuition and start going to a solstice trip if your life is out of balance. If you've got like $250 this month, but you're not gonna have it next month because you spent it, you're all, I have $250 in the bank,

0:11:21
I'm gonna do it.

0:11:22
Don't do it.

0:11:24
Don't do it.

0:11:24
Do your financial spreadsheet and see if you can, if it makes sense for you, if you can afford it. And if you can, then do it. And if you can't, then you have to get yourself to the place where you can afford the solstice trips and your tuition. Very simple. So this is to motivate you to do things right. And it's also to give you a little bit of pressure if it's too much for you, then it gives you a reason to say, I don't want to move, I don't want to get a job, and tuition's going up, so I'm going to complain and leave.

0:12:05
But it's just fine. I don't like the negativity of being stuck.

0:12:08
If all of you follow these teachings, you will make more money and you'll be happier because of it. You'll make enough money to go on these trips, you'll make enough money to pay tuition and more, and you'll be happier because of it. And it will really launch your practice versus having, being stuck. You get stuck, get unstuck. And you all have the opportunity to do that. Now, tonight I'm going to be doing an empowerment.

0:12:44
And this is a very, very precise empowerment.

0:12:47
But only take it if you're going to do it. This empowerment is for you to make a minimum of a 15% jump in your money, in your cash flow. And this is an empowerment that can be used for about six months. So it's like we have a window of time to use this energy. And this is for you to make a jump in your career. Now, if you have no intention of trying to get a new job or trying to get a better job, and you don't have enough money and you wanna stay that way, then don't take the empowerment. That would be very bad karma. If you're at the top of your career,

0:13:54
or if you've already gotten a job

0:13:56
and things are rolling in a good way, if you know that, just like you know you're dressed well, or you're dressed funky, right, you didn't dress well, you know, based on what's going on. So, if you got a job, or if you transitioned into a tech job, or if you're getting a raise, if things are going positive, you know. And if that's the case, stay for the empowerment. And if you're at the top of your career, you're making 100 bucks an hour, yeah, see if you can make 115. But if you're at the top of your career, just put the energy into your work. This energy goes into your work, right? It makes your work better. If you're at $70 an hour, then go up to $80. If you're at $50, go up to $60 in six months. So if you just got your first tech job in six months, at the end of six months, get another one. If you're at your first job in six months, you'll be at the time where you can get the next one. So you say, okay, I'm going to work this job until before the winter solstice, and then I'm going to nail a job that pays more. Now, for someone who's making $50 an hour, in two weeks, you could be making $65. For someone who is making $75, you could be making $85 in two weeks. You can use this power very quickly, if you want to, if you're ready for it. But if you've just started a job and you want to spend a few more months there, spend the time, but direct your energy. Know what you're doing. If you want to change into a tech career, then you need to focus. Getting into your first tech job is the biggest thing. It takes the most attention. It takes the most focus. Once you do that, once you get into your first tech job, then you're just in that world. You've made the shift. You've transformed. You've become the resume. So this is an empowerment to make your job better. If you're a person, an entrepreneur, you can use this to make a new product, or you can use this to do more business. This is to make more money, 15% more in sales or whatever, right? So this is an empowerment for your personal career. Now, I did the same thing, I've done the same thing with the Bodiewood students and they've always taken the steps. I also did the same thing with the whole Hungarian sangha and everyone made it. Not one person didn't make a 15% jump. They took the empowerment, they took it seriously and they did it. So if you're a serious student, you'll do it. You could write down on your, you could write out your finances and say, okay, for this month it's this, but I'm gonna plan in four months to have another job that makes 15% more. You could put that in your plan because if you decide to do it, take this empowerment and do it. It's completely doable. It's for sure if you intend to do it. Very good. So, that said, I'd like you to identify your intention. If you're at the top of your game, you say, yeah, I'm going to take this energy and I'm going to just become even better at the top of my game. Maybe you will find ways of making more money even at the top. If you're, you know, somewhere else along the way, say, okay, what am I going to do to make more money? How do I get to the next jump, right? Probably just put your resume out and ask for more money. If you're trying to get into a technology career, the next six months is the time to do it. If you've been on your yoga project up until now, you have what it takes. Whether you're good or bad, you have what it takes. You can do it. The yoga projects are the dojo where you've developed skills. You've developed a lot more personal power and work energy than you know. If you apply it, it'll happen, especially with this empowerment. And if you don't have a job, get a job. That'll be a 100%. So I want you to take a moment to focus your intent, your personal intent, on what's going to happen for you in the next six months. What are you going to use the empowerment on? And if you recognize that you intend not to do this, then please walk out of the room. Okay. Now we're going to meditate for one song, focus on the navel center. Just relax,

0:19:08
Just relax, have a soft focus. We're gonna do eyes open, up front. Look at me. And we're gonna focus on the navel. Don't try too hard, because I'm the one who's transmitting the power to you. Just try to still your mind so that you can be aware of it. Even if you're unaware of it, it works. All right, and let's begin. Nice. Good. So next week, we're going to have a special activity on Saturday at Bodie Woods. We're going to have Bodie Woods Workday. Hooray!

0:20:11
And we're also going to have a special party on Saturday evening. It's called a burn party. You know all those logs and branches that we've collected and dumped in that one open

0:20:27
area?

0:20:28
We're going to burn it. I don't know why, just because we can. And we're going to have a huge fire. And we're going to have a party around the fire. Marshmallows. Or if you're Hungarian, onions.

0:20:49
They do that.

0:20:54
And so it's going to be great. So if you want to come over on Saturday,

0:21:02
It's going to be great.

0:21:03
So if you want to come over on Saturday, we're going to have a very special day of digging in the dirt and then having a fire. Should be really fun.

0:21:15
Now Easter, we're going to have a special event after your yoga meetings. for the $250 group. We have often on Easter a reflection of the life of Jesus Christ. So we talk about Jesus's life. Jesus was an enlightened teacher and a lot of people are very confused in this world, in our culture, about what his true enlightened energy is because it's covered over with so much dogma and controlled by the custodians of the church. But it's really a beautiful time for us to reflect on the life of Jesus. So this is for the $250 group next week. Okay, so tuition is due now. So you can upgrade your tuition either tonight or next week on the weekend, or you can mail it in, but tuition is now in effect. Excellent. Just to motivate you. Alright, well thank you all very much.

0:24:02
It's been a pleasure.

0:24:04
And go and do great things. And for divers, this is going to be a good year. Mystic scuba is really nice. Mystic scuba is really nice.

0:24:13
It's really nice.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
