0:00:00
I want to I want Gabby to be able to get all the information translated to her. so usually when I'm in Hungary I'll say some stuff okay translate now here we'll do it American style So, I wanted to talk to you guys tonight about the Dharma. The Dharma of what's going on. Because it's a significant Dharma. There's a powerful Dharma on this solstice. And you're all engaging in it. You're all in this Dharma. And it's something that is potentially very enlightening and potentially fatal at the same time. So in a word, death is the Dharma. And when death is a Dharma, it's a very powerful teaching. It's a very powerful and very tantric teaching. It's a teaching that you would not expect would lead to liberation, but it just so happens that it does. That's why it's a tantra. So from time to time we engage in the tantric teachings. And the tantric teachings very often are teachings that surround difficult situations, difficult situations, difficult life experiences. And from going into these difficult life experiences, you gain a very luminous awareness. Most people would think that facing death would just suck. Like, I faced death, it was scary, it was horrible, and I never want to have to do it again, right? But in Tantra, you're like, I faced death and it was awesome and I want to do it again. So this is a lesson given to us by the universe, starting with the weather here is different than it usually is this time of year. The energy of the weather is pretty harsh. It's pretty gnarly. It's pretty difficult. When you're here and the weather's nice, it's generally sunny and the ocean conditions are beautiful. And you just walk into the North Shore, you walk into Babylon or Hidden Treasure, you walk into Cobalt Coast, and there's no waves. And you just jump on in, and the water is welcoming and beautiful and very healing. And then you go out and dive, and it's just a very kind of welcoming kind of feeling. This time we have a different feeling in the water. And it's principally caused because of the weather. But the weather, the wind that creates the waves, the heat that creates the current, Those are energies, and they create a vibration. They create waves of energy in the water. And in the water, the energy right now, even on the west side, is a kind of very strong energy. It's a strong kind of gnarly energy. So the energy of the water here at this time, because of the energy of the wind, the energy of the atmosphere, is an energy that's more difficult than usual. When I first planned on bringing you to Grand Cayman, I was thinking, oh, this will be a great time of year. It'll be sunny, the water will be so welcoming. And when the wind is nice and still, when it's sunny and still here, it's like the whole island is just smiling. The whole island smiles, even Georgetown. Even in the tent. But hanging out up here at Rum Point when the weather's good is just really happy. It's really paradise-like. But when the energy changes, it's a bit gnarly. It's a little bit difficult. So, first of all, we have the weather. Then we have the terrain. So, going into the ocean is always a challenge. Going scuba diving is the fastest and easiest way to face death. All you have to do is put on that equipment and get into the water.

0:07:20
You don't even have to go down.

0:07:21
You're just facing it, just being encumbered with that equipment that's purpose is to go underwater. And, actually, you actually face a lot of stress, you face death when you're floating on top before you go under. And that's kind of how it is in life. When you're alive, you don't want to die. But then once you're dead, it's not so bad. But that part where you're going from life to death is a really stressful time for a lot of people. They don't know what's going to happen. They're going to go into this immensity. They don't know what's beneath the surface. They're afraid. So going from the top of the water, underwater, going from top to under, is like dying. It's very, very, very much like dying. So I like that period of time. I like it when you have a struggle with going underwater too, because when you're struggling with going from the top to the bottom, you're struggling with your process of dying. You can do that while you're still alive, you can do it through this exercise of just scuba diving. So people could be floating on the water and just stressed out. The waves didn't go down yet, and it's just stressful. It's very, very much like the process of dying. So I want you to recognize that when you have anxiety, when you have fear, when you're floating on top, especially if you're just about to go down and you feel it. But just when you're on top and you know that your equipment is going to bring you down eventually, you're going to purge your BCD and you're going to go under. This is a time for you to recognize your condition of dying. Some people die, no problem. It's like, oh, I'm gonna die. Oh, I'm dead. It's not a big deal to them. Yeah, it's a big deal. It's an important moment. But it's, they kind of gracefully die. They just go from the top to the bottom. But some people don't. Actually, most people don't. Most people have fear of the unknown. They don't know what's going to happen. They don't know what's under there. And they are afraid of losing themselves. It's a ridiculous fear to have, but people have it. So they're about to die, or they're heading towards death, and they're afraid. They're afraid of losing themselves. But it's very, very similar to that fear from being on the surface to right before you go under. And especially if you have that fear, if you have that anxiety, and I think we all have that from time to time, depending on the conditions. Sometimes it's when you're going to jump off a boat, you're going to go from dry on the boat to in the ocean and then you're gonna have to drop 100 feet down to get to the wall.

0:11:21
We did that in Monterey.

0:11:22
I was buddied up with Robert and we jumped out. I think the bottom was 85 feet or something like that. That was crazy. And we just jumped out into the dark green water. You can only see like five or six feet down. Yeah, there's like five or six feet of visibility. And we're just like falling into this dark green abyss. Love it. Yeah, that's like stressful. It's dropping into a void. And some people get that every time they dive. Even in 10 feet of water. You're like, oh I have to go down now

0:12:06
Stressful, right?

0:12:08
So when you have those times of stress from going outside of the water into under the water Recognize that this is a transformation. It's a transformation from the world of the living, because we live on the surface, we can breathe easily, this is made for us, this is our living dimension, and then we go underwater, and that's a death dimension for us, because we're not supposed to be down there. If we were down there too long, we're dead. So that transition from the surface to under is the transition that we could call dying. Because it has the same energy as death. And I want you to observe that process. Observe your fear. Observe your breathing. Observe your heart rate. And observe rate and observe your mind and see what your experience of dying will be at this moment. You can learn to die well, to die without fear. in your experience by scuba diving. So it's a very wonderful thing. When you put it into that perspective, and when you reflect on it that way, it gives you the ability to understand your diving in a different way, and it also gives you the ability to look at your life and your death and your experience of being in a more profound way. None of us want to be on our deathbed. We're all going to be dying someday, right? But none of us want to have a terrible death. You might be in pain, you might be quick, you might be slow, but none of us want to have that moment of death where we have no control. God has hit our purge button, and we're going down. And none of us want to sit there and go, ah, I'm afraid, I can't go back up. No one wants to be in panic mode at that moment. We all want to be able to accept it. It's just like scuba diving. It's just like going from the surface under. And sure, we don't know what's under until we go under. But once we're under, we recognize that there are physics, right? We can work our gear. There's rules in the bardos. There's rules in death. Death works a certain way. And it ain't so bad. We've done it. You've been through many death processes, in every incarnation. My teacher used to say, you've died thousands of times, but you look no worse for the wear. Right? So, you have been through these processes before. When you go through the death process again, it's a little bit familiar. You've been through those bardas, through those dimensions, so it's not, you know, it's not that unfamiliar. It's happened before. But when you can be calm and relaxed and deal with what's going on in a more balanced way, then when you're going into your experience of death, it's a more positive experience. Instead of freaking out, afraid, desiring, craving all around, you can just kind of relax and enjoy the experience. Libardos are interesting, they're beautiful actually. Libardos themselves are amazing, as long as you're not going crazy. If you're going crazy anywhere, then your life is terrible. Your experience is horrible. In the Bardo, things move fast. There's no filter. In life, we can have many filters. So in life, we're able to set up our lives where I'm afraid of, let's say, scuba diving, so I never do it. But in death, there's a part where you go underwater. And you have to face that part of that part and that experience. So there's many things like public speaking. Some people are afraid of that, right? And in the bardos, you face that energy. You face public speaking. That's one of the big parts, that's the fourth Bardo. Bardo, public speaking. You're standing up at a, wait, not even a podium, but a microphone. There's 10,000 people looking at you, and then you realize you're naked. That's the Bardo. So some of us would think that's fun. Like Ajna maybe. The rest, I don't know. So death is like being underwater. When you're underwater, it's not so bad. There's the fishes. Watch out for the coral. So don't go grab the moray eel that we saw today. It will bite you. So, you know, once you go into death, once you're having the experience of death, gone from living to dying, then you're dead. When you're dead, your consciousness is still there. And things come up in your consciousness, your experience life. If you're filled with fear and desire, it's a very difficult experience. So it's just like scuba diving, right? If you're a trained diver, if you're an experienced diver, you can go down in your dive even if there's difficult conditions, poor visibility, current, surge, waves, creatures, and you will be able to remain calm and you'll be able to deal with the underwater world. Or maybe you'd go underwater and it's, you know, the regular warm, happy, welcoming, calm energy, and then it's very easy to deal with. When When you die, you go into different underwater conditions. Sometimes they're pleasant, beautiful, warm, welcoming experiences, and sometimes there's bad visibility and sharks swimming around. And you can deal with bad visibility in sharks. You can deal with good, pleasant conditions. If you're a trained diver, it's not terrible. It's not impossible. It's actually easy and it's fun, just because you have the awareness of that training. Now, a lot of people don't deal with their fears and their desires and their attachments in their lifetime. So then what they're like underwater is they're afraid of the sharks, so they're running away. They're afraid of bad visibility, so they're freaked out and paranoid. They're attached to, you know, fan coral. The tropical fish, so they're chasing the tropical fish around. And they desire, I don't know, sushi nigiri. So they take out their knife and they're chasing around fish. And their experience of death is terrible. Because whether you're in nice conditions in the bardos, or bad conditions in the bardos, you're either running around afraid, or you're chasing things. You're like, oh, there goes a parrotfish I want to get. Chasing it around. And it's a very bad experience. But you have the same experience in your life. You have the same experience right now. These conditions exist right now. It's just that in this transient moment you can filter things out. You can live a life where you say, I'm never going to face a certain fear. But believe me, when you die, that fear is going to be faced. That energy is going to come at you. Where if you deal with fear in general in your life, then in death when any vibrations that would cause fear for you come, you'll be able to just sit there and deal with it, not run from it. And those are the big secret of the bardos, is to not be afraid and not be pulled by desire. So if the scary things come and you can just sit there and deal with it, and then when the things that are amazing and beautiful and wonderful come, you can just sit there and observe it, then you actually will go through the bardos to a very, very high place. But if you run from things, you go back down. If you chase things, you go to the left. And you don't ascend, ascend to a higher, brighter light. So scuba diving, for us, is a very powerful tantric exercise. It's a tantric exercise where we learn a lot about death.

0:22:54
We learn a lot about death.

0:22:56
It's a very, very important duration. You know, martial arts is very powerful too. That's why we practice martial arts. There's wonderful things that martial arts teaches, but scuba diving teaches more primal awarenesses of life and death. So it's a very, very, very powerful experience. Now, all of you have been scuba diving, right? That's amazing. This is phenomenal. Phenomenal. Because when you're diving, you are going through this lesson that life has put us into. And this experience is a little stronger. There's something about the energy of the waves, the energy of the water, the energy of the wind. The energy of this place is magical. And right now it's some of the tough magic, the hard, difficult magic. Sometimes you come here and just you're in the water going Oh, so wonderful and this time when you jump into the water, it doesn't give you that wonderful feeling still powerful and beautiful still purifying and magic even on the west side anywhere, this is a Everywhere, it's just really wonderful on this island. However The energy is stronger, gnarlier than usual here. This is one of the aspects that gives us a stronger capability to observe the feelings of death. If you jumped in the water and you felt, oh, this is so comforting and warm, that would be one kind of experience. Then you go underwater, and you still are experiencing that. But when you're going through this, when you're going through the faster, more kind of difficult, it's a faster wave of energy underwater here. and it has more momentum. So it's not as easily relaxing. It's more agitating. So if you can go in there and relax and breathe, then you're able to deal with more difficult energy. So the energy of the island is very interesting, how it shifts and changes. Cayman Islands has hurricane season too. And this is kind of like, to me this is more like hurricane season weather. And when you come out here during hurricane season, it's really intense. It's kind of like this. Now, when I come out here during hurricane season, I will go and dive in the craziest places because I can handle it. It's not easy. Sometimes I hit really strong current, and then it's very difficult out there in the big waves. But I don't take on conditions that I'm incapable of handling. If I find that they're too tough, then I'll abort the dive. But generally speaking, even the strongest currents that I've come across out here, they're no fun, but we can handle them. So right now, we have difficult conditions. We have an energy of death in the water. So it gives us even more a capability to deal with this lesson. Yeah, so this is the time because of this energy being present in the place, right? So the place that we're at has this current of energy and the activity that we're doing has this energy and the winter solstice has this energy. This winter solstice has the energy of death. So what we must do is we must follow the teachings of death and really when you do that, part of you dies. A part of you dies. But the part that dies is a part of, a limited part. It's a part that has a closed mind. And really what it is, is it's the closed mind that dies. And when the closed mind dies, then there's a more open mind. There's a greater field of attention. So really it's limitation that dies. But that's a self. Part of who you are, what you think, what's possible, what's impossible, when you go through this energy of death, that part of you dies, that way of you dies, that limited viewpoint dies, your consciousness expands. So by going into this experience, it's an experience that kills limitation, kills the limited self, destroys, creates creates depth for limited aspects of your consciousness. And then what you experience is you experience a greater awareness of life, a greater awareness of being by going through this experience, by going through this energy, by going through this solstice, this experience of death. So it's a difficult thing, death. The energy of death. Yes, hard, difficult, scary, right? But when you go through it, your whole state of consciousness, the way of looking at life changes. And it's in subtle ways. You can say, wow, I had this weird experience, I jumped underwater, it was scary, and then I came up by sawfish underwater. So if you describe it in the smallest way, it's just a weird, painful, difficult, strange experience. But what it does to your consciousness, what it does to your being, is it gives you a truer, clearer, purer, more unmodified awareness of life. That experience of going through this energy of death, this experience, brings you to become stronger, more powerful, you gain personal power, more enlightened, more in line with the truth of life. So it gives you, yeah, personal power. In a term, in a word, personal power from this experience. And the personal power that you get makes you more capable, more aware, stronger, with the ability to succeed in anything in life, in everything in life. So this is a spiritual experience, this is a spiritual lesson. When spiritual definitions dissolve in this energy, then you have a greater access to the totality of your spirit. And when you have a greater connection, a greater awareness of who you are, a greater awareness of the truth of life, then you have greater personal power, greater ability to do anything in life. Okay, let's take a break. Go to the bathroom if you need to. And we'll come back in just a few minutes. Because it's like solsticing right now. Oh yeah. It's solsticing. Wait a second. How bad do you have to go? Because actually, why don't we meditate for just a couple minutes. Because the solstice... it's like the 30... 34, right?

0:32:56
It's 12.31, so it's right now. One minute ago.

0:33:00
Oh really? So it's 12.30? I thought it was 34. I thought 12.30, but I might be wrong. Ah-ha! Okay. So we're gonna meditate for just a little bit. Maybe three songs.

0:33:14
Three songs.

0:33:15
Do we have a three song mix of any sort on here?

0:33:17
Yeah, it should say 15.

0:33:19
Okay.

0:33:20
Something that says, oh, 15. It's incredible.

0:33:23
Low battery, 20%. Okay, 20% is okay.

0:33:26
Alright, so we're going to sit for three songs.

0:33:39
One song per chakra. So, the So so the the the the the the the the the so so so I'm going to go to the bathroom. Thank you. so so So the the the so I'm going to be late. to so the the so so Oh All right, happy summer everybody. We're going to take a 15 minute break. There's three bathrooms upstairs too. Feel free to just walk into the rooms and use them. And then we're going to meet outside by the pool. Arigato. Arigato. Arigato.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
