0:00:00
All right, we've covered all the basics. The warrior, which is kind of like the main thing. There's others.

0:00:25
All of these are within the realm of the navel chakra.

0:00:29
So these are all the primary practices. The primary ones. There are higher ones. There's higher ones. There's ones that are associated with the heart. There's ones that are associated with the third eye.

0:00:54
So like the seer

0:00:56
is one associated with the third eye. Being a seer is kind of out of scope for you at this level of practice. It's a more advanced caretaker. The seer, the sage, the embodiment of wisdom, the bodhisattva, the holy mother, these are ones that are advanced ones. So when you think of different saints, you see that they take different caretaker personalities or different, even different Buddhas, fully enlightened beings, take different caretaker personalities. There are different ways and different methods for them to express enlightenment. So when you get to a higher degree of mastery, you gain the ability to have much more powerful caretakers. Being a warrior is a great caretaker. Being a yogi's path are pathways to enlightenment. But at the same time, there are definitely higher ones. So next Saturday, we'll probably go over a couple more advanced caretaker personalities. But tonight we'll do one more. Just one more. And it will be one of the heart. Now, caretaker personalities,

0:03:00
have you ever gone to a store shopping for clothes

0:03:03
and then you just try on all these different outfits and everyone that you try on is just awesome. That's like, these things. So you come in there with your grungy old clothes. Then you try on these new, awesome, wonderful suits or whatever, and you say, wow, this really works. And you try something else on, wow, this really works too. So when the salesperson who's helping you is enlightened, they're like, hey, try this on. If it was up to you, you'd be going out and getting some very strange clothes and say, yeah, this is my style. these caretaker personalities are very, very powerful. When we sat in meditation experiencing these considerations, I intensify the field of energy that's associated to these caretaker personalities. And therefore, you can kind of isolate them more, recognize them more. You'll see when you're doing your yoga, when you're living your life, that you engage in these caretaker personalities. You'll say, oh wow, you start to identify the dimensions involved more. And then it's best to be intentional. You're like, I'm gonna do this like a stalker, you know, I'm gonna do this like a yogi. I'm going to be a warrior now. I'm going to be a child now. I'm going to be a child. So you apply these at the right times. And you keep using them so often that you eventually disconnect from your old karmic patterns. And then you engage in only the dharmic means of operation. It's excellent mysticism. It's excellent for yogis. The method of caretaker personalities. For our last meditation of the evening, we're going to do a higher chakra, the heart, and we're going to do the caretaker personality of the bhakti. This is a good one because we're studying Ramakrishna, and Ramakrishna really, really, really, really loved God. So Ramakrishna really, really was the embodiment of Bhakti. Ramakrishna loved God, or the word enlightenment or whatever, the thing, the Tao. He loved God so much that his attention was unified with God. And that's why he kept on saying, What do you think? Does God have a master who goes into salvacopa samadhi and sits there and goes, hey, then that's God realization. God is coming through that person. And Ramakrishna was so focused on God all the time, he was always in that attention, always in that awareness, in that unification with God. So there's really no difference between him and God. Although some of his students, they were difficult, difficult students. First time I read the book I was like, wow, this is amazing, it's incredible. Second time I read the book I was like, oh, this is really amazing, incredible. Now I read it and I'm like, boy, his students are bad. They're this enlightened teacher and these idiots, look what they said. It's true, right? It's good to look at that.

0:07:59
Yeah. That and Vivekananda.

0:08:01
All right.

0:08:02
All right.

0:08:03
So we are going to focus on the heart for one song. This is our Bhakti song. All right, very good. So the worlds of power are going to be in your hands. All right, very good. So the worlds of power are good, fantastic. When you can get your Kundalini to the heart level, then you have a totally different view of the universe. It's just that most people can't get their Kundalini to the heart level. They can have emotional experiences, but they don't reside in an awareness of love and light of the heart. This world is a world associated to the lower chakras. Power, struggle, money. That's why we become impeccable masters of all of these techniques of the navel. But if you become a master at the navel, then then you can get your Kundalini higher. Kundalini goes higher. Then you have experiences that are higher than that. It's just that you've got to master the navel. You've got to be an impeccable yogi. You've got to be a spiritual warrior. You've got to be a good stalker, a good dreamer. But the more advanced teachings are teachings that get higher up in terms of chakras. So these are the beginning teachings. And really, bhakti is more devotional, it's more of the heart. But a lot of people who practice bhakti just don't really. They're not authentic. They don't get the kundalini up, they're not actually authentic in their devotion. So it's just acting. It's just another self-act. But there is the real bhakti. And that's why we're reading Ramakrishna. It's very good. So on Saturday we'll do a couple more. I think maybe on Saturday we might do the Master. The Master is good. You get it. The Master I don't know. Maybe I'll let you guys choose the next one. It's nice to get exposure to the higher chakras. We'll do a third eye one, a really high one too. It's good to get exposure to it because you start to get a feeling that there's something higher. But we're right now focusing mostly on the beginning teachings. Now the students in Bodhi Woods, the intermediate students in Bodhi Woods, they're working on a heart yoga, not bhakti. Bhakti's good. Bhakti you can decide to do is have inner devotion. It's easy. It's not a problem. But it has to be authentic. Otherwise nothing happens. Alright, and let's see. If you are in the 250 group, and you have done the Mystic Scuba in Hawaii, and you are a very comfortable diver, I have an opportunity for you on the 27th of August. We're going to be chartering a boat, and we're going to be going down to Big Sur to scuba dive. So it's cold water. It's a long boat ride. Cold water dives off of a boat. We might drop into 100 feet of water and might only have 10 feet of visibility. Who knows? There could be some very challenging conditions. You will have an experienced buddy. You'll have a dive master buddy with you. So you'll be okay, but you have to be in the open water of Big Sur. Big Sur is a place of power, as you know. We've gotten there on a power trip. And I have always wanted to get out into the ocean to dive there. Because generally, if you find a place on land that's a place of power, and it has an ocean next to it, or a body of water, a lake or something, the stronger energy lines are in the water. It's just that the water neutralizes it. So it's kind of, it'll be a power dive to dive there. So if you're in the 250 group, and you've done Mystic Scuba, and you think you're up for the challenge, I'd like you to wait here for a minute or two. And if you are in the group of people who I spoke with last time in the little green room I have over there. Also the same group that I spoke to in the yurt, was that before our party? Yeah, I think so, the yurt before our party. I'd like that group to go ahead into the green room. I'd like to just talk to you just for a couple minutes. And if you happen to be in that group, stay here first for the Big Sur meeting. The Big Sur diving meeting. Very exciting. Very exciting opportunity. All right, very good. So thank you all very much. Had a nice, relaxing meditation today. Lots of meditation, lots of different fields of energy, and good things for you to reflect on, meditate on during the week. So, it's really nice. And it's August, so I decided to go easy on you. You're having hard enough time, I can tell. But, you know, After meditating a little bit you actually

0:14:50
Very good. I was happy to be your DJ tonight

0:14:53
Good so thanks a lot everyone and

0:14:56
La dojo, I want to talk to you guys tonight too, but I think you're all going to Vody Wood, so I'll talk to you in the yurt. So go ahead and report to the yurt and I'll speak with you there. to you in the yurt. So go ahead and report to the yurt and I'll speak with you there.

0:15:20
All right.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
