0:00:00
Alright, let's see if that's heat. Alright, very good. So, We won't be too much longer.

0:00:20
Alright, so fear.

0:00:23
Dealing with fear. Another way that we deal with fear is by learning about it. And there's a couple particular ways that we learn about fear in this study. And these are optional. The main thing that we focus on is job yoga. We mostly focus on yoga. But there's other two really wonderful ways to really learn about overcoming fear. And the first is martial arts. So when you learn martial arts, you learn how to overcome fear to a very, very large degree because you start to learn about aggressive energy. A lot of people are afraid of other people's aggressive energy. They feel insecure because they think things can happen to them. When you learn martial arts, you gain a fearlessness, a sense of power and awareness. So even though you maybe you get a black belt and even though you got a black belt, yeah, someone could pull a gun on you, you're not afraid anymore. When you go through a martial arts program, when you've transformed and changed through martial arts discipline, then you have a power and awareness that is very strong, balanced, it's very capable in the physical world. You develop capability. What's that sound? Is there a ringing happening here? Yeah, so you always want to remember to turn off your ringing devices before entering the meditation zone. So in martial arts, you actually transform your attention in a very practical way that has to deal with the world, and then you're able to deal with things better. You don't have so much fear when you're a martial artist. You have greater awareness. So martial arts is one of the ways that we work on a discipline that helps us to overcome a great deal of fear. I remember there was a gal in the study who, she was working in computer science and she was just kind of like going along and then she got her black belt in karate. And then she realized that the power that she gained in getting a black belt in karate gave her a lot more confidence at work. It's funny, it does. It's something where it just gives you personal power, it gives you awareness, and it gives you the ability to deal with things in a more constructive way and not be limited. Another one of our practices for overcoming fear is the practice of scuba diving. Scuba diving is you go from a living atmosphere where your life is supposed to be, you go sub, down to an atmosphere that is dense and watery, where your life, human life, is not natural. What's going on? I hear somebody's voice. Is it another room?

0:04:55
I think it's another room. I think it's coming from over here.

0:04:58
I hear it over here. Okay. Okay, good. Anyway.

0:05:12
Anyway, there's like little chimes. Maybe it's the music.

0:05:15
Oh, it stopped, okay.

0:05:16
Good, hooray. All right, so yeah, so in scuba diving, you actually face these really primordial fears because you go from a place where life's supposed to be where life isn't supposed to be, and yet you see all this life. So in scuba diving, just learning to breathe underwater, to be underwater, to be comfortable in that world, the underwater world, is a way of really facing very deep primordial fears, and it's a wonderful way. So those two practices, martial arts and scuba diving, are really, really powerful for overcoming fear. But again, they're things that you don't have to do in the study. In the study, the main thing you have to do is yoga. Job yoga is what we focus on. But those things are great. I like them, obviously, because I do them a lot. you really face fear is in meditation. So when you stop thought, you stop fear. You might notice sometimes that you're getting very, very, very, very still and that you start then thinking. And that reaction happens because of fear. If you have a good focus and you start to become quiet and you're like, oh, this is really good. Very often you start thinking again. It's because the ego starts to fear things. And after a little while, you get deeper and you have the ability to stop your thought, but then you find that as you get closer to stopping your thought, that you're just afraid of the light, afraid of stopping your thought, and then you start thinking. So at first, you don't recognize why you're thinking. And then after a while, you recognize that you're afraid of stopping thought. But then after a while, you just keep on trying and trying and trying, and then you stop thought for a little while and you say, that was good, that wasn't bad, I shouldn't fear it. And then you keep on doing it and then it works out really well. But the ultimate way to overcome fear is through meditation, through stopping thought. When you stop thought, you stop fear. Now, when you have fear, it has some bad results of fear was, you know, you're in the dark and you see something in front of you. It might be a rope or it might be a snake. If it's a rope and you think it's a snake, you have to know what's going on. But a lot of people, one of the things that fear does, the bad results of fear, is that you very, very, very, very often have, you accept evidence, twist it, and make it something bad. So you turn everything into something scary. You turn everything into something bad. You turn a rope into a snake. That's what fear does for people. They just go, oh, everything's bad, everything's terrible, everything's scary. That's what fear does. A snake. Hey, I think...

0:09:12
Yeah, I think that's one of our songs. Yeah, that's definitely one of our songs.

0:09:17
No, the AirPods are not plugged in.

0:09:19
Oh, well, that's one of our songs. Yeah, no, it sounds like ours.

0:09:23
I'm all like...

0:09:25
How did I do that? It's coming from the flowers. It's coming from the flowers. Yeah, that seemed to fix it. See? Fear not. Okay, so yeah, so when you are fearful, you distrust people. You're just like, everyone could be a possible threat to you. When you're fearful, you are defensive against everything. When you're fearful, you're self-centered. You're always taking, never giving. It's just a terrible way. And you're always taking everything and making it into a problem. You take the rope, you make it a sink. So Buddha used to say, you see what's true as false, and what's false as true and you miss the way. When you start seeing all sorts of terrible, terrible, terrible things, you're probably not in a very good state of mind. You're probably in a fearful state of mind. And you have to get back to very, very good way to get yourself out of bad states of mind. And then another really good one for overcoming fear is acting as if. Acting as if you weren't afraid. And you would say, oh, in this situation, maybe I have to get up and give a presentation at work and I'm totally afraid. But let me act as if I weren't afraid. I saw my boss or another presenter doing a presentation and he acted these certain ways. I'm going to act like that. And when you see yourself acting that way, you see that you're overcoming fear. You're acting in a way where you're not afraid, and then because you're acting that way, you find that you're not afraid. It's kind of like being happy. If you start smiling, then even if you're in a bad mood when everyone's smiling all the time.

0:12:03
You know, you're acting as if.

0:12:05
There was a story, another true story I think, of a monkey, so it's gotta be true. Well, there's a monkey. The monkey is going through the jungle, and then there's a lion that's crawling, coming up behind the monkey. The monkey's like, oh no, I'm being... This lion is just about to come over and eat me. So what the monkey does is sees a bunch of bones and kind of like runs over and goes over to the bones. And then the lion's still creeping up behind the monkey. And then the monkey sits on this pile of bones and picks up a bone and starts chewing on it. And the monkey has his back to the lion

0:13:00
and the monkey's just chewing on the bone.

0:13:01
And when he knows the lion's within earshot, he says, this was a mighty tasty lion. It was a big one, which is good, because it's very filly. Then the lion goes, whoa, that monkey killed a lion and ate it?

0:13:20
Pow.

0:13:21
So the lion gets afraid and backs off. And then there's this hyena and says, hey, you stupid lion, that monkey was just fooling you. That monkey actually, you know, I saw what was happening there. That monkey's fooling you. So the lion goes, really? Yeah, and he goes, yeah, yeah, come on, I'll take you back to that monkey, you can just have that monkey, and then I'll eat whatever's left over. And so the lion goes, yeah, I'm mad at that monkey, he tricked me. So then the hyena and the lion start heading back to where the monkey is, and then the monkey sees them coming, and then the monkey's like, uh-oh. So then when they get in with an earshot, and he sees that lion's mouth, the monkey says real loud, now where's that hyena? I paid him a lot of money to bring me another lion. So that's acting as if. And that's a good example. And it also works. It gets you out of trouble and it also, you see that you overcome fears by dealing with things when you act as if. So you can look at lots of role models from the last Samurai movie, or certain movies that you've seen, or certain people you've worked with, and you can say, wow, when they are in a situation where I would be afraid, they act a certain way, and they're not afraid. And that's really cool. So acting as if is a good thing. And humor, right? You can't be afraid when you're laughing. Like when you have a sense of humor, when you think something's funny, you're not afraid. Humor balances, you know, like intensity. So when you're afraid of things and you can look at it and laugh at yourself, then you're able to break the fear. So those are all very, very good ways. I would like to just meditate with you for one song. So we are concluding meditation in the evening. And for this song, I'd like And I would like you to do the first exercise I told you about tonight. Envisioning during this meditation. I want you not to just sit there and stop, but I want you to see yourself. I want you to see yourself succeeding. I want you to see yourself changing. I want you to see yourself moving into a position or a house or apartment where when you see yourself there It feels good and bright. Don't entertain your doubt. Don't entertain your fear. Just for this one five-minute period, sit there and see success. See yourself succeed. Very simple. OK. So just for one song, we will have this vision together. All right, let's begin. Very nice. This is the anthem of enlightened. Yeah. So that, that, that dreaming, that seeing, that envisioning, that meditating on overcoming fear creates a very powerful and bright pathway that shows you the way beyond the limitations of fear into a better way of life, a happier, brighter, more enlightened way. So, this whole process here, you know, sure we learn some things like a mantra and a mudra. So we learn some things that we can do to address our minds and our thoughts and our situations. But this process is a process that transforms you. The step right now is to move, to get a better job, get a job. This is the step right now. But this step is part of a bigger process. It's not just teaching ideas and stuff, it's a process that transforms

0:18:43
you.

0:18:44
a monk or some guy comes over to the Buddhist master and says, hey I want to learn how to be enlightened. So the master says, you need to face your fears. And the monk says, I ain't afraid of nothing because I live here in the monastery, wake up in the morning, drink some tea, meditate, sleep on the floor, cut some vegetables, do a little more book study, meditate a little bit more, then we go to sleep. So, what's there to be afraid of in life? And then the master says, yeah, you're not facing your fears. So I have to give you a lesson that will allow you to face your fears. So the student says, okay, because I want enlightenment. So the master turns him into a mouse. And then the Buddhist monk, you know, and so then the Buddhist monk's like, totally freaked out. So then he goes to his room and then the other monks go, oh, there's a mouse in here. So they sweep him out, sweep him out of the ashram. Then he's all like, oh, this is terrible. Then he meets a cat. And then the cat chases him. He just has this terrible times where these cats are chasing him around, he just barely survives. Then he sneaks back into the ashram, comes over to the master, has a mouse, and the master recognizes him. And then in his mouse mind, he says, I'm so afraid of cats, but there's nothing I can do with my mouse. Please, master, help me out here. Let me be a cat so that I could deal with the fear of cats. So then the master changes him into a cat. Then the monks kick him out because they can't have animals. Get out, get out. And then he goes out there with those cats that used to scare him, and then he just walks over to them and says, what's up? And he's all, I'm not afraid of cats anymore. And then the dog comes. The dog comes over, chases the cat, chases him, and then he's having all these troubles with dogs. So then finally he jumps the fence, gets back in, sneaks over to the master and in his cat mind he says, please master, I'm having this terrible fear of dogs. Please help me deal with my fear of dogs by changing He's a dog. And some of the monks want to keep him, but the older, mean monks kick him out. They don't have enough food for a dog. And then he's out there, and then he's at the edge of the town, and there's a jungle. And then a tiger comes after him. So the tiger's chasing the dog, and he's totally afraid of tigers. Then he barely escapes with his life. Then he goes over to, gets back into the monastery somehow, goes over to the master and says, I was so afraid of that tiger. And he says, please help me deal with my fear of the tiger. And so the master says, okay. Turns him into a tiger. And then all the monks go running away. Then he goes out into the jungle and he sees another tiger and he's just all... And then he's all, man, I'm not afraid of tigers anymore. And then an elephant comes. And the elephant's cutting at him and he goes, ah! So then he runs away from the elephant. He's afraid of this elephant. So the elephant goes chasing the tiger and the tiger's running away from the elephant. And then he goes back into the ashram, all the monks are running away. He goes to the master and he says, I know I'm a tiger now, but this elephant scares me, it's bigger than me. And then the master goes, okay, boom, you're an elephant. So all the monks are like, oh, this is strange. He goes back into the jungle, the tiger runs away from him, he goes over to the elephant, goes over to the elephant, what's up? Then a mouse comes over, and the elephant runs away from the mouse, and the mouse chases the elephant. You know how we have that saying in America that mice, that elephants are afraid of mice? So, I don't know if it's really true, but this is what happens. So, this mouse chases the elephant, and then the elephant goes back to the ashram and says, oh, master, I'm afraid of the mouse. So then the master goes, and he's a mouse again. And then at that moment he goes, ah, I get it. By being the mouse, he's overcome the fear of the elephant. By being the cat, he's overcome the fear of the mouse, and so on and so on and so on. And he figures out that he shouldn't be afraid. But it's a process that he goes through, facing all these fears and always thinking that there's some other way. And by going through this full cycle of dealing with it, he eventually comes to the point where he figures out there's nothing to be afraid of. And it takes a number of steps for you to do martial arts, do your scuba diving, work on your job, do your meditation, move into the valley. And then you see by doing these things that you're facing all sorts of different fears attachments which are also fears You see that you're facing all these fears and you go through a process Process whereby you become fearless All right, and it works Very good. So thank you all very much. I think this group did very well. I think that you being here is excellent. You are working on things. Things are going well. I'm happy with how things are going, which is rare. So, you know, do your work, you know, go out there and do the things you got to do. Get to a higher place and you'll be happier.

0:25:13
Well, I'll be happier.

0:25:15
Good. Good.

0:25:16
Thank you very much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
