0:00:00
So, I know some things.

0:00:20
Secret things. secret things sort of secret they're secret if you don't have the awareness for them but if you are aware of these things then they're not so secret I know some things So I have a relationship with the Daixingtsu. I know them. I have an awareness of the energies that exist in these places. And I understand their characteristics, of the aura of these places. knowledge about what a dive experience will be like, the conditions. So a dive master or a sailor might look at the wind, might look at the current, they might know places, conditions that make it possible to have certain experiences. And I know things about places too, that they're more subtle. They're about the energy of places. For example, that's one of the reasons that I thought we shouldn't dive to Babylon, because I have a relationship with a place today. I basically ask the ocean, I ask the ocean if the conditions are good

0:02:02
for Mystic Scuba.

0:02:03
And that has to do with the weather, the terrain, and the currents as well. But it mostly has to do, primarily, with the energy of the place. Because if there's positive energy, then even if there's waves or current, it's still a good, powerful experience. So we've had some good energy, good energy in places. Because I know these places where we're hiding, one of the things that I do is I extend my awareness there. What I do is I send my double to these places. I send my double on the dives with you. Have any of you noticed that? Yeah. So, there was one time where I was demonstrating my double in a San Francisco seminar. And what did I do? I said, we're gonna meditate together. And I just got up and left the meditation. Like we started meditating, then I got up and I left the room. But after I left the room, I sent my devil to sit in the seat where I was sitting. And then what happened was the room still felt like I was in it, basically. So my enlightened presence was there. So that's something I do. I do that in some of the Hungarian sangha meetings as well. I send my W. And that is something that is a... It's an awareness. It's an awareness of a place. It's an awareness of the people. It's an awareness of where they're at, what's going on, so that I could have my enlightened presence be there to help them. So, I do that on your dives, even if you're not diving with you guys. And that makes your experiences have a little bit more of an enlightened awareness. It's a powerful aspect of mystic sura. When I can't dive with you alone, I won't be able to, if I know the dive site, we're working on stuff together, I'm sending my double. So tomorrow, when we're diving, try to be aware of that, try and see. So for all of you, you've all had exposure, you've had experiences with my double. For the American sonda, you've had at least one very explicit experience where I was talking you know I was teaching about the devil okay there's demonstrate the devil and I walked out and then that gives you an awareness of unlike Don Juan and Don Pinero I totally can't manifest a physical form, not at all. That to me is like, wow, really an amazing, amazing sit-in for them to be able to do that. However, the double that I learned from my teacher is a spiritual presence. So, you know, different, there's different types of devils. Some of them manifest in different types of forms. You know, a physical devil can do physical things, and therefore it's useful in certain ways. that my devil has are spiritual. They are dimensions of life. And they're only good for spiritual awareness, basically. So if you're diving too deep on the wall, my devil won't put air in your receipt. My devil, if you're in a high state of mind, my devil will make you happy, right? You probably remember it by the ear. You know, it helps with your mind being clear, but it doesn't do physical things for you. However, my devil's definitely active underwater on our backs. So tomorrow will be an explicit exercise for you to be aware of my double-plank back. Especially if you can get deep. If you can get deep, you know, look when you're deep. It's easy to see, maybe, 100 feet or something like that.

0:08:29
Just see.

0:08:29
Where's the Mars double? Oh, things are pretty great here.

0:08:34
Good.

0:08:35
So my double's hanging out with you guys. I have awareness of these sites. So I talk to the ocean. Talk to the ocean. Talk to the ocean about where we're going to dive. Talk to the ocean and see if it's a good, it's going to be a good experience. If it's the proper energy. And I also talked to the energies of the place. You know how I was describing a couple days ago that there was an intense energy, a real, like, strong kind of gnarly energy, and it's manifest in the wind, in the weather, in the ocean. So I have awareness of this, because I have awareness of this. Every awareness of the energy is the same. But I also have influence. Because of my awareness of these things, I have influence over these things. When we got to the island here, we got in I think a day before most of you guys, it was stormy and rainy. And the weather was predicted to have two days where it would be partly cloudy with 25 mile an hour winds. And then rain, rain, rain, rain, rain, rain, rain. So yesterday should have had rain. Today should have had rain. That was the prediction. Also this month, this storm system has been here for a month. Like when we got to Cobalt Coast, when the first day we landed, we walked to Cobalt Coast, and there was that British guy with the long hair, and he was like, oh my god, what are you doing here? And we're all, and we want to rent waves, and he's all, no! And the ladder was up, and there was all these big waves flashing, and he's like, it's been this way all month. It's like, there's not gonna be diving here. So there's conditions of weather, you know, the energies of weather that I have some awareness of and influence of. This is another set of power that I learned from my teacher. And it's one that I use very carefully. This is a big weather system. And you have to have a big reason to change a big weather system. You know, it's a delicate matter. You know, little simple things like cloud bursting or something like that, you know, a little rain cloud, be brighter. Those are little simple happy things. But this was a big weather system. This weather had been bad here for a month. We had, you know, Cobalt Coast shut down, rain, high winds. I think two or three weeks before we came here, Collie and Dharma were checking the winds. There were four to six foot or four to fifteen foot waves every day. There was a small boat craft advisory warning. It was a serious weather system. And, you know, when I have awareness of these things and influence over these things, I have to determine how things should be, what's right, what would work. So, we started off here with a very, very, very strong and gnarly energy. energy and it has changed, it's changed to the sunny, the sunny that. Today the conditions on Cobalt Coast were excellent. There was like I think just a little bit of current and just a little bit of waves and those are excellent conditions for a long coast. So that was fantastic. There's another thing about my awareness of weather. In San Francisco, Sonda, when we would meet Would meet at Ritz or the Fairmont did you guys notice that it rained? For a whole year it rained every day before meditation Did you know how blue that the the weather is something subtle. But it did happen. Every day, even if it didn't rain at all that month, for our meditation seminars, it rained. Rain clears things out. Rain will purify toxicity. So a lot of the Bodewood students noticed these things, but new students don't notice these things. The influence over weather is a subtle thing, but it's usually something that I will use to aid the dharma of my students, whether it's purifying the toxicity of auras or meditation seminar, or maybe making the energy and the experience on a place, on a winter solstice where we're diving more palpable. So it's a, it's something that I don't play around with. I only use it for times of dharma where it's right. And this is an appropriate time. An appropriate time. So, I have some interesting awareness and interesting influences, some things I have no influence over. And I'm subject to karma in the physical world. Which brings Interesting story. Wonderful, fantastic tale of adventure. So, today, me and Dave and colleagues, we went to Cobalt Coast. We went out to do our diving into lightning underwater salati for Dave. And it was really cool. We jumped in the water. We did a dive briefing. I asked the ocean, I said, so ocean, what about this underwater Somali? And the ocean gave me two thumbs up. This is gonna be fantastic. I said, all right, this is wonderful. This is great. The ocean gave me very, very positive thoughts. Very nice. So we jumped in, there was very little current, took our time, kicking out to the deep, and everything was okay. Now, I had brought with me an extra tank, an extra BCD, and an extra regulator. And the reason why is, I was, I have a, I know, I and Colleen, we have very good air consumption. We've done 200 foot bags a lot. But Dave's a big guy, and I bet he can breathe a lot. So I brought, I brought an extra tank on a whole separate rig, just in case, you know, just in case he ran out. I did this for Zen the first time we went down and did underwater Samadhi. Zen was all, I could suck up air real fast. So I said, yeah, okay, so we'll just bring an extra BCD. But on that dive, Zen didn't need to use it. So we just, you know, we all just, and Dharma was with us too, so we were just hanging on to it together. You know, it gives us something to hang on to in the water. You got to keep together. So I had this extra air. So I'm like, this is going to be super safe. We don't have to worry about air problems.

0:18:15
Cool.

0:18:16
Let's go. And we descended. And we did a really beautiful descent, just falling right at the edge. And it was like, you know, you fall for like 65, 70 feet, then you just go right over the edge, and it was just this real beautiful, fun, great fall. And Dave's ear seems to be great, I mean, he just was falling with us. And that is such a exciting thing to do, doing a deep fall. It's kind of like falling, we do this sometimes in the place of refuge in Hawaii, where you're just falling looking at the blue, and it's kind of like you're jumping out of an airplane and there's just blue everywhere. And you feel like, you're going down kind of fast, so you feel like the waves going across your face. And you're just sitting there like, wee. So it's like skydiving, but into the ocean. And so we fell to about 190 feet before I did the, and I told him, we're going to go 200 feet, and then I'm going to poke you in the third eye, which is going to be the underwater Samadhi. Now, my little trick, what I do very often, is I tell you it's gonna come up, we're gonna do an empowerment later. And you're all, okay, I'll get ready for later. And you don't expect it to be going on right now. So, we're gonna get about 190, and he was actually below me and his little crown chopper was right there and I was all, bink. And he went into a very nice state of mind. So there's a lot of different experiences of samadhi. Sometimes there's the experience of emptiness. And the emptiness experience is basically like, you're like going to somebody and then when you're ascending or if you're sitting meditation you open your eyes and some period of time passed and you're like wow I feel really good but it felt like a second passed but it might have been an hour or I mean it That's the absorption, dissolving emptiness, going into shunyata, emptiness. And then there's the other aspects of samadhi, which are kind of like feeling like a God God realization and awareness of everything in the universe. Just, you know, like, this total bliss consciousness kind of stuff. So, Dave was kind of on the bliss consciousness side, which is good, that's a more fun one. Sometimes you're in the emptiness when you're all, wow, I feel really wonderful, but nothing happened.

0:21:39
But nothing.

0:21:42
But no, it was on the blissful consciousness side, which is very nice. And he went into just a perfect state of mind, a perfect state of awareness. And that's what Samadhi is, where everything is clear. For him, everything was vibrant, everything was energetic, everything was shiny, it was kind of a pinnacle state of consciousness, just a real bright, blissful, clear, perfect awareness. So that is a fantastic, fantastic experience, really, really, really, really nice. And then, you know, when we got to about 200 feet, then I signaled him that we put air in our BCD, and he was still in that consciousness, but instead of just sitting there going, wow, he was like doing something, he was doing something. So this is the important thing about Mystic Scuba. Samadhi plus tone out. And so we leveled out at 222 feet. Wow.

0:23:01
Deep.

0:23:02
We were deep.

0:23:03
And then I put a little bit more air in my BCD so that we would start to flow up. So from 222, we started to just come up very slowly, close him on during our ascent. And then I tapped him on his third eye at probably 180, 185 feet. And before that, he was experiencing this perfect state of mind.

0:23:30
Then I tapped him on the third eye

0:23:31
because I wanted to show him that when you go down below 140 feet, it is so easy to have perfect concentration. You know, like when you're meditating and you're all,

0:23:47
ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, you know, like,

0:23:50
ah, I can't concentrate,

0:23:51
oh, I'm thinking all these thoughts.

0:23:52
Well, when you go down below 140 feet, then the toxic aura of the world is just not there anymore, and you actually get to see what your mind is actually really like without the impressions of other people. So if you wanted to focus on your third eye it is extremely easy you just go and your focus is perfect. So I wanted him to do to experience that so he focused on his third eye and he a very, very, very high state of mind. But when you focused on your third eye, you were really coming out of the level of Samadhi. And then, let's see, then we're like, great. And we came up to about 100 feet. And at 100 feet, and Kali was doing a great job, Kali was on the other side of him, checking his buoyancy and making sure everything was cool. I had my second VCD clipped in, like I had it attached to my VCD. And Dave was grabbing onto one side of it. And I was like, okay, this is great. So at 100 feet, we did a safety stop for about two minutes. It's a deep stop, and I just have been reading Dan and they say it's extra healthy to do that. So we did a deep stop, and then we slowly came up to about 90 feet. And then around 90 feet, I started to notice this thing about Dave. His feet were up in the air. And he was rising above me. And I was like, huh, weird. So I tried to get the air out of his BCD, and a little bit came out, and I saw Collie on the other side, then I saw Dave. We're all going to every single purge, and we're all trying to get air out and we got all the air out. And then I'm like, hmm, this is weird, but he was still playing around. Then we came up over the edge of the wall and Collie had to keep signaling him to kick down because he would otherwise be coming too far up. I was like, this is very strange.

0:26:27
Very odd.

0:26:28
And then we went down into the sand.

0:26:31
We were coming across the sand, he departed at like 75 feet. And Dave had to turn down and kick down. I checked his air again. There was no air in his BCD. This is not so good. Then we found this rope. There's a rope that goes across the sandy area and it goes to the buoy, the big red buoy. And so we grabbed onto the rope. He said, hey, come here, grab onto the rope. And we made our way across faster by using this rope. I said, well, this is very good. And the funny thing was, at that point I played Joe of Dave and he brought the rope up high. It was way down, but I was down on the ground because I was not positively poignant, but he was like pulling himself down with the program. So when we got all the way to the short wall, which goes from 60 feet to about 30 feet, I was sitting there thinking, we have a problem. We have a problem. And the problem was that Dave didn't have enough weight. He was underweighted. And I was like, okay, this is gonna be difficult. I've been in this situation before. And so what I determined is, I determined what we would do is we would go up the wall to 30 feet, we would kick forward to about 20 feet, and I would have to be yanking him, and Dave would have to be kicking down pretty much the whole time. And then I would have him grab onto my BCD, and I would hug a, um, coral head. That was my plan. I was just like, and then we'll sit there forever. and do a nice safety stop until we're out of air.

0:28:45
Then when, you know, but I also knew that

0:28:48
we were low on air.

0:28:49
Dave was at about, he was at actually less than 500 PSI. So all of the exerting, trying to keep himself down, he spent a lot of energy and he sucked up a lot of air. So 20 minutes into the dive, and he sucked a lot of air. So 20 minutes into the dive, and he was at 500 PSI. Luckily, we had our special, wonderful extra tank. And I was low on air too. Probably because I was trying to pull him down as well. I'm usually 20 minutes into a 222 foot dive. I'm usually at 1500 PSI, and I was about half that. So I was exerting extra as well, but I also didn't care, because I knew we had a whole tank. And two people on a tank from 60 feet up, you know, it would last us at least a half an hour, 40 minutes probably. So we're still holding on to that line. And then I give the alternate air source of the extra tank today. And this, the extra tank was actually on my BCD. So it's my BCD, my regulator. And so he gets the alternate air source. He breathes on it. And he, I point out that he's low on air. He's like, okay, cool. And I'm like, this is great. And then I switch over to the primary regulator. Now, before I went in, I had to borrow someone's thin wand to fix my primary regulator because it got smashed by a tank, like a tank fell on it and it's kind of broken. And I was diving with it, and I've had this happen before. This is one of the worst kind of breaks you can get on a regulator. What happens is the diaphragm folds under. So what happens to you when the diaphragm folds under is it lets water in. So you get air, but you also get water. So I put my regulator in my mouth, cleared it, and then I inhaled, and I inhaled air, but it fills my mouth up about 75% with water. And of course, I can't just inhale like an idiot, otherwise I'll start choking, it'll go into my lungs. So, so I have to inhale and spit the water out. Inhale and spit the water out. And I'm just like, I have another idea. So I looked at Kali and I was all, give me your alternate air source. So I threw my regulator out and I grabbed her alternate air source would be fine for the rest of the dive. I was like, okay, this is great. And then I was like, okay, great, now we can start going. So I wanted to go up to 45, up to about 30 feet over the little wall. And we started going, but then I looked over at Dave and I saw this problem. Okay, the problem was he was underweighted and when I let go of the rope, when I let go of the rope, we started to come up. Or he started to come up actually. So what happened was, he thought that somebody ripped the regulator from his mouth. But what actually happened was, he was positively buoyant with my alternate air source from my second tank, and he got pulled up, and the regulator came out of his mouth. So I looked at him one minute, or not even a minute, like 10 seconds I looked at him. I looked away for 10 seconds. I looked back at him, and I see him floating up and away without a radio ear in his mouth. And I was like, no way.

0:33:36
I was like, holy shit.

0:33:39
So I pulled my regulator out of my mouth, which was Kali's alternate air flow control. And then I put it out for him, and he did a great job. You know what he did? He kicked over to it and put it in his mouth.

0:33:59
I was like, yes!

0:34:00
And then, and then I checked our depth. We were heading up just a couple feet. And I thought, I need air. So I was like, I think I'm gonna buddy breathe with him, where I'm gonna take the regulator back, inhale, and then give it back to him. And then I thought, no, this is a bad idea because he'll inhale a large amount, he won't have the energy to kick down, and then we are going to ascent. So with bubbles coming out of my mouth, otherwise I could have gotten an air embolism because I knew we were coming up, I said, I need to get another air source. Okay, colleagues are both occupied. I have this full tank here with two things on it. So I went for my tank. At first, I was trying to get the alternate air source because I knew it wasn't a broken one, but it was tangled in the tank so I couldn't get the hose and pull it up. So then I grabbed my regular regulator that I knew was broken. So I put it in my mouth, cleared it, and then I inhale a bunch of water, right? But also air. So I'm getting, you know, enough air, but I'm getting a mouthful of water. So I have to purge it.

0:35:41
Then I look at the computer again.

0:35:44
Nowhere ascending. We went up another maybe three feet. This all happened in about 15 seconds. But this was a pretty intense situation. When I looked at victim if you didn't have And I saw him floating up in a way with no regulator in his mouth. I was like that's death You know I was like this is not a good situation And then I had to use my There And then we were we were going up so what I wanted to do was I wanted to kick us back down to the rope, because the rope led to the buoy. And then we could just go up to the buoy. So I was like, OK, I'm going to kick down really hard. So I go. So I turned down, and I started kicking down. Oh, no, I didn't. First I said, OK, I'm going to go up to plan number one. So I wanted to kick towards the reef, and I noticed we kept going up. And then I said, oh, this is serious. So I kicked down towards the rope. And I was kicking down the rope, I saw the rope, and it started to become more distant.

0:37:04
And then I looked at my computer,

0:37:06
and sure enough, we're going up. And then I looked over at Collie, and she knew what was going on, and she was pulling Dave down, and I went into turbo thruster mode, where I kicked down as hard as I can. I'm a pretty strong kicker. And then I looked at my computer, we're still going up. So Collie and I, I could see, are kicking down, and we're still going up. And I know we didn't have any error in the BCD. So I was just like, all right. I think I couldn't really see Day too well because there was my other BCD in the way. But I figured, and I was trying to pull down, so I figured that maybe he was in a bad position or something so I yanked him which pulled me up some but I yanked him to try to put him in position to help kick down. Then I could see his feet kicking so all three of us are kicking down as hard as we can and I look at my computer now we're going up. So first of all, we had four minutes of decompression obligation, and we were heading up. And that means that we couldn't take that safety stop. We were just going up and up and up and up. And I was sitting there going, we're totally hosed. Because I was like, there's nothing I can do to make us go down. Nothing. You know, I kick as hard as I can, I know he's got no air in his BCD, so there's no air to take out. Air's out of my BCD, I see colleagues, you know, trying to bring us down too. And I'm just like,

0:39:15
host, totally host.

0:39:17
And as we're going up, I see my decompression obligation going up and up and up and up. And I'm like, and it's bleep, bleeping at me, saying,

0:39:27
what are you doing, you idiot?

0:39:29
Don't go up, go down.

0:39:31
And then, and then we kicked and kicked and kicked and kicked 50-50 kick and I when we got about 15 feet I I said keep me told Colleen I was like I tried to look for her but you know because she was on the other side of my PC or something like that I couldn't see her but I was just like you should cut loose and sink you know because if you go above 15 feet, then that's when you're really out of the ability to do the decompression stuff. But I couldn't communicate that to her because I was kicking as hard as I could and I couldn't really see her. It was like a mess. And then fortunately, she got the message and she cut loose at about 10 feet and then she went down to do a safety stop. But I had been reading in Dan that the last five feet are very, very important. Like a lot of people get decompression sickness because they go fast up at the last five feet. And so I heard that that's really an important factor. last five feet. And so I heard that that's really an important factor in getting the compression surface. So what I did was I kicked as hard as I could all the way to the surface. Then we came up, I don't know.

0:41:01
Ah, it's terrible!

0:41:02
So we came up and I was like, oh my, I was looking at my computer going oh it's like I should have had like 10 minutes of decompression and I just shot up at a 200% that's like that is like boy I said and then I wondered wonder what it's gonna This is definitely gonna happen. So then what I did was I started going through all of the checklist of what happens when you get bent. I was like, okay, we didn't cast out, we didn't die. Okay, so we're ahead of the game. And then I'm like, okay, no nausea, no pain, no dizziness, no vomiting, I'm like, okay. Joints feel okay. I had mental acuity, I had strong ocular focus. And then I was like, okay, so no symptoms yet. And I look at Dave, and he had some blood in his mask, which is not a sign of decompression sickness. It's just that his mask was riding up. I guess I was in blood a little bit. I was like, oh, there's drug on it.

0:42:35
It's going down.

0:42:36
And I was just looking at him. He wasn't in pain. He was mentally focused. I barked out some orders at him. I was all like, come here. I was like, follow me. And he was just like, OK. And he was right with me. His eyes were sharp. One of the things that happens when people get bent is they look kind of like they're drunk. They're all, ah. Their eyes are glazed over. So both he and I had real sharp, that's one of the real keys, as you can see in people's eyes when they're getting bent. So no pain, sharp eyes. And I was like, okay. And then, then I thought, all right, this is very, very, very, very serious.

0:43:24
Very serious.

0:43:25
We're going to go, into the water. If we have any signs or symptoms of decompression sickness, we're gonna go to call 911 and get oxygen from the IV. And then when we got to the exit, we were all doing fine, we had no signs or symptoms of decompression sickness. So we just got out. I gave, Cat was there with a little like rolly bucket. And we put all of our gear in there. And I said, okay, we have no signs and symptoms. So more than oxygen as first aid, it's important to get to the chamber. It's like oxygen first aid for scuba diving, decompression sickness, it's kind of nice. You know, it's helpful, especially if you have to go an hour to get to a chamber. But I was like, the chamber's in Georgetown, it's like 15 minutes away. So I was like, let's go to the chamber. So we got in the car, we just walked out of there, got in the car, drove to the chamber, and then we went and saw the doctor. When we got there, we got some oxygen, so they sat us down, gave us some oxygen, took our pulse, asked us what happened.

0:44:56
And I'm all, we were diving! And we went crazy.

0:45:01
And then we finally talked to the dive doctor and she said, Okay, well, you know, if you make it 24 hours, and you know, without any signs and symptoms, then you've off-gassed enough. So we are in the process of off-gassing. And it's, you know, it's obviously a good sign that we didn't come up unconscious or dead. That we didn't have any joint pain or nausea and all the things like that. So that's, you know, so she said, yeah, you know, chances are you can off gas this and you don't need to go in the chamber. So, you know.

0:45:51
And then she asked us like what we did.

0:45:54
Well, we're down to 220.

0:45:56
She said, why?

0:45:57
And I'm like, I don't know. And then she filled in the blanks.

0:46:08
She said, where do you dive usually? California. She said, yeah, so you only have that visibility there. Here you just look down, you see 200 feet, you go to where you thought you were going, and then your feet. She said, who's your dive master?

0:46:24
And I'm an idiot!

0:46:26
And then I guess, actually,

0:46:28
you have a plan?

0:46:29
But she was really awesome.

0:46:31
And she told us about some good diving on the east side. What else did she tell us about? She talked to us about, you know, if you go down to, this is something I've heard before, you know, just, you know, you, you lose, whether it's in the chamber or underwater, you lose dexterity. And when you go down to 250 feet, people sometimes get so confused about where they're at that they think down is up. So if you go down to 250 you get so you lose so much awareness textile things and dexterity that you might just go oh I'm gonna go see it going down and you think you're going up and then somehow that doesn't get you back up

0:47:35
What do we treat?

0:47:36
So, she told us that, and she was really cool. And she figured that we would probably, since we didn't have any signs and symptoms at that time, that we're lucky that we'd be able to off-gas it naturally. So, that's what we did. Then we came back.

0:48:07
And we're like, yay, we didn't die yet.

0:48:09
So Dave's experience diving was very, very much like the things we've been talking about. Enlightenment and death. Enlightenment and death. I did that.

0:48:24
I did that.

0:48:26
When we went down, we did the underwater samadhi. Enlightenment. Perfect, clear, ecstatic state of consciousness. Where everything is beautiful. Where everything is balanced and wonderful. Where you have, you know, just great ecstasy. And at the same time, awareness, so they don't do something stupid. So that was really good. And then we had this other experience of death. You know, Dave said that when we were trying to kick down and we were coming up, he's like, all I saw was bubbles, because Colleen and I were below him. He's like, I saw bubbles, and I saw like tanks, and I saw some PCDs, and he's like, and I was kicking as hard as I can to go down, and he's all like, you know, and I thought, this might be it, you know, might come up and get bent and die here. So that consideration, that awareness is really, really kind of an intense thing. So it was awareness of enlightenment and awareness of death. Oh, one of the good things is he said, you know, when he realized that this might be how he dies, he's like, well, this might be it. And then he said that he was okay with it. Which is good, some people don't wanna die.

0:50:08
Some people wanna live forever.

0:50:09
He hated it. So, I'll go on the other hand.

0:50:14
We go crazy.

0:50:14
Okay, so,

0:50:16
you know, a very profound enlightening and almost death invoking dive. However, we did survive and we were not lucky. We were dealing with a hardship the best way we could.

0:50:53
We didn't make any mistakes sometimes.

0:50:55
Dave didn't make any mistakes sometimes. He actually did things really well. So when we got up, he was all like, oh, I thought you were gonna yell at me and say I did things wrong or I was in a bad state of attention or something. I was like, no, you were in a great state of attention. He did everything physically right.

0:51:15
But you know what the problem was?

0:51:17
There was one problem.

0:51:19
Not enough weight.

0:51:20
That's simple, simple little thing, not enough weight. So, Kali and I know how much weight we need to wear. We just know, because we have enough experience. And, you know, I figured that since Dave had been diving here a couple days before, that he had figured his way out. But what he didn't figure out is that when you breathe your aluminum tank all the way down, it's four pounds more positively buoyant. So, he, had he brought four more pounds, we would have been fine. But, look, lacking those four pounds, we went up, and we couldn't stop it. That seems really weird, that we can't kick down four pounds, but we couldn't. This happened to me a couple times before. One time was in Hawaii where we did a deep dive and we, Mandala was there. Mandala and I were in the shallows. We were at like 20 feet, but I wanted to do more safety stuff. We were already safe, but we wanted to do more of the safety stuff. And for some reason, she didn't take a little bit of air out of her BCD, and she started coming up. And so I grabbed her and started kicking down, and we went up, slowly, but definitely. But I wanted to go down, but I couldn't bring her down. And it was just because there was a little bit of air in her BCD, and I didn't purge the air out. I was just trying to get her straight down. And so I was like, man, that's a really strange thing. And at the surface, I checked to see how much air, and it was just a little bit of air, but it was enough to bring us up, and it was too much for us to kick against. Another time, we were here in the Grand Cayman, again with Mandala, and on this dive, she had a similar problem, trapped air in her BCD. And it wasn't that much air, but what happened was, you know, I, she found herself in a place where the feet were up, and she was trying to kick down, but she couldn't. So I grabbed her to try to pull her down. I dumped all the air out of my BCD, and then I was going up. Then Kali comes over and grabs her, and then three other people grab her, kick down, and bring us back to a safe place for a safety stop. And that was because of some trapped air. Not that much. So Dave and Kali and I had no chance. It took five people to hold down this little Japanese, this skinny Japanese girl, and with Dave missing four pounds of weight, you just couldn't do it. So, it's so important to know your weight. If you're diving 60 foot dives, 40 foot dives, and you notice at the end of the dive that you're at half a tank or you're at a thousand psi and that you're becoming positively buoyant at the end of the dive, that's fine for 40 feet. It's okay for 60 feet, but at 130 feet or deeper, you could die and it might not be something that you can control. So it's very, very, very, very important for you to figure out how much weight you need. And know it for every kind of wetsuit that you wear, all the deciding conditions that you go into. So if you wear a three mil here, you gotta know your weight, and you gotta realize, when my tank is out of air, I'm going to need four extra pounds. And I put those four pounds on. So you say, oh look, I can do a buoyancy check of the surface and everything is full. I need four extra pounds. It's better to be a little over-weighted. You just add a little more air to your BCD to get your neutral buoyancy. So tomorrow, I want everyone to do a buoyancy check at the surface. A lot of you guys will think that you're doing the buoyancy check at the surface because you're way overweighted. I'm okay with that right now. I believe that if you're way overweighted and you even if you're going over the wall, you can put more air in your BCD, kick up. But I definitely want you to be aware of how much weight you need, and adding four pounds to it, so that if your tank runs empty, then you don't become neutrally buoyant. So one of the exercises tomorrow is actually going to be doing the buoyancy check

0:57:14
at the surface.

0:57:15
Buoyancy check at the surface is where you're at the surface in shallow water near the pier or near the ladder or whatever, and you get it to the point where you take all the air out of your DCD, you inhale, full lungs, regulator in your mouth, just one inhalation, hold your breath, and you should fall to the point where the sea water goes right across the center of your mouth. So you should be like watching the sea go like this. If you have too much weight in your BCD, you'll go like this underwater. That's why you have your regulator in your mouth. Then you go, oh, I'm too much weight. You come back up to the top. If you don't have enough weight, then you'll just sink, or you'll stay at the top. Maybe instead of sinking to here, you might just sink to here. Then you need to put more weight in. I want to get every single one of you to the point where you put in enough weight so that the water comes right to the middle of your mask. And then you say, okay, I need four more pounds. And you put four more pounds on your weight belt. That's what happens when you dive aluminum. If you're diving steel tanks, you don't need four more pounds. A lot of times we're diving in aluminum. So if you're diving steel tanks, they keep their heaviness, even when the air is out. But very often in the Caribbean and Hawaii, we're diving in aluminum tanks. So you need four more pounds.

0:59:08
Because if you run out,

0:59:10
you don't wanna have an uncontrolled ascent.

0:59:14
Like we do.

0:59:15
So, tomorrow we're going to be very serious

0:59:18
about finding out what our proper weight is and then adding four pounds to it. Tomorrow I have a question. Yes. A big guy like Dave needs four extra pounds.

0:59:29
Do you think everyone really needs four extra pounds

0:59:31
or do you think small people

0:59:33
might need a little less attentional.

0:59:39
Well, if a small person takes in all the air from their tank, they will be four pounds lighter. So they'll probably come up and have it in control just as much as a big person. Okay, I heard that I have to take four pounds off of her

1:00:05
because she was overweight.

1:00:08
And did you do a buoyancy check at the surface?

1:00:11
No.

1:00:12
Start with a buoyancy check at the surface, see exactly what's perfect for her, and then give her four pounds. And that should, you know, it'll bring her, it'll overweight her a little bit, but everyone could, even if you only do four pounds of weight, if you have eight, it's not gonna be the end of the world for you, your BCD compensates. So the exercise, and maybe we'll have some weird exceptions, but the exercise will be to do buoyancy at the surface, find out exactly how much weight you need to be properly weighted. Add four pounds and then die.

1:00:54
And then we'll see what happens. Should be good, should be fine.

1:00:57
All righty, how exciting. So, all this talk about enlightenment and death. Definitely, we experienced that today. There was the enlightenment part, it was really awesome, it was really wonderful. And then there was the death part.

1:01:23
Ah!

1:01:24
And the death part was, you know, it was interesting because I really thought, you know, at about 50, about 48 feet, where I realized there was nothing I could do to get us back down, and that we were going up, and that we were not going to be able to do a safety stop. I was like, we're gonna get bent. So I really believed we were gonna get bent. And I had nothing, I did everything in my power I could to go back down, and I couldn't do it. I was just like, whoa, totally out of control, totally incapable of solving this problem. And the scenario looked like we were going to get hurt. And that was, you know, I didn't think we would die. I thought that we would come up with nausea, pain, you know, have to go to the chamber and have to be decompressed and hopefully not have any lasting

1:02:32
major experience as a result.

1:02:34
So I was concerned about that. Because I knew that we can control our sense to some degree by taking down. But Dave, for example, thought maybe this is how I'm gonna die. That's a really good thing to experience and live and not be harmed from. To face death so directly and to understand it and to see that you can't control it. But even if you do really intelligent things that work the problem the best way you can, sometimes you can't. So, that was an interesting situation. Now I think back to every single thing that we did, like the kicking down, the deep stop at 100 feet for two minutes, and every single kick when we were coming up, every single kick when I was trying to kick down, those things definitely saved us from getting deep compression sickness. If we didn't do the deep stop, very likely we could be sick. If Collie didn't sit there and try to pull us down while we were ascending, if she just said, wow, those guys are totally screwed, and just watched us ascend, then Dave and I probably would have got bent. Every kick down to slow that ascent can save you from getting bent. We did the rescue course just the day before coming to Grand Cayman. And Colleen had asked that question. She said, what do you do if someone has a runaway ascent and you can't stop them? And I said, well, if you're on a dive boat with some stranger, and you can't get off of them, then you do exactly what the video says to do. Patty says, you tell them to flail, you give them hand signals, tell them to kick down, and you just watch them go up and down. But then I said, but if it's someone in the sauna, then what you do is you grab onto them and you kick down as hard as you can the whole way up because you will slow their ascent. You could mean the difference between getting bent or not getting bent, or it could be the difference between them getting bent and having pain versus death.

1:05:39
Pain or death?

1:05:40
So, to me, like, you know, with you guys, when I'm diving with you, it's like, when I'm, you know, if you're gonna have a runaway scent or something, I'm not just gonna sit there and go, wow, you should've kicked down. I will grab on and I will do everything I can to slow the ascent, to stop the ascent if possible. Because otherwise, every kick matters. You can't just go, oh, this sucks. I'm floating to the top. You can't just go, oh, he's having a runaway.

1:06:22
I'm floating to the top.

1:06:24
And you can't just go, oh, he's having a runaway scent. What were you doing last?

1:06:30
Right?

1:06:32
Because then that person's going to be in real trouble.

1:06:36
Real trouble.

1:06:37
So better for both of you to get bent than for one person to get bent and die. Because, you know, it's like, what if you get both bent? You come up and you say, oh, I have nausea, oh, I'm dizzy, oh, I have pain in my arm. And you go to the chamber, and then you're probably fine. But if you don't do anything, and that person flies up and they didn't know what to do, if you didn't grab them and swim down as hard as you can the whole way, then they go up, pop out of the water with a dolphin, a respirator dolphin, and then they could die. If someone really doesn't know what they're doing, they could just float up, pop out, die. And so therefore, that this is the way that us rescue and dive masters look at things. We look at things like, yes, the first rule of rescue is don't put yourself in a place where you can get hurt. So they actually teach rescue divers, yeah, try to help someone down. But if you can't, if they have a runaway sentient, you can't stop them by pulling on them, then they say just let go and tell the person to try to slow down, to say, come here. But a lot of people don't have the, but then that creates a situation for that person where they could die and the rescuer just lets them go because the rescuer doesn't want to get bent. But if you grab onto them and you slow down that ascent for both of you, maybe you both get hurt, but at least one person doesn't die. Like when Dave, when I looked over at Dave, and I saw him with no regulator in his mouth, and he was floating up at 60 feet, I mean, you don't survive that.

1:08:44
That's death.

1:08:45
You don't have enough air in your lungs to make it to do a Sisa and then you also probably want to hold your breath so that you can maintain air in your lungs and then you get an arambolism. So that's arambolism and drowning. First arambolism, then drowning. So it's like, whoa, it's a serious situation. And so for me, the first thing I think about is not, this is my only air, and I don't know where to get more air. The first thing I think about is, he needs air. He needs air. And then I think, okay, now how am I gonna get air? By the time I finally got my air, I really needed it. I'm just like, I'm like all. But I was also blowing bubbles. And you know that I couldn't stop blowing bubbles. If I stop blowing bubbles, I can get an air movement.

1:09:47
So I was just like.

1:09:48
Blowing the final bubbles before I got my regulator.

1:09:52
And then I put it in my mouth and guess what?

1:09:54
A mouthful of water.

1:10:01
I'm like, oh, thank God for the area.

1:10:06
I was surrounded by water. So that was really kind of intense. But that is, that's what we do. That's what we go through. That's part of the path, part of the process, part of the adventure and all of this. It's kind of like, you know, when Don Juan was out with Carlos, and they were like going through the desert, and they're all, oh, there's a puma chasing us, right? And, you know, one of these things that we do in business is we go and do crazy things together.

1:10:56
But,

1:10:57
but personal power gets you to survive. Impeccability gets you to survive. And then you learn from your mistakes. We learned something very important. We need to focus on having the right amount of weight. Very important, especially for deep dives.

1:11:19
When I was taking my open water divers out,

1:11:21
like Sunset House and even Rock, they would go like this. They'd be at the surface, then they'd go down, then they'd come back up. Then they'd go down, then they'd come back up. And it's so shallow that it's not a big deal. But if you came down to 150 feet, you cannot just go back up. Huge problem if you go back up without going slowly. So we have adventures and we learn. Being underweighted on a shallow dive is like driving a 1988 Hyundai, doing a corner, right? Being underweighted doing a 200 foot dive is like driving a Ferrari and taking a corner really fast. The stakes are higher, are really fast. The stakes are higher with greater power. Shallow, less power. Deep, more power. So everything has to be perfect when you're dealing with greater power. So, yeah, so for Dave, you know, just not enough, he just didn't have the experience to know, oh, I need four more pounds for when my heir comes out. But besides that, he did really well. His mind was sharp, clear, he was responsive. Holly and I were talking about that when we were in the emergency room. We were like, he did really well. Didn't do anything wrong. Thought we were gonna yell at him about his attention. He said, oh, my attention was bad.

1:13:15
No, actually it was perfect.

1:13:17
And yeah, Collie did an outstanding job.

1:13:22
I did a good job.

1:13:23
It's just that, man, four more pounds of weight, otherwise, even if you do good work, you're in trouble. So that's equipment.

1:13:41
Equipment, equipment.

1:13:42
And that's one of the things that the rescue class points out, that a lot of times people die because of equipment problems. Equipment problems.

1:13:51
Now my regulator pissed me off.

1:13:54
I mean, why was it throwing all this water in my mouth?

1:14:03
Because it's broken.

1:14:04
But that didn't endanger me, because I knew how to breathe on it. But imagine if it were you, and you inhale, and you get your mouth almost completely full of water, and you came off a 200-foot dive, and you're trying to do a deep-dive. You have to be able to deal with that. You have to be able to say, okay, I'm going to breathe slowly so that I don't get water flying in my lungs. I don't have to spit all the water out.

1:14:38
I'm gonna do the same thing.

1:14:41
Kind of makes you feel like you can't get water, you know? Kind of feels like you can't get air. You feel like you're drowning in a way. But no, there's air in there too. You just have to balance yourself out, sort it out. Quite exciting. So, today was like, you know, the epitome of this whole solstice trip. Enlightenment and death. Fortunately, that part didn't actually manifest, and I was kind of stressed, but at the same time, it seemed pretty present. And then once we got up, and I knew that

1:15:17
we didn't have any symptoms, then I was like,

1:15:19
all right, we're on a mission to get to the hospital. And you should have seen me driving. I was all, I'm gonna drive all my life down to America.

1:15:38
I'm not gonna say anything. I'm not gonna say anything. I'm not gonna say anything.

1:15:44
Yeah, but that was cool.

1:15:46
We're all like,

1:15:48
We're going!

1:15:50
Then we get to the hospital, and then they're all like on either side. Hey, what's up?

1:15:56
Why are you guys wearing wetsuits?

1:15:58
Because we're BANNED!

1:16:00
I'm going to bed! laughter Where's the chamber, Daryl?

1:16:06
Fill out this form.

1:16:08
laughter

1:16:10
Daryl, have a seat.

1:16:12
What?

1:16:14
Put me in a chamber!

1:16:16
Then, Daryl, slow down.

1:16:18
Then I got, you know, then they're all,

1:16:21
slow down, this ain't the mainland. Oh, man.

1:16:24
Then we started chilling.

1:16:25
I had pina coladas.

1:16:26
So it all worked out amazingly. I mean, that experience was like, for me,

1:16:34
I mean, I've never had,

1:16:36
never had a descent that terrible.

1:16:38
It was just crazy.

1:16:39
Never had it that terrible. It was just crazy. Wow, how horrid was that?

1:16:47
So fantastic.

1:16:48
We had last time, that time when we were here with Mandala,

1:16:51
we had a crazy experience at Cobalt Coast. We were going out of the wall, and we were just kind of resting and talking about the dive plan. And then we're all, that boat's coming at us awfully fast. And I was like, yeah, it's coming right at us. There's a speedboat just coming right at us. So we're all, OK, wait, it's coming quick. Let's dive. So we had to dive under a speedboat. And then we went down the wall. And then the current was shooting us out towards Cuba. And then we had to kick against the current and then Mandala was floating up

1:17:42
and we had to pull her down.

1:17:43
That was a really fantastic dive because all the dive masters acted respectively and we all had the power to survive that. And then on this dive today, it's just even if you do things right, it's not going to work. You've got to have the weight before you go down. Hmm, I could have stuffed conchs in his PC. Oh, that thing looks heavy.

1:18:13
That conch looks heavy.

1:18:15
Yeah, so, that was exciting. Quite exciting. But boy, for me the thing was when I looked at him and he didn't have a regulator or stuff, and he's floating up, it's like, he's gonna die. And I go, I have my air, I don't need it anyway. It's just air. So, what I was saying. So Dave, it's important for you to keep this experience to yourself. Don't be accessible about this experience. It is a tremendously powerful experience, both the enlightenment part and the death part. to write in full detail your experiences of underwater Samadhi and your experiences of, especially your considerations of, wow, when I saw this happen, this was going on, I really thought I was gonna die. The details of what happened and what your thoughts were, because this is just a extremely, extremely powerful, powerful power dive. And it's the epitome of this solstice experience and all the teachings I've been talking about here. So, write it down and think about it and reflect on it. Reflect on your experiences in underwater Somali. It's really important to really look at that. Like I saw your states of mind, so I can explain it probably better, because that was your first time experiencing it. But really, you know, reflect on it. Think, you know, try to write down as much detail of your awareness when you're down there. I remember with Savitri, I don't know how many times we've gotten to interview, maybe it was her tenth time or something. And then she came up and she said, you know, she really was loving these wonderful, amazing underwater samadhi experiences. And then she said, is it like that for you when you meditate? And I'm like, yeah. Yeah, absolutely. So after having that experience, it's easier to have underwater. And it's also a special underwater experience. But after seeing that and having that experience a few times where she could see it once and go, wow, that was me.

1:21:09
I remember the first time, she was just like,

1:21:10
I don't know what happened. I guess I think I saw some gold lining.

1:21:15
And then after a few more, she was like, wow, this is wonderful. I remember after like three or four or five of them, I'm like, how was it for you? And she's like, I was happy.

1:21:28
I'm like, can you say any more?

1:21:30
No. Because we were writing, you know and diving in mystic scuba I'm like you have to actually use words to explain otherwise the book isn't very useful. But after a while she had enough of the experiences where she was just like oh you know she's made a connection between her first attention and second attention because when you go into Samadhi it's all second attention even though you have to have first intention to be a mystic.

1:22:06
Don't come back up.

1:22:10
But really, that experience of second intention is just so out of your description of the world that when you come back up, you're just like, how am I going to explain this? How am I going to remember this? I don't have a place to hear it.

1:22:26
I can't remember.

1:22:27
But after a few experiences of it,

1:22:29
then you start to go, wow.

1:22:32
That's super, super, super cool.

1:22:35
I mean, you knew it was super cool,

1:22:37
but you start to get a place for it. Like the first time you do sitting samadhi, you might just go, wow, that was really good. And then you just can't integrate it into your experience. But after a number of times of going into Samadhi, then you can integrate into your normal awareness of life. So Savitri has done underwater Samadhis enough to be able to have an integration of that Samadhi experience in her consciousness of life. and yeah, and one time she asked me, so is this like back to you every time you meditate? Yes it is, darn right, sometimes even better.

1:23:25
Just not as well.

1:23:26
And you can't die usually. I should take up this land-based sitting meditation thing. Oh wait, I do that too. But it's just, you know, it's like, there's something special about the scuba diving one. You're in tremendous places of power, you're, you know, you got the toxicity of the world way behind you, you just have, it's just, it's so, it's so amazing, it's so easy, it's so fantastic. So, yeah. But it gives you an inkling to see what my experience of life is, if you go into underwater savanna, or if you have a savanna experience. Clear, bright, happy, shiny, empty. Alrighty, so I wanted to tell you about our great fantastic adventure, oh my gosh, our heroine experience. Um, Alba, we're going to go for a drive and a walk. A drive and a walk. Tonight. Tonight.

1:24:46
It will be a short drive and a short walk.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
