0:00:00
I'm like strong.

0:00:02
So you're gonna lay it down.

0:00:04
I'm gonna lay it down.

0:00:06
So I was telling him my mouth job.

0:00:10
I was like... I like to be... I like to be...

0:00:16
I'm so awesome. I'm so awesome. You're also nice. I like the one with the...

0:00:30
I really like that one. I mean, the Buddha. I mean, the Buddha. It's actually nice. I mean,

0:00:40
you better say the Buddha.

0:00:42
I'm not sure if you're supposed to say that. I'm not sure if you're supposed to say that. I mean, it's actually a trend.

0:00:48
I can't help it.

0:00:50
I'm going to get the pearl. I'm like, okay, I'm going to get the pearl. I'm like, okay, I'm going to get the pearl. I'm like, okay, I'm going to get the pearl.

0:01:03
I'm like, okay, I'm going to get the pearl.

0:01:04
I'm like, okay, I'm going to get the pearl.

0:01:05
I'm like, okay, I'm going to get the pearl.

0:01:06
I'm like, okay, I'm going to get the pearl.

0:01:07
I'm like, okay, I'm going to get the pearl.

0:01:08
I'm like, okay, I'm going to get the pearl.

0:01:09
I'm like, okay, I'm going to get the pearl.

0:01:10
I'm like, okay, I'm going to get the pearl.

0:01:11
I'm like, okay, I'm going to get the pearl. I'm like, okay, I'm going to get the pearl.

0:01:13
I'm like, okay, I'm going to get the pearl. I'm like, okay, I'm going to get the pearl.

0:01:15
I'm like, okay, I'm going to get the pearl.

0:01:16
I'm like, okay, I'm going to get the pearl.

0:01:17
I think it's a good thing that we're doing this.

0:01:19
I think it's a good thing that we're doing this.

0:01:21
I think it's a good thing that we're doing this. I think it's a good thing that we're doing this. I think it's a good thing that we're doing this.

0:01:27
I think it's a good thing that we're doing this. I think it's a good thing that we're doing this. I think it's a good thing that we're doing this.

0:01:33
I think it's a good thing that we're doing this.

0:01:35
I think it's a good thing that we're doing this.

0:01:37
I think it's a good thing that we're doing this. I think it's a good thing that we're doing this. I think it's a good thing that we're doing this. I think it's a good thing that we're doing this. I was like, what the? I was like, what the? I was like, what the?

0:01:50
I was like, what the?

0:01:52
I was like, what the? I was like, what the? I was like, what the? I was like, what the? I was like, what the? I was like, what the? I was like, what the?

0:02:04
I was like, what the?

0:02:06
I was like, what the? I was like, what the?

0:02:10
I was like, what the?

0:02:12
I was like, what the? It's a very good book. I got a question. I got a swatch of my trees, and I'm like, I don't want to put that in. I'm like, how many trees do you have?

0:02:55
I'm like, eight trees.

0:02:56
Oh, OK.

0:02:57
I got a two-point.

0:02:58
Yeah, a two-point.

0:02:59
They're like, how many trees do you have? I'm like, 20.

0:03:02
So I just see the trees.

0:03:04
Yeah.

0:03:04
Yeah.

0:03:05
I'm like, I'm going to take a few trees. I'm like, I'm going to take a few trees. I'm like, I'm going to take a few trees. I'm like, I'm going to take a few trees. I'm like, I'm I'm I'm I'm going to have to ask you to stand down. I don't know if you can hear me. I'm very sick of that.

0:03:44
I don't know what else to do.

0:03:46
I'm just trying to find my own technique. I'm going to have to ask you to stand up.

0:03:51
I'm going to have to ask you to stand up.

0:03:53
I'm going to have to ask you to stand up.

0:03:55
I'm going to have to ask you to stand up.

0:03:57
I'm going to have to ask you to stand up.

0:03:59
I'm going to have to ask you to stand up. I'm going to have to ask you to stand up. I'm going to have to ask you to stand up. the the the the the the the I'm I'm I'm going to open it up. I like this one.

0:05:18
I like this one.

0:05:20
I like this one.

0:05:22
I like this one.

0:05:24
I like this one. I like this one. I like this one. I like this one. I like this one.

0:05:34
I like this one.

0:05:36
I like this one. I like this one. Oh, I'm sorry. Oh.

0:05:47
Oh.

0:05:48
Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh.

0:05:53
Oh.

0:05:54
Oh. Oh.

0:05:56
Oh.

0:05:57
Oh. Oh. Oh.

0:05:59
Oh.

0:06:00
Oh. Oh. Oh.

0:06:02
Oh.

0:06:03
Oh.

0:06:04
Oh.

0:06:05
Oh. Oh.

0:06:07
Oh.

0:06:07
Oh.

0:06:08
Oh. Oh.

0:06:10
Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. the the the the the the the the I'm going to be doing a lot of research on this. I'm going to be doing a lot of research on this. I'm not gonna... I'm gonna get a new sweater. I'm gonna get one of Tarvon's. I can go hard in the dark. I'm gonna get a new set of clothes.

0:08:10
Yeah, I agree. Okay, well, uh...

0:08:14
Okay. I'm going to ask a couple of questions. I'm going to ask a couple of questions. I'm going to ask a couple of questions. I'm going to ask a couple of questions. I'm going to ask a couple of questions.

0:08:44
I'm going to ask a couple of questions.

0:08:46
I'm going to ask a couple of questions. I'm going to ask a couple of questions. I'm going to ask a couple of questions. I'm going to ask a couple of questions. I'm going to ask a couple of questions. I'm going to ask a couple of questions.

0:08:58
I'm going to ask a couple of questions.

0:09:00
I'm going to ask a couple of questions. the the the I'm going to sit down.

0:09:25
I'm going to sit down.

0:09:26
I'm going to sit down.

0:09:27
I'm going to sit down.

0:09:28
I'm going to sit down. I'm going to sit down.

0:09:30
I'm going to sit down.

0:09:31
I'm going to sit down.

0:09:32
I'm going to sit down.

0:09:33
I'm going to sit down.

0:09:34
I'm going to sit down.

0:09:35
I'm going to sit down.

0:09:36
I'm going to sit down.

0:09:37
I'm going to sit down.

0:09:38
I'm going to sit down.

0:09:39
I'm going to sit down. I'm going to sit down. I'm going to sit down. I'm going to sit down. I'm going to sit down. I'm going to sit down. I'm going to sit down. I'm going to sit down.

0:09:47
I'm going to sit down.

0:09:48
I'm going to sit down.

0:09:49
I'm going to sit down.

0:09:50
I'm going to sit down.

0:09:51
I'm going to sit down. Okay. Q. Sir, I have a question. OK. Okay, we're going to go ahead and get started. the the the the the the the so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so the the the the the the the the the you So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. So Thank you. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, I'm a lonely man I'm a lonely man I'm a lonely man I'm a lonely man the the the you you the the the the Thank you. the the the So, I'm going to go ahead and get my laptop. the the So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. the the the the I'm going to go to bed. The limit itself is attached to relaxing, chilling out, not doing anything, playing video games, watching TV, messing

0:27:02
around on Facebook, hanging out with friends, not doing anything very hard, having pleasurable experiences. And those are good things. But not when you're attached to it. When you're attached to it then that means that's what you want. You want those experiences. You really, when you have to work you say, oh work is so hard. A lot of people don't like working in the world. They're like, oh work, work is so hard and boring. I have to go out and do something for someone else. It's a big terrible ordeal. They don't want to exert effort. They'd rather just be sitting on the couch watching TV. So this attachment to basically laziness and pleasurable laziness. A lot of people are very attached to this. And that's why it's very important to reorient yourself on the pathway to enlightenment. To really see that there's power in work, that you're selfless and you are able to say yes, okay, to your manager, even though your manager is mad, or be able to work with co-workers in a positive, balanced way, then you become a more humble humble and rounded, more balanced person. So through exertion, through work, you gain a lot of personal power and happiness. And the obvious American egotistical way is being a slacker who doesn't do anything and has a problem with everybody. Oh God, you told me to do something, I'm mad. That kind of thing. So on the pathway to enlightenment we have to recognize that there's impeccability and selflessness and effort and work. It's very positive, it's very happy, it's very enlightening. My teacher, I don't know, he probably worked on many levels ten times harder than me. And he was very, very, very hard. He could have just sit around, you know, he could have been sitting around meditating on a pillow or something like that, but he worked really hard. And that's because sitting around and meditating on a pillow is nice to do a couple times a day. But in the practice of Karma Yoga, it's very powerful, very beautiful, very spiritual to exert effort to get yourself higher, to succeed, to be brighter and stronger. So he was a Karma Yogi, as we are. So if an enlightened master will work on impeccability and selflessness and put tremendous effort into it, you should say, maybe I should put some effort into things. Maybe it's not so bad. It's actually very powerful and positive too. So, you know, when you find yourself wanting to be lazy, you're wanting to, you should say, no, let me not be attached to my old ways, my limited self, the pleasure-seeking, lazy self, and let me follow the teachings of Karma Yoga and exert yourself. You gain a tremendous personal power by exerting yourself in Karma Yoga through impeccability and selflessness. You gain tremendous momentum. And it's something that's really, really beautiful, really, really amazing. And if you don't exert yourself, if you don't practice yoga properly, then if you sit here with this group, you'll feel very uncomfortable because there's so much, you guys don't recognize how much momentum and energy you get from this practice. We actually are, we have a lot going on here, a lot going on here. And if you don't practice, then it's hard to keep up, kind of like in a martial arts class. If you're keeping up, you're working at a very high level of intensity. You're doing kicks and punches and blocks and things like that. And when someone punches at you, you're able to deal with it and learn and grow. But if you're slacking on your practice, then you can't keep up with the class. It's very uncomfortable. You start to get hurt and you start to have fear because you're not keeping up. So you should keep up. This is an intense study, but it's an intense study that's very powerful for getting you higher, more successful, and brighter. But you got to keep up. You don't want to fall behind. Recently there were a few students who were doing poorly in yoga, so I gave them a mandatory task. And only a couple of them did the task. The others are no longer here. But they contacted me in the past week and they tried to come back, but they really felt behind. They missed it. If I give you a mandatory, like, do this to stay in the study or leave, and you don't do it, you really have to be ready for that test. You have to be ready to do it. So they recognized that after they left the study, that there was a lot going on. When they were in the middle of it, they were just going, oh, this is hard, and what about all my self, my self, self, self, self, self. And then they were just complaining and bitching, as an ego does. But after they left the study, they recognized what was going on here, which is a pathway to enlightenment. A very very and and a fast path to enlightenment. With a great deal of momentum. With very powerful teachings. A very enlightening way. And these are the perfect teachings for you. The perfect teachings for you. So once they realized that they lost something valuable then they wanted it back. But by that time, they'd already been gone for a couple weeks or a few weeks, and they missed it. It's not possible now. They can't keep up. They didn't do it on time, and it's not going to happen. So like Don Juan says, the eagle of spirit, if it comes by, you've got one chance. So it's really important to recognize that this is a tremendous opportunity and it's not something to drop. And it's something to exert effort in your discipline. It's not a good idea to get behind. It's not a good idea to fall into trouble where I end up giving you a mandatory assignment. But if you survive the mandatory assignment, then that's good. I know what the assignment was, to write a two-page paper. And if you can't do that, I'm not going to let you back in. You really, really have fallen behind at that point if you can't write that paper. So it's very important to take this study seriously and to realize that If you if you screw it up Then you made a big mistake Then you're in then you're into your karma then you're going to follow the way of your karma and Karma leads to whatever Leads to experience Everyone who engages in this study at all, even if you come to a darshan, your life is elevated by it. So if you leave, don't feel bad. But if you want enlightenment, then you got to do what it takes. And these practices are what it takes. In attachment, there's really two aspects. There's attachment to anger, and there's attachment to desire. Fear triggers attachment very often, but there's not an attachment to fear. You run from fear. But in attachment, there's an attachment to anger. And there's an attachment to desire. And those are the two main principles that you have to become aware of and learn to let go. one say a traveling or a wandering Buddhist monk in the Himalayas who heard of a tolku. So a tolku is someone who was enlightened in a past life and they were rediscovered. So they might not be enlightened yet, or maybe they are, but they're a special being. And so he heard of this tolku, so he wanted to go meditate with him. So he goes over to the tolku's temple, and he sees this young man who is wearing fine silks, drinking rice wine, and fraternizing with women. And he goes, ah! And he gets upset. He's like, this guy is a fake. This guy, he says, this guy's, you know, sitting there fulfilling his desires. He's attached to his desires. And this guy's, you know, not what I'm looking for. I want real enlightenment. So after a very short time, when he sees, you know, all this opulence, he decides that he's going to go leave. And the, so he just, you know, gets up, says, okay, I'm leaving. And then the tolku says, where are you going? He says, oh, I'm going to a certain mountain, and there's hermitages in the mountain. And then the, the tolku says, oh, okay, let, let me walk with you. So the tulku just walks out of the temple with this monk. And the monk doesn't know why. And then they're walking down for a couple hours. And then the monk says, where are you going? How far are you going to go with me? And the tulku says, oh, I'm going to the mountain. I'm going to, now I'm going to hermitage for the rest of my life. And then the monk is very surprised because he thought that the tolka was attached to all of the things in his opulent temple. And then at the same time, the monk realizes, ooh, you know what? I left my begging bowl. So one of the few things that monks have is a little begging bowl. And they go, hey, give me some food.

0:40:05
He's all, oh, you know what?

0:40:07
I left my begging bowl back at your temple. Can we go back? And then the tulku says, I don't believe this. He's all like, I've left all those things, my temple, all this opulence and stuff, to go into hermitage for the rest of my life. And you're attached to a bathing pool. And so the tolt says, you can't travel with me anymore. And then he walks off. So, the monk was all pissed off, because he had all these concepts of what was going on with this other person. And then he realized at the end that he was actually, you know, he had an attachment to desire, then he ended up seeing that he had an attachment to it. And then the tolku just said, no, sorry, you're following the path of attachment. So that's a story that shows both sides of attachment. Now, there's another story of attachment to anger. It's a pretty famous Zen story. So when you're dealing with attachment to anger, there's this great story that illuminates it. You've probably heard it. It's very common. There were two monks walking along the path, and they came across this beautiful maiden wearing fine silk robes, and she was stuck because there was a big mud puddle in front of her, and she didn't want to get her fine silk robes dirty. So one of the monks goes over and picks her up. He goes, hey, let me help you. Picks her up, carries her across the mud, gets from the other side, puts her down. She says, thank you, and they go on. And then the other monk is like, oh my god, he's so upset. He's like, you know how many rules you broke? You touched a woman. And you broke your Buddhist vows. And he's just really steaming about it. And then he finally says,

0:42:55
God, I can't believe you did that.

0:42:56
And this is like an hour or two later. It's like, do you know what you did? That was so horrible. And then the monk who picked up the woman says, I set her down an hour ago and you're still holding on to her. And that's attachment to anger. It's attachment to anger. I remember after hearing that story from my teacher, maybe a week later, I was at work and somebody did something unfair to me and we had a bad interaction. And then later that day I was just brooding about it. Oh yeah, I used to be a wonderful brooder. I used to be pissed off and just sit there thinking about being pissed off.

0:43:44
I'm so pissed off, I'm so pissed off.

0:43:47
And I would play in my mind how I could have beaten the other person or something. And then as I was doing that normal thing that I had done so many times, that cycle of just replaying and replaying, how could I have done it differently, how could I have said this? I realized that I was doing the same thing as in the story. I was angry, and I was attached to my anger, and I couldn't stop those cycles of thoughts. I couldn't put it down, and yet it wasn't there anymore. So then when I recognized that I was doing the thing in the story, because in the story it's like, oh, that's easy, duh. He put her down. And the other monk, what's his problem? I don't get it. It's just like, stupid monks. But then when it came to me in my life, then I saw that I was following the same pattern, and I saw that, I went, oh. And then I was able to just put it down. So you might recognize these things in annoyances that you have, maybe what is that called when you're in traffic? Road rage? Annoyances when people are inefficient or slower, you judge things a certain way, right? That it bothers you or interaction that bothered you and you keep thinking about it, you're attached, you're holding, you're still holding the thing, the lady in the silk robes, right? You're holding the problem and you keep going over it and over it in your head. You got to just let things go. You have to let go of these attachments to angers and frustrations because then you're happy. But if you hold on to them and they're going through your head again and again in these cycles of thoughts, then you're attached to anger. You're spending energy to attach yourself to something that's very unhappy, very unpleasant. Now, it's always smart to work the problem and to learn from your mistakes, learn from situations. But that's a way of detachment. You look at something dispassionately and you say, okay, this problem came up and really besides me being angry and wanting to yell at the person, how could I have solved this problem? Oh, I could have done this. Okay, good, smooth. I can do that next time. And then you don't have to sit there and go through all this fighting in your head. So it's really important for you to recognize those times of where you're going through the problems, you have to drop them. Drop it. This is mindfulness. You have to be mindful and very aware of when you're attaching to anger, when you're grabbing onto it, when you're replaying it in your head. And you have to say, whoa, whoa, let me put this lady down on the other side of the mud and keep going. It's important. You have to be mindful. You have to observe your thoughts and you have to do something about your negative thoughts. You have to do something about your negative attachments. You have to let go of them. You have to put them down and move on. What you gotta do is you gotta do yoga. Put your mind into something constructive and drop the attachment to negativity. You can also observe it when you start thinking about it. Observe the tension in your body. Observe your shallow breathing. You'll notice that it's not just in your mind, it's in your body. It's very unhealthy. So attachment to anger is very bad for you. It's bad for your health, it's bad for your happiness. So it's really important to follow the practices of the study. Be mindful, observe when it happens, and then change your mind. Put your mind into something constructive. Do your yoga. It's very powerful. of desire, which for you guys is... you know, attachment to anger you guys exist with, and it just makes you angry. But your attachment to desires are very damaging. I think it's because you're in California. California has got this thing where everyone wants to be a movie star, rock singer, or whatever. Some weird desire. Everyone's got all these desires. It's a magical place. But you guys really are thrown off by your desires. Your desires grab you, or you grab them, and then you roll into a really negative way. You would follow your desires into a great deal of suffering and off the pathway of enlightenment. Your angers are not strong enough to pull you off the pathway of enlightenment, but your desires sure are. So it's important for you to recognize when you are having a self-desire. You say, yeah, this is my desire. Now, it's not bad to have desire. Desire in itself is not bad. It's how you relate to it that is bad or good. So a lot of spiritual practices of avoiding desires, right? So the Buddhist monks will say, oh, I can't even touch a woman. Woman in gold is bad. I think all the women here should get

0:50:10
like a gold ring or something.

0:50:12
They're so beautiful, right? You're all, yeah, woman eagles! Because then it's, you know, that's tantra. The opposite, you are the opposite. It's another path to enlightenment. But yeah, a lot of practices are practices of, you know, of staying away from desire, running from desire. And pushing off from desire for a little while is good because you get to actually stop your... you're kind of just getting pulled and you don't have a way of seeing what's going on because you're just following your desires all the time. So it is good to stop for a little while and say, oh wait, let me stop following these desires like I just do it habitually. It's good to stop a little bit. But really, the way to overcome desire is not by avoiding desire. If your way of doing it is avoiding desire, then you're going to get really stuck. Because when you're fighting against desire, you get stuck. You end up being a hypocrite. And then that doesn't help your enlightenment, it doesn't help your peace of mind. But then if you follow every desire, then you go off in the ways of karmas, and it doesn't help your enlightenment and your in your peace of mind. So the Buddhist way of dealing with desire is different than just avoiding it. In the very beginning, you need to stop it because you're just falling into those habits again and again, doing the same thing. Hitting yourself with a baseball bat. This will make me happy. So you have to stop for a little bit, and then you go, oh, I recognize I want to hit myself with a baseball bat. So you have to stop a little bit. But then after you stop a little bit, then you can use the Buddhist methods. Because desires don't stop. Desires don't stop. In fact, desires are a part of life. If you don't have desire, you're dead. If someone's sitting there without desire, you can just bury them. Someone's like, I am beyond desire, I have no desire. You can say, ah, funeral ceremony. Which we'll just do some more digging of Bodhi Woods and bury you. Now, you know, what one does is when recognizing that desire is a natural aspect of life, we want to align what we want to do with truth. And then what we want to do is something that elevates us and enlightens us and empowers

0:53:47
us.

0:53:48
It's a simple thing, right? You align yourself with positive, wonderful things. Yeah, simple. But what happens when you have desires that are not aligned with the Dharma. That's the trick. Eventually, you align all of your desires with Dharma, but you're stuck at this place where your desires are pulling you away from Dharma. You're stuck where the desires are you have to use the Buddhist methods to deal with desire so that it doesn't draw you off the pathway to enlightenment. So that you can learn about your mind and actually learn from your desires how to follow the pathway to enlightenment. So if you have a desire to do frogs or something like that. These are very bad things, things that will really draw you off the pathway to enlightenment. Then what you need to do is you need to practice the Buddhist methods of overcoming desires. I didn't state what they are yet, did I? So, essentially, what we do when we have desires that are at Dharma, against Dharma, what we do is we accept them. We accept our mind. We accept our desires. We don't say, oh, I have this desire, and then, no, I can't. Because that's when you end up being a hypocrite. So we say, I have a desire to do something ridiculous, like hit myself with a baseball bat. And then you say, I accept that I have that desire. It's very important to stop running from it, to accept it, to say, this is what's going on. I can't deny that I have this desire. I want it. So that's the first thing, you accept it. And then through Buddhist practices, we dissolve. There's this period where we go away and then there is nothing for the desire to stick to. Now how do we go away? Let's start with meditation. So when you meditate, for periods of time you slow down thought and for periods of time you stop thought, you stop the reactive self. You stop the attaching self, the grasping self, the self that wants to desire all sorts of things. So the baseball bat has nothing to hit myself. And you accept that. You can't fight it. You recognize that that's a desire. But in your meditation, then you go away and the baseball bat doesn't have anything to hit. There's another way of dissolving. And this is the way of recognizing the transience of life. Recognizing that this is a dream. This is an illusion. Everything that you want, a baseball bat. The baseball bat is an illusion. The baseball bat is an illusion. Your suffering is not an illusion if you hit yourself with a baseball bat. But the baseball bat itself is an illusion. There's a story of a man, he was a king, a great king of a great kingdom, and he had the fairest queen in the land. queen and the lamb. And his son was this wonderful, amazing, fantastic son who would be the next ruler. And they lived for a long time and they were happy and everything was wonderful. They just had the most beautiful place and everyone in the whole kingdom was happy. And then one day an army came to attack. They broke into the castle and they killed the son and they killed the queen and they ruined the whole kingdom and stole the kingdom from him. And then the king was outcast and he was very, very, very sad. He lost his whole kingdom, lost his wonderful queen and his wonderful son and he had nothing and it was terrible.

0:59:14
Then he woke up.

0:59:16
And it was just a dream. And he wasn't a king. He was just a normal guy.

0:59:22
Right?

0:59:24
But he was a Buddhist.

0:59:26
So he goes over to his enlightened teacher

0:59:28
and says, Oh wow, I just had this really intense dream. Like, in my dream, I was living this whole life in a kingdom. And everything was so awesome. And you should have seen my queen and my son. And he's just going on about how wonderful it is. And the teacher's all, hmm. And then he says, and by then this terrible thing happened. It was so horrible. This army comes to kill my son and my wife and then I'm out on the countryside and it was horrible, horrible. I feel so terrible about it. And then the teacher says, wait a second, why would you get so excited about it being so wonderful and then get so upset about it being so terrible, if it was just a dream. And then he says, just because that's how I felt. Then the teacher says, but recognize now that it was just a dream. So should you be excited and clinging to the things that you liked in the dream, and should you be sorrowful about how the dream ended? And then he goes, yeah, that's ridiculous. He says, oh yeah, okay, so that was just a dream. And then he says, okay, thank you, thank you enlightened teacher, now I'm going to go home. He was a lay practitioner. Then he goes, travels home, down from the temple into the village, and he finds that his house burned down, and that his wife and his son died in the house. And maybe his wife wasn't as wonderful as the queen, but he was, you know, kind of liked her. And maybe his son wasn't as wonderful as the prince, but he is still his son. So then he shows up, he says, and he walks over, and all of his friends and neighbors are standing around the burning house and he walks over and says, oh, what happened? And they go, oh, the cow kicked over the lamp and then there's a big fire in your house and then it's terrible, your wife and your son are dead. And then he goes, okay. And then they say, aren't you upset? And he says, no, because he recognized just like in his dream the night before, the illusion of life, that this is transient, this world is transient. Anything that you try to hang on to in this world, you say, oh, this will make me happy. It's going to change. It's going to pass away. It's going to go. This world is an illusion. So anything that you try to grab onto is only going to last for a certain period of time. And if you try to seek happiness and balance, spiritual balance, by grabbing for people, relationships, stuff, position, stuff. So if you're out there attaching your spiritual happiness to stuff, then what you're doing is you're creating unhappiness. You're holding self hostage because those things will never make you happy. In the end they won't make you happy in the end they'll go away. And in the end when you're losing your life at least by that time no matter what you were clinging to in the lifetime it's going to you're going to lose it. And if you're going to lose it you're going to be very unhappy So since he saw that in the dream he was able to understand the transient nature of life and he was able to deal with a terrible situation with equanimity. And that's the truth. You know it's like a lot of people would be crushed if if the physical things in their lives are destroyed, their spiritual balance is gone. Because they have attachment to physical things. But he was able to see beyond it and see the transient nature of things. So you have to see this life as really transient. And to recognize that enlightenment, cultivating a greater awareness of enlightenment, is what will give you a greater spiritual balance. One that is not transient, that whatever happens to you in life, you have greater balance. You can deal with the ups and downs of life better. And it doesn't mean that you're not going to have fun, wonderful things. So it comes down to cake. That's what desire is.

1:05:21
You're like, I want cake.

1:05:24
That's what desire is.

1:05:25
You want cake.

1:05:28
And there's nothing wrong with having some cake.

1:05:30
But if you're like, cake, cake.

1:05:32
Cake is happiness.

1:05:39
Who am I reminding myself of? Oh yeah, Victoria.

1:05:42
Cake is happiness.

1:05:44
Cake is happiness. Right? So, when you're like, Cake, cake, cake. Then you go out, and you go, Ah, there's my cake. And if you can't get your cake, you're unhappy.

1:05:58
You're like, oh, I didn't get cake.

1:06:00
Life sucks. That's what desire is, right? And then when you get your cake, you start this terrible pattern of cake makes me happy, cake makes me happy. Which means, if you don't get cake, you're unhappy. Cake makes me happy, right? End of your life, you're like,

1:06:18
I want some tea.

1:06:20
You're like, I'm going to die,

1:06:24
and I can't have any more cake. This is horrible. This is what desire is, right? Or you get a cake where you're all, that one wasn't so good. And then you get the best cake, the Andalusia cake, and you're like eating it, eating it, and eating it, and you're like, this is so awesome. And then after your third or fourth cake, you're like, it's not so awesome anymore. So your desires don't make you happy, they make you fulfilled for a short, transient period of time, and then it satiates. So remember the water drinking exercise in the Enlightenment workbook? Like really thirsty and then you drink a lot of water and then after a while you're like, I don't want any more water, oh, I'll just keep drinking the water. We could do that with cake. But it's true, and that's the way it is for all desires. Money, power, sex, relationship, position, never enough, as the Buddha said. It could rain gold, and still your thirst for riches will never be fulfilled. Desire is endless, endless, endless. So, you know, you're, you know, after a while, the cake's not enough. When you really recognize that you're, you're spiritually not filled by getting the gold or getting the cake or getting the relationship or whatever. then you recognize that I got to look at something. A mature spirit comes to say, I got to look not in the outside world for physical things to make me happy, but I have to look inside. I have to see that the other things in the world are really illusory. When you're looking These are all illusions. They come and they go. It's all a dream. And then that's why we end up in a disciplined practice of yoga on the pathway to enlightenment. Because we recognize that. You guys have been around for a while on the spiritual path. You wouldn't be able to recognize the value in the pathway to enlightenment. Otherwise you would still be out there hitting yourself with a baseball bat and seeking cake. But then when you start to look at life in a sober way, you say, I'm really not going to get fulfillment. I don't want to suffer. I'm going to do yoga. Even though yoga is hard, even though there's an intense pace, even though it's a lot of hard work, there's great intensity in this practice. But that's good. The intensity is powerful and good. It's helpful. This is a fast path because the ego would rather just sit there and hang out. Well, I'm just going to sit here and be comfortable. And then I say, push, let's go forward on the pathway to enlightenment. You go, ow, stop, ow. It's so hard. I'm being pushed by enlightenment. Because I did push you guys, right? Because I said, oh, you guys have to do something. And then you go, oh God, argh. Or I even suggest, maybe you should move to Silicon Valley.

1:10:10
And then you go, argh. Right? Ha ha.

1:10:19
But it's good. It gets you to reflect on life. It puts you face to face with your desires, with your egotism. And you really have to listen to the teachings and recognize, is this a limitation? Is this my desire? Is the pathway to enlightenment, is it enlightenment that I've experienced? Is it more powerful? Is it a better way to go? Will my desires satisfy me truly, forever, because enlightenment will. Remember those really high, bright, spiritual experiences? Beautiful light, luminosity, this awareness of just bigness, the bigness of life, life is big. Just unlimited opportunity, peace, that luminous happiness that you get from these powerful moments in yoga, powerful moments in meditation. Yeah, that's satisfying. When I look at stuff in the world, and I want stuff too, but I'm just not attached to it. So then I'm like, okay, wow, it'd be cool to have stuff. And then I meditate. And I'm fulfilled in meditation. So I find happiness in stopping thought. I find happiness in Samadhi, happiness in enlightenment. And then for me to go out and try and do stuff and try to get stuff, it's kind of fun. Because I'm not trapped by it. I'm not stuck. So I just sit there, I don't attach to anything and there's plenty of cows walking around me. I'm like, wow, amazing. Plenty, you see, life is abundant. Life gives you everything you need to be happy. Boy, you guys are so lucky. This is a very fortunate incarnation for the Kali Yuga. You guys are in a good place. We have such wonderful freedom in our political social structure here. If we were trying to practice in a different country or in a place where there's a lot of poverty, it would be a little bit different, a little harder in some ways, maybe easier in some ways too. That would be a little harder. We have great, great, wonderful opportunities here. You have so many opportunities, it's like desires going. So it gives you an opportunity. That's the land we live in. We live in a land where you can fulfill desires. So it gives you an opportunity to observe your mind.

1:14:05
Very good.

1:14:09
All right.

1:14:12
Why don't we take another break? I'd like to give you guys breaks. Just ten minutes or so, and we'll come back and talk a little bit more.

1:14:31
Next we'll do the cool thing. Next we'll do the cool thing.

1:14:38
Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
