0:00:00
Have you lost the plot of this whole thing is to some degree of greater enlightenment. Maybe you don't know what enlightenment is because it's just conceptual to you. It's ideas or something. And ideas don't really matter, You're in a condition of limitation, a condition where you have suffering. And that's why you're on the pathway to enlightenment. That's why you're my student. That's why you engage in yoga. The pathway to enlightenment, all of our disciplines, practices and observances, they teach you ways of being in life, ways of dealing with life that help you to be more successful and happy in life. These practices are the really valuable practices of living a life, living your life in a way of happiness and balance and peace. The study of enlightenment, although it is challenging, it's definitely something that you have to work on, it takes attention, but it teaches you things that are helpful for Yeah. A family friend today, a friend of my family's, passed away today. And I was up visiting him in the hospital last week. I saw him on Thursday. And he was, you know, he knew he was dying. He was just waiting to die. But he was reflecting on his life. He had mental acuity. So he wasn't drugged out of his mind or in some kind of condition where he didn't have his wits about him. He was very clear on everything going on. So that was really good. It's a good time to be able to reflect on your life. So he was dissatisfied. He actually lived a very good life as far as social standards. He lived a very long life. He had a family. All of his children were successful and healthy and happy. He was a, he made a lot of money in his lifetime, so he's very comfortable. He was very funny, very witty, and he was always saying, think positive thoughts. That was his way of looking at life. He read that in this book called The Greatest Salesman in the World. And it's a really good thing. And so he put that into action because he was a salesperson. He put that into action and then he kind of took that on as his philosophy. He also was a very giving person. For 20 years, he spent 40 hours a week doing volunteer work, helping all sorts of things, helping around in the community. And then when he's laying there on his deathbed, he was dissatisfied with his life. He didn't find satisfaction. He was very unhappy. He thought that there was something giant missing, huge missing. And it's true. There was something missing. So he was, at the end of his life, very dissatisfied with his life. He was really not in a good way. Even though, for normal standards, we'd say he did well with his life.

0:06:14
Besides his thinking positive, he

0:06:17
didn't really do a lot of self-reflection. He didn't work out his inner depressions. He didn't work out his ego. So essentially, maybe he was a good mystic because he could do sales and think positively and direct his mind in a way where he could succeed. That's positive. But he missed the central point of enlightenment, which is really undoing the ego. And therefore, when he's laying there on his deathbed, and he's being very self-honest, he found that his life was very, very incomplete. There was big problems. So, you know, I made him feel better about it, of course, but he had a good recognition. He had a true recognition that he was missing something. Now, a lot of people end up that way. If they do self-reflection, maybe they don't, but if they do self-reflection, they come to the end of their lives with a feeling of missing something, that something's not worked out. Maybe their karmas for that lifetime are worked out, but their condition has a problem because they haven't worked on their spirit. The pathway to enlightenment is a path to working on your spirit so that you solve your frustrations and your angers. You solve these problems through yoga, through reflection, through meditation, through mindfulness. And then you live your life in a way of freedom. And then when it comes time for your death, There's no big error. And you can be peaceful. You can be at peace. You can be at peace in life and you can be at peace in death. But at death, it comes to you. You can't hide from it at that point. You could run away your whole life, chasing desires, running from things you don't like, being adverse to things and fleeing from them. But when you get to a certain point, you're going to face your death. You can't run anymore. You can't run towards your desires, because no matter what you desire, it's gone and go. You're not going to get it, you're going to die. So at the time where you die, and you've lived your life chasing desires, you run into a huge conflict and it brings tremendous suffering. That's why the Pathway to Enlightenment teaches about dealing with desire while you're alive, so that you can sort it out, understand it, and be free from the adverse reactions that the ego has. And then you can live your life in a very balanced, peaceful way. And when it comes time to die, you're not going to be all hurried to be okay with things. Or fear, right? A lot of people just go, oh, I'm adverse to this, so I just don't want to deal with it. So they don't engage in things that would be constructive and powerful for them, where they would learn about themselves and their mind and their spirit. They just deal with whatever their karma, wherever their karma leads them. Oh, I want that, I don't want that. And they're not working on self-discovery. So then at the time of death, you don't want to die, right? People's greatest fear is death when it comes down to it. And so there's a huge problem, a huge conflict, and you can no longer run from that which you're adverse to. So that's why on the pathway to enlightenment, we face our fears, we face our aversions, when we're practicing yoga, when we're following the path. And they come up in all sorts of little ways. They can come up with, you know, fears come up very often when you're given a yoga task. Do this. And then you're adverse to it. You say, no, I don't want to do it. But this is why this is the pathway to enlightenment. Through your openness, facing things that you don't feel like doing, things that are frightening to you, things where you don't see a point, you actually learn things. You learn how to overcome fear through this structured path. Many things come up in yoga. Many things come up. A lot of things that you don't want to do, but you start to do them. Then you face things that have a greater fear factor for you. And then you face them, and you do them. It starts with doing stuff you don't want to do. This was the teaching in Hawaii. Do the things you don't want to do. Go to the places you don't want to go. These two teachings are so powerful for all of you. And they're practiced through our yoga with discrimination. So they are the proper things to teach you how to overcome your fear and how to let go of desire. At the time of death for you, you won't be like most people who have lived their lives in vain. I mean, sure, they've played out the karma of their lives, maybe they were nice people or whatever, but they haven't become enlightened. They haven't practiced deep self-reflection. They're completely trapped. Trapped in their karma, their karmas of fears and desires that brought them to their deathbed, that leave them in a state of confusion and fear and a feeling of unrest. There's no peace in that kind of death. Now, you know, a lot of people, you know, die without any self-reflection, and then they don't even look that deep under the hood. But since I was sitting there with this family friend and working with them on the What Matters Now, he had some very deep reflections. And it was good, because he got to see some things in a very truthful way, and then we got to work through them together. But, you know, death is going to come to all of us, right? And we live our lives like it's never going to happen. Live our lives like everything is going to stay the same, and you're going to get what you want and not do what you don't want to do. But someday you're going to die, and you'll be sitting there at the moment of death, and it's just you and your state of mind. If you've sorted things out, if you've understood yourself, if you've come to a place of peace, then you can really take advantage of the transitional pathways of the bardos. But that's like when you're, you know, when you are really transforming yourself. Most people don't. The family friend lived a great, positive life, helped out the community, helped out lots of friends and family. So social standing, very normal, but very good, but didn't do any spiritual practice. Didn't do any, didn't change his karma very much, just follow the karmas. And that's how most people live and die. But the pathway to enlightenment is very, very powerful because it transforms you. It transforms your spirit from someone who's got anger to a person who is peaceful. And then it changes the quality of your living life, and it changes the quality of the moment

0:16:34
of death.

0:16:38
The pathway to enlightenment changes you from your conditions of limitation, where you look at life in a more broad, beautiful way, where your perspective is luminous, where you see life as it is, brilliant, endless, bright, wonderful, The pathway to enlightenment brings you into a beautiful condition of being that is the truth, unobscured by your fears and your doubts and your confusions. awareness of life that is very good, peaceful. Enlightenment is the freedom from suffering. Even when you do things that are positive and you're having a positive time, you're on an up moment, besides the times when you're in a down moment, you're in a positive time, you have to see beyond it and push on in your yoga, push on in your meditation. Because it brings you to a condition that is so powerful, beyond the ups and downs of the mind. It brings you to a condition of spiritual illumination. Now all of you have had moments of beautiful meditations. You've all had moments of power. Moments where your heart and your mind were balanced and open and bright. But You guys can't hold a state of mind. You're just unable to maintain a high level of consciousness. You just fall back down into karmas again and again and again. Imagine if you can have your highest, brightest experience of luminosity and peace. And imagine if that was your normal way of looking at life. That is totally possible. That's something that comes from your discipline on the pathway to enlightenment. You cultivate these very high awarenesses, where you always exist in those high states of awareness. Like right now, it happens once in a while. However, when you practice, when you get proficient in meditation, in mindfulness and in yoga, it becomes your condition of life, your baseline condition of life. Imagine that, right? Yeah. It takes a lot of work, a lot of discipline, but it's well worth it. Because imagine if on your deathbed, you were in that state of mind. You would have this perspective of your life and your death where there's no problem, where there's peace, where you understand. So the pathway to enlightenment leads you to this. Higher states of being, higher states of illuminated consciousness.

0:21:14
Now the problem is

0:21:15
you guys can remember having high states of mind but you can't maintain those high states of mind and what happens is you fall back down into your ego clinging. You fall back down into your lower states. This is normal for a while on the path. But you also have to recognize that. You have to recognize that your angers and your frustrations and your confusions are transient and that the pathway to enlightenment brings you to the highest, brightest states of mind that you've experienced on the path. So when you get into a bad mood, don't just say, oh, this is the way life is, everything sucks, I'm going to do the lowest, darkest things that come to mind right now. You should say, wow, I feel really terrible. However, I know that by following the pathway to enlightenment, I'll feel much better. I'll feel really bright, really happy. I'll go back up to those really beautiful moments. See, you forget, don't you? You can't maintain a high state of mind. And when you go into a low state of mind, you don't even remember a high state of mind. It's like it never existed. But no, it did exist. When you get real serious about it, you say, wait a minute, I was meditating, I was doing yoga, and I experienced really bright, beautiful, powerful states of mind, and my being felt

0:23:04
good.

0:23:05
You've got to remember that.

0:23:06
You can't just say, oh, everything sucks right now.

0:23:07
I'm going to go hang out with my most loser friends that I've ever had. In fact, I'm going to go on Facebook and find people I used to hang out with in high school, who I had a really bad time with, and I'm going to find them and hang out with them. These are the decisions that you make when you're in low states of mind. It's true. So you have to not do that. Don't react. Don't follow your thoughts when you're in a bad state of mind. When you're sitting there looking at the pathway of enlightenment as an enemy. Right? Don't follow your thoughts. It's not a good idea. Right? Does it make any sense. The pathway of enlightenment is my enemy. I've had these amazing, powerful, transformative experiences, but today I'm pissed off. And the pathway to enlightenment is my enemy. Yeah, don't do that. I won't fight you for your life. You can, you know, if you want to follow your desires and your angers, then by all means, that's your choice. But it's a ridiculous choice to make. It doesn't make any sense. The problem is, obviously, that you forget the light. You go into a state of darkness, and you don't remember light. But see this is what you got to do. You got to really recognize and value the light now when your mind is a little bit more clear. And you have to say, wow the light is valuable. The light, right? The transcendental light, the light of enlightenment, the light of spirit, the light of truth. The light is the most valuable thing. It's more valuable than your desires for whatever. It is. I mean, you can reason it out. You can say, wow, I had these powerful experiences, you know, doing yoga and meditating and I saw the light and the light. This is the light of the study, where I made these powerful, positive transformations. And then you have to say, that is valuable. That's what's valuable. Is you going from a condition of limitation to a condition of freedom, from a condition of suffering to a condition of peace. You have made these positive shifts in the study by practicing yoga and meditation and mindfulness. You have. It's valid, validated by your own experience. And this is the most powerful and enlightening thing, is to recognize that you went from a condition of darkness to a condition of power and light. Now when you find yourself going, I want my desires and I don't want, you know, enlightenment, you have to really think about that. Say, wait a second, what do my desires get me? They get me the same things. You know what your desires get you. You've had them for years. They get you what they get you. They get you that experience over and over and over. And then that's the thing, you'll get to the end of your life and you'll realize it wasn't enough. It wasn't enough for your spirit. So you have to say, huh, if I play at my desires, it's not going to really solve what's inside. But when you look at your experiences of transformation, of power and light, you'll say, that is it. That's it. That's what brings you into a greater condition of spiritual peace and power, is those luminous jumps that you take in yoga So you have to recognize that what is powerful for you? What do you want in life? Because what you really want is you want enlightenment. Even if you decide to do it in a silly way, you say, oh, I'm going to go out and do some crystal meth. Even though you're going to go and do something stupid, it's something that you're trying to get to eternity, you're trying to get to enlightenment, you're just doing it the wrong way. When you're following desires, you're following desires because you want to be happy, you want to be spiritually at peace. It's a spiritual thing. Everybody wants to be happy. Everyone wants to get to the happiest, brightest, most peaceful condition. Everyone wants enlightenment. It's just that they go about it in a stupid way. They go about it looking at the physical world. I want stuff. Stuffism. Yeah, so that's what people do, right? That's what your ego points you to do. It points you to go and try to get enlightenment through the stupidest means. Because the ego is the stupidest person I've ever met. So it really comes up with the stupidest things. It's funny when people have problems, they come over to me and they tell me, oh, Sambara, and it ends up like they're following some desire. I'm just like,

0:29:32
Why would you think of doing that? But at the same time I take your suffering very seriously. And say, yeah, don't do that.

0:29:40
You see, Simbora, I thought that if I took this baseball bat and hit myself in the head with it, it would make me happy.

0:29:46
That's what it sounds like to me when you come over with your ideas.

0:29:49
Oh, I want to do this, and this, and this. And we're all, oh, oh, whoo. You think it's the greatest thing, right? That's because you're acting from egotism, from desire of the self. And it brings you to suffering. And if you don't recognize that, then you'll end up at the end of your life recognizing it, for sure. Because all of you who've practiced until this point will at the end of your life face life and death intimately, not just in some vague way. When you do some meditation, you start to become more aware. And because you've had these powerful spiritual experiences, when you face death, you're going to have some awareness. Which is good, because you get to learn. Being unaware is no fun. It's actually worse. You're way more afraid if you face death without awareness. There's no ignorance as bliss when you're dying. No, no, no. So you've got to recognize that in which makes you higher and brighter. And you have to recognize your limited egotistical ways of doing things. Now this ego reaction occurred after the solstice. Now let me tell you, on Holstest trip, I saw every single one of you. And I saw you, every single one of you, at some point, in the highest state of spiritual balance that you've ever been in. Did you know that? Yeah. trip, you all came up to a higher state of spiritual balance than you've ever been in. Need some of you smile too. There's always the Bodhi Dharma way of doing it. He's like That's just his way. So this was a very very powerful trip. And the spiritual culmination of the Mauna Loa tantric teaching and the teachings that we had leading up to that final day. Well, it wasn't the final day, but we were at the place of refuge, right out there on the point, and that's where we were letting go of karma. This was a very, very powerful thing, a place of power that really is kind of like takes your... you know in Christianity we have this thing, right? It's like, oh I sinned. Then you go, oh God please forgive me of my sins. Right? But the universe is like that. The universe does forgive you of your sins. And the place of power is kind of like that. A place like that. It takes... I mean, sin is one way of looking at it, but it takes, let's say, limiting karma, karmas that would hold you down, karmas that would lead you into a difficult experience. It takes those karmas and it transmutes them, transforms that changes them. The place takes and then it lets you free. So, and then I also have some Siddha powers for doing karma transmutation. So it's a very, very powerful event. And what that did was it let you free of some very limiting karmas. And then, when you came back from the solstice trip, you had a reaction of fear. You have to recognize where it came from. It came from fear. afraid of going higher in your spiritual practice? Yep. I don't know. I figure going higher is great. But you know, it's that whole, the devil you know, you like the devil you know, and you're afraid of, you know, anything else. Even if it's not the devil. It's like, I freed you of the devil. Okay, great, that's fantastic. What if there's another devil?

0:35:39
No, there isn't. That was the devil.

0:35:41
I'm just gonna go back to the devil. Right, because, I don't know. You know the devil. So what that is, is that's attachment. So you were, through your solstice trip, you came to a higher state, a more free condition. But you came back and you had fear. You were afraid of your new opportunities. You felt like your feet weren't on the ground because the karmas weren't holding you down. You take as karmas and you start to elevate. And so, because you were afraid, 90% of you started to practice attachment. Attachment to desires, attachment to fears, attachment to old states of self. You started to pull on things that you used to know, because that was familiar to you. You said, oh, maybe I feel like I should go and grab those things, because you were afraid of going higher. It happens. This is kind of a normal thing to go through on the spiritual path, but it's important to learn from and it's important to transform beyond. Because when you're practicing attachment, you're going to pull yourself back into karmic experiences where you're going to create karma, those limiting karmas again. And by practicing attachment, you just bring yourself into a world of pain. Attachment leads to suffering. So, 90% of you, not everyone, some of you came out of that trip and did a great job. And you know it because you're extremely happy. You're ecstatic. You see positive, powerful things happening in your life. And that means you did what the trip was supposed to do. It was supposed to launch you into a whole new karmic pattern, a whole new way. A way that's much happier, a way that has lots less problems. And so some of you are on that path. But 90% of you became afraid because things are uncertain, and you started reaching back into your old personal history and your old lines. You grabbed onto your old connections to people, places, things, and your old states of mind. And you grabbed onto them. And that's attachment. So attachment is clinging. It's clinging to people, places, relationships, things, stuff. Yeah, stuff. And when you cling to those things, your spirit cannot rise. It's held down because you're holding. And it takes so much energy to hold, but you do it because you're afraid to let go. But it's important to understand attachment so that you can let go. You can recognize that it creates suffering, that you can let go, and so that you can elevate to a higher condition. See, the higher condition that yoga teaches and brings you to is a condition that's happier. There's a greater peace, there's greater power. Once you ascend to that condition, like the few people who have followed the teachings of the Summer Solstice properly, you're happier. You're just ecstatic. Things are going great. There's magic and light and success in your life. And that's a good thing. You would enjoy that. But if you find yourself grabbing back down to the thing, people you knew, things you knew, you know, all that stuff, then you're definitely spending a lot of energy pulling yourself away from enlightenment, pulling yourself away from spiritual success. So a lot of you did that. You think you're the only one?

0:40:38
Oh no.

0:40:39
I know some of you are sitting there going, I'm the only one. No, no, it's the majority of you guys. Isn't that amazing? It's normal. I mean, this is why we have this spiritual lesson, so that you can learn this lesson. There is the energy and the power and the proper teachings, so that you can have this opportunity, so that you can face yourself, so that you can learn about your fear, learn about your attachment, and you can change and transform. That's what this is about. This is the pathway to enlightenment. Remember? Did you lose the plot here? Did you miss it? Yeah. And it works. It takes following the teachings instead of following the self. It takes the recognition that the teachings bring you to a higher, brighter condition of happiness, peace, and a more luminous, powerful life. And that the way of the self always brings you off to the left into some karma, but definitely never to a bright place in your spirit. Following karma will never bring you to a bright place of spirituality. It's a and Yang and me versus them. And it's a condition that constantly constricts life. So it's constantly, the ego is constantly self-defending, self-preserving, but limited self, trying to cling to things things so that they don't change, so that life doesn't change, so that you can always hold on to the same things that the ego wants to fix you. So the ego is this constant constriction of life and attention, and it leads to destruction. It leads to misery, smallness, darkness, and destruction. That's the path of the ego. So the ego is constantly squishing life. And this is the motion of attachment. It is grabbing onto stuff, attaching to something small, attaching to something limited, attaching to life's gotta be this way, attaching to I want this, right? And this is the spirit's way, that attachment is the way it grabs, the things it grabs onto, right? Ego grabs onto a line of attachment. You can think of attachment as a rope. You lassoed a couple friends that you want to have, and you're attached to them, and you're holding them like on a rope. Put them on a leash. And you try to fix things, and it's things that are really not fixable. The nature of life is freedom. The nature of life is change. And attachment always creates the opposite of freedom. It grabs things and it tries to hold them. You use your power and your energy to hold something, and it's not free. And also, you want things not to change. You say, I like this. I don't want it to change. I like that, I don't want it to change. Because I like it, I want it. But then, you're holding life back with your power. You're trying to stop life from changing. And guess what? It's going to change. It's going to change. Life is going to change. You can't stop it. All you do when you do that is you frustrate yourself. You make yourself miserable because you are affixing to things, limiting them. So going against life, limiting yourself, limiting them, going against life, which is freedom. And you're trying to hold things in time, at a certain point in time and space. And everything is going to change. So you just set yourself up for suffering. This is a way of egotism. This constricting way of attention that grabs onto specific things. That grabbing is attachment. So we want to let go. All of the practices, let go. All of the disciplines of meditation, letting go of thoughts, mindfulness, letting go of negativity, yoga, letting go of your selfishness, letting go of your sloppiness. These are practices of letting go, letting go of attachments. So letting go of attachments is very important. The way of attachment is the way of pain and suffering. And the ego thinks it's great. The ego is all, oh no, no, no, no, really, this will make me happy. But you know what? The ego is wrong. You have to come into a balance with life. Balance. If you're grabbing on to things, you suffer. There's a story of this this teacher, I guess a yogi, and his student. And they're sitting in a field, right? And there's these cows walking around, and they're just talking about the Dharma, and there's a few cows just meandering about them and they're like oh this is so great and then they look down a little further down the field and there's a man walking with a cow and he's got a rope tied around the cow's neck and he's got you know he's holding on to it so he's got the cow on a leash and he's like this is my cow, my cow, right? And he's walking around with a cow. And then the yogi says to his student, who's the master? And then the student goes, well, yeah, the guy, the guy, the man is the master. He's got the cow on a leash. So he's in command. And then the yogi, because he has his magical Siddha powers, he goes and then the rope snaps. That's the yogi's magical Siddha power. He had one power to snap that rope. And it broke. And then he says, student, now who's the master? And then the student goes, Oh, I guess the cat. So the stuff in your life that you want, the things that you desire. And you think that you have to put them on a rope in order to gain the benefits of that which you desire. And what you should recognize is that life is full, life is abundant, and that you don't need to put anything on a rope. If you just sit in the field, practice yoga, plenty of cows will just come on over. You don't have to put them on a rope. And this is true. Life is abundant. Life will give you everything that you need to be happy. You don't have to go out there and laugh through it. You don't have to go out there and put it on a leash. And when you go out there and put something on a leash, you think you've And when you go out there and put something on a leash, you think you've got it. But you know what? It's got you. It's got you because...




Transcribed with Cockatoo
