0:00:00
Alright everyone, we're going to begin with meditation.

0:00:07
So this evening we're going to begin the intermediate teachings. learn about Bodhicitta, the yoga of compassion. This is where we move from a focus, a spiritual focus, on the navel chakra to the spiritual focus on the heart chakra. So it's a set of higher teachings. However, it's necessary, before you can really be effective with the higher teachings, it's necessary to be grounded and have a powerful balance in the teachings of the navel chakra. It's possible to become enlightened, fully enlightened, with just the teachings of the navel chakra. However, it's helpful to have the teachings of the heart chakra as well. when we learn about Karma Yoga, when we learn about martial arts. All of these disciplines are disciplines of the Navel Chakra. And these are very, very powerful in the enlightenment. But the teachings of the heart are very helpful. And that's why I think that it's really good to learn as soon as you possibly can. which is about now. So my teacher taught mostly the naval chakra teaching. Mostly, the majority of his teachings. And a lot of people did really well with them. They're fantastic. They're awesome. And then he said, he definitely taught us the teachings on compassion. And he was like, yeah, compassion. And we also get bumper stickers that say, working on compassion. Working on compassion. We are working on compassion. I emphasize the yoga of compassion. Because for me it has been something tremendously helpful. Tremendously helpful. I remember when I received these intermediate teachings on compassion, I was a little bit bewildered by them. It was unusual and difficult for me to understand. But later on, they became very helpful and very useful for me. In fact, one of the students in the Sangha, from receiving the teachings on compassion, became enlightened through these teachings. He didn't even need to get the advanced teachings. It was the teachings on compassion that brought him to liberation. And a lot of you met him, especially older students, Ishvara, when we were in Hawaii. Ishvara, even in the intermediate teachings, became liberated through this method. And I remember asking him about it, because we were going through really intense yoga. You You know like when everything hurts and everything is the most difficult in the universe? That's when you're facing your karma. And karma yoga is about facing those hardships, the difficulties of your mind, and then being

0:05:06
impeccable and selfless.

0:05:07
Being positive and bright and doing a wonderful job, even though it's hard. That's what karma yoga is about. So if you're facing those really hard, difficult days, yes, that's why you're in Karma Yoga.

0:05:23
Absolutely.

0:05:24
Good for you. Congratulations. That means that you're really facing yourself. And we were in a yoga project with a lot of other people. And it was just hard, difficult, and our teacher was yelling at us all the time, like a good Martha. Oh, you guys are horrible. And then we, I just remember one day he was yelling and yelling and yelling at everyone in the room except for this one guy. He's all, oh, except for you, you are blameless. And I was all, what?

0:06:09
What?

0:06:09
What was that? That jerk? And I was, I said, he's from Brooklyn and a lot of aggregates.

0:06:20
How could he be blameless if he's from New York? So I thought it was strange and I asked him, what's the deal with that? He's like, I don't know. I just practiced Boise. And I said, you mean that thing we learned? And he said, yeah. And I was like, you really practiced that? He's like, yeah, I practiced that. And I said, oh, because I sort of practiced here and there

0:07:09
a little bit.

0:07:11
I think about practice. I go over the idea of practice. I didn't practice very well. Sort of like you guys. You guys don't practice. I mean you practice a little bit. Meditate in the morning. You work on your computers. But I think that the important next step in your spiritual evolution is really in mindfulness practice. You lose tremendous energy during the day because you don't practice mindfulness. This is your greatest area of loss and it's It's unacceptable. It doesn't work. So you'll gain some energy and light in your meditation. And you go through your day, and if you don't live your day in a mindful way, you will lose energy. You lose personal power. Then you sit down to meditate, and it's so hard. You get a little bit of light, and the next day, the same thing happens again. You spend your waking hours not directing your thoughts, not observant of your thoughts and your feelings and seeing where they're bright and where they're dark and focusing on the light. And when you find darkness, working the problem being constructive and heading into more positive and constructive ideas, awareness. This is the area for the Sangha, in your personal development, that you lose the most energy. You will have the greatest success in the near future from succeeding in yoga.

0:09:38
Your little computer programs.

0:09:40
Right? That is where you can have, you can get a home run and serious magic occurs from doing yoga. However, if you're not mindful, then you end up being negative. You end up being dark. You end up being limited in your awareness, and then you don't do such a good job in your yoga. That's where your selfishness comes in. Your selfishness, negative thoughts, undirected thoughts, dark consciousness, it ends up being a barrier to success in yoga. So, hopefully practicing more mindfulness exercises like the yoga of compassion, you'll be able to really transform negativity and transcend a lot of the bad, negative, limited, dark consciousness and thoughts and stuff that goes on in your head. And then you'll be able to more easily connect to the spirit of the yoga and have greater success. So mindfulness is necessary. The yoga of compassion for me was actually an even greater aid than my karma yoga for me to attain liberation. So for me it was meditation that was important, during meditation I became liberated, but my mindfulness practice, the yoga of compassion, was able to really transcend a lot of really heavy, nasty self-habits. And that made me more light, more bright, more unlimited by negative self-karmas, so that my meditation could really take off. So that's why I think this is important to learn. There's a lot of students from my same school who don't practice this yoga at all. They practice the yoga's power and they've also gotten the advanced teachings, Tantra teaching. They are more Kundalini yoga and Yama yoga. So they practice those I'm pretty darn sure. However, for making a lot of progress in getting rid of negativity that slows you down, that can obstruct your meditation practice, that can obstruct your yoga practice. The yoga of compassion is. First of all, for the current intermediate students, the yoga teachers, this is a different dimension of the yoga of compassion than I've taught to you guys in general, because I'm addressing mostly the people who are becoming new intermediate students. You guys have a little bit of a different karma, let's say, a little bit of a different dharma. Karma and dharma. So, therefore, this equinox is addressing you, because this is the opportunity to bring you up to the intermediate level and to teach you the yoga of compassion. For the current intermediate students and yoga teachers, it's really an opportunity for you to see a different dimension of compassion. And once you're already practicing it for years, then when you see a different dimension of it, it's kind of like a new martial art. You're a black belt in one and then you go to another one. Energy is a little different, the techniques are a little different. But since you're situated in your practice, you're able to pick up things from that. It adds to your mastery, it adds to your capability. So, yeah, so the older intermediate students you guys will notice a new dimension of Bodhicitta and this is the the way teaching The way of Avalokiteshvara. Avalokiteshvara is known as the Bodhisattva of Compassion. And Avalokiteshvara is an eons old enlightened force in the universe. And Avalokiteshvara actually never even existed in this loka. So old. So you know how we're reading like Ramayana and the Mahabharata. I'm heading down now. The Mahabharata. The Mahabharata. So when we are reading these things, we are reading about previous ages, so the cosmology of Buddhism, the cosmology of Hinduism, the cosmology of Taoism as well. we talked about these pre-vigilages. There were times before the karmic cycle that we exist in right now. And there were times where there were different races, like the Rakshasas. The Rakshasas, right? They're cool. And, you know, also the other little things.

0:17:16
Like Harman. Harman's a monkey. Harman's a monkey?

0:17:22
What are you really a monkey?

0:17:24
He's a space alien.

0:17:26
That's why we read

0:17:28
The Lord of Light.

0:17:30
It gives you more of a sense

0:17:32
really, The Lord of Light, of how it really was. Puts it into more of a sci-fi understanding. And I guess the Mahabharata and the Ramayana are a little bit sci-fi. I mean, you're reading about Pushpaka, this spaceship thing. It's like, it's an airplane with a castle.

0:17:49
What?

0:17:50
What?

0:17:51
What?

0:17:52
What?

0:17:53
What? What? What? Are they describing the Death Star? Or if you saw that, there's a great sci-fi, Stargate Atlantis. Remember when Stargate and then just flies through space? And we're all like, oh, it's just a star. Yeah, so there were flying cities and stuff like that. I mean, there's all this crazy stuff. So I like the Lord of Light because it puts it into a sci-fi paradigm. Because to me, it was kind of like that. And then when you look at it in the Mahabharata, when you look at it in the Ramayana, then you see it in kind of a different kind of folk tale context. context but they still have airplanes and all sorts of crazy like missiles and heavy weapons. So I like that context. But this is you know the Mahabharata took place in the age before the karmic cycle that we're in right now, the Kali Yuga. And before that, there was the Ramayana, which was kind of the end of the second age. And before that, there was the first age. And the first age was also very, very, very nice. So the universe kind of has these, this whole universal experience, this loka, this universe, has four seasons. And we're in the winter of this loka's disinfection. And in the winter, everything sucks, it's very heavy, it's difficult, and then millions and millions of years it will end, and then we'll have a golden age again. So that's kind of how it goes. So previous to this Loka, and also kind of parallel to this Loka, there are other Lokas. There's a karmic chain of events that happens. Loka after Loka after Loka. All of us eternal spirits go from time after time after time. The country might change, the world might change, the ages change, Democrats, Republicans, all these things change. Change we can believe in. So, we have all these changes, but time has gone way, way, way back. There have been universes and for that there was one, I don't know what it was called, so there's like just cycles after cycles. So there is this long time ago, there was this guy named Abadulkashvara, sitting around meditating in a cave, or whatever. And he was a student of Amitabha, who is this major Buddha figure, who was also never incarnated in this loka. But Amitabha was teaching him how to get to enlightenment, and he was on the brink of enlightenment. He was like, I'm just about to go into nirvana forever and be totally gone. We're talking about, you know, the highest enlightenment. Power nirvana, the highest enlightenment. So he's about to go totally into nirvana and just hang out there forever. But then, it is said, just as he was about to go into Nirvana, he heard these people crying and moaning in pain and suffering. So he, he went, oh, what's that over there? So he started to listen a little bit. Nirvana, what's going on. And then kept on whining and moaning. And they heard some of them saying, you know, we're happy for you. We're really glad that you're becoming, you know, everything. However, we're really suffering. And although we're happy that you're going higher, we're sad because we're going to lose you. So, so he's listening a little bit more. And then he starts to like, he opens one eye and peeks over at them. Then the second Nirvana peeks over at them. And then they're all sitting there, you know, like some of them are in a boat, and the boat's sinking. Some of them are in a building, it's on fire. Some of them have been attacked in a war or something like that. whole terrible things happening to people. People are getting sick, people are getting killed, people are getting in arguments, people are, you know, just, you know, going through, they're going into these worse, terrible, horrible cycles, people are becoming ugly, people are being abused, all sorts of terrible suffering.

0:24:10
They're doing the makeup bad.

0:24:11
And he's like, oh no, not the hair. You can't wear that tie to those shoes. And then, because of the time issues, he just saw so much suffering that he ended up saying, he ended up coming out of his high meditation where he was just this close to going into utter oblivion of nirvana. Poof!

0:24:45
Right?

0:24:46
You go poof and you become everything and you're pretty much. You fall into perfect balance, or ecstasy, and you just hang out there with some five cheap new beers.

0:24:56
Nirvana, man.

0:24:58
I've been there.

0:25:00
I mean, it's like a myth, you know, like a ghost.

0:25:02
But I just become that.

0:25:04
So, until I go and be part of Nirvana, I'm gonna screw all those suckling bastards.

0:25:16
I'm going to have chicken here. I'm going to smash them.

0:25:22
So he finally came out of his meditation and he said, Great totally enlightened Buddha who had gone to Parikrama and was sitting there going, huh? What? I'm not sure we're about to become enlightened. He says, yes, but I have compassion for these suffering beings. There are infinite suffering beings, Svarelka Lokas, and they all suffer. And if I go into Nirvana, then I just experience the most wonderful bliss for myself. I become happy, completely free of suffering. I become one with all things. But these people who are suffering all the time, because they lack awareness, because they don't know about enlightenment, because they don't have that connection to the universe, to enlightenment, to the one mind of being. They just are unaware, they're cut off. So I wish to stay out of their mind, so that I can help all beings come to the same realization and awareness that I have and then we can all ascend into Nirvana together. And then that way it's not just me experiencing it, it's all sentient beings experiencing it. And then Amitabha said, okay, absolutely.

0:27:17
I mean, really beautiful intent.

0:27:22
Really beautiful intent.

0:27:24
So then Amitabha went into a profound meditation of compassion. And in his resolution for compassion, he made this vow that he would help all of these beings, even though there's untold number of sentient beings across the locus, that he would help all of them. And even though the things that stopped them from enlightenment was just infinite. Like how many people have, one person has so many freaking problems.

0:28:06
And a whole bunch of people, even more.

0:28:10
Then you go to another planet,

0:28:11
and another loka, and just,

0:28:12
there's just, there's no end to problems why people are in suffering. But he vowed, he's going to, I'm going to help them through all that stuff. And he said, even though the Buddha way, the enlightened way is inconceivable, impossible for anyone to understand, he's going to help everyone in need. So that was his vow. So he's sitting there, and he knew a lot of people, he had an influence on all these people, because he was actually a really high and well-known spiritual guy. Over many lifetimes he had made many karmic connections, and in his profound meditation of compassion, anyone who ever met him became enlightened. Anyone who even heard of him and said his name, they became enlightened. And he was like, yeah, this is awesome. They're bringing all these people up into the light.

0:29:22
And they're like, pop, pop, pop.

0:29:25
Because he was tremendously powerful, had a tremendously dharmic vowel, and just the will of his compassion enlightened people. And then he was like, yeah, this is cool. And he came out of his meditative awareness, and he saw that there was way, way, way, way, way more people who were suffering. He saw more beings going into hell. He saw more beings suffering. More beings with bad fashion sense.

0:30:02
And he's just like, oh my God,

0:30:04
you can't wear white shoes after Labor Day?

0:30:06
You know, so even though anyone had ever heard of him, anyone who knew him, they all became so enlightened. He saw all these others who hadn't heard of him, all these others who had trouble. So even though he was able to, in his whole experience of being, enlighten anyone who's come his way, who's connected with his life, all the other people, infinite amounts of people, could have been. They could not become liberated, they could not become free. They experiences of ignorance. So then he went over to Amitabha, his enlightened, fully enlightened master teacher. He thought, oh Amitabha did his Buddhist magic. And then Avalokiteshvara is accessible So everywhere is accessible. Every dimension. Even in the hell realm, there is a way out through the connection with hell official. So Amitabha made him this universal powerful point of compassion. Now compassion exists as a truth in reality anywhere even if there is no Avalokiteshvara. It exists. However, Avalokiteshvara eons ago in some other loka had such an amazingly powerful experience of compassion that along with his powerfully enlightened master, he created an accessibility to his dharma across every loka, including this one. So tonight we're going to be coming into the way of Avalokiteshvara, which is a very, very high way. We are going to really follow his doctrine of compassion. So Avalokiteshvara then transcended to a higher level. He lost his physical form in that incarnation and became a spirit of compassion across the infinite universe. It is in depicted as a being that has 11 heads and a thousand arms. And so he went from just a regular guy sitting around to a thousand arms and 11 heads when he became this universal dharma of compassion. And this is a way of saying he's multidimensional. There's probably a lot of symbolism to it, but basically, they said that he sprouted 11 heads at that moment so that he can kind of see what's going on and talk to people. And he's got, let's see. Got like five layers of heads.

0:34:40
So first there's the three bottom heads.

0:34:42
There's white, red, and green. And that's the next one. Green, red, and white. Next one. Red, green, and white.

0:35:01
So red, white, green.

0:35:03
And then, he's got this... And, put that on my computer.

0:35:16
Oh, compassion.

0:35:18
And then, above that, he's got this demon face. This demon head.

0:35:26
Going, ah, ah.

0:35:28
Right? And then, above that one, there's the head of Amitabha. Which is a complete enlightened face. The head of England. Godhead personality. Right on top of all his bunch of heads. So, they've got all these beautiful, passionate dimensions. When there's many heads on a Tantra, that means that there's many profound dimensions, many dharmas, powerful, complete dharmas of enlightened doctrine. So there's different phases, like complete universes of compassion in each phase. in your face. Then you get up to that really angry one. AHHHHH! And I think that's more like me. Angry, pissed off, compassionate one. So, yeah, I am pissed off. I'm an angry, pissed off, compassionate being. on the top of, sandwiched in between all those happy and on the top of Godhead. So there's an aspect of wrathfulness in compassion. And I like that. So the thousand arms, actually the thing about the arms is they all have little eyes on them so they can see things. So that just means that in Buddhist stuff when they say a thousand or ten thousand, they kind of mean infinite. Infinite arms with seeing so that he can reach out anywhere and have the awareness to see and the capability to do something about it with his enlightenment. That's the passion. It's like once it happens. A lot of you don't know what that is. is the really greatest and highest dharma of compassion in the universe. Maybe set aside from direct knowledge of complete compassion by itself. by the most profound experience of compassion out of any enlightened person in many, many, many, many, many eons and lokas and universe cycles and yugas. So this is a way of understanding, it's a way of enlightened being and it's a way that we will enter, we will learn the discipline and we will engage in this practice.

0:39:46
Pretty fantastic.

0:39:50
So, compassion is really what Avalokiteshvara did. Avalokiteshvara heard the suffering of others, became aware that others suffer. And Avalokiteshvara decided to do something about it, to put that care real. So love is simply caring about another person's well-being more than you care about your own. It's a total and complete selflessness. And that selflessness is mandatory. That's one of the parts of compassion. You've got to care about someone else more than you care about yourself. I know it sounds hard. But after practicing compassion, you learn this way. You grow in this way of selflessness. So that's an extremely important aspect of compassion is the ability to really truly be and completely selfless. To experience love. And the way that we have built into our societal views of love and compassion is all this mushy stuff. Romantic, when you think of Disney movies, you probably have all these weird ideas too. Compassion is not so mushy. It's not so mushy. It's powerful. That's what I would say. Love is powerful, but compassion is love that rolls up its sleeves and gets to work. Compassion is love that does something. But in order to have that selfless desire to help someone with their suffering, to be more concerned about another's well-being than your own, you have to also have the first thing that he did, he meditated, Oh, I see people, I hear people, I see people. You have to be able to recognize that others have suffering. This is the first part of learning compassion. So a lot of people just really disregard other people. They don't even think, they have no care for a regular person. They might once in a while see a loved one or a friend or a family member go through a hard time and go, oh, look, they're having a hard time. Here's a beard. Or something, right? So they sometimes get through that. However, it's very important to really identify that people suffer. So you know the golden rule? Golden rule of probably all religions? There's some compassion in it. It's don't do to people, don't do to other people what you wouldn't want them to do to you. So you're like, oh, I'm going to smack that guy.

0:44:07
Wait, I wouldn't want him to smack me.

0:44:09
I'm not going to smack him.

0:44:13
Or I think in Christianity, they kind of change it around. And they're like, do stuff to other people that you would want people to do to you. Here's some money. Here's my car keys. I don't know, I think those are good. But I would say that the awareness of compassion is the most golden of the golden rule. It's an awareness. It's an awareness of other people's suffering. When you have an awareness of other people's suffering, won't do certain things, and you will do certain things. And it falls into bounds. You can argue with the golden rule, the syntax of it. And it's a rule, so you might as well break it. That's why compassionism is a rule.

0:45:32
Compassionism is an awareness.

0:45:35
So there's certain things to do and certain things not to do in the awareness of compassion. But it all starts with awareness. So if you're just following the goal, then you really might not do something. Do something? Might not do something. compassion you actually become more aware of what to do, what the dharma is to do when you are dealing with other people. In awareness, in compassion, in the yoga of compassion, Virtue grows and selfishness diminishes. The self diminishes. So when you're looking at another person, you're aware, you become aware that this person suffers. And in the awareness of someone suffering, your spirit becomes brighter and your selfishness becomes less. Just because of that awareness. This is in the doctrine of Avogadro's Pharma. It's a powerful thing. I remember when I was a kid, I think I was like six or eight or something. No, yeah, I wasn't six. I think I was eight or nine. I was at my second church, and I liked my church. It was all cool, and I was all Christian. And then I remember my preacher, you know, doing the whole golden rule sermon, called Golden Rule Sermon and the Good Samaritan story. So the Good Samaritan story is there is this one guy who is off on the side of the road who got beaten up and robbed and just hurt at the side of the road. And then there's this Samaritan. I think it was a Jewish guy with her, you know, American going by. And first of all, you know, they could all tell what race they were, or where they're from, or something like that. And Samaritans were like kind of enemies of the Jews or something like that. So they were actually really on different sides of getting a damn about each other. And the Samaritans saw that this person was beaten and other lots of people were going by. So the good Samaritan went over and helped the guy out. He said, oh, I'll help you stop your bleeding, let me clean you up, let me give you some food, let me get you some clothing, get you on a horse, whatever, help you out. Here's a beer. So that's the good Samaritan story. I was like, that is awesome. I love that story. It was my first great part. And it was great. Now I remember being so inspired by it. I was like, wow. And I was just a teeny little kid. And I thought, I want to make up some air. It was a really nice book. It was cool. And then, after the service, then we had this thing called coffee hour where we all went to this big room and people drank coffee and we had cakes and stuff. I played around with the kids and it was really fun, having a good time, and everyone was having a good, happy, Christian time. And then coffee hour was over and we all just kind of walked out of the church. We didn't have a parking lot so everyone was walking up to go to their cars that are parked on the street. And so here's our church in the middle of the street. And then just kind of down in the corner, first thing I notice, I walk out and I see this guy. He was like a homeless guy. And he was like just kind of curled up,

0:49:59
splat on the ground.

0:50:00
Actually, then I walked over to him, because he looked a mess. And I think he had a bottle of alcohol kind of like in his hands, spilling on him. And he was kind of like down. He looked beat up too, I remember. So he looked like he had some cuts on his face, holding a bottle of alcohol that kind of spilled all over him. Dirty, nasty, and he's all,

0:50:33
uh, blah, blah, blah.

0:50:35
So he's kind of like muttering garbage.

0:50:37
And my mother comes over and goes,

0:50:38
no, get away from him.

0:50:40
Hey mom, oh yeah, I forgot,

0:50:42
I forgot about the good Samaritan thing.

0:50:45
She goes, come on, we gotta go.

0:50:46
I go, what about the good Samaritan thing?

0:50:55
She's all, well, that guy is harmful, he's crazy, and he might hurt you. I'm all, oh, that's cool. And then I started, I was walking by the car, looking back at him, and I was noticing everybody was walking out of the church. Tons of people walking right by me. And I was like, huh.

0:51:18
To church.

0:51:20
Didn't we just hear something that was useful? And I also remember watching my Sunday school teacher walk by me. So then next Sunday, go to church hall. Hey, Sunday school teacher.

0:51:38
Hey Sunday School teacher!

0:51:40
Hey!

0:51:42
You know that really cool story?

0:51:44
That it's in there?

0:51:46
Yeah, it's a pretty great story.

0:51:48
You should be like that someday.

0:51:50
I'd be like that.

0:51:52
What about that homeless guy you want high-fived?

0:51:54
I was asking about that. I was like, you know, we all heard this story. And it was really cool. He's like, yeah, it was really cool. But then we all walked out of church and there was that homeless guy walking right there. He's all, what? What homeless guy? I was like, yeah, you walked right by him. I'm like, didn't you notice him?

0:52:10
He's like, no.

0:52:12
And I'm like, you didn't even notice that guy? And he walked right by him. He's like, uh, no. And I was like, that's really weird. I thought it was really strange. I thought it was very strange. That was something that was very confusing to me for a while. I was like, what are these guys talking about? Because they don't seem to be doing anything about what they're talking about. But that is what most people do. Most people will read a good book, hear the Dalai Lama say something nice, hear something from the Nazi Pope.

0:52:50
Or something like that.

0:52:51
I don't know.

0:52:52
I don't know.

0:52:53
I don't know.

0:52:54
It sounds like South Park gets a stand.

0:52:55
The Nazi Pope, right?

0:52:57
He should do something,

0:52:58
because the Pope was a Nazi.

0:53:00
Or he was German. I forgot.

0:53:03
I didn't know.

0:53:03
Somehow I got this Nazi Pope in my head. So, you know, you hear these good things,

0:53:09
or you hear this story or something, but then you don't do anything about it. It reminds me of your mindfulness practice. And in the mindfulness practice in compassion, it's actually important to do something about

0:53:36
it.

0:53:37
to actually practice it, not just hear about it and say, oh, that's kind of cool, and then not practice it. It begins with awareness, awareness. And instead of talking the talk, we walk the walk, as they say, but with the discipline of compassion. Awareness of the other people and then the awareness of other people suffering and then the kind of awareness of love, a consideration of wanting their well-being and that's the focus, not your well-being, the focus is their well-being. And then, the third part is, rolling up your sleeves and doing something about it. Those are the three components of compassion. Awareness is the first and most important step To realize that all beings every being

0:54:57
Dogs, cats, monkeys, sea otters

0:55:01
people chicken All want to be happy They all want to be out of suffering. Just like you. Yet, they find themselves unhappy and in suffering. Just like you. You know where they're coming from. You experience that yourself. But when you recognize that all beings experience this, then you start to lift the veil of selfishness. Your awareness expands once you recognize when you're dealing with anybody, looking at anyone, that they want to be happy, but they're suffering, and they have potential suffering, and karmas that are going to make it even worse coming up. So it's like, every time you're engaging with people, considering people, you have to be aware that just like you, they want to be happy. But just like you, for whatever reasons, comments, ignorance, they find themselves stuck. They find themselves unhappy. This is important. It changes the way that you perceive life. Instead of perceiving life in a way of self-reflection, you open your awareness to see the suffering of others. It's kind of like, you know, how the horse might go along with the blinders and then eventually you get rid of the blinders. It's a lifting of the veil of self-reflection. And it's an important thing that you do. You have to really start to consider, be mindful when you're dealing with people, you should just be like, oh, I'm talking to a new person, and start looking and saying, I'm in a creepy way. But when you're dealing with people, you have to be like, wow, this person wants to be happy. And yet, for all sorts of reasons, they find themselves in suffering. Simple thing, it's a simple thing to consider, but it's a consideration that you need to put into practice. It's a very transformative consideration because it opens your awareness field. Just by considering another person's happiness and another person's suffering, it stops you from self-reflection and it opens you to a condition where you can actually do something. But if you never look at the suffering of others, then you never will see reason to give a shit.

0:58:21
You're like, I don't know.

0:58:22
You're like, I'm suffering. Me, me, me, me, me. You're always in self-reflection.

0:58:30
Family included?

0:58:32
Oh yeah. Family included.

0:58:35
Are you kidding?

0:58:36
Of course family. Family is a really, really, really good way of looking at your karma. It's very often challenging, but it's a karma that you can't run from.

0:59:02
It's a karma that is really true.

0:59:04
You were born there. What can get more karma than that? You were born in that mess.

0:59:12
You can't hide from that crap. Yeah, so, you know, and also when you're when you're given a situation with a person, or especially with family, you know, maybe you're getting coffee at Starbucks, right? Or maybe you're dealing with your your mother. In either situation, you have an ongoing relationship with, a karma, a mother, or just maybe friends or something like that that you're constantly with, there is a lesson for you. The Starbucks lesson might be a simple one. You're like, oh, look, I don't know anything about this person, except for I know they want to be happy and I know that they have some suffering. You become more aware of their suffering. Your awareness opens. Otherwise you have self-reflection and ignorance. I don't know anything about this person. I don't care. But when you say, ah, how does this person suffer? They are suffering, of course, all beings do. Then you start to expand your awareness to become aware of how this person suffers. With a friend or family member, you have a more intimate awareness of how they suffer and how they make you suffer. Just kidding. Yeah, I know, it's true. They make you suffer. They give you a hard time. Friends give you a hard time. Family gives you a hard time. So, understanding their suffering will help you to understand the hard time that they give you. And awareness of that suffering alone can free you from self-reflection, can free you from suffering, the difficulties that you experience with those people that you're close to. So, you know, if you're just like always in that same karma. You're always in self-defense, you're always in self-reflection, and you're always at odds fighting against your brother. But then, when you say, huh, my brother wants to be happy, and my brother's suffering, you expand yourself beyond your self-reflection and you start to look at why your brother's suffering and why they would be Why they would do things that hurt you and then you start to say well I know it came from this experience and that experience I know that he suffers this way and that way he reacts this way and that way you start to look into it It's easier to see in a family member because you know them. And then when you see their suffering, you can understand why they react. And then when you understand why they would react, instead of going into self-defense mode, you're able to say, I can accept this. It's a difficulty but I can accept it. So, it's very important, whether it's a family member or a stranger, someone you've known all your life, or a stranger, to start looking beyond the self-reflection, to start seeing that person as a being just like you who wants to be happy. They want to be happy just like you want to be happy. Yet, they have suffering just like you have suffering. We have to just start to have that every being. Then you'll understand why people do bad things, why people create problems, why people give you a hard time. If you have so much self-reflection and you're always in self-defense mode, and you don't have an awareness of other people's suffering, you'll just be always mad at other people. Other people will make you angry all the time. You won't like other people. And then you'll be always in a trap. You'll always be trapped by other people pissing you off. Sure, other people piss you off, but they piss you off for reasons. And if you have, you start to develop compassion, then yeah, they'll still hurt you. Yeah, they'll still give you a hard time. But you'll have a spiritual awareness that allows you to accept it. There's a story, I think, in a, what was his name? I think he grew up rich guy, Napoleon Hill. There's a little boy who showed up for school one day he just walked into the classroom and he started a fight with another boy he just he's just like walks in totally pissed off goes over punches his kids in the nose and usually he's an okay kid but this one day just did something totally terrible and the teacher gets mad. The teacher's like, God, you little bastard! Talk to the principal! And then the principal, instead of getting mad, the principal just goes, okay, so there's some situation.

1:05:04
Tell me about your mother.

1:05:06
his mother the night before. Something terrible. They put her in the hospital. Something that is horrible. I don't know, something like that. Just something terrible. Got drunk, beat her up, hurt her really bad. And then the little boy was just, didn't know what to do. Didn't know how to process it. So then what he did, he kind of reflected that, and he just goes over and punches somebody

1:05:43
else.

1:05:44
That's karma, right? People go through karmas. People go through, you know, people cause trouble and harmfulness to other people because they are unbalanced, unsorted, unaware, ignorant, experiencing darkness and confusion because they lack the awareness of enlightenment and the luminosity of spirit. You get trapped. Sad people do bad things. Sadness turns into anger. So all these crazy things that happen. And when you can take some time to understand understand that people suffer, that their suffering comes from a place that they don't want it to, it just happens, and then they're acting out, maybe hurting, causing problems because of all this stuff, then you can have a little bit of understanding for them to do something that, you know, like if you're the person on the end of the punch, like, oh, this guy just comes over to me and punches me, you can have compassion if you have this enlightened awareness. Or you can just get punched and get angry and then pass on the anger. And that's what most people do. This guy punched me, I got mad, I'm a victim, my karma goes down and then I'm going to do something bad eventually or feel bad at myself Right? I accept all this badness or you can get punched and go,

1:07:22
How?

1:07:23
And you try to get away from it and then you say This person's obviously suffering And I don't know why, maybe I don't know the background story

1:07:32
but

1:07:34
story but obviously if this person is doing a bad thing this person is suffering. This person is far off from being enlightened far off from being spiritually balanced. This is the consideration of another person suffering even if they are hard on you. You don't know Okie dokie, we are going to take a break. And while we take a break, you can consider the suffering of other people. I'm going to make coffee. I'm going to be in California. So, why do we do the yoga of compassion helps us to recognize a greater truth. There's more to life, the universe and everything than just us. So we very often just are so self-absorbed, so selfish, so stuck in self-attention, self-defense, that we really, really cut ourselves off from seeing the greater truth of life. Whenever you focus on another person's well-being, you make a hole in your ego. A hole from which you can escape your consciousness and your attention goes through that hole and sees the universe outside of that tightly bound ball of self. And whenever you do that, that tightly bound ball of self or ephemeral, more translucent, it starts to dissolve. It becomes bigger and dissolves. More fluid, more malleable. So that's the magic trick of selflessness. When you actually are aware of and have a concern for another, then there's a bridge that goes from the place of limitation outside.

1:12:38
There's a path.

1:12:40
Compassion is a pathway to enlightenment simply because compassion is an expression of enlightenment, where you, a finite, fixed, separate self, is aware of something else, other, outside of self, not-self. And there's a care for not-self. There's a bridge between self and not-self. And there's the awareness awareness of completely aiding, helping, being a service to, having care and attention for that which is not self. And that is the pathway to enlightenment. There is a transcendence crossing that bridge to complete awareness, care, and selflessness, love, compassion, it's all awareness beyond the self. When you cross that bridge for full attention, love, energy, consciousness, selflessness and compassion for another, when you cross that bridge from self to the other completely, then you completely abandon the limitation, the karmic destiny, the darkness, the sadness, the suffering of the self. It is the pathway to enlightenment, the pathway to a higher truth. That's why we do it. That's why we do it. Quite simple. Because it's a greater truth. It's a truth beyond the limitations of itself. It's also practical, compassion, because compassion makes you happier. In fact, compassion makes you happy. They do these studies on happiness in the brain, brain and if they do MRIs on people, so that you know, they study it, they take surveys, and they do MRIs on people, so they look at what people say makes them happy, and then they do MRIs to see the happiness area of the brain. There's a happiness area of the brain. When someone's happy, it lights up. And it also, you know, differentiates from the desires areas of the brain. So when people are inspiring things, a certain area of the brain lights up. But then, desire doesn't often make the happy one go on. Fulfillment of desire makes the happy one go on for a little while. But just, you know, desire doesn't make happiness. So, happiness, you know, comes from certain things. And when they look at those things, they think about them, do an MRI on them, and they say, that's what really makes people happy. So they're like scientifically studying it. But they found that, the researchers found that there's this one guy who's the happiest person they ever met. And, you know, they do a lot of people who are rich, a lot of people who have this or that, all sorts of things that we would think would create happiness and they find that they're not so happy. They check out people from different cultures and different conditions of life and they can tell who's so happy because of what. you know, sociology, they figure out certain things about what conditions create happiness. But there's this one guy who's off the charts happier than anyone else, who's following the regular stuff in life. And he's a Buddhist monk, and he practices the yoga of compassion. And when he goes under the MRI, he practices his yoga. And then they go, wow, this guy is really happy. And it's true. In all of the boring teachings of compassion, they always say, compassion makes you happy. And guess what? It does. So practicing compassion is actually a practical thing, because being Being compassionate is happy. Being compassionate, being selfless, is not a hardship. It's not putting yourself in a disadvantage. Compassion, being selfless, is actually fun. It's happy. It is way better than the alternative. The alternative is self-struggle. defending itself, the self looking at things in the lowest ways. The self looks at things in bad ways. What's my return on investment? What's the person doing to me? What about my personal desires? When the self is caught up in all of that, you're headed in a bad way. You're headed into a way where you're going to create mischief and suffering, you're going to create problems for yourself. Selflessness is a different way, compassion is a different way. It's a way of truly being happy and abandoning the defense and desires of the self. And being happy in seeing that through awareness and care for another's suffering, for another's well-being, is illuminating the spirit. Illuminating. So, whenever you practice the yoga of compassion. It doesn't make you get blinded out, it doesn't make you get your aura broken, it doesn't make you lose your personal power. That's what the self would say. That's the way of self-seeing. But care for another's suffering never hurts you. It always illuminates you. Care for another's suffering makes you happy. Just like this Buddhist monk that they put under the MRI and he just considers the yoga of compassion to see that it's the area of his brain that really creates happiness or is the physical reflection of happiness in the brain. They see that it lights up more than anyone they've ever noticed. Everything that, you know, you can take people who've got everything they can fulfill their desires in life. People got money, the relationship, children, a house, a car, you know, everything that they want. They put that person under the MRI and they find that there's not a significant amount of happiness. So when they put this Buddhist monk under there, when he practices the yoga of compassion, they find that he has a tremendous amount of happiness. And that it doesn't satiate, it doesn't go away. So someone who fulfills the desire, oh I just got something, you look at them right when they just get it, right when they fulfill the desire, happiness goes off. The happiness alarm in the brain goes off. But then a couple weeks later you bring them back, hey are you happy about the thing you got? Yeah, I'm happy about it.

1:21:09
Happiness is smaller.

1:21:10
Of course, right?

1:21:11
Fulfillment of desire. The joy lasts for a little while. But compassion, selflessness, this bridge from the self to the other, is a way of developing a growing and sustainable happiness about your life, about being. One of the traps of the yoga of power, all the mysticism and karma yoga stuff, is that you can do it and be impeccable and powerful, but you can also do it and not be happy. It's easier to not be happy doing that. Because it's such difficult to not have self-fear. But the yoga of compassion is nothing but luminous, nothing but brightness, nothing but the direct transcendence of self to a luminous awareness of enlightened power that completely transports this enlightened energy, this Avalokasvara energy to another. And when you're caught up in that luminosity, when you're caught up in that movement of self to other, that bright courage of Avalokasvara's energy, light, then it's happy. It's happy. So you will observe, and considering selflessness, and considering compassion, you will observe your ego. I don't want to focus on it any deeper in a good way. And therein lies the practice. There is actually a yogic practice that you will go through where you cultivate an understanding and awareness and ultimately a kind of a Siddha power, the capability of transcending self and directing the light to others. And by doing that it makes you happy. The self is very tricky. Self-defense, always seeing fault with others, that's the big either, that's selfishness. In compassion we don't find fault with others, we don't judge fault. Lord Sri Ramana Maharshi, when he made his vow to help all sentient beings, he didn't say just the good ones, just the ones I like, just the ones who are cool. all sentient beings are enlightened. Even the eerie ones. Even the smelly ones. And when you have a care and an awareness for their suffering exposes the enlightened nature of all beings. So even if you're angry at someone and hate their guts, that person will be loved. Then you start practicing compassion. Then you see in that person enlightenment. And then all of your self-defense and your judgments and your part of causing the fight dissolves. Then you have an understanding. An understanding and awareness. So, self-defense, judgment of others, fault finding of others, these are awarenesses that you need to be on guard for. You can't sit there and always find fault with others. You have to start finding the light within others.

1:26:11
That's the trick.

1:26:12
It's easy to find fault with others. You can sit there and find fault after fault after fault. If you don't know, this guy, I didn't get any fault out of him.

1:26:28
Now I have a fault with him.

1:26:32
He started pushing me and punching me. So, it's easy. Even the lowest, lamest way itself is to fight others, fight fault with others. The enlightened way is to deal with others in an intelligent manner, but also with the spiritual understanding of the fact that they want to be happy in their suffering. Have a care for their suffering. Even if you have to deal with a lot of difficulty from them, deal with it the best way you can. If someone punches you, you can try to block and get out of the way. But you don't have to be angry at them. You actually have to have an awareness for them, a care for them. Because in that way you will not be diminished. You will be able to ascend spiritually. Even in times where people are mean to you, where people harm you, that people are using their intent to do bad, who cares? Of course! They've got whatever their story is, they've got their horror story of life, their karma that brought them to that low consciousness to do that kind of stuff. But Everyone's got a sad story. So it's important to really not judge them, not find fault with them. Just practice compassion, open awareness for their suffering. You just have to get to the point where you have to realize, hey, everybody is going to be harmful, have problems from time to time. You can't expect people to be all happy and jolly all the time and perfect. You can't expect that. You have to resolve yourself to see the suffering of others, to have care for others, even if they are being difficult, even if they are being comfortable. Otherwise you will be in the way of self. The way of self. So, compassion makes you happy. But you really got to do it.

1:29:31
You can't just fight.

1:29:32
You can't fight all the time. You really got to give up the ways of ego self defense.

1:29:34
The weight of the ego's self-defense is very, very limiting. When you are practicing compassion, it's actually good to have adversity. It's good if there's someone who's an enemy to you. Not that you're an enemy to them, but it's good if they're doing, if they're causing harm to you. Because that a real honest and true way of being selfless. If you're just hanging around a bunch of Buddhas and Bodhisattvas, practicing compassion on them, they're always teaching you about enlightenment and healthy eating and stuff, and you're all like, oh I'm going to practice compassion. I just can't do it with all these mean people around. So if you're just practicing on Buddhas and Bodhisattvas, your compassion actually will not get very strong. You will learn maybe a dimension of it that's cool and bright, but then as soon as someone goes over and feeds your car, you're going to lose all your compassion and start cursing. person. So you really actually, Buddhism would say, anyone who gives you a hard time is a person. So you really actually, Buddhism would say, anyone who gives you a hard time is a teacher. Because if you perceive it as a hard time...




Transcribed with Cockatoo
