0:00:00
I was in the hallway, walking to my room, and earlier I saw there was a little flying bug, a little moth, and it got trapped in a spider's web. So earlier I saw it again. It had gotten free from the spider's web and it was sitting on the wall next to it. And I was all like, oh, that's a non-return. Free from the web of dissatisfaction and surrender. So that was kind of cool.

0:00:55
Okay so, the energy that's available during this solstice, this special spiritual dimension,

0:01:02
power, is, it exists but it's not easily accessible. So I have chosen a way to access this energy and the way that we're going to access it is through a mandala. A mandala is a universe. It is a complete and balanced structure that has many, many, many dimensions and qualities. have energy and balance. So it is a structure in the second attention that has a precise, even though it's got many, many dimensions, it all works for a particular Dharma. The mandala that we're going to focus on and experience tonight And it's got many components, and all these components work together in balance. But essentially, it has an energetic, an ecstatic energy. It creates a very, very, very beautiful brightness. And when you see this mandala in your mind, it really brings you to a state of bliss. And this state of bliss is excellent to line up with the energies of the solstice.

0:03:39
So we'll be

0:03:41
going through the considerations, the attributes of the mandala, the wheel of bliss.

0:03:49
So mandalas are

0:03:51
meditations for Buddhist practitioners. So a Buddhist teacher would describe a mandala to his or her students and the students would envision the aspects of the mandala and see the mandala in their mind. And by holding those images and understanding the energies and dimensions and seeing the balance of the whole mandala, then the practitioner would experience that mandala. They would experience whatever the dharmic point is and every aspect of it. So this is really a traditional method of meditation. But it's a very cool one. It's a very nice one. To begin, we start with understanding the structure of the mandala. This mandala has concentric circles like a bullseye and within each of the circles there are attributes. And in the center of the mandala is the enlightened one.

0:05:43
By understanding

0:05:45
each concentric circle from the outside to the center, we gain an awareness of the mandala. We get to work our way the mandala. We get to work our way to the center of the mandala. So you know, it's just like if you've looked at a picture of a mandala, you might look at the outside say, oh, there's a little person in there, a little angel or something like that. And then you might look into the next one, you know, oh look monkeys in that circle Then you look in the next one and you know It's you just kind of like work your way in and then look into the center so

0:06:37
we will

0:06:39
go through the considerations of the outer circle and then work our way in to the inner circles, to the center. And when we reach the center, that is the essence of the mandala. So that will be our final meditation. So I got to do it right on time. We'll see about this. So the first, you can think of it, you know, it is like a mandala is like a universe. So you can think of it as a journey. When you come to the outer circle of this mandala, the outer circle is places, sacred places. So often depicted in sacred places are Mount Meru, Mount Kailas, these ancient places that everyone always said was really cool. But it's not necessary You can depict places of power that you are aware of. So what we're going to do is we're going to meditate. We're going to do a three song meditation and we're going to be focusing for different places on different chakras. So for when we are meditating and focusing on the navel chakra, what I'd like you to do is I'd like you to envision a desert. It could be a desert you've been to before, or it could just be an imaginary desert. If you've been to the Anza Borrego or Joshua Tree, Grand Canyon, anything like that. If you could envision a desert while you focus on the navel chakra, that would be the first part. The second on the heart chakra, we envision the ocean. If you've seen the ocean before, or if you haven't, you can imagine the ocean. If you saw, you know, the Discovery Channel, Shark Week, put the sharks out. Just the ocean. So the ocean from in it or over it, any way that you want to see the ocean, focus on the ocean. Then we're going to bring our attention to the third eye, and in the third eye, we're going to bring to mind a mountain. And this could be, you know, Mount Kailas, if you know what that is. Or if you've been to a powerful mountain, like Shasta, it's a powerful mountain. For the Hungarians, if you've been to the Matterhorn, it's a very powerful mountain.

0:10:06
So

0:10:08
this will be our first consideration of

0:10:11
places of power, the outer ring of the mandala. For the Hungarian Sangha, I would like you to translate the meditation technique so that we can do it all together. And just three songs, Navel Heart, Third Eye, and Envision on the Navel, the Desert, on the Heart, the Ocean, the Third Eye, the Mountain. So please translate just that for just a couple minutes so we're all on the same page of meditation. You guys are getting the sniffles, huh?

0:11:02
Take your ectonasia.

0:11:04
It's no fun to scuba dive for the cold. I remember once I was in Indonesia and we went out on a two week boat diving trip and everyone on the boat caught the flu. But then we dove anyway.

0:11:35
Did I complete? Are they ready? Okay. Let's begin the meditation. So three songs.

0:11:38
So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. the

0:11:47
the the the the the the Thank you. So, Thank you. the the the the So the the the the the the the the the the ♪♪ ♪♪ So, the the the the you you So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. you So, thank you. you So the So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. Thank you. Places of power are very, very helpful. Very, very, very helpful. That's how we begin our mystical journey very often.

0:24:06
I remember the first time I went to a place of power with my teacher. It was Mir Beach. So just up in Marin and we just went there early in the morning and sat down on the beach. And then he said, this is a place of power. And I had heard about the Anza Parado and things like that. But he said, this is a place of power, and I'm going to do Buddhist magic. And then he sat down and he did a something. And I started to notice colors changing, like sky turned from blue to green to yellow to red to purple, and just kept cycling through it. And I was like, oh, that's So, you know, in places of power, there's a bright energy that is conducive to spiritual awareness, conducive to a still mind. And when we go to these places, every place of power has its own kind of special energy. Like this place that we're on right now, this is a place of power. It's a beautiful place in nature, really wonderful energy, right next to this beautiful ocean. Earlier I was like, oh, that's so cool. Yeah, so there are whales out there. Just beautiful. So it's just, you know, places of power, beautiful places, beautiful places to meditate, beautiful places to open your mind to see magic and mystical aspects of life. I remember going to Anza Borrego, the desert, with my teacher and just having really wonderful times. At first, I was amazed watching him doing miracles. Like, I remember, I think it was the second or third time I had gone to the desert, is where I really, really, really saw a miracle. We were sitting around him in a circle, and he walked up into the air, and I thought, this is really great. So I really liked the miraculous sit-ins that But I remember on my third trip there, I started to really like the place. I started to really feel a beautiful connection with that place of power. And this is what we do as mystics. We go to these places, sacred places, places of power. And we meditate there. We meditate on them. We bring them to mind and we make a connection with the energy of the place. So all the places we've gone, our solstices and equinoxes, our power dive trips and everything, places of power. And by going to these places, beautiful and powerful connection, where those beautiful energies are part of us. They're in our heart. And that's why when we meditate on these places, like in this teaching, you focus on a desert place of power you've been to. It's very strong. You actually connect to those energies, Focus on the heart of the ocean. Maybe it's that dive site, North Wall Grand Cayman. It's like really powerful places underwater. The ocean is amazing. And you make that connection to that place. Then you focus on your third eye. Mount Shasta or Matterhorn, these powerful places. When you've been to the place, when you made a connection to the place, it's even more powerful. And if you haven't, then you're starting to make a connection through the mystical meditation. But places of power, our mystical journey. From places of power, we lead into the next circle, which is the guardians. Actually one of the powerful, awesome, amazing things about the Anza Borrego is that there are these guardian warrior spirits there. And when you're in the little gorge there, and you look up at the mountains, you can see that. They have them in India, Tibet, Japan, China. There are these powerful guardian forces. And they're associated to the four directions, because there's four of them. So that means that they cover, they got your back. And when we meditate on the guardians, we make a connection with those powers of protection, those very, very, very strong powers of protection. I like to talk, I mean, I see them as a dimension, a dimension of power and protection, and it creates many, many different types of forms. So the forms of the guardians that people talk about is a guardian with a sword, a guardian with a halberd, which Battle of the bands. The guitar is like music. It's a way of protection through music. And then the other guardian will just hit you. And then there are different colors and stuff like that. But there are these powerful guardian spirits. And these guardian spirits, you can depict them in your mind any way you want. You could imagine Darth Vader being your protector.

0:31:54
Or whatever, right?

0:31:55
You just like some really, you think of the baddest-ass vision of a warrior that is on your side, that's got your back. All four of them are covering every side. And when we bring that to mind and we go into this consideration in the mandala, we align ourselves with this element of protection. And it's something that we do in our study. When I was a beginning student, it started with the Anza-Berger Desert, it's seeing the warriors on the mountain, having that consideration and awareness for those warriors. So I have a very, very strong connection and awareness of this dimension of the Guardians from that. So it's like we go to these places of power and then the Guardian Spirits of the Dharma are there and we bring them to mind, the four Guardians, and you just see... What we're going to do is we're going to meditate on the navel chakra and you're going to see the guardians. You're going to see these powerful, amazing, fantastic warriors. Whatever you can imagine as the most amazing, fantastic warriors. You're going to see them in your mind's eye as you focus on your navel chakra and this this establishes a connection and an awareness of this very powerful and helpful source of protection. I'm going to go to the bathroom.

0:34:16
Okay. And we're only going to sit for one song, focusing on the neighbor. focusing on the neighbor So, So So So so

0:38:20
So, I'm going to take another break. This time for 10 minutes. 10 minutes. And then 10 minutes and then we'll come back and continue on our journey to the center of the universe. 10 minutes and then we'll come back and continue on our journey to the center of the universe.

0:40:12
Okay. 10 minutes.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
