0:00:00
Very nice. So, tonight we're going to talk about another aspect of healing. And this So it's a very mystical awareness of the energy of the place and its healing properties. So, all places have energy. Some places have stronger, more positive, more constructive, healthy energies. So, in terms of the health of your subtle physical body, the health of the aura, if you go to a place that feels good to you, that has a healthy, subtle physical aura, then when you spend time in that place, it has a positive effect on your energy body. So it's a real simple thing. I mean, we do this very often. You know, when we go diving, we go to specific dive sites because of their... because of the power at those sites. Or sometimes we do these things on land. specifically a healing awareness towards places of nature, places of power. So, let's say you're on a dive, you come across a reef that for you, it's got a lot of life, it seems happy, there's a positive life energy there. So what you can do is simply spend time looking at the reef. This is what most people do. They're bringing their attention to this reef and just by doing that they feel a little bit happier and healthier. So that's one of the ways that regular scuba diver, not only gets the benefits of being underwater, which reduces toxicity from the aura, and also breathing a higher partial pressure of oxygen is very good for the subtle physical body, but just by going to these places underwater that have a healing energy and looking at them, looking at the fish on them, looking at the coral on them and just being interested, holding their attention there, that brings them additional health benefits. Because what happens is the diver is focusing on this healthy energy, and then by focusing on that, they enter into the aura of that healthy energy. So it's very simple to do. You just, you find a place that you have an awareness of a very good healing energy. You go to it, and then you focus on it. You look at it. In the Qigong healing exercises, you practice that by putting it on the breath. Okay? So that means that you look at the place and then you inhale. You breathe in. You breathe in the energy of the place. So there's two exercises for this. One exercise is inhaling the beautiful light and wonderful healing energy of the place, and then exhaling the toxicity from your body. And when they do this, I think the Taoists are standing on the ground, and they see the toxicity coming out of them like dark energy coming out from their feet. So, inhaling the brightness, the light, the luminous healing of the aura of a beautiful place underwater, and then exhaling the darkness, any toxicity in you, out of your feet. That is one of the methods. So it's a very simple one. It has both the yin and yang quality. Inhale the brightness, exhale the darkness. In this exercise, you'll focus on it coming out of your fins. It's nice. It doesn't really hurt the fish, people, or reef around you when you are pushing the toxicity out of you. It's fine to do that. So don't be worried about that. It's kind of like, let's say, if you are peeing, right? You drank water, it's really good for you. And then when you have to pee, it comes out, it doesn't really harm anyone. So, if you're sitting there, and there's a fish right next to you, and your buddy right next to you, and you pee, even if you're not wearing a wetsuit, you're just peeing all over the place, they don't notice. It doesn't bother them, doesn't hurt them. So, don't worry about the darkness that comes out of you. The ocean is so big in its aura of healing, that the darkness that comes out of you is really dispersed and absorbed in the healing qualities of the ocean. So don't worry. Now, it's a good exercise. You find a nice place, something that you like. You inhale, you have a connection and awareness of the light of the aura of the place, the healing quality is what we're looking for. We inhale that light, exhale all the toxicity and darkness from our whole body out. That's one way of dealing with a healing energy. Another way, another really positive way, is bringing in the light and then giving back the light. So this is circulating energy. So, that's what we primarily do when we go to places of power. We go to a beautiful place, beautiful place of power, we sit in that place, we take advantage of all the wonderful energy, all the aura, all the power, and we're like, yes, this is very good. We're here to take that energy, we're here to experience that energy, we're here to be enriched from that energy. But at the same time, we give something back. And what we give back is we give back a different kind of energy, a light. So when we meditate, it creates a very, very positive energy. So we are giving a positive energy back. And it's a different energy than the place has itself, and it's a positive energy generated from us. This is opposed to what most people do. They go to a beautiful place, drink beers, throw the cans in the lake, and pollute the place, leave garbage behind, and basically go there and have bad negative desires or whatever thoughts, and they leave that bad energy in a beautiful place. And that's how a beautiful place, a place of power, gets trashed. It gets wasted because of people coming with just thinking about desires and garbage, talking about desires and garbage, and leaving garbage. places, the energy of places and the places themselves and the physical get trashed because of that kind of return. People go there and take the energy because they like it, and they leave a whole bunch of garbage. So we do the opposite, right? We have a recognition the positive energy of a place, and then what we leave behind is... we're there for a reason, to get to elevate ourselves, to create a higher meditative experience, a higher spiritual experience for ourselves, but also we have an awareness that we're supporting and enriching the place So, that is a way of giving energy back to a place. With that intention, we have an exhalation when we're looking at the place. So it's inhaling the awareness of the light and goodness and healing energy of the place, exhaling that intent of the stillness and brightness of your mind, you're exhaling that light so that it enriches the place. So that is circulating the energy. That's a really good one. It's a really nice one. So for your dives tomorrow, I'd like you to do those two exercises. I don't know. You know, like, so I know a lot of us sit there in the sand, looking at the sand, doing our exercise. And while you're just sitting there, you know, relaxing in the sand or something, sand just looks like nothing. But then when you're looking at it up close, you see all sorts of things going on. There are crabs walking around and all sorts of things moving. It's just like this whole universe. It's really a beautiful thing. Maybe you just look at sand and see all the life that's there and all the energy that's there in the sand, and you can practice taking and sending with the sand. But maybe what you should do is, you know, even if you're going to be at that 50-foot spot where there's sand and then there's a reef around it, look around and try to see where, what place has a positive healing energy. So you'll sit there and go, huh, and look around and say, hmm, that reef over there, that part of the reef looks interesting to me. I'm going to go over there and I'm going to start looking deeper into the healing aura of this reef. So sometimes you'll go over to a part of a reef where it's kinda like trashed and dirty and, you know, it's like it's like dead, dead part of the reef. That's kind of a place that where there's not a lot of that prana, that healing kind of energy. So you want to look for a part of the reef or a section of the reef where you feel, you see signs of life and you feel a vibrance. That's a way that you can tell if there's that healing energy, if things are living on it, if it's alive. So reefs are very interesting because they're alive. You know, it's like the corals there, there's lots of fish and little critters around. So, they're very, very bright, beautiful, interesting, magical places. So, underwater, you're going to sit there and go, what looks like the most powerful part of what I'm looking at? Ah! And find an area to go to. Now, I'd like you to focus on kind of a large area, at least this large. Okay, so don't just go over to one coral and stare at it. Coral, right? Try to take a bigger picture of the reef. Try to find a nice big section where you can see a big field of energy. Because if you're just looking at a coral or something like that, you're looking at one little guy's energy. And I want you to get a picture of multiple living animals and plants, the fish and crabs that live there because they also are living in that energy field. They're experiencing that energy field. They're part of that energy field. So it's a big picture of a moving, living experience of a place that has an area that has very healing energy. So you're going to be stalking and seeking an area in the reef, maybe in the sand, somewhere in the ocean, maybe it's on the wall. Walls are very, very interesting. Walls have really cool energy. Sometimes they're not as healing as the shallower reefs, but if you find a spot, you might. It might be good. So, you know, just anywhere, you look around, you find the place that has that healing energy for you. Make sure that it's big enough so that it actually has an aura of healing, and then you just pay attention to it, get an awareness of it, and then practice the breathing, exhaling from the darkness from the feet, the breathing, breathing back a really bright intent of an energetic support for the place. So, those are the two exercises. I guess it's astrological healing, you can call it. I know that some of you guys are going to get astrology your compassion astrology. It's very interesting, by the way. So, when Mujad does these readings, he can tell you about your Bodhisattva star. It's really interesting. So, anyway, the Daoists have astrological healing exercises. And they start with the sun. So they have a big thing about solar chi, solar energy. So there's the sun and it's the major life force thing in our sky. The sun gives the Taoists will practice inhaling solar qi and exhaling the dirty dirt from the feet, or they just inhale solar qi. They just all... they just take in solar qi. So they just like kind of... they might not look at the sun and just really focus on breathing in the light and maybe exhaling the darkness. So that's an exercise you can do if you feel like it, if it's interesting to you. Then there's also another, the next major thing in astrological healing breathing exercises is the moon. Oh, it's gone. We had it. It's not here anymore. But the moon. And tonight is a nice one because we have a full moon, so we're gonna practice the moon breathing exercise. The sun and moon have that kind of yin-yang relationship. So the moon has a very powerful gravitational influence on our oceans and everything. So the moon has a kind of power, a kind of energy. So in healing breathing, we will focus on the moon. Maybe you look at the moon, or maybe you just know that it's up there. You might have your eyes closed and you'll practice inhaling the moon's bright healing energy and then you exhale the darkness through the feet or you just work on taking in the moon's bright healing energy. Okay, so why don't we do that? The moon popped out again. Why don't we just look up there while it's still there and just do some inhalations and exhalations. Sometimes just bringing in the light, sometimes bringing in the light and letting the darkness come out of the feet. So just on your own, breathe So just on your own, breathe deeply.

0:19:19
I'm going to go ahead and get my camera.

0:20:29
Alright, very good. So this is especially a really good exercise to do because tonight's you know, it has a very constructive energy. So, the moon and its phases have different energies. So sometimes if you really want to work on purging toxic energy, you'll work on the moon's healing energy when it's waning. And sometimes when you want to enrich your subtle physical energy with healing, it's best to do when it's waxing or when it's full. So the moon is a very, very important one. But in terms of astrological healing, they also have the planets for the five major meridians or organs of the body. So they have just the same way they had gems, different types of gems for those five organs, they have planets for the organs. So they have Venus for the lungs. So when you practice this, you inhale the energy, the healing energy from Venus. So we're always focused on the healing dimensions of these places. There's a lot of different meanings to these places and the symbols of astrology, but they have, in this sense, a healing energy. So when you focus on the lungs and inhale, you inhale bright white energy from Venus and then you exhale toxins out of your mouth or you can just imagine it coming out of the lungs. And for the kidneys, you inhale blue energy from Neptune and exhale darkness. With the liver, you inhale green energy from Jupiter, exhale the dark, and with the heart, red energy from Mars, exhale the dark, and with the spleen, yellow energy from Saturn, and then exhale the dark. So this again is one of the five organ, five major meridian exercises. And we're gonna try it together just to see what that's like when you imagine this planet, the healing energy of a planet. So in talking about, you know, places, I mean, planets are places. They're huge, gigantic places and they have actually a lot of energy. And as they cross the sky their field of energy in in its relationship to the planet to the planet Earth has effects and that's why you have the science of astrology right so these places have an energy they and they have a these they have aspects of healing that's what we'll focus on with this exercise. So let's just go ahead and do that. Mudra would be proud if you do it well. I will go through it just kind of quickly. It's very similar to the gems. So inhale white light from Venus. Exhale toxins and darkness. Inhale blue light from Neptune into the kidneys. Exhale darkness. For the liver, bring in green light. Exhale toxins. Bring the attention to the spleen. Inhale yellow light from Saturn. Exhale toxins. So a very simple exercise. You know, you can just, if you want to practice it again, you can just sit there and breathe these lights and the awareness of these planets. We've all seen pictures of these planets, so it's just like envisioning that planet, like Saturn, and inhaling light from Saturn. It just gives you that access to the energy. So, astrological healing, dealing with these astrological forces, starting with the obvious one of the Sun that has so much energy for us, the Moon and the planets in their relationship to the five In Chinese medicine, we understand that there are these five major organs. They store energy, they have a subtle physical quality of health for the whole body. So even though you have an organ here, just sitting in your chest somewhere, it has a relationship to a larger area throughout your whole body. So as I was saying, you can talk about the spleen or the gallbladder, some little organ that, you know, you don't really need to live, you know, it's not like a heart or something. But, you know, so if you lost one, they could take it out. But still, it has a whole energetic relationship. Now, even if you did have a gallbladder taken out in an operation, or if you had a spleen removed in a kickboxing tournament, or something, if that happened, you still have the energetic pathway. So if the physical organ is removed, you still actually have the energy body. The subtle physical body is not removed. And that's the way it is. Even if someone got an arm cut off, they'll complain about pain in their hand. They're like, Doc, my hand hurts. What? Your arm isn't even there. So that's why it's good to go to acupuncturists for that kind of stuff, because they can do So, although, yeah. So it's the same, you know, even if something is missing in your physical body, you still have your subtle physical body. And these are energies, energy centers. These five organs store energy and are related to large energetic pathways throughout the whole body and overall health throughout the whole body. So that's why we focus on these weird five things and do funny breathing exercises. The gems or the planets? The moon is free and clear! Free and clear! Yeah, so you know, since we have this nice big bright moon, you know, it's a good one to have that astral healing breathing exercises.

0:28:56
Very good.

0:28:58
Yeah, so these are ways that we feel nature and sense nature and bring away a sense of healing in our lives from nature. Very simple. Now, another obvious place where there's a lot of energy is in the ocean water, we can get a real sense of healing. So the ocean has very, very, very strong healing properties. So just bring your attention to the ocean and looking at it, let alone being in it, just looking at it, you can practice inhaling that healing quality and exhaling the dirt from the feet or just inhaling that quality. So what I'd like to do now is an exercise where we look at the ocean. We just look at the ocean for a minute or two and we'll look at the ocean and we'll just practice deep inhalation, exhalation, darkness coming out through the feet, or just taking in the healing energy of the ocean. So just look at the ocean, maybe the horizon or somewhere that you're looking, and try to connect with the healing energy of the ocean for your practice. Alright, just for a minute or two. Let's begin.

0:30:56
the So, Oh, Very nice. Okay, and the whole trick for, you know, connecting with the healing energy of places is actually connecting with the healing energy of places. So, you know, if someone comes over to a place

0:32:01
where there's a beautiful healing energy, and they don't understand it, they don't see it, they don't get it, they just come over and they're like, whatever, they're here, and then they leave, you know, and they don't get anything out of it. The more that you can perceive that connection with healing energy, the more healing it is. So, especially with places like the ocean, or things like the moon or something like that. It's like, yeah, I looked at the moon a lot for a long time, you know, ever since I was a kid. And, you know, it's just the moon. It's just that thing up there. But when you, like, are reflecting on the healing energy of the moon, then you can look up at the moon and you see it in a whole different way. a completely different dimension of a thing that's been there most of your life.

0:34:06
Just kidding.

0:34:08
Okay. So, that's the important aspect of this understanding of the healing energy in nature. It is to be able to access the healing energy of nature.

0:34:26
That's really good.

0:34:27
And all you have to do is look at me, maybe focus on your third eye, and then I'm showing you something in the subtle physical and in the second attention that will help you to precisely be able to open and connect with the healing dimensions of things better. For this, I think I'll sit up on my little stand up here. That's okay, you can leave it. Okay. And you're just going to look at me, we'll sit here for just a couple minutes, just a couple minutes, and I'm going to be demonstrating something in the subtle physical, in the second intention, a way to access healing energy. And by watching me do it, it shows you an energy flow or an intention to do it yourself. Okay, let's begin. Just focus on your third eye.

0:35:54
Thank you. the I'm going to go ahead and get my camera. I'm going to go ahead and get my camera. Okay. So, seeing the healing dimensions of places and places in nature is very, very helpful. But it's looking at a certain dimension, having your consciousness open for these things.

0:38:38
And then it's very nice. This is something that we intuitively do as meditators, something that we definitely do in places of power. But this is a way of being aware even at a deeper level where it's very healthy for the subtle physical body and where we can practice which is very helpful and useful in scuba diving. Okay, so the exercises for tomorrow are the underwater finding a spot, a little reef or something underwater, where you think the energy is good, where you become aware of where the energy is good. You go there, and then you you practice inhaling and exhaling, awareness of the healing energy, you're bringing it in, looking at it, connecting with it, exhaling the darkness and toxicity from your whole body and your aura out of your feet, and then the second exercise you can do at the same time is just then switch into just bringing the light in and giving your light back, bringing the light in, giving your light back. So that's what we'll do underwater. Then above, if you want to practice the solar chi energy, or the moon again, or the ocean, just when you're going out on the boat, just look at the ocean. You can explore these ways of understanding healing. Okay, very good. Those are the exercises that we will do for tomorrow. Thank you very much. Are there any questions? Yeah? The sun and moon are not associated with the organs. The brain and the other brain. Yeah, they're not. They're just yin and yang energies. Yeah, because you would think like something, But not, yeah. Which one is yang? Um, the moon is yin and the sun is yang. Or the other way. This is really mad. That's good. Yes? Can multiple people work at the same spot on a reef?

0:41:49
I could almost hear you, sorry.

0:41:51
Can multiple people work at the same spot on a reef? Yeah, yeah.

0:41:54
So multiple people can...

0:41:56
You guys can all crowd around the same reef. Yeah, it's okay. Yeah, just try to give each other some room. Yes, right here. Does it do anything to the reef when you inhale the energy from it? Not really. It doesn't. So does it do anything to the reef when you start sucking its energy dry? No. Yeah, so even if you're just practicing the one of taking in the darkness and shooting out dark energy from your feet, I mean, taking in the light of the reef, its aura, and then shooting out dark from your feet, it doesn't drain it. It could, if you have a lot of respect and honor for the energy of the place, then it's not a bad thing. It doesn't end up being bad. In the back? Yeah? Okay. Yes? We do also the organs and the planets because you had an experience. If you want to, you can continue to do those exercises. But mainly I want you to do the underwater, just the underwater ones. But if you're like going out on the boat and the sun's out and you want to practice a solar one, It's a great thing to do. Or the five planets with the five major meridians. That would be fine. But not to do those in the water? You don't have to do those in the water. You can if you want to. See what that's like. In the back?

0:43:52
So, as you stated before, there's a lot of focus on the planet Jupiter.

0:43:59
so

0:44:26
So, the question is, why are we focusing on healing? Or are there better times? So, the reason that we're focusing on it is because it's a whole aspect of the ocean and of breathing attention that we haven't gone into as much. So, you know, like in basically in like Qigong, they say there's martial Qigong, where you can learn with breathing to attack things, you know, fight the energies of self-defense, the energies of attack. So, you know, we could do that with harpoon guns and stuff underwater, you know, putting it into a mystic scuba sense, you could develop that underwater in a way. And then there's the whole aspect of meditative qigong, meditation underwater. And that one, you know, we focused on mostly in the previous exercises. We also did some of the healing area of Qigong is called medical Qigong. It's healing Qigong. And it's just such a... there's so much healing that could be done with these exercises and intentions. I mean, we're really doing some Taoist and Buddhist Qigong practices. We're just kind of learn about and put underwater, because there's some cool stuff about doing it underwater. And we're learning about it to learn about it. No one's in a place where you're so sick that, become the focus of your life. It's just, it's good to know. Also, from doing these exercises underwater, you can also do them on land, and a lot of you will find that you take things from this into your life. You'll go back, and when you feel some stress, you will exhale some darkness, inhale some light. Just simple things like that. Or before you go to bed, I'm really stressed out, let me relax my stomach, let me relax. When you take a few of these things about relieving stress, they are really, really, really helpful for, you know, for day-to-day life and creating a positive, healthy pattern. So a lot of you guys, you know, live stressful lives, you work really hard, and sometimes you get stressed out, sometimes you're bothered by things. These exercises of breathing in light, letting the darkness come out, exercises of relaxing before you go to bed, these couple simple things that are some of the basic aspects of the breathing exercises here are very, very, very, very healthy. And you might find that just doing those things once in a while when you're stressed out gives you more balance. So it's a good thing to learn. Also, as a Bodhisattva diver, it's important to recognize that spiritual essential healing, which is bodhisitta. That is a very, very important one. Bodhisitta. Let me explain bodhisitta to you since you asked, Ajna. Bodhisitta is taking in the darkness and suffering of another person, envisioning as you inhale, you breathe in the dark, and then projecting and exhaling the light, the attention of brightness and enlightenment to that person, so that they are free of their suffering and enlightened. And that is the experience of Bodhisattva diving. So, when you, and when you're diving and you're focusing on it, like I heard some people were watching the dive master kill a lionfish. They're like, oh, there's a lionfish, let's kill it. And then they were like, they practiced bodhicitta on the lionfish. Aw. Right? So those are really positive. It's a really good thing. Yes, the little lionfish is suffering. So practice bodhicitta on it. A lot of people have little moments like that. And then they... You know, it's a spiritually powerful experience. And when you go into your life, and you're walking around and dealing with difficult people at work, and your family and friends, you know, and all sorts of crazy stuff's going on, if you can remember to do Bodhisitta, it creates a higher spiritual experience and existence. So, it's a good thing. These healing exercises, the spiritual ones, the subtle physical ones, they're very, very, very beautiful. This could be another exercise. You know, you can do all of these exercises from the three lines, you know, up tomorrow. But one that you might want to do is bodhicitta again. So, one thing is to maybe find a little fish, you know, and say, oh, you poor little fish. You suffer so much, you poor little fish. I'm going to practice taking and sending for you. So, you know, you might just look at a little teeny, you know, hermit crab or something, and just be like, oh, you're so scared, you're trying to run away from me. You know, I'm not going to hurt you.

0:50:39
How did you get in there?

0:50:43
Pretty tasty, though. Just kidding. So, you know, it might be nice to look at the reef and do bodhicitta. Have some compassion for that coral. You know, when you look at the little crab or the little fish, and you could just really identify with its consciousness, see its suffering, see the limitation, the fear, whatever it experiences, and then practice taking and sending for it. That's exercise number three or two or whatever. Do that tomorrow. That's a really, really cool thing to do. And I know that some of you guys have. I haven't read it in your journals yet because I'm still behind. But by the way, the journals, the way that you're journaling is good. Keep it up. It's important. So when you're journaling and you're writing about the reef tomorrow that you're practicing awareness of a healing energy, describe that reef to me. Say, don't just say, I went over to a reef, and then I inhaled it, and dumped stuff from my feet on it. Okay, so actually describe the physical aspects of the reef. You know, the reef that I found had, you know, Elkhorn coral and gorgonias and this really tall purple gorgonia and there were little fish weaving in and out of the corals and there was brain coral! You know, Nav asked me, what's that stuff covering the reef that looks like a brain. And I was all, brain coral? Yes, brain coral. Okay, yeah, so you know, just try to identify the things that are there. And this can help you with your underwater awareness and fish identification specialty. What am I looking at? So, you know, take a look at your reef and go, oh, there's a bunch of things, something that looks like that, something that looks like that, a little fish that looks like this, and then when you come up, try to identify what those things are. Say, oh, that's called a gorgonia. Oh, that's called a brain coral. Oh, that's called a fish. And if you don't know what the words are for them, describe what they look like. There's this one corally thing, it was soft and moving. It was kind of a yellowish color, and it swayed in the waves. I mean, in the surge. In the water. And then there was this thing over the reef that looked like a brain. If you don't know the name for it, describe it. There was a fish. The first part of it was kind of a bright purple. And then the second part of it, half of it was yellow. You can describe the things that you see. But really, a good description of the tonal, because you'll have a good awareness of the whole little scene in the first attention. And then you experience, just by looking at it, by being aware of what it is, you'll experience a feeling for it in the second attention. Yes, in the back.

0:54:14
So the second part of my question is, besides this trip, when would be a good time to practice healing exercise?

0:54:21
Would you be sick, or would you be doing it once a day, or once a month?

0:54:29
Yeah, so some of the exercises I would use whenever you feel stressed. So if you realize and recognize that you're not relaxed, that you're stressed, and that you're not balanced, maybe lay down at night and do the three lines.

0:54:52
Maybe try to relax your stomach and do deep breathing.

0:54:52
If you see that you're, yeah, if you're feeling physically, mentally, or emotionally out of balance, try to do some of these exercises. If you do have physical pain, then do them. So you don't have to do them once a month or anything like that. Incorporate the ones of relaxation or exhaling toxicity or something, ones that make sense for you in your life, you're like, wow, this really got me to relax and boy, if I could feel that way all the time, that would be healthy. So, if there's something to you, if there's something that you see and are aware of that does help every day, then do it every day. But if you say, I don't need to do it every day, once in a while, when I notice that I'm out of balance, when I notice that my knee hurts,

0:55:44
I might go, bup, bup, bup, bup, bup,

0:55:46
breathing the light to the knee. You know, you could do that kind of exercise. So, you know, this isn't something that you need to do every day at all. It's just, if you can understand these dimensions and practices here, it gives you kind of tools for dealing with stress and healing in the future. And of course, this is the first time that we're working on these exercises, so you might not be an expert at them. Just experience them. See how how it goes, and then another time we'll be MysticScubaDiving, and we'll work on these exercises again. Good!

0:56:21
Yes?

0:56:23
I have a technical question.

0:56:26
Yes.

0:56:27
For the part where you're focused on the reef, or part of the ocean, does it need to be something like the reef, or is it okay, you know, when you're on the wall looking out at the blue, to pick a chunk of the vast blue, or the sunlight coming through the water, and do the same thing?

0:56:42
That would be okay, too.

0:56:44
Yeah.

0:56:45
Just try to find something that, to you, has a very healing energy. Yeah. Yeah, it could be... you could be looking at sand, you could be looking at a ball of water. There's a ball of water! It's so alive! I don't know why, but whatever you can find that has that healing aura underwater, find it. Like, I person, my dive buddy. Ha ha ha.

0:57:14
Okay.

0:57:15
Yes?

0:57:16
So with the bodhisitta on the fish, it seems a bit harder to really feel the suffering of a fish because the consciousness is totally different.

0:57:18
How would you describe that and how can we get a genuine feeling for what they're going

0:57:19
through? What's the karma like for a fish?

0:57:31
Yeah, exactly.

0:57:32
I mean, one of the things for little fish or animals and stuff is, in Buddhist cosmology, they say they're really stuck mostly by fear. They're always afraid of something's going to eat them, you know? So, they have a very limited consciousness because of fear. So, you could identify with that, I mean, just by going over the fish is going to run away from you, you know? If it wasn't afraid, you can go, Hey little fish, let's cuddle.

0:58:05
Cuddling fish.

0:58:07
But, yeah, so they have fear. So you can look at them, look at him and see the fear. Another thing from one of the Don Juan books, there was a really cool part where Carlos was having some spiritual experience, and then he saw like a little bug on the ground. I think he was learning about self-importance and then he had this amazing experience where he said, I'm no more important than that bug. And that was like a profound connection and understanding of the specialness of every life-form. So, you know, if you if you look at a little fish or a little hermit crab or something like that, recognize that their biggest limitation in their life experience, their greatest suffering is fear. And you might have some way of connecting with them and understanding them.

0:59:08
That's cool.

0:59:10
Yeah.

0:59:11
Alright. Anything else? Good. So, let's see. So today we did our Bodhisattva rescue practices. We did good rescues in all cases in the three scenarios that we ran. I think that the things that the rescue divers did would keep that person alive. So that was really good. Those were successful rescues. So one of the things that I want you to reflect on is when you're doing a rescue, it's like, you know, it's intense. Even doing the exercise is intense. Like someone's there, they're an unconscious diver, you know, call 911, and you know, it's like you're jumping around, you're doing, when you have that pressure of rescue breaths or something, you know, it's like, it's like, wow, this is really intense. So even doing the exercise, it's intense. And one of the things that you'll see is there's like this freaked out vibration. And it's an emergency. But one of the things that we want to do is we want to be calm in emergencies. We want, when energy is really intense with a situation, we want to be able to breathe deeply, to relax ourselves and deal with the situation the best way that we can. When you're dealing with an emergency, a difficult situation, your attention starts to narrow, right? And that's what naturally happens. And you start to breathe in the upper chest more. So if you can relax, breathe deeply, your awareness opens. That's why I wanted to practice the, you know, directing light up their spine, into their head, and the darkness out. So you're doing this spiritual practice at the same time, and when you have that spiritual focus, also the tonal of every aspect of the physical focus, then the spiritual focus creates a different atmosphere. So instead of being like, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, trying to save somebody, you know, kind of thing, you're like able to breathe more deeply, be more relaxed, and you're able to create also an actual experience of healing for that person while you're saving their life. And that energy can save a life. The energy itself can save their life. Therefore, it's just a very interesting exercise to take a look at, you know, the rescue stuff that we've done in all that first attention, here's the things you got to do, and then add a dimension of healing which creates an atmosphere for the rescuer to be more calm and have a greater awareness field, and also for the victim, the actual spiritual effect on the victim, the subtle physical effect on the victim, is a healing effect. So, that was a very, very interesting and excellent exercise. If you want to, now that you're getting the, you're getting savvy to what's going on here, if you want to, you can do it again tomorrow. So if you say, I didn't get enough of that, you know, healing attention in, I didn't relax enough as a rescuer, I want to try again. You can do it tomorrow. So I mean, it took us like, I don't know, like four minutes or five minutes per scenario. So it's just a 15 minute, you know, while you're doing a surface interval or something. And if you want to do it again tomorrow and get another experience, do it again. If you think that you nailed it, don't worry about it.

1:03:26
Yes?

1:03:27
Can non-rescue divers do it as well?

1:03:30
No. Non-rescue divers can't do it because you guys haven't had the training. In the back, yes.

1:03:39
Tana.

1:03:40
So, we practiced taking off the, all the gear.

1:03:43
Yes.

1:03:44
Weights.

1:03:45
Yep.

1:03:46
Um, I found that, well, it's hard to get people on the boat.

1:03:50
Yes, hard to get people on the boat. You have to keep the gear on, and you can't drop weights, obviously.

1:03:55
But if you had an inflated piece of wood with the weights in it,

1:03:58
um, both the rest of the crew could help, and it would help them keep, keep this person up.

1:04:05
Yeah, so would you ever keep the gear on without the weights?

1:04:13
That would be the easiest way. If you're strong, you can do that. But the thing is, when someone's got a scuba tank on, and you're in the water with them, it's hard to go like that. So, therefore, like in the rescue class, you've got to take their kit off to get them on the boat. Yeah, yeah, you gotta take it off. But, but if you're, if you're, if you're really strong, you can just pick them up out of the water. I've seen it happen too. I've seen some, some, uh, I saw a diver who was, um, panicking, and the instructor jumps in the water, they're like, ahhh, going crazy, but this instructor's just really good. And he grabbed them and swam them back to the boat. And they're going crazy and nuts. They're trying to jump on him. And he's just all, whatever. And then he gets to the boat and he puts his arm on the boat and throws them in. He was strong. And it was just a panicked diver, you know. So, you know, when it comes down to saving someone, and you have power, do what you can do to save them. But just in terms of what's pragmatic, when you recognize someone's not breathing, you've got to be on those rescue breaths. You can't miss those rescue breaths. You've got to time that right. When you start missing rescue breaths, that's when they start dying. That's when you make their chance of living short. So if you start like trying to pull them up and you're just sitting there like for five minutes because they've got a tank on, you know, oh I forgot about the rescue breath part, then you're focusing on the wrong thing. It's better to do one little buckle on their BCD, rescue breath, make sure that you're calm. You guys got 911 right? Okay, okay. Make sure that you're getting that, that the rescue breath is what is the first aid for keeping them alive. You're going to get them there the best that you can. You know, you're not going to take your time, but you're going to make sure that you're getting them into a place where you can get them safely on the boat as easily as possible, but you are on those breaths. Okay, yeah, but most of the time if I want to get someone out of the water onto land or onto a boat I got to take the BCD off And then get them

1:06:58
Yes

1:07:00
Okay, so you can keep the mask on to do rescue breaths you can because the the mask actually Has a has a seal that closes their nose. Yeah, you can keep the mask on, or you can take the mask off. So the thing is, can you get a seal? Sometimes the mask makes it so that you can't get a seal over their mouth. So I think it's fine to take the mask off, close the nose, silt the head, right? But you can also do it with the mask on.

1:07:42
It's just hard to tell if they're breathing or not.

1:07:47
Okay, well, that's the thing. It's like you have to be able to check to make sure they're not breathing. So if the mask's on, they're not going to be breathing through their nose. So you can go, oh, not breathing through their mouth. Then you do rescue breaths. Yeah, so you can do it either way, because when there's a mask on, there is a seal. They're not going to... there's a seal over their face, so the air is not going to come out. Unless the air is coming out, in which case you've got to pinch the nose, and you've got to probably take the mask off to pinch the nose. Okay, any other questions? Yes, at the back. Yes.

1:08:39
Are there seriously going to be happy fishes in that segment of the water? And I go to the city and see people and I think it's going to be like... Is it coming back to them like a mirror? Stuff that I think of like that. Bodhicitta. So, a lot of the effect of Bodhicitta is just starting to add positive influences

1:09:06
in your energy field towards people in a spiritual way. If you have really, really, really strong Bodhicitta, you will take away their suffering completely and forever and make them enlightened with your breath. You'll be like, here, you're an enlightened fish, bing! You're an enlightened person, bing! So, yeah, so, if you're a master, a grandmaster, an enlightened mahasiddha of Bodhisitta, then your Bodhisitta will take people suffering away forever, and your Bodhisitta will enlightenments. So, a good way to think of it is, it's just a... it adds a positive influence to their life. you have a recognition of their suffering and taking and sending for them, it creates, maybe they have like, you know, a certain pattern, but it creates a high point in that pattern and that can lead to a greater recognition at some time for them. So, it definitely has a real effect, Bodhisitta. you know, you can't really measure it most of the time, and it might be very subtle, but as you become stronger and stronger in bodhicitta, you have a higher, more positive effect. But you still... it's not something that you need to measure. You don't have to... you shouldn't, you know, focus on the results. So like, let's say you're in an argument with a friend, and then you're like, God, you suck! And then you're all, alright. And then your friend keeps arguing with you, and you go, hey, I just did Bodhicitta on you! You shouldn't argue with me! You should be happy and enlightened now, and do what I want! Because if you were enlightened and you had no suffering, you would do the thing I want to do.

1:11:38
Just kidding.

1:11:40
So yeah, you can't measure it, and you can't expect results. All you can do is have that awareness of someone's suffering, and practice taking and sending. Yes. But, even though we're practicing taking and sending, and we have no thing, you know, no expectations, Taking and sending bodhisitta has a spiritually positive effect. Yeah. Happy fish. Okey dokey. Any other questions?

1:12:08
Very good. Alright.

1:12:11
So tomorrow I will be diving on the tropical boat. Let's see how the diving is up this way. Good. Very nice. Thank you all very much. Good. Very nice. Thank you all very much. Oh yeah, so good...




Transcribed with Cockatoo
