0:00:00
Well, happy Thanksgiving, everyone. What a wonderful Thanksgiving weekend. For Buddhists So we always have to remember that in our giving. We're always also taking. So tonight, And I will be giving an intermediate empowerment.

0:00:36
See?

0:00:37
Taking and giving.

0:00:40
Thanksgiving.

0:00:41
Yeah, Thanksgiving. You've got to be grateful for taking and sending. Grateful to have the opportunity to do it. Grateful to have the awareness to do it, to have that method, that dharmic method. Because without taking and sending, it's easy to be miserable. Oh yeah, speaking of miserable, I read your papers. And it definitely inspired me to practice bodhicitta. Yeah, so it was Half of you did a very, very poor job on your writing assignment. So the assignment was to really identify your suffering in detail and to have the considerations of bodhicitta for at least one other person. So with the knowledge of your suffering, see that another, anyone, someone, or imagine that someone has the same suffering, and have the considerations of Bodhicitta for them. So, some of you did a great job. Some of you did that. You said, well, here, I have this problem. I get upset about this, or I have this problem, sad about that. And you went into the details explaining it. And then you said, well, I recognize that other people have this too. Maybe someone you knew, you saw them, and you explained your awareness of their suffering and the considerations of Bodhicitta for them. That was the assignment. But more than half of you really indulged. You went into a good description of your suffering and then ended the paper saying, oh yeah, and Bodhisitta's pretty good too. Yeah, I should do Bodhisitta for this suffering. Really, I know it seems really ridiculous, but over half of the group kind of just either indulged into their sadness in their writing, or they waxed on poetic about their self-importance, or they just flat out did a two-page bitch session, bitching about everything. Oh, it was horrible. So I read all these papers and I was like, oh my goodness, look at these angry, nasty, self-important people. How horrible. Always pointing at another person and saying, they caused my suffering. Oh, horrible. Self-importance, oh, it's terrible. And then when it comes to really transcending that with the awareness of Bodhicitta, no. So you all succeeded tremendously in writing down your suffering, your limitations. The problem is that many of you, more than half of you, had no awareness of transcending that. Your awareness was completely indulging in your suffering, going further into it, describing it, agreeing with it. This is the problem. Many of you agreed with your self-importance, you agreed with your desires, you agreed with your attachments, and that was it. And then you said, oh yeah, I would be good to do bodhicitta. But see, that shows me what I was reckoning here. You guys don't get it. You guys don't get it. I guess, you know, the spiritual teachings, although they don't sound so difficult, it's hard for people to actually, you know, learn these things. Like simple things, like, you know, Buddha says, Oh, don't be angry. And then you're okay. And then, you know, you start, you start practicing mindfulness and all these things and then things come up and they make you angry. Then you work on it, you struggle with it for a while. Then eventually you really figure it out. One day, after lots of experiences of struggling with anger or struggling with your depression You'll, by going through the process of mindfulness practice, yoga, meditation, eventually, you will be able to come to a place where these things don't bother you. It just doesn't occur anymore. But for a while, it's a struggle, struggle, struggle, struggle, struggle. And then one day you figure it out. Oh, boy, I shouldn't be such an angry jerk. Oh, I shouldn't be such a self important jerk. Oh, I shouldn't be such a desirous jerk, you know, so you just figure it out. Even though it's easy to hear the methods of the Dharma, but I guess it takes a little while to figure it out, to actually have a realization, to say, ah, I get it. Now this is how I'm going to be. Yeah, it's unfortunate. But I guess it is that way. Bodhicitta is something also that you struggle with for a while. You know, it's like, for a while you have to work on it. You have to work with it. Whenever your egotism comes up, whenever you start going into blame and enmity, you start practicing bodhicitta. Whenever depression comes up in you, when your suffering comes up, you start practicing bodhicitta. Practicing bodhicitta. And then you struggle with it. You go through the mindfulness act of bodhicitta. You start to generate some you're able to create balance because you practice bodhicitta. Sometimes where you feel like you fail when you're practicing bodhicitta, you go through this big struggle. But it's a good struggle, because eventually you figure it out. One day, if you haven't yet, one day you will say, much, much better way to deal with things than with my egotism, my self-defending mode all the time. So, it's unfortunate, but I suppose that's the way it is. I was just pretty surprised to see that so many of you just have such a limited understanding of these teachings, that you really, really can't even write down an understanding, an awareness of your suffering and bodhicitta for another person. You can't even put it into words. So we have to work on it more. We have to go through this struggle. But it's an important practice. It's a worthwhile Every time that you practice bodhicitta, it strengthens your connection with this light of compassion. Every time that you practice bodhicitta, it breaks the karma of self. So it stops you from following whatever negativity comes up in your mind, it's a break in it. And sometimes it's only a break for a moment. But a break for a moment, it lessens the velocity of your karma. And then if you keep on having these breaks, eventually you will slow down and bring to a halt the karma. And you will be bringing compassion and selflessness and the light of Bodhisitta into your experience. So it's a worthwhile practice. It is a good practice. Even though I can see that many of you are having a really hard time with it because you don't practice it very well and you can't even kind of conceive of it properly. You need to read your book again. You need to read the Bodhicitta book again. This is a book that you should be reading continuously. A little bit, you know, you'll read the book a couple times and then you'll go through it another time and just the little phrases, the little aphorisms will start to, you know, kind of open your mind to new ways of looking at dealing with difficult situations.

0:12:06
So

0:12:08
It is important. So The main problem is that you are immersed in your lower self. You are always acting in a way of the ego, your lower self, your lower ways of dealing with things. Self-defense, always finding blame, indulging in egotism, or indulging in depression. Yeah, so, you know, you're always dealing with things in a low way and not using the practices of the Dharma, like Bodhisattva. And the dharma, bodhicitta, mindfulness meditation, when you deal with the difficulties in your life using the methods of the dharma, you get proficient in them. They give you a selfless way to deal with difficulty, and a lot more options for success and happiness. So bodhicitta is the way of your higher self. And all of you have a higher self. Yes, it's true. You all have an enlightened aspect of your being. It's just that you're not acting from that place. You're not perceiving from that place. You're not drawing your intent from that place. Right now, you're acting in a low way. You're dealing with the world and life in the way of the lower self. However, when you come into your higher noble intent and you start using the techniques of the Dharma, then you enter into the sphere of your higher self. And then, even right now, you can change this pattern of acting in your lowest common denominator self. And you can start acting in a higher, brighter way. You can practice practice, you know, knee-jerk, ego, self-importance, depression reactions. So, you really can make the change by really following a higher intent. And, you know, that higher intent is to actually actually do bodhicitta. Not just to you know think about it or remember it once in a while. It's to do bodhicitta all the time. One of the problems is that you've gotten into a routine in your spiritual practice where you've cut out seeing the light. You're in the dark. And you forgot or you don't perceive that there's light in the study, that there's enlightenment right right here, right now. You forget that. Your awareness field is covered over with lower self reactions. And you just got into this way of, oh yeah, we do meditation sometimes, and we go to yoga, yoga teachers tell us stuff, or whatever your routine is. You're like, oh, I'm in Bodhi Woods, I'm doing this, I'm doing that. Everything is always the same. Everything's horrible. You know? So, when you're in a routine of spiritual practice, you really are not practicing well. You've lost your beginner's mind, and you're looking at things in a very, very limited way. And this is a way that is infused with the reactions of the lower self. And when you keep following those lower self reactions, what does it create? It creates a mess. You feel horrible, you think horrible thoughts, you're a nasty person, and you're just being unhappy, and you're suffering. And then you look at the spiritual path and you say, Oh, the spiritual path sucks, because you're in a routine, right? You look at it and you go, I don't see enlightenment anymore. I don't see any opportunity. In fact, the spiritual path is against me." Right? You say, or whatever, you know, the structure of the spiritual path. I don't want to meditate anymore. Meditation, it's horrible. I feel horrible when I meditate. I start thinking all these thoughts. Well, you really lost the path when you are following... So if you sit down in meditation, it's just a routine to you. You forgot everything about how bright it is and you just sit there and think negative thoughts. You're not meditating. You're not following the spiritual teachings. You're following your lower self. If you're going through your day, and then you get depressed or angry, start blaming people about everything, and you just believe yourself, you follow those thoughts, you don't practice mindfulness, you don't practice bodhicitta, you forgot. You don't see the path. It's disappeared. All you see is a reflection of yourself. You see your self-sadness, but you're not practicing the Dharma. You're just going through the throes of the lower self. You're in the routine, is not the pathway to enlightenment. It's something that, you know, you go through, you get stuck in it, but you gotta wake up.

0:19:48
Wake up and smell the bodhisitta.

0:19:49
Yeah, right? You have to, you have to wake up and say, okay, wait, look, I know I'm not happy. I know I'm not practicing right. I know that I'm doing a bad job on my yoga. I know that I'm letting all this negativity into my mind all the time, every day. I know I'm not really practicing meditation. I might sit there, but I'm not actually like practicing well. I'm practicing in a sleepy way. And I definitely, definitely, definitely am not doing bodhicitta. I'm just sitting there thinking all this negative stuff all the time. You are caught in a rut of the lower self and it's just happening over and over and over again. It's not the pathway to enlightenment. It's you having an ego fit. The teachings of enlightenment bring you out of this. You have to wake up and practice. You know, just forget everything. Clean slate. Just start practicing for real. If you just do that, forget all of what you think and how many days you've been practicing this or that. Just put it all aside. Start practicing for real now and then you can break out of that routine of the self and then you can move forward. Be bright and excited. The pathway to enlightenment is very very bright and exciting but it's not when you're filled with routines of the lower self. See, that's how you can tell. If you're excited about your yoga, good. Something's going on, good. If you're excited about bodhichitta, that's great. If you're excited about meditation, good. These are good things. But when you're like, it doesn't work, blah blah blah, you know, you just get stuck in self Very crazy Very crazy. I Guess it's easier to see like in martial arts, right? So if you had the same attitude in martial arts going through the routines of just your katas You know, and then you're just sitting there going. Yeah, my sensei is so lame. I don't know what he's talking about. Stuff doesn't work anyway, whatever. And then you go into sparring, you go into a kumite, fighting match. Yeah, you wake up pretty quickly. But it's more subtle in spiritual practice. You're not waking up. You're just sitting there going through that training routine where you're just, oh yeah, I've done this kata so many times that I'm not even going to pay attention while I do it. And it just doesn't make any sense why my sensei says it's garbage. I don't even want to show up for class. You know that kind of stuff? when you're in that routine in your spiritual practice, you have to really snap out of it. Clean slate, start over, practicing for real. Otherwise, life will send you into that kumite nice training of the Dharma session, but beyond this moment here, difficulties will come. And the question is, are you prepared? Are you prepared for life? Can you practice bodhicitta? Do you have strong concentration in your meditation? Do you have strong personal power? You have to develop yourself and falling into the routines is not a way to develop yourself. Falling into the routines and just not even getting the point of training. You're not doing yourself a service. Yeah, so it's very, very important to actually practice. Wake up. Wake up your higher intent. Remember that enlightenment thing. Like I'm talking to you guys right now, and half of you don't even see it. You don't even see it. You don't even get it. You're just really stuck in your own head. You're stuck in your karma. You're stuck in your karma, and that's why there's a whole bunch of poo around. Karma poo. So, you know, it's got to pull your head out of that karma. And you have to start to remember the spiritual path. It remembers you. Yeah, otherwise, well gosh, it's just horrible. It's just horrible. And it's horrible. Just everything. Horrible having you around, being a pain in the neck. So when I'm teaching you, you know, when we're sitting here having satsang, we meditate together, and I'm talking to you. I'm also practicing bodhicitta. So I can actually practice bodhicitta while talking about other subjects. Because it's second, it's become second nature to me. To me it's very, very normal. But it's an important thing to observe. Like for example, I'm practicing bodhicitta right now. This is one of the things that I do very often. Ever since you met me, I always practice bodhicitta. When you look at me, sometimes you can see it. You can go, oh, that's what bodhicitta is, because I am practicing it. And I do it for real. And I do it completely. So even while we talk, while I'm explaining something, while I'm pointing something out about your mind, about your egotism, your suffering, your lack of practice, I'm also practicing bodhicitta. And, you know, just while we're sitting together, just looking at me, you can see it sometimes, so that you have a greater awareness of it. If you can see it, you have a greater awareness of it. Yeah. Meditation.

0:27:33
Seeking and sending together. But look at me so that you can see it for Follow me. so the the the the the the the the the the the the So you So the most important thing is that you stop believing in your limitations. You stop following the limited ideas, the smaller views, or your angers, or your depressions. You stop believing those things, believing in those things. Because

0:33:02
When you sit there and say, oh yeah, I have this anger, and it's because of this and that, this person, that person, that thing, and when you continue to think those thoughts and follow those things, then you're going in the way of the lower self. And you know, if you look at it objectively, you know that that's a limited view and that following the Dharma would bring you to a higher, brighter, happier condition. But you don't practice it. You're not mindful of it when it occurs. So you have to be mindful. You have to observe when that negativity comes up. So with all your sadnesses and confusions and angers and depressions, all that stuff, you have to practice bodhicitta. You can't just say, oh yeah, I'm sad because of this situation and I agree it's gonna be horrible. I'm never gonna be happy again, ever. You know, When you just keep on thinking those sad, angry, self-absorbed thoughts, you're not giving yourself an experience of liberation. You're getting yourself stuck more in the rut of the lower self. So you have to practice the way of the higher self. It's so important. Otherwise, you know, you end up being a fool. Buddha says a fool could be in the presence of an enlightened master and still miss the way. That would be such a shame. So, unfortunately, a lot of you are being very, very, very foolish, very foolish. And it would be better to start practicing the Dharma, bodhicitta, wake up, wake up. Wake up. Look at life in a new bright way, the way that life really is. Practice the Dharma. Stop practicing the ways of the lower self. You know, every every Every enlightened person has faced the same things you are facing. Every enlightened person has come across the same difficulties,

0:36:36
the same obstacles.

0:36:37
And by practicing the Dharma, they were able to overcome that. And for them, it wasn't easy. It's not an easy thing. But instead of following the way of the self, they practiced the Dharma, which led them to enlightenment. So it's not like it's the easiest thing to do, but it is something that you can do. So, you know, all of Buddha's monks who became enlightened, all the arhats, they all had lots and lots of difficult times. They had to deal with the same issues. They struggled. And they had the Buddha as their teacher. Or remember Arjuna? Arjuna had Krishna as a teacher. And then he had this amazing Bhagavad Gita thing happen, saw everything in the universe. And then he goes out on the battlefield and struggles. He struggles with his yoga again. Krishna had to keep on telling him, Hey, remember, go in there and kill people. Selflessly. So he struggled. And Arjuna, not in that incarnation, subsequent incarnation became enlightened. So it works, it happens. Yeah, a lot of Buddha's bhikkhus, you know, they struggled with it, but then they had that moment where they were able to be free from it. Yeah. Like, a very ornery monk, always fighting with the other students, just always causing trouble. He was very, very, very mad at everything and just was having a horrible time in making And Buddha came from one of the ashrams to this one where this angry, angry monk was, who's sitting there causing so much trouble. And then, you know, all the all the monks come over and say, Hey, this one, this one jerk is causing all this trouble. He's very angry. So Buddha talks him. And Buddha, you know, listens to all of his grievances, hears all of the things that he's mad about. And, and he says, you know, to him, he kind of advises him about his death. He says, you're gonna die. Someday, you're just going to be dead. What is all all of this arguing about why be angry, why quarrel when you're just gonna be dead someday. And so the guy thought about it. He was like, hmm, yeah, what does this matter? I'm just gonna be dead someday. And in an understanding the transience of the experiences of anger and looking at the greater truth of death, he was able to be free from feeling the need to be angry, the need to fight, the need to quarrel. He saw the bigger picture, and then he was able to be just free from that. And that's a huge thing. But that was his, you know, that was his moment where he really, really got it. Because of course, you know, who wants to be angry? It's no fun. It's not something that we usually sign up for in Buddhism. I'm joining the pathway to enlightenment to get really angry. We usually don't do that. But I did. Unwittingly. And for me too, I had, through my practice, I had a big problem with anger. And then eventually I figured out, oh, being angry is really stupid.

0:42:02
Oh, I'm not gonna do that anymore.

0:42:04
But I really, really struggled with it. I didn't enjoy it, it was not fun. I tried to stop it, seemed like it was impossible. But then, eventually, I was able to break out of that rut of my lower self because my second attention was on the pathway to enlightenment. My first attention, I practiced mindfulness, even though it was so hard, I struggled and

0:42:34
struggled.

0:42:35
Eventually, I came to the realization of how to be free from that anger. So it was so important. And it's because you follow the teachings. So for that angry monk, he listened to the Buddha, and he learned, finally, how to be free from it. There's another one of Buddha's monks who was very, very, very, very jealous. He was always so upset. So, you know, when they would go around, you know, asking people for food, they'd take out their little begging bowl and say, give us some food. He would always like watch what the other monks get. And then he would all the time see one of the other monks who got a little bit more, got a little, you know, more rice or a little more vegetables or whatever he wanted. And then he would feel bad about it. He'd be like, oh, that monk got something more than me. And forget that some of them got less than him. He was always looking at what he didn't get. He was like, oh, I wanted some of that cabbage. I didn't even get any cabbage. And he was also just really, really jealous of everybody. Like if someone could memorize a sutra, and he had trouble with it, he got so jealous and angry and frustrated with them. He's like, I can't believe it. So he'd get mad at them and feel horrible And everything from just food to what bed he got to sleep on, to the studies, and to when one of the arhats would say, hey, you did a good job, to one of the monks. He'd get jealous. Instead of saying, oh, yeah, OK, he did something good. I'm going to do it like that. He would just get jealous. So he was having a miserable time, so he finally goes over to the Buddha and says, I don't know what to do. Totally, totally jealous of everybody about everything. have, you should appreciate what you have. Real simple teaching. And then the guy really listened to the Buddha, and he started looking at, you know, someone who had more rice in his bowl, or someone who did well in their sutra chanting. And then he started to say, oh, instead of always looking out at what I don't have and what another has, and always comparing myself with others, and feeling bad about what others have and what I want, and all that anger and frustration, he said, I'm not going to even worry about that. And then he started to look at his life. And he's like, I have my practice, you know, I have my everything provided, the monastery to sleep in, I have food every day to eat, I have my robe, what else does a monk need? You know, and then he's like, okay, this is not so bad. I can just focus on the things that I have and work from here. So just by forgetting about worrying about other people and by just focusing on what was going on in his life, he was able to really figure out the way to use his attention properly. He disconnected that part of himself that kept him in the lower aspects of his being. And then he was able to very quickly follow the teachings. He ignited his higher self. He became one of the arhants, because he was able to just figure that out, that simple little thing about, don't be jealous. So you know, these are simple teachings. You know, when you read the Dhammapada, Buddha Buddha says, oh, do this, don't do that, don't be an idiot, you moron. And then you listen to it. And from your meditation practice, from your higher intent to do bodhicitta, from doing yoga, from being on the pathway to enlightenment, you will figure it out. You can figure it out. You can figure out these simple things. Be humble, don't be self-important. And you say, oh, okay, I get it. Yeah, that was really jerky the way I used to be, you know. You could figure it It takes practicing bodhicitta, really practicing your meditation earnestly, not just going through the motions. And practicing yoga is very, very, very helpful. It's very, very helpful. So it's very important to actually practice the Dharma.

0:48:52
So that's the thing.

0:48:52
You know, so I read your papers, and I was like, oh my God, who are these horrible people? Thinking all these nasty thoughts. I never knew. I was so, I was surprised, shocked and amazed. How could this ever happen that my students would think thoughts like that? Just kidding. As far as I understand. And yes, very good reason for me to practice bodhichitta. So, I'm going to talk about everyone's paper in front of everybody else. Just one guy, that guy over there.

0:49:37
Just kidding.

0:49:38
You're like, oh no. I'm going to tell everyone what I said there. Yeah, I would like to tell everyone about those beautiful moments of bodhicitta. Beautiful moments. There was one person's paper had Bodhicitta in it. And I said, wow, this is awesome. So that's one. That's good. Yeah, so but you know, if you practice Bodhicitta, get strong in Bodhicitta, Bodhicitta becomes the way that you do things. Instead of self-importance, oh my gosh, self-importance, or anger, or sadness. When anything comes up, you're able to practice Bodhicitta. And it makes everything brighter. Yeah, things still are painful. Things are still difficult, but you're not sabotaging your happiness. You're actually creating light and brightness and opportunities and space, and you're pushing off all of the most negative ways of looking at everything. The lower self just looks at everything in the worst ways possible. But the higher self, following Dorisita, everything's much, much, much better. And this is the spiritual path. We actually take these things, this angers, dissatisfactions, sadnesses, attachments, desires. We take these things and we practice with them. We practice bodhicitta. We practice the dharma. We meditate on these things. And then we learn about them. We transcend them. You know, when you learn about them, you really learn about yourself. When you learn about, you know, your egotism, when you learn about your suffering, you learn how to release an aspect of yourself that's stuck. You learn about yourself, you learn about life, a place where you've been hiding or a place that you have not figured out. You learn about it, and then where there was darkness, where there was pain and confusion, you now have wisdom and light. But we learn about it in bodhichitta by facing it, by saying, okay, I know this is not desirable. I know that this is painful. I know that this is difficult. I know this is not the ideal concept that I think would be the coolest thing in the universe. But it is what is happening. This is what's going on right now. And therefore, I'm going to practice being open to this. Taking pain, taking the darkness, and using your higher intent to give light. This is the way that you can learn about the places where you're stuck in your life. And this is what all of the successful spiritual seekers have done. There was an old Zen story of a monk. So he came over to the monastery and he said he was really inspired by a young monk or young guy. I really, really, really want to become a Buddhist monk. And then the Zen master was all, oh I don't know, he's so young, you have all these desires and stuff. And he's like, no, but I can do it, I want it really bad. So he's like, all right, I'll give you a shot. So he really had to beg to get in. And then the Zen master let's him in. Now, after about a month or two, he did go into his practice really hard meditating, just pushing it, really enjoying everything. But after a month or two, he started to think about other things like girlfriend he had before. So he's all, I wonder where she's at. Bet she's down over in the village there. So middle of the night, he goes and jumps the fence. He jumps out over the monastery wall. And then he goes and finds the girlfriend. He was actually from a wealthy family. So I think he probably went home, got some money, put on some different clothes, and then found his girlfriend and had a party. And then he comes back real late at night, except for meditation in the morning. And so he keeps doing this, except for first it was his old girlfriend, but then while he was partying, he found some other girls. Got their phone numbers.

0:55:21
Texting them during meditation.

0:55:23
You know, posting stuff on their Facebook wall.

0:55:28
You know, kind of the thing Zen monks did.

0:55:30
And he kept doing this, kept doing this, kept doing this. Oh yeah, there was one other thing. So he would sneak out around the backside of the monastery. So most of the dormitory rooms faced one way and then he would sneak around the back way. And there was this one old blind monk who faced, he was the only one who had a window facing the wall that he would jump over. And he's like, ah, the blind monk can't see me so he can't tell on me. But the blind monk, every time he jumped the wall, he would look at the blind monk's room and there would be the monk there sitting in the window. And he's all like, hey, he's blind, he can't tell on me. So he would just keep going and doing this. And then one day he comes back and he's like, there's that blind monk, right? He's like, I'm just gonna go make sure he can't see me. So he walks over just to see why that blind monk's always sitting there, even very, very late at night. And when he gets close to the window, he sees the Zen master. It was the Zen master watching him. And then he felt a lot of shame because he was a proper Japanese guy. He's all, oh! Oh, I begged this Zen master to let me be here. I begged him. And then he let me be here. And then he's just been watching me for the past few months, going out and partying with women. How horrible. And he's a Zen master, so he could totally

0:57:25
see what I've been doing.

0:57:26
Oh, it's horrible.

0:57:28
So he says, oh, Zen master, I am so sorry. And I can't believe that you didn't kick me out. Because, you know, in Zen, if you didn't do a good job, you get kicked out of the monastery. And then the Zen master said, no, it's okay. He says, I could see that you are reflecting on the transient experiences. experiences, then this is your way of learning. And this was quite compassionate of the Zen master. Usually if someone breaks a rule, they throw them out of the monastery. And this young monk, he really had an interest in enlightenment, but his desires for sexual experience and relationships drew him off over the wall, time and time again. But the Zen master said, Oh, no, no, I understand. This is something that you're reflecting on. You're seeing that the transient experiences with parties and sexual relationships. These are things that, compared to your meditation practice and your spiritual practice, they fall out of balance. And so he reflected on, because the Zen master actually was so kind, he had a greater opportunity to look at it. And the Zen master suggested that he was reflecting on the transience of these relationships. So he then reflected on the transience of it. And he came to an awareness that freed him from this desire. So he sat there, reflected on it, was freed from the desire, and immediately became enlightened, went into Satori right away. So this was a hang-up, like a really bad hang-up for him. But because of his experience, being on the spiritual path, because his Zen master was compassionate to him and also pointed out to him what was going on in his mind and he reflected on it, he was able to be free from it, free from those kinds of traps of passion. But at the same time, there's always those stories of the enlightened Zen master who he himself wakes up in the middle of the night, sneaks out, jumps over the fence, goes to the bar, finds the prostitutes. Yeah, there's stories of those enlightened monks. Oh yeah, and then the other thing is, he just doesn't even come back. The monks have to go out and search for the Zen Master. Zen Master's not here for morning meditation. Oh, you know, we should go down to the brothel. Maybe he's there. You guys go check the bar. I'll take the brothel. And they would find him. They'd come back to the monastery oh okay I guess that was like a tantric Zen master yeah true true story so really faint really famous said master used to do that his bunks are all confused master please come back to meditation. Okay. And then he would, you know, be like, Oh, meditate, going to Nirvana, everyone's learning and having a great time. And in the middle of the night. Yeah, so, you know, for, you know, for the one guy, it was a hang up. You can't have desire. But for the Zen master, he didn't have desire. He was enlightened. He'd go and jump the fence too. Yeah. You know, Marpa was pretty... He would seem angry, and he would, you know, go into the energy of anger. But he, even though he would be angry, he would go into the energy of anger, he was detached from it. My teacher used to do this a lot. He would yell at us and yell, you guys are blah blah blah blah, you know? And we're all, oh, we're all, oh, master is very angry with us right now. And that was, you know, he seemed to get really, really angry at us. But he wasn't really angry. He was detached from it. Marpa was detached from his anger. So he can act angry to get his students to pay attention. But he himself was not limited by the same sorrow that the monk who was angry in Buddha's story experienced. So the monk who was angry at everybody and always fighting having trouble, right? He was limited his ego was stuck. He couldn't figure it out. He couldn't be free. And then Buddha taught him and he became enlightened because he could be free from it. And once you're enlightened, like Marpa, you can be angry, but you're not... your spirit... yeah, you're not attached to it. Your spirit is not attached to the anger. So, you know, once you're enlightened, all bets are off. But on the way there, you can be tantric or whatever, once you're enlightened. But you have to get to that place where you figure it out. You figure out the things that you have desires about. You figure out the things that make you angry. You figure out your sadness, you figure out your attachment. Once you figure it out through bodhicitta, through meditation, through yoga, once you figure it out, then you're free and you're happy and the thing doesn't come up again. You're free from it. But until you figure it out, you have to practice. Okay, why don't we take a break? Okay, why don't we take a break?

1:04:49
Why don't we take a break?




Transcribed with Cockatoo
