0:00:00
We're going to begin with meditation bodhicitta practice, relative bodhicitta. We're going to practice taking and sending, particularly for the attachment to anger. So think of a time where you have directly experienced anger, frustration, deep resentment, and practice taking and sending to others based on that. Oh, someone else is getting here. So we'll give them a chance to get in on time. It's important to practice bodhicitta together. So you get in touch with the suffering that you've had in experiencing anger, and you become aware of another. Maybe you've seen another person who was similarly angry, or maybe you can imagine people being similarly angry, and you practice taking and sending. Simple, simple practice. But it's very important that you really get into the awareness of that anger, that frustration. Know what it is, and its essential feeling, and then see that others have the same feelings, the same suffering, the same angers, the same disturbing emotions, and practice taking and sending.

0:02:03
take and send.

0:02:05
Someone's standing in front of the door there. Thank you for attending.

0:02:09
Is someone else still out there? No. Good.

0:02:13
So we're just going to sit for one song, focusing on frustration and taking and sending for frustration and anger. And why don't we listen to this.

0:02:41
Yes?

0:02:42
Is it better to focus on one particular time you're frustrated or angry or is it okay to

0:02:48
sort of, if you have like a full montage of...

0:02:54
Yeah.

0:02:55
If it's one particular time that you can focus on, then it's a clear time.

0:03:03
But if it's a montage that gets you into the awareness of essentially that anger and frustration. That's good.

0:03:20
I hear someone coming.

0:03:23
Yes, please.

0:03:26
Be on time. That makes me so angry!

0:03:34
Gee!

0:03:36
I can't believe you people okay we're practicing taking and sending for anger Now I have something to practice, something to motivate me.

0:03:58
Ha ha ha ha ha!

0:04:00
I'm late!

0:04:02
So much inspiration in the following day.

0:04:04
Okay, let's begin.

0:04:07
Just one song. the

0:04:16
the the So, Oh, So, the Very good. Very nice. So, today is the Day of the Dead, the day after Halloween, so I didn't want this wonderful moment to go by without us watching a scary movie together. So we learn from scary movies. And we can learn all sorts of things, like how to be a warrior. So you watch scary movies and sometimes people fight back against the ghosts. They get the ghosts in a headlock. And that's an important thing to know about. But a lot of times in scary movies, the resolution of dealing with the demon or the ghost or whatever, is to appease it. So maybe the ghost is angry for a certain reason, like its body wasn't buried, and it's stuck in the house.

0:06:41
So then the ghost is happy and moves on. So these are real things. You can appease a ghost or a demon. And this is the defense against the dark arts teaching of Bodhisitta, which is, you know, don't fight with the demon, practice bodhicitta on the demon. So, as you've read in the Great Pathway of Awakening, there's a teaching for taking and sending for malicious spirits, for demonic entities. you take and send for them. And you practice a very, very strong sense of taking their suffering and a very strong sense of giving them what they want, which is sometimes your blood and bones. And you can imagine, and they say, imagine the demon joyfully eating your flesh. Right? They say that, right? So you have to imagine that and then you have to also take the demons suffering. So this is a method that works with some success. It's definitely a good thing to try. However, you have to be street smart. If you're extremely extremely powerful in Bodhisitta maybe it works right but it's kind of the same as if somebody's mugging you with a knife there's a guy with a knife grabs you puts you in an alley and he's all like give you give me your money or I'm gonna beat you up in fact give me your money and I'm gonna beat you up because it's a bad person right if you do bodhicitta on them they may not notice they won't. If you have very, very, very powerful Bodhisitta, they probably won't notice and still mug you and beat you up. So, you know, you have to be street smart and with demons you have to be street smart. So, you know, why not give a try? Start with Bodhisitta. Oh, someone pulled a knife on me. Bodhisitta. Oh, doesn't seem to be doing anything. So, and then at the same time you're practicing bodhisitta. Oh, I smashed his head in. It must hurt. Really? Yeah. So that's a really, really, really good way to do it. If you sense malicious spirits or something like that, you practice taking and sending. And then if they persist to be malicious, then you use force. The things I taught in the original Defense Against the Dark Arts, those mystic techniques, are very There was one of my students from Hungary, she actually had a demon in her apartment. Not a deceased person who remained, but a demon, a demonic spirit. And it was doing all sorts of scary things that you see in the movies, you know, all those scary things, it was doing that to her. And she used the defense against the dark arts, the mystic practices, and she was able to get rid of it, fend it off. And so these techniques really, really work. Bodhicitta, probably not. In fact, have I ever seen it work? I've never actually seen it work. But I think it's a nice thing to try first. And also, it is important, it's really important to, even if you're expressing a destructive power, you're expressing power, but in your heart you're practicing bodhichitta, because you know that you have to harm this person. You have to harm the spirit. You have to harm them, because they're trying to harm you. And there's a dharma for you to maintain your life force. You must use your energy and power to keep yourself safe and not drained. So it's important. That's how we do it. Now that we learn the bodhicitta way, you sense that spirit, take and send. If that spirit keeps on coming, then use the other techniques of power. Maybe you just shield yourself and practice taking and sending. But maybe you push and practice taking and sending. Same thing for a street fight or getting mugged. As soon as you become aware of what's going on, if you have time, taking and sending. If you don't have time, it's simple martial arts. But if you have time, taking and sending. If it's not working, then you better get a black belt and be useful because it's no fun to get mugged. Okay, so with this in mind we turn to the subject of the movie. Usually when you watch a movie about a scary movie about ghosts, you look at the movie and go,

0:14:51
AHH!

0:14:55
Oh my god, that's so scary! But I want you to practice seeing it a different way. So in this practice, no mysticism, no thoughts of self-defense, no thoughts of fear, and I would do this and I would do that, you know, the regular way of dealing with stuff. I would like you to just have a pure awareness of bodhicitta as we watch this movie. So as you see the scary things with the ghosts, you practice taking and sending. You have to have the idea that, okay so this person's going, boo! But why is this spirit saying boo? You really have to look a little bit more deeply so that you can practice taking and sending. Because otherwise you're just afraid. You're just dealing with the surface. But it's important to look deeply and understand and then practice taking and sending for the spirit, for the demon, for the ghost. You have to practice, understand where they're coming from and practice taking and sending. It's a very, very, very, very different way to react towards a horror film. But this is the way that I always watch horror films. I always watch the horror film and I'm always looking at what is the essential suffering that the demon or ghost is responding to or reacting about. And then I practice taking and sending by watching a movie. That's one of the ways that movies can educate us because you very rarely will come across such a horrific situation. Very rarely. Could happen. Does happen, but rare. That's why we practice watching the horror films because it's like our dojo. It's our exercise. You have to suspend disbelief, really get into the story, move your assemblage point into the place of the story, and then you have to really believe in practice taking and sending. So movies, films, give us a really good way to practice bodhicitta in really strange and unusual, cruel and ways that normally don't happen in our lives. But it makes us very powerful to be able to deal with these types of situations. It makes us powerful in the way of not being reactive on the surface, and it makes us powerful in the way of having a strong sense of compassion in Bodhicitta. So this is our practice of Bodhicitta. Watching a movie and seeing who suffers. Maybe it's a human, maybe it's a ghost. We practice Bodhicitta. Okay, let's begin. Okay, let's begin. So we're watching, what is it, Men in Black?




Transcribed with Cockatoo
