0:00:00
It's important to recognize that a lot of your suffering comes from seeing illusions and getting worried about them.

0:00:16
have

0:00:18
suffering when you see limitation Don't immediately buy into it. This is the idea here, right? This is why I'm talking about Illusion This is why I'm talking about dreaming and the true nature of mind Don't buy into it. Don't say oh, that's the way it is. I got this problem. It's impossible And that's the way it is the end Because then you would be buying into a limited view the illusory view

0:00:57
it's like the

0:00:58
the Buddha's story about the rope so there's a, he thinks it's a snake. He thinks it's coming to get him. And so he worries. He's like, oh my gosh, there's a snake coming at me. He goes through all this mental consternation, all this internal suffering. And he's worried, he can't sleep all night because he thinks there's a snake that's coming at him. Then in the morning, when the light, when the Sun comes out, there's light, he sees that there's a rope on the floor and that it wasn't a snake. Then he says, oh man, I'm so stupid. Then he starts kicking himself because he was because he didn't see it right and he gave himself a hard time and then he didn't sleep well at night. So people do this in so many ways. So this is why I want you to recognize when you start having a bad time, you start recognizing suffering, when you start seeing limitation, to not believe it right away. Maybe it's just a rope. You're like, yeah, but it's a rope that's choking me. You know, whatever. But yeah, you really have to start to be open-minded that there's another way to look at this thing that is limiting, this thing that causes suffering, your condition. Because if you react to the rope like it's a snake and you're worried, you can't sleep, you're stressed out, you're causing a lot of unhappiness because you're just looking at an illusion and thinking that it's real. Be open-minded. Say, hmm, so I recognize that there may be a snake, but there may not be a snake. Maybe I shouldn't worry. Maybe I should just put myself in a protective place and not worry and stress out. And you have to do that with all the snakes of your mind, the snakes of depression, the snakes of anger, the snakes of enmity, the snakes of failure or feelings of failure, snakes of limitation. You have to recognize that in many cases, these are illusions. The teaching is that it's all illusions, but really we have to live in the physical world. It might be a snake, but there's only garter snakes around here, so it's very important though that you don't jump to the conclusion of suffering. Don't jump to the conclusion of, oh, it's a snake. Be more open-minded. Listen to the teaching of the true nature of your mind. Try to look beyond the thing that you're just jumping into. Try to look beyond your first impression. Because there are infinite ways to look for possibilities of success and happiness when you're dealing with these ropes that seem like snakes. There's infinite ways. Additionally, when you're experiencing desire, and you're looking at the world, and you're like, oh, I want this, oh, I need this, and you suffer because you don't get it, or you're wasting your time and energy chasing it. You need this stuff, that stuff, and this stuff. You're not pursuing yoga, you're pursuing self-enjoyment. You're seeking that self-satisfaction. That leads to unhappiness, and it's actually an illusion. The illusion is that the things that you can go out there and get in the world will satisfy you. Even though they bring some limited form of satisfaction, they ultimately are bad for you. There's a story of the Buddha, one of the sutras of the Buddha, where this guy comes over to him and the guy doesn't like the Buddha, but he comes over anyway. I don't know why. So somehow, you know, the Buddha is at some, he's at like some palace or something, and he's eating his dinner. And this guy is kind of like a noble guy. He's wealthy, he has the ability to come into the court. So he comes into the court, and he doesn't like the Buddha. He's got a chip on his shoulder. So he sits down there, and he's all,

0:06:42
meh, don't like you very much.

0:06:45
The Buddha's like, do you have a problem with me? And the guy's like, yeah, I got a problem with you. He calls the Buddha bad name. He calls him a... I don't know what he calls him. A destroyer of growth, which is supposed to be a really bad word. If you think about it, yeah, that's a pretty bad thing. It's a bad idea. So if you could say it in whatever, the Pali language or whatever they spoke back then. It's probably like the worst thing you can call someone. A destroyer of growth.

0:07:22
Buddha, you're a destroyer of growth.

0:07:25
And this guy had a chip on his shoulder because of a completely different story outside of the sutra that actually really happened. What happened was his mother was a beautiful noble woman and her mom and dad were actually in the Brahmin caste and they were very spiritual and they were trying to find the perfect husband for her. All these guys came, these suitors, and they were all, no, no, no, you're not good enough.

0:08:02
It's an illusion.

0:08:04
And then finally, the father's just walking down the street and he sees the Buddha and he goes, aha, he has all the right symbols, all the signs of a spiritual, powerful person. He is good enough to marry my beautiful daughter. So he goes over to the Buddha and says, wait right here, I'm going to be back in two minutes with my daughter. The Buddha doesn't answer. So then he goes away, and then the Buddha walks away. Then he comes back, and the Buddha's not there. So he goes chasing the Buddha. Hello? Just a sec. Okay, so he goes chasing the Buddha around. And he's running down, he finds Buddha, and he's there with his, with his daughter, and he brings his wife too. And then the Buddha recognizes that he and his wife are very high spiritual people. So he says, oh, you will be my students. And then they say, no, we just want you to marry our daughter. And then he says, oh, no, no, no. That's not what this is about. They're all, but our daughter is the most beautiful woman in the country. Everyone talks about how pretty she is and all this stuff, and the Buddha is all. Let me tell you a story about my enlightenment. I was sitting under the Bodhi tree and Mara came to me with his three daughters and they were the most beautiful. They were just a billion times more beautiful than your daughter. She's like, what? Because everyone else told her she was pretty. And then the Buddha said, she has 32 defilements. And is basically he said, and she's full of shit. She's full of filth is what he said. And she said, what? She was like, wow, that guy's really dissing me. So he says, I'm not going to marry her. And he's like, if I could turn down the three daughters of Mara, there's no way I'm going to marry that hag. So she gets pissed off at the Buddha. Now, Buddha did that because he had to break the way that the parents were looking at the situation. And then they went, oh, you're so right, thank you very much, we're gonna become your students now. And then they did, and then they became arhats, I think, or something like that. They became enlightened, or partially enlightened. So they are all like, bye, to their daughter. And then they go off and follow the Buddha. And she's just like, this guy just dissed me really hard, and then took my parents away. So she ends up mad about the Buddha. So then she has this son, and she's all, that Buddha is a bad person, really bad. So the boy grows up, and then when he's like 18, and Buddha's an old man, he goes to this court, and he's like, I finally get to see this Buddha. Like, so Buddha. Then we get into the Sutra, where there's an actual teaching. And he's like, so Buddha, you are a destroyer of growth. And Buddha says, so the problem is that you seek happiness in the senses, but the senses are an illusion. And so when you see that I am a destroyer of growth, I'm a destroyer of illusion. And since I destroy illusions, you think that that's a bad thing. However, it's a good thing. And he says, no, it's not. Buddha says, yes, it is. You know, when you go out there and try to get things that you want for yourself, to make you happy, those actually hurt you. He says, no, they don't. And Buddha says, yes, it's true. He's like, if you try to go out and get a girlfriend or make money or eat pleasant food or hear pleasant music, all these things that you try to do to make yourself happy and fulfilled hurt you. And he's like, that is crazy. Crazy, crazy. He's like, I go out and have the funnest times. I go and do the coolest things, and everything I do I really like, and it's awesomer than enlightenment. And everything that you do is undoing everything cool. So you're wrong. And Buddha says, but these are illusions. He says, imagine if you went up into the heaven of the 33. Buddha liked this place called the heaven of the 33. And he's like, if you go up into the heaven of the 33, amongst all the gods and all the wonders and splendors, and if you see a God sitting there with the little angel around him fanning him and massaging him and doing all the fun God stuff, like, oh, the wonders of heaven, right? This God gets to enjoy. Do you think that that God would trade places with you and enjoy the stuff that you enjoy down here? No, no, no. The God wouldn't. The God would say, my enjoyments are better than your enjoyments. And then the young guy goes, yeah, I guess that's true. So Buddha says, so even though you think this is the best thing, you know, running around and getting the things you want, and you think that the things that you want are good, they're actually transient because in heaven it could be better. The guy goes, okay, I'll give you that. He's like, but still, you know, I still think you're a destroyer of growth because you know, there's no sense in getting rid of these things because they actually don't cause harm. They just make you happy. Maybe in heaven you could be happier. But I'm pretty happy with this stuff I'm doing here. And all you do is mess it up. And then Buddha says, well, you know, imagine a leper, not a leprechaun. They didn't have this. A leper. And he's like, so one of the things that the lepers used to do, like they would have like a itchy painful sore or something, and one of the ways that they would relieve pain is they would take like a hot coal from the fire and kind of cauterize the scratch or the wound. And even though it kind of hurts, it also would be a relief of pain for the leper or whatever, relief of whatever they have. It would relieve them. They took satisfaction in it. Sort of like if you have an itch, like a bug bites you and you itch it, when you itch it, it gives you a satisfaction. You're like, oh, that itch was really nice. I'm scratching my itch. But then what happens is you don't get enough satisfaction. The itch is still there. And if you just keep itching it, then guess what happens? It turns into a cut. And you're like, oh, I cut myself.

0:16:08
Right?

0:16:09
And this is exactly the kind of thing that the lepers did. You know, they're like, oh. But they did it, and this is just a more intense way of looking at it. But it's similar to, ah, I'm scratching my itch, feels good, ouch. I scratched my hand off. So the leopards, they're like, pssh, you know, like they take a little scratch and then they put a hot coal on it and it gives them, it scratches their itch and they feel good and they like it. They're all, ah, ooh, nothing like a hot coal, cauterizing your scratch. And so the Buddhist, so the Buddhist says, yeah, you know how leopards like that? And the young guy's like, Yeah, well, they like it because it's good for them. It's like, and the Buddha says, Well, imagine, you know, if a leper were completely healed of leprosy, leper carnorsy, then if you suggest to them that you're going to burn them with a coal, they wouldn't want it the same way you wouldn't want it. If someone grabbed you and brought you to the fire and they were gonna put a coal on your arm, you're gonna fight against it. But when you're in a condition of leprosy, you think it's good, but actually it's really not good. When you're cured of that problem, then it's a bad thing. So all of the things that you chase to create fulfillment for yourself, that you desire, that you long for, these are all things, you're like a leper. You're sick, you see things wrong, and you think that when you attain those things that it gives you some kind of balance, that it scratches your itch, but it actually wounds you. And when you can finally be free of your leprosy, when you can see beyond the illusions, you find a more wholesome way, a real way. So the guy is like, oh, really? I never thought of it that way. So Buddha showed him that, first of all, he thought that what he was doing, all of his pursuits in life, were the best. And then he's all, yeah, I guess that God could have a better time, do better things, have more fun, go to better parties. And then he's like, yeah, but still, the stuff I like is stuff that's cool. But then he took a look at it and said, well, if in fact I am inflicted by this condition where I see things in a limited way, and Buddha likens it to me being like a leper, which makes me go out and get the things that scratch my itch, but scratching my itch actually is wounding me. Maybe I better pay attention and listen. So he in fact did and ended up becoming a monk and becoming enlightened and everything. And he was able to transcend his seeking for things that he thought would fulfill him by seeing the illusion that it's not just the best thing, there's better things. And also, the pursuit of it actually hurts you. So when we are looking at life, looking at our lives, and looking at the things that we really say, oh, this fulfills me, we have to say, let me look around this illusion. Let me see if this is indeed healthy. And don't take your limited desires, you have some discrimination, you know what the desires are that are limited, don't take them so seriously. Say, oh, I want this thing right now. I want to eat that whole cake. I'm gonna eat the whole cake. I'm gonna go to the cheesecake factory, buy a whole mega cheesecake, eat it tonight. Say, hmm, I know I have that desire, but is it really? Let me look beyond this illusion. The illusion that that's what's going to fulfill me and make me happy. Sure, we'll fill you. But will it make you really, really truly happy? You have to start looking at things this way. The things that are problems and the things that you're drawn to, start looking at them and saying, what is the illusory aspect here? Because then you start to tempt your awareness to go beyond the karmas that limit you in fear and desire. There was another story of Milarapa. He's walking along the mountain pass. He's got a bunch of students walking behind him. And then a big wind comes out of nowhere. And everyone kind of like, you know, grabs the trees or the mountain or something. But he was walking too close to the edge and the wind pushed him over the edge. And he goes falling down and they see him go down and they see there's some trees way, like hundreds of feet down. He starts hitting the trees, and then he gets lost in the trees. And they're like, Oh my God, our guru just got blown over the mountain. And then they're sitting over there looking over the edge going, Oh my God. And then he starts, and then all of a sudden he's behind them and he starts singing a song about how what you see happen might not be what's happening. And that how his physical form is empty. And that in that emptiness that he cannot be heard. So that was basically his teaching. And they were pretty happy about it. So when you are looking at the mind, and you recognize that there is illusion, then you have to start saying, well, what is beyond the illusion? What is beyond the illusion. So Milarepa said that he is empty of illusion and therefore he couldn't be harmed. And what is beyond illusion is emptiness, the nature of the mind is that it's beyond dreams and illusions, and that it's empty. But what is the Well, I guess when you want to know what it is, you first should ask, where is it? Where is the mind? Is it just sitting somewhere up in your brain? Well, that's what most people might think.

0:24:12
The mind is the brain.

0:24:14
No, not really. That's just the physical part. That's just a physical aspect. But the mind is much bigger than the brain because it has a greater awareness than the physical body. So it's not just a physical function. When we investigate in our meditation, the mind by meditating, we start to see that the mind is not limited to the physical body. That it's not limited to just thoughts or feelings, but awarenesses that are beyond our normal bands of perception. Because in meditation we have these views into different dimensions of experience. And we have times where we have awareness of a place being somewhere else. The mind is not just in one place. We go to these places of power and we actually make connections with these places of power where our minds are connected with places. Under the sea or in the desert, we have dimensions of our mind connected with these places. The mind is not in one place. And there's infinite possibilities for the mind. So you first say, where is this mind? Yeah, it's... where is it? Everywhere. Everywhere, nowhere, those are both probably good answers. However, it's impossible to say that it's in a specific location. Your mind is bigger than just the thoughts in your head. That's what we discover in meditation. Then you say, I don't know where this mind is. When did this mind start? And will it end? What is investigating this mind? You see in deeper meditation that the mind never started, that the mind never ends. This is the definition of emptiness, that emptiness is something eternal. The mind is eternal. The mind is empty, but it's also luminous. There's a brightness in that emptiness. So the nature of the mind is that it's this beautiful, amazing, empty everything and nothing. what we start to discover in meditation. And that's why when we fall into limited thoughts and problems, we need to start to be a little bit more relaxed, chill out, and look at things in a broader, with a more broad perspective, because it's not necessarily true. We give kind of ground to the ideas of reality, right? So if you say, oh, it's this way, then you experience a transient experience. But if you can meditate, still the mind, and go beyond the limited thoughts, you see a much broader, luminous perspective on things. You see that the phenomena is empty, that it's not real. It is like a dream. It is an illusion. But emptiness is the truth. And in emptiness, when it's empty of any particular form, your experience, your mind, any situation, any suffering, when you recognize that it's empty in its nature, then what happens is there's possibilities. There's a way to be happier. There's a way to look out and get beyond a problem. There's a way to succeed. So emptiness is the truth. It is the nature of the mind. In the intermediate study, we start to reflect more deeply in our meditation on the emptiness of the mind. Because otherwise you just fix yourself into ideas that are limited. And the fixed ideas are just transient experiences. It's like that joke, this guy goes over to his doctor and he's like, hey doc, you gotta help me. You know, I keep having this feeling that I'm a Scottish terrier. That, you know, that I have to eat dog food and that, you know, I'm a brindle, you know, a black one, and you know, I gotta wear a collar. See, I'm wearing a collar. Those doctors all, oh wow, okay. He's like, you know, I really can help you, because I've helped other people before with this. We're just gonna go through this, and ask you Freudian questions, and you'll give me answers. We're gonna work our way through this, and then you'll be just fine. And he says, okay, thanks, doc. And then the psychiatrist sits down and says, all right, well first I'd like you to just lay down on the couch, and we're going to start by, and he goes, Oh, doc, I'm not allowed on the couch.

0:30:08
But it's an illusion, right?

0:30:11
People create these illusions, they say, this is my situation. And I can do this, and I can't do that. And it's not necessarily true. In fact, the truth is, it's not true. Because that's only one possibility in all of everything. The truth is that everything is empty. You're empty. Every situation that creates a limitation for you is empty. Every suffering that you have is empty. It's illusory. It doesn't even exist except for a little bit transient emptiness means The fact that emptiness is eternal This luminous awareness of mind is eternal means that it lasts a long time But you can think of your moments of suffering moments of facing limitation they last a little time. So enlightenment, you know, sunyata, the true nature of mind, means that it's forever and everything else that comes and goes is transient. So it's important not to get caught up in transience and to move beyond that limitation because you'll just suffer in there to a greater awareness of that which is true, that which is eternal, that which lasts longer. of Socrates, right? Because people are afraid sometimes of emptiness. They go, oh no, emptiness is scary. But Socrates is very interesting. He bothered somebody in the Senate or something like that. And they passed a lot to kill him or something. So what happened was they said, okay, you bothered somebody and they somehow, oh, it reminds me of politics today. Some crazy rule came down because Socrates bothered someone and he just would ask questions and then he just really ticked off a senator or something and then the senator lobbied against him and somehow passed a law that he gets to die. We passed a law, you get to die. And so what they did was they said, okay, here's the rule, the ruling, you're supposed to die. So here's some poison, take it tonight, kill yourself, and then the law will be fulfilled. So Socrates was sitting there with his students, students and he's like, well, you know, they passed a law and whatever, I guess I'll just take the poison and die. And his students are like, no way, dude. They're like, why don't we just go on the road and escape and we can get out of here, you know, they'll never catch us. We'll go to another country. And he says, eh, he's like, I'm an old man. I don't want to run, you know, I'm just gonna accept their ruling and take the poison." And then they said, aren't you afraid of dying? He says, no. Then they say, but why not? He says, well, either there's some afterlife like everybody talks about in religion, I'll go to heaven or something like that. He said, but if there's nothing, then I won't care. And that kind of, you know, there's a powerful wisdom to that. And the people are afraid of that because they're like, oh no, if there's nothing, then I won't care. I won't even be there. But in Senada, in emptiness, there's a luminous, wonderful nothing. Imagine you without bad thoughts. It's like the absence of bad thoughts. It's empty of bad thoughts. It's empty of limitation. So actual emptiness is wonderful. It's empty of limitation, empty of negativity, and filled with luminosity. So that's actually a good thing. So I thought Socrates and his experience was pretty advanced. He's like, well, if there's nothing, then I won't care. Most people are kind of afraid. They're like, oh no, what if the emptiness comes for me? What if I'm cast into the emptiness? It's like you imagine this giant empty pit that Buddha throws you into. Oh, no, if I follow Buddhism, I might end up in the emptiness. People get afraid of it. They feel it's a kind of nihilism or something. But no, when you have a still meditation where you go beyond thought and you experience the luminous nature of your mind, that's what we call empty. It's empty of thoughts, it's empty of anger, it's empty of sadness, it's empty of suffering, and a light, the light of enlightenment. So that's what we experience in emptiness. We So you have to actually really apply this to your life. Look outside of the illusions. Go meditate deeply on the truth. The truth is that your mind is empty and bright, empty of suffering. This is what we seek, a deeper emptiness. But apply it to your life. Don't just listen. This is an intermediate practice. You meditate more deeply. And when you have problems, you look at it like an illusion. Oh, this is illusion. How do I connect with a greater truth where there's many more opportunities? Where yoga can succeed? See The yoga projects that we're involved in, they're actually, even though that you guys have been beginning students, whenever you've been working on a yoga project, you've been actually working on an intermediate yoga. See, isn't that great? So beginners can work on intermediate things. They just don't do so good at it. It was usually your yoga teachers who were carrying the yoga. But guess what you have seen now? You see that you're able to carry the yoga as well. You have the tonal, you have the personal power, you have the mindfulness, you have the base of meditation where you're able to make the yoga happen. So you can succeed in yoga, in an intermediate yoga, and that's great. And if you can't, If you still are dragging yoga down, then you need to recognize that you need to have stronger tone out so that you help the yoga so that your yoga teachers not constantly saying, Hey, I didn't get your status report. Oh, your status report doesn't say anything on it. It's the emptiness. You're like, I'm practicing. You gotta, you know, you gotta see that you're doing intermediate yoga and that you can do it. You can push your meditation. You can do your yoga impeccably and be an intermediate student. That's the goal. And as an intermediate student, succeeding in intermediate yoga leads you to advanced teachings, where everything gets really fun, really, everything gets really magical. So this is an opportunity to take the intermediate opportunity and make it into an advanced one. And that's going beyond all limitation to the truth of your mind, the nature of your mind. Now when you follow your own karma, you're stuck, you can't see how to succeed in intermediate yoga. But when you let go of the illusions and don't believe them, and when you seek the higher nature of your mind, then your yoga goes beyond yourself, into infinite possibility, which means once you're unbound from your limitations, there is success. There's thousands of opportunities for success. is success. There's thousands of opportunities for success. Yeah, okay, another break, we'll come together, a little more meditation.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
