0:00:00
Alright, so tonight we're going to talk about the three objects, the three poisons, and the three seeds of virtue. Something you're all familiar with from your readings on the Great Pathway of Awakening. So, the three objects, the three poisons and the three seeds of virtue are a very excellent teaching, especially in difficult times or when you have difficult conditions in your life, in your mind. epitome of the third point of the seven points of mind training, taking adversity and transforming it into the pathway to enlightenment. So we were also talking about this at the last seminar, And this is a really important and fundamental practice when you're in the Kali Yuga, when you have difficult times, when you have attachment to the object, or you have aversion to the object, or you're ignorant about the object is anything. So the three objects are any objects. Really, it's any. The objects are objects that you see as pleasurable or desirable, objects that you see as harmful or bad, or objects that you just don't care about. Those are the three objects. But it's any object, it just depends on if you have a poisonous reaction to any object, which is attachment, aversion. Because they create a vicious cycle. And starting with attachment, attachment is one of the most difficult conditions. It creates tremendous suffering, tremendous limitation. So for a lay person, or for someone who's not a Buddhist monk, or someone who's not on the pathway to enlightenment, they're primarily attached to physical things. Their awareness of life is completely associated with their physical body and their social kind of standing, where they are in society. So therefore, what are they concerned about? What are they attached to? Family, their house, their car, their job, regular stuff, right? And therein lies a tremendous limitation. When you have attachment to your husband, your boyfriend, your kids, your job, your car, your house, whatever, when you have attachment your kind of lowest base karmas, which is just the physical body and the social structures that we're born into. And then you can't see beyond those terms, because you're bound to them. You create a connection with them, and you can't break free from that connection. So it's very, very rare that someone who's got a strong attachment to the physical world, to their physical bodies and their place in society. It's very rare for them to be able to see the light, to see other states of consciousness. They kind of create a very concrete connection to the world, and it holds them at a very, association of attention. Now Buddhist monks are a little different. Buddhist monks see that they have some attachment to the physical body, physical things and social structures, but they have a looser attachment and maybe a lot of detachment, if you're not stuck by those things. But you're not stuck enough so that you can see higher states of mind. You can have higher awarenesses. You can have an expanded consciousness because you're not so tightly bound to those things. So a Buddhist monk is more concerned about the attachment to states of mind. So when you have a sense of self or when you have a sense of desiring or wanting things, these are attachments to states of mind. So this is what a Buddhist monk's consideration is. A Buddhist monk will create some detachment, some space in that desire, in those ideas. Because when you want it and want it and want it, what happens is you become trapped by it. That's you get stuck. And then you have a more limited view of life, a more limited consciousness. This is because you see other things as the thing that you need. I need that other thing, I'm unfulfilled. So that actually limits consciousness. So when we create space there, when we work on detachment, we simply... maybe what you want is a new job or a nice car or something like that. Sure, you're going to cherish these ideas. And that's how you start to create separation and attachment. Because the things that you want and the ideas of the self, they will shrink your consciousness and trap you into a state of experience, a state of attention that drives a limited experience. So when you have a desire, let's say you have a desire for a thing, right? You're looking for, maybe you want money or a relationship. What happens is you start to pull yourself down because of that attachment. When you meditate, you can't go into higher states of consciousness, you can't let go because you have a vested interest in something outside of yourself that you're reaching towards, you're putting energy into. And then you have a limited experience. When you have ideas of self, you cherish yourself, you say, oh I'm so special, I like myself in this way and that way. Then you do the same, you create a limited experience, you create a limited viewpoint of self and when you sit to meditate you have more thoughts and you can't let go. So it's important to recognize that in Buddhism we practice detachment. We practice it just in terms of thinking about it, giving some space, but we also practice it in the intermediate practice, which is the Bodhicitta, the yoga of compassion, which is a more powerful way of working with attachment than basic mindfulness. So when you're observing the things that you're drawn to and the cherished ideas of the self You have to recognize that they limit you. It's like the story of the monkey and the coconut right, so the Person who wants to catch a monkey Someone wants to catch a monkey so they you know, they have the coconut tied to the tree and they cut a hole in the coconut and put a little piece of mango in there because the monkeys like mangoes. And then the monkey goes over, you know, the person's gone, and some monkey comes over sniffing out some mango, puts a little hand into the coconut, grabs the mango, and then he can't get his hand out. The hole's not big enough. Big enough to slip the hand in, but it's not big enough when you grasp to pull it out. This is attachment. And then the monkey sits there all day, going, oh, I'm stuck. I want this mango, but I can't get out. And then the hunter who's trapping the monkey comes back at the end of the day. The monkey's afraid. Oh, no, this person's coming. Oh, they're coming right at me. And all they have to do, all the monkey has to do, is let go of the mango, and the monkey will be free. But the monkey just can't let go of the mango. So this is what attachment does. It holds you down, it limits you like a monkey and a coconut and a mango. And it really limits you and all you have to do to be unlimited, to have more options, to have freedom, is to let go of the mango. Let go of whatever your mango is. So it's very often desires, invested desires that we have attachments to. Or sometimes it's ideas of self. You know, like, oh, I'm so special. You know, like, I'm this really neat, awesome person. And then when you believe that, when you enforce that, you limit yourself. So we want to have detachment. And when you have desires, you have to just recognize that they're ridiculous. You know, we're in California, so everyone wants to be a movie star. That's like always floating out there. We're in California, so everyone wants to be good at some weird thing. Like playing the best at a certain video game or something. Oh, I'm the best at this. Or, I don't know, everyone's in California, there's California has a lot of desires because it's a very beautiful dreaming state. But a lot of people have funny and strange desires.

0:13:47
Just like you.

0:13:48
Everybody has really weird, strange desires. I mean, you can say, oh, I just want to have a family, settle down, have a house, whatever. Dog, 2.3 children.

0:14:03
Whatever, right? Very understandable.

0:14:05
That's for muggles. When you look at your own mind, you need to create space. You have to let go of desires, the attachment to desires. You can't be so invested in them. If you're invested in them because you have ideas that they will fulfill you. However, the truth is that when you go out and try to get your desires, even if you get them, the car, the relationship, the 2.3 kids, or whatever, it's always not enough. It's never going to end. You're always going to want more. So you can't just sit there trying to fulfill your desires. It's an endless enterprise. So it's important for you to put space between you and your desires, to recognize that you can't just follow your desires. You can't. Otherwise you're going to put a lot of energy into being miserable. Which is what most people do. Most people in the world follow their desires. They're like, oh, I'm going to, you know, what does society tell me? I've got to have a good job and a wife and kids and everything will be good. Right? And then following that invested idea that you've been conditioned to think over your lifetime, you'll end up really unfulfilled because the dream society sells is a ridiculous one. It doesn't really make society happy. It doesn't make people happy, but people follow it. And then you'll find yourself unfulfilled and seeking new things until you don't have enough energy to even follow desires anymore. It's what we call growing up. Most people grow up in this turnover. So it's important for you to recognize the desires that you have are conditioned ideas that don't make sense and you shouldn't follow them. That's the truth. Now that's why we learn to do things that are constructive. We learn to do things that develop personal power. So you do things that are constructive, good for you, make you stronger, and maybe they're pleasurable, that's fine. A desire to do something like meditate or exercise, those are things that follow the Dharma, so they're constructive and positive. But a desire to go out and find the best wife in the world, the perfect wife, right? You're gonna find trouble. It reminds me of my old high school friend who also became a Buddhist monk for a little while. He was always looking for the perfect wife. The perfect, yeah, the perfect girl. But he always found problems. So he'd get a girlfriend, this was after he was a Buddhist monk, then he started going crazy. He would get a girlfriend and then he'd be like, Oh yeah, I like her, she's amazing, but she's not smart. And we'd break up with her. I'm like, wow, that's weird. And then he would just do these really strange things, like, smart, she's not smart, okay. And then he would go out with another girl. She's really nice and wonderful, but she dresses funny.

0:18:09
He breaks up with her.

0:18:10
And then this one girl, she had long hair, then she cut her hair.

0:18:15
Not good enough.

0:18:15
So then finally he got married. And then he was married, and then about seven, eight months later, I was talking to him. And he's like, so, I don't know about how this marriage is going to work out, really. Why? What's going on? Well, you know, she's not neat. I'm like, is she messy? No, but she's just not neat. I'm like, not going to get a divorce because of this.

0:18:51
Anyway.

0:18:52
So.

0:18:53
That's fine.

0:18:54
Which also reminds me of another story.

0:18:55
So there was this guy, let's put him in India.

0:18:56
True story.

0:18:57
Guy in India.

0:18:58
He's looking for the perfect what?

0:18:59
Or is it the perfect what?

0:19:00
The perfect what? The perfect what? The perfect what? The perfect what?

0:19:04
The perfect what?

0:19:05
The perfect what?

0:19:06
The perfect what?

0:19:07
The perfect what?

0:19:08
The perfect what?

0:19:09
The perfect what?

0:19:10
The perfect what?

0:19:11
The perfect what? The perfect what?

0:19:13
The perfect what?

0:19:14
The perfect what?

0:19:15
The perfect what?

0:19:16
The perfect what? He's looking for the perfect way or he's been looking for the perfect way. He meets an old friend and his friend says, so, you know, what happened? And I've been looking for the perfect way. And he says, yeah, I, you know, things just didn't work out. Well, you know, Mumbai, or somewhere in India, in Mumbai, and there was this beautiful woman. She was so gorgeous. I mean, wow. But she was not nice. She was kind of mean, and she had a bad attitude. So, you know, even though she was gorgeous, you know, perfect beauty, she beauty. She had a bad personality so I moved on. And then I went down to Madras and I met this woman who was so beautiful, she was so wonderful and giving. She took care of me pretty. So eventually I moved on. Then I went up to New Delhi and I met this wonderful woman. Just totally beautiful. Beauty unparalleled. And she had a great personality. She was so nice, wonderful, giving. She would be the perfect wife. And then his friend said, so what happened? Why didn't you marry her? Because she was looking for the perfect husband. So when you're always out there following desires they never tend to work out. Like my old high school friend. I like all these stories of my old high school friend. He should become a student of mine. Tell him all his stories. So yes, you know, when, when you're following attachment, there's always, there's always a limitation. You get these ideas of self-grandeur, which enforces egotism, or you're chasing desires, which leads you on an endless, what we call a goose chase. So it's important when you recognize attachment, either ego cherishing or desire, that you transform it. So the basic practices are ways of breaking attachment or giving yourself In the intermediate study we work on transforming the attachments. The attachments to self and the attachments to desire. We transform them by practicing bodhicitta. So we practice taking and sending with the consideration of, you know, I recognize an attachment, an attachment to a desire, I recognize an attachment to a self-concept, a self-idea, and I recognize that these are limiting, that they draw my attention either away or they create a very limited experience. It's best if you understand the suffering, it's important to understand the suffering that you have from your attachment. And you feel that suffering, you feel that limitation, and you say, My attachment, bring in and hold all attachments that others have. Maybe you know a specific person who had the same attachment, the same desire, the same strange idea of self, and you say, ah, just like that person, I take their attachment within my experience of attachment so that they can be free from

0:24:07
it.

0:24:08
And then you practice taking and then you practice sending. I send them life and freedom from this attachment so that they can be enlightened, liberated. So you practice the taking and sending for attachment. And this is a way of transforming that limiting factor. This is aversion. And aversion is also a very important consideration. When you're afraid of something, when you're repelled by something. It limits you basically. You can't move forward, you can't move in a constructive way because you are reacting by pulling back. Your awareness really closes and you withdraw. So if you have aversion, if you have fear, from whenever it comes up, time to time, you constantly follow this pattern of pulling back, pulling back away from progress, pulling back away from that which makes you powerful and strong. So it's important when you recognize aversion that you do some work on your aversion. And the basic practices are practices of understanding what the aversion is, engaging in the thing that creates fear for you in a constructive way. And this is a way of knowing, coming to face and know the fear and using just your willpower and awareness to push through that fear. To understand fear and be able to have courage to do what is right, do the right thing, and be successful and powerful even though there's that fear. In the intermediate teachings of Bodhicitta, we really actually transform the fear. So it's a more powerful way because the fear actually goes away when you practice Bodhicitta. Now for Buddhist monks, we observe aversion in what we don't feel like doing. So this is an important aspect in practice, because sometimes we might not be facing a big fear like, oh, I have to face a lion today, or something like that. You might not be facing big things that are life-threatening, dealing with people that scare you a lot. But what we have is we have these aversions, like, oh I don't really feel like doing yoga today. Laziness results from aversion. Or you might have a problem with somebody else, right? And you're like, oh, this person, I don't like the way they are. I don't like the way they treat me. I have this problem, this problem, this problem with them. And then you start to, from having these problems with someone, you start to create aversion. You start to pull away from them. And in a Sangha, this is tremendously damaging. That's where you start to cut yourself off from the power of the Sangha. So it could be, I don't want to do work, or I don't want to hang out with these people, or I don't want to practice mindfulness, or the things constructive and powerful in the structures of the study, Sangha, meditation, mindfulness, bodhicitta, yoga. When you find yourself having aversion, pulling away from these things, having a problem with these things, like you don't like it. You see it as something that's unpleasurable or bothersome and you start to cut yourself back from progress. So it's important to recognize that we do this and that it limits us and that it really cycles you back into ego cherishing, attachment, and desire. So when you say, oh I don't feel like doing something constructive, I don't feel like doing yoga, or I don't want to go and be around these people or something like that, then what it does is it cycles you right into a greater condition. So you pull back on your progress and you cycle back into a greater condition of attachment to a view of self, or you're going back into desires. So you're like, oh, I don't like these people. These people are losers, and I want to be a movie star. So that's a version that leads into, you know, you going back into And this is a trap. So it's important not only to have the awareness of attachment, but it's also important to have awareness of where you start pulling back. Where you see you don't want to put your attention to move forward. So, you know, when we have yoga, I have to learn to do computer programming, or I have to code a part for my system, or I have to make a cold call to a wedding planner, or something like that. When you see that you are pulling back, you don't want to do it, there's fear and aversion. Doing your tasks, learning the things that you need to learn are the things that make you strong and powerful and bright But when you don't want to do them when you say oh, I have a part of me Pulling back. I don't want to do it Then what you're finding is you're finding that you're afraid you have this aversion So it's important to say whoa Okay, if I have some aversion I have to do something. Maybe the beginning practices, that's good, push through it, that's powerful. But in the intermediate study, we practice bodhicitta. And bodhicitta for aversion or fear is if it's there, it automatically has this kind of knee-jerk reaction. Aversion is a little bit more brooding, pulling back. But acute fear, it's something that you just can't talk your way through if you have a fear. You can't sit there and say, oh well, you know, there's a spider on my leg and spiders usually make me afraid. So I'm just going to go, oh, come here little spider. Usually if you're afraid of something like a spider, you'll go, eek! It's there, it's like a reaction. You can't stop it. You just react. And if you're practicing the basic kind of beginning practices of fear, that reaction is hard to catch. But in the intermediate study, we really deal with the kind of essential level where you transform yourself, you transform the fear. So then when the little spider crawls on your leg and then you see it you don't have that reaction, that reaction is gone because the actual fear no longer exists. In the beginning practice you work your way through fear and sometimes you just spell it just by going through them. But a lot of times you just become capable of dealing with things that you're afraid of in the beginning stage. But in Bodhicitta we transform. So we experience fear, we say, oh, I'm afraid of this or that, or I have this version. I recognize it. And I recognize that it's limiting, pulls me away from being powerful. Or it unsettles me because I'm so afraid of this thing. But others, maybe another who's experienced the same thing, or you can imagine many people are afraid of certain things or pull back because of opposition and you say, may my fear bring in all of theirs, may all of their fears be in my fear, may my fear contain completely their fears, their aversion, so that they can be free of this horrible affliction. And then you practice sending. You send them the idea of being freed from fear. There is a light, there is a beautiful, wonderful brightness that you send to them in that recognition of what it is to be enlightened this is the practice of bodhicitta the third poison is ignorance and didn't they say ignorance is bliss? they were wrong if ignorance was bliss then you would find yourself creating all sorts of problems. Oh, that's a really lovely fire. I'm going to put my hand in it. Oops, I burned my hand because I was ignorant. Being ignorant means that you're very, very, very stuck. Because you don't know what's going on. You don't know how to deal with life. You don't know what's good, what's bad. You don't know how to move ahead in a constructive way. So being ignorant is definitely not bliss. When you're ignorant, you also don't have the awareness to know what's good for you or bad for you. You can't even see. When someone explains what's good, you can't even understand it. So that's why a lot of people listen to the teachings of Buddhism, and they just say, I don't get it. That sounds stupid.

0:37:20
Why would I do that?

0:37:22
You just sit around meditating, trying to stop thought? That sounds retarded. Who would do that? What a useless endeavor, right? A lot of people would think that, because they're ignorant. They don't see the benefit, they don't understand, they don't have the consciousness to understand why meditation would be better, what's useful about the Buddhist teachings. They just say, this is silly. So, when you have ignorance, you don't have the awareness to apprehend what is good or bad, even if it's presented in front of you. You just keep putting your hand in the fire. Oops! Oh wait, that's pretty bright. Oh! I did it again! Right. So, also, you know, sometimes people, when you're in the study, look at people outside of the study, and you see like a young couple walking through the park. And you'll say, look, they're happy, right? They must be super, super happy. So they're smiling, and they're together, and fulfilling the whole idea of society, or whatever. A desire that you were conditioned with yourself. And then you say, yeah, that's happiness. No, that's ignorance. When you see people in society and you're like, well, that's happiness, that's happiness, that's happiness. And in the study, it's just hard and difficult. And I used to be happy until I got into the study. Being ignorant is bliss. No, it's not. You are happy. Sometimes you can, people think of, oh, I remember when I was 16, I was happy. People go through transient, you know, times of happiness, where they're like, oh, everything was working out. These were, things were good. So it's a transient cycle. It was up, it comes down. So when, when you look at someone going through a transient cycle of happiness because they've fulfilled a desire, you see them having a joy, and you say, that is happiness. That is transient. And to think that that's happiness, if they think that, they're ignorant. And if you think And you can't just say, I had a good time when I was, you know, on vacation, at summer camp. I had a good time at summer camp when I was 12 and that was happiness and I want that again. It's ignorant to see that times of joy for yourself or for others are the be all and end all of happiness. Those are transient experiences. And they're good. When they're positive, they're a good experience. But you can't take them and say, that is what happiness is. Because you see a couple walk through the park and they're happy, but that's a transient moment. And that's good and it's nice. But you can't sit there and create a mental model of that is what happiness is. Because in both cases it's ignorance because it's focusing on the transient. So you know a native with a paddle ball you know in Fiji this is the best thing this is happiness there's more to life than a paddle ball. There's more to it. And to think that having a paddle ball is happiness is to miss many, many, many other opportunities for true happiness. Ignorance is looking at the surface, seeing the transient, and believing that transient matters the most. And looking beyond the transient is wisdom. That's how you transcend ignorance. So in the beginning, when we're ignorant about things, we learn. So you say, oh, I don't know about that. Be open minded, learn about it, and you know more. You gain a greater knowledge. However, when you practice Bodhicitta, you actually transform ignorance into wisdom. So it's a real direct connection, not just gaining knowledge and a greater kind of expansion of consciousness, it's a transformation of that limited viewpoint to a very deep and wise understanding of a thing. So when we practice taking and sending, you say, I'm kind of ignorant about why I should not follow my crazy desires. And I know that this is something that could get me into a lot of suffering. Just wanting these things, I'm unhappy but at the same time I'm too ignorant to really understand that I shouldn't put my energy into it. I still do it. So knowing that it creates suffering for me it is an awareness of someone else doing the same thing. They're also ignorant that I would like to take that from them or many people do the same thing. They stupidly follow things that they don't understand why they should or shouldn't. So it is my wish to take all of that ignorance from them. So that they can be free. You can dispel the ignorance by just pulling it away. And you have to. I can take it. And giving them light, the light of wisdom. So this is a practice of taking and sending for ignorance. Now these three considerations, these three practices of bodhicitta, or the three poisons powerful because bodhisattva is very very powerful. So it's something that creates a true transformation. It takes that problem and you come to a point where the problem And that's because bodhicitta is very very powerful. In bodhicitta we get to the essence of the problem. So when you have a fear or a desire and you're practicing taking and sending, you bring your attention to the essential aspect of that fear. So you say, this is what it feels like, this fear. You bring it to mind and it feels scary and limiting. You look into the essence of that fear. Even if it's scary when you look at it. You bring to your attention the essential aspect, the deepest, strongest, most primal core aspect of that fear, of that affliction, of that attachment. You bring it to mind directly. And when you bring it to mind, you are putting yourself into a direct connection with that whole sphere of attention. So you're not running from it. You're actually taking it. And just by becoming aware of it directly and saying, I'm going to take it, you're opening. You're opening the self, you're opening your consciousness. Usually people are trying to push away, push away, get it out, this something that's not desirable. I'm uncomfortable, I have fear, or I have an attachment and desire. These things that create suffering, when you recognize the suffering, you usually say, I don't even want this suffering, push it away. That's what the ego does, self-defense. But in Bodhicitta, we recognize it directly, and it's an essential aspect, and by that recognition we're opening to take it in. We're accepting it. We accept the most limiting fear. We accept the great suffering of desire and attachment. We accept those conditions, we take it. And in opening, becoming vulnerable and bringing it in with that sense of the limitation, with the sense, the awareness of that suffering. With the intention to take that same suffering from another person or many other people so that they can be free from it, we create a doorway to virtue. So we don't just dwell in the suffering, we accept the suffering so that we know the suffering. Without any filter, without any pushback, no reaction, the intent of acceptance of the direct essence of that suffering. When we want to free another, when we say, I take but so that another can be free from. That's how the awareness of this suffering transforms into a virtue because you not only are accepting and understanding it directly, but you are from it. And that act of freedom creates, the act of freeing another creates in you a transformation. It changes you from being stuck in the darkness, in the suffering, in the fear, in the desire, in the ignorance, and it changes you to be free from it. So, dwelling in it, no transformation. Maybe you understand it, maybe you can deal with it. But that intent to free others, to take from them their suffering. And you take that whole sphere, that whole vibration of darkness, of suffering, of attachment, of fear. You take that whole vibration and you say, that person has that vibration too, but I can hold that vibration here so that they can be free. That's where the transformation happens. You don't just understand it, but when you want someone to be free, you take it from them, that darkness, the suffering from them, then that's where that vibration no longer creates suffering for you. And then we have the intention to give light. So we direct the light of compassion that we send is the light of liberation from that transformation of understanding. So we're not stuck in the darkness. We're not stuck in the darkness of suffering. Because we intend to take the suffering of another we have a liberation There that that is the Buddhist secret of liberation It is to be selfless and to take another suffering Because you want them to be free create a light a light within you a powerful light of freedom. And we take that same light and we give it back to the person who we've taken the suffering from. This creates a powerful liberating force. Bodhisitta is kind of like Siddha power. Bodhicitta is a definite and powerful energy of taking darkness and suffering and creating enlightenment. And it's real and it's wonderful. That's why it's very important to practice it with your attachments and desires and ideas of self. It's very important to practice it with your fears and aversions. And it's very important to practice it when you just recognize you're being ignorant. Because it transforms those things. When you accept those things, when your intent is to take that suffering away from another and when you give light to that other so that it can be free, bright, liberated. That is a powerful force of enlightenment. And it's fun to do. is have a three song meditation with you. For the first song we're going to practice bodhicitta for attachment. So you'll bring to mind a desire or an attachment to yourself, your ego cherishing. You'll bring it to mind, recognize it as suffering, understand it at its deepest, darkest, most limiting level. And then if someone you know, or someone you've seen in a movie or something, if that reminds you of someone else's suffering, you say, ah, that one person, I will take it from them so that they can be free. Can you imagine taking the darkness and exhaling the light of liberation? So we will practice the first song, attachment. The second song, fear, aversion. So take your experiences of yoga where you're adverse to succeeding, adverse to doing what it takes, making that phone call,

0:55:42
clicking that mouse button.

0:55:44
Or if you have deeper fears, bring them to mind, know them directly, and then practice taking and sending for another. And then for the third song ignorance

0:56:04
Okay And there is no focus on the chakra. so

0:56:23
so

0:56:35
so so so so so the the the the so So so the the the the so you so So so the the the so So you You are the one who is the most important to me. You are the one who is the most important to me. You are the one who is the most important to me. Very nice. Now, I'd like you to spend the next week practicing your bodhicitta with the reflections of this aphorism, the three objects, the three poisons, and the three seeds of virtue. Because this is a very basic and important awareness to have. And it's also very important to practice it with your bodhicitta, your yoga of compassion.

1:08:34
So I'd like you to spend the week focusing on the bodhicitta for attachment, aversion, and ignorance. So a week of practice.

1:08:49
Okay? Good. Thank you all very much. And you all did really good last night. Your compassion dancing. Compassion dancing.

1:09:08
Although the music was not very good. It was so bad.

1:09:17
We had a wedding party.

1:09:19
And at the wedding party, the music was really good, and everyone was dancing, and everyone was happy. Not all of you were there though. And that wasn't even supposed to be a dance party. Everyone was trying to get together. I mean this one, this one, the music. I was trying to get, actually I had given Kana the task.

1:09:54
You're gonna be the DJ.

1:09:55
Then he showed up around 2 a.m.

1:10:06
Alright, very nice everyone.

1:10:10
Alright, have a happy week. And remember to practice. practice the objects. practice the objects. The three poisons and the three little butter things.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
