0:00:00
Very good. So that's why life's an adventure. And that's why we are on the pathway of the enlightened warrior. Because we're warriors, we're fighting for light. And because of the degraded times and the Kali Yuga and our lack of Dharma awareness. We're also fighting against the dark. We're fighting for light. We're dealing with opposition. And so it's important for us to constantly push for light, constantly look for the way of light, the Buddhist attitude to dealing with life and every situation. Yeah. And, you know, I'm the kind of teacher that is like Krishna or like Don Juan, right? So there's the kind of teacher who just sits in a temple, you go and see them. And then they go...

0:01:14
And then they say, Who are you?

0:01:16
Ask yourself.

0:01:17
Figure it out. Go away.

0:01:19
So there's all sorts of different kinds of teachers. But Don Juan was out there walking through the desert with Carlos. That's the way of mysticism. It's like, okay, we gotta go do something. Come on. So they go out there and do something. And Krishna was out there on the battlefield on the chariot. So I'm kind of like Krishna, going to battle with you. And what you do is important. Right? We're going out together. And if you do a good job, and follow the enlightened teachings, then everything ends up being a victory of enlightenment. But if you do a bad job, then we both go out there and get killed. So what's at stake is enlightenment, and happiness, and success, and life and death. This is real stuff. I'd go out there with you if we did this together. And that's why it's so exciting, so fun. I think it's just the coolest way. If you would go out to the desert and meet Don Juan, and he'd be sitting there and go tell you something and tell you go hike for 20 miles to the desert and try to figure it out. Then you might go out and not figure out what what you would if he was right there guiding you. So we're going in our yogic adventure. You know, we're just like Krishna and Arjuna going out there and going through an adventure, going through times and experiences, fighting for enlightenment on the battlefield of Kurukshetra. And that's what we're doing. We're doing something. Karma yoga, right? That's what Krishna taught. Karma yoga. And this is what we do. Now, to really fight for that light, really to push yourself from the usual negativity, usual reactions of karma, to push yourself beyond your limits to a higher and brighter way, an alignment. You have to align yourself with your Dharma, with what you really want. So, what you really want is, you know, happiness, what you really want is enlightenment, more and more enlightenment, more and more freedom, more and more opportunity of spirit. Now, in the beginning, you didn't want that so much. You had all sorts of other desires that got in the way, that closed your mind, that drew you off. But then as you meditate more, as you do more yoga, you start to see more enlightened options and opportunities. And so you start to get in touch with more deeply what you want. And that's good, because when you understand, when you kind of get aligned with your Dharma, when you're aware of it, then it really is easy to deal with difficulty. The monk was in a monastery and the monk was like, I wanna meditate, I wanna practice my meditation. So the monk's sitting there meditating. And then day after day, a little mouse comes over and chews on the monk's robes. So after a while, the monk is like, well, the robes are becoming tattered because of this little mouse. So the monk looks out across the street and sees over at this house, there's some cats. So the monk goes to the house and says, Hi, I'm the monk from down the street. And I noticed you have a bunch of cats, and I have a mouse problem. If I can have one of your cats, it'll take care of my mouse problem. So, it's a nice Buddhist family, they say, sure, take one of our cats. So, he takes a cat, goes back, puts it in his room, meditates, and the mouse stays away. He's like, great, this is fantastic. But then the cat starts bothering him.

0:06:45
The cat's all, meow!

0:06:47
Because the cat's hungry. And the cat doesn't like to eat rice. So he's like, what am I going to do about this cat? And then the monk looks off across the farm and sees a bunch of cows. And says, Oh, I think they're Buddhist farmers. Goes over and says, Can I have one of your cows, I can feed my cat." And the Buddhist farmer says, Oh, sure, have one of my cows. So the monk takes a cow and milks the cow, gives the milk to the cat. Cat's happy, keeps the mouse away. And the monk's meditating. And then the cow starts to wander off, and then the monk has to get up from his meditation, find the cow, tie it to something, then the cat starts meowing, and he's got to milk the cow, the cat, the mouse away. And then the monk's like, hmm, this is a lot of work, taking care of the cow, milking the cow, feeding the cat. And he looks out across the neighborhood, sees a family with four boys in the family, and says, that's a Buddhist family. I'm gonna just go over and ask a couple of those boys to help out. So the monk goes over and asks a couple of the boys, can you help out keeping my cow nearer, and milking my cow and feeding my cat, so that my cat can keep the mouse away? And the boy said, sure, we'd be happy to help out. So the monk goes back and is meditating. Then the boys lose the cow. And then the monk goes with the boys searching for the cow. Then he realizes, I have to build a fence. So the monk and the boys are building a fence. And at one point, the meditation gong goes off and the other monks are going to the meditation hall to meditate and the monk is sitting there building a fence. And then it hits him, wait a minute, he's not doing what he wants to do. He realizes that he's doing a whole bunch of other things that are not really what he wants to do. And so all of these concerns, first the concern about the mouse, then going out and deciding you need to go and get a cat to keep the mouse away. And then you gotta go and get a cow to feed the cat to keep the mouse away. Then you gotta get the boys to help take care of it. Then you gotta build a fence. All of these concerns never end and have little to do with what the monk really wanted. And we do this in our lives. We start to miss what's really important, what we really need to focus on, what we really want, what our real dharmic heart connection and kind of our dharma desire, what we need, our dharma, we miss it. Because we get caught in lots of other ancillary things. So it's important for you to really just get straight in your mind and say look I know what is important to me, and I'm going to focus on it.

0:10:35
You know

0:10:36
I'm going to really focus on this. When I meditate, I'm really going to meditate. I'm going to be very serious about succeeding in my yoga. I'm going to take on the challenges of my day job and I'm going to win. You know, you just get down to the basic things. I'm going to practice mindfulness. The basic things of your spiritual practice are things that you want. They're things that get you higher. You know, in the Dhammapada, the Buddha says, your work is to find your work and then to do it with all of your heart. Now Buddha was saying this to a bunch of monks. They're all, oh, should I go and be a model? I'm going to go and be a movie star. I'm going to be a rock star. You know, if you start saying, oh, what's your work? Oh, I wonder what my work is to get higher. Your work is to get beyond the limitations of the karmic self. Your work is to foster the Buddhist attitude, you know, that positive mind, that ability to take any situation and succeed, and to look for the highest and brightest. So, you know, your work is to get higher in meditation, in mindfulness, in yoga, in your day job. These are some of the primary practices that we have in our school that get you higher. They make you stronger, brighter. They get your personal power up. You push with that positive mental attitude in the Buddhist way. And then you see that your life is stronger. You see that there's more opportunities and options for you as you go higher. As your personal power goes up, you see more. Your consciousness expands and you see more possibilities. So, don't get caught up with the mouse. It's like, okay, what did the Buddhist monk do? He let go of the cow, or let the boys go home, sent the cow back to where it came from, gave the cat back. And then the mouse came back and started biting his robes again. And then he just had tattered robes. But he kept meditating. He meditated, he focused on what he wanted. And then the mouse became his devotee. And the mouse became his devotee. So, these are important things. You know, if you think about what you want, you have to follow the Dharma. You have to follow that which matters. Otherwise, you get lost and confused. You gotta know what matters. You gotta align yourself with what matters. You gotta let go of what doesn't matter. Which reminds me of a story of a monkey. Why they wanna catch a monkey, I don't know. But they have a way to catch a monkey. And what they do is they tie it, they take a coconut, open it up, hollow it out. I mean, open it up so that it's just big enough for a monkey to fit its hand in. Just big enough. And they tie it around a tree. So two holes in it so that they can tie it around the tree. One hole in it so the monkey can get its hand in. Then they put a banana in it. And then the monkeys are out there in the jungle sniffing. So the monkey says, I smell a banana. The monkey walks over, sees the coconut with a banana in it, says, cool, there's a banana. Reaches in, grabs the banana, and when the monkey's hand goes in, it goes in small, when it grabs it, it makes the fist bigger and they're holding something, so the monkey can't pull his hand out. So then the human who wants to capture the monkey comes back, you know, hours later. There's the monkey. And then humans walking over the monkeys. Oh, my God, I want to run away from this human. He was coming over with a rope and the monkey is like, I want to be free! I want that banana! And guess what happens? Every time the human comes over, ties the rope around the monkey, and then they untie the coconut, break it open, and the monkey's got his banana, but the monkey's captured. And then it becomes a circus monkey, a demented circus monkey, because it's not free. So when we look at what matters, freedom matters, liberation matters. And a lot of times we get ourselves caught in monkey traps. And it's really important to realize what's important and to align yourself with that, to let go of things that aren't important and to foster that positive attitude, attitude. Because if you don't, you just spend a lot of time doing stuff that doesn't matter. And if you think about it, if you just follow desires, you're just going to follow them Like if a genie came over to you, or if it was a Nakula, the wish-fulfilling jewel-spitting mongoose. Is that what it was? So if you get a wish-fulfilling jewel, or a genie comes over and says, you get one wish, anything you want, you might start to go, I want a million dollars. Wait, wait, wait, wait. I don't want just a million. I want a billion. Oh, wait, wait, wait, wait. Actually, maybe I should wish for the cure to cancer or world peace. You start thinking. And even thinking about what you want in terms of a wish like that, you start going off into maybe something that might not be your Dharma. Your Dharma might be very simple. You might just wish to be enlightened. Very simple thing for yourself. Or you might start wishing all sorts of weird things. I wish my enemy was refreshed. Yeah. So, you know, when you're looking at what you want, it might not be something that is very useful. It might be something that just draws you into all sorts of thought. You see that in the Aladdin movie and stuff. He's got three wishes and then he does such wishing for silly things. And that's what people do. Desires will lead you off. little story of a monk who, this is a real story actually, where there was a monk who got offered something. So this is in Thailand, and you always can give donations to the temples, but you can also give a donation to a monk. But you can't just give them money, you have to ask them, is there something I can get for you? And so you've done something really nice for me. Is there something I can get for you? And so some some patron of the temple really liked this one monk because the monk was really nice to him. So he said to the monk, there's something I can get for you. I want to give you, you know, personal donation for your kindness. And the monk was all, well, yeah, actually, I guess I could use a new bowl, a new baking bowl. And then, well, actually, maybe I need new shoes. Actually, my shoes are getting messed up. Actually, it might be kind of nice for me to have some new books. And then the monk just sat there and started thinking of all these things that he could use, and then he started getting frustrated. Because he didn't need anything. He didn't need anything at all. He didn't require anything additional. But once given the opportunity to get something, you just start pondering desire. Even simple desires for a monk. And then he just gets kind of frustrated and just goes, Come on, leave me alone. So, you know, getting getting straight with what's of your life is what is very, very, very important. Then it's easy to be positive. It's easy to decide, I am going to succeed at this. If you do things half-heartedly, or if you're confused by what you're doing, if you haven't aligned yourself, you haven't kind of woken up to what you're doing and why you're doing it, then it's hard to do anything. It's hard to do easy things. If you're half-hearted about something, even if it's an easy task, you will make a mistake. You'll be all bothered. You'll be angry about it. You'll be confused. Why am I doing this? But if you're aligned, if you know the Dharma for what you seek, then you can do it. Even if it's something extremely difficult. Even if it's facing death or facing the success of a yoga company. If it's enlightenment. These things are completely possible when you're awakened to what you want, and when you foster that positive Buddhist state of mind. That's what we call right effort. Wrong effort is when you're doing something, you don't know why, and you're not aligned with it. You just think it's extra stuff and things that you're doing. Then it's a lot of effort. Like yoga in the beginning. I'm like, hey, so do some work. You're like, oh, work? Okay. You're all like, why am I doing extra work? And then you're not, you don't have, you're not aligned with what's going on. I like it, just keep going. Eventually you'll see. And then you're like, oh gosh, this is hard, oh this is difficult. And then eventually your awareness comes around to understanding that yoga is what you want. That yoga leads to happiness, yourself, it's a wonderful way to bring yourself into higher consciousness, to pull yourself out of suffering by doing yoga. Then you start going, instead of, why am I doing this? This is hard. What's this all about? I'm just spending a lot of time and doing work for nothing. Then you start going, wait a minute, this is fantastic. And you start doing a lot more work, doing it better, producing excellent results, and finally succeeding in your goal. Not only your financial goal, but your spiritual goal in yoga. And you find that all that work is easy. That's right effort. It's easy to do a whole big, amazing, wonderful piece of work. Even if it's a giant amount of things to do, it's easy to do when you are aligned A whole bunch of stuff gets done. And it's not stressful. And when opposition comes up, it doesn't make you feel bad. You take it on as a challenge. And you overcome it, and you see that you're stronger. So aligning yourself with what you're doing in yoga, what you're doing on the spiritual path. It's very important. We have to bring our positive, bright mind to what we're doing. It's really quite excellent. Yeah, you got to be positive. A lot of times we look at our lives in a negative way. We pull out all the negative things in our lives and we say, oh, this is terrible, right? And you don't look at all the positive things. You get hung up on the negative things, when you should be developing the positive things. My teacher used to say, let's just work on developing good habits, and really developing them. Because if you develop good habits in yoga, good habits in meditation, good habits in mindfulness, what happens is those good habits will pull you out of your bad habits eventually. But if you just sit there and go, oh no, you know, I can't do this, I have this problem, I'm sad, this makes me angry. If you always dwell on those things, then you're taking your energy and putting it into those things, instead of taking your energy into developing these new good habits. These things that will help you grow your personal power. So it's like you have two plants in front of you. A weed, an ugly dirty weed, and a beautiful little lily or something, right? And you're like, huh, I have some water. Who shall I feed? The weed or the lily? So if you're dwelling on all the negative things, I can't, I'm angry, I'm sad, problem, problem, problem. You're feeding with your attention the weed. And the weed grows bigger.

0:27:47
Feed me some more.

0:27:50
And then the lily starts to go. And you know, what you really have to do is you have to pay attention to where your attention is, and really say, I am going to foster positive, constructive habits. I'm going to work on my positive, constructive disciplines. I'm going to really work on my meditation, really focus on it. I'm going to really work on my mindfulness. I'm going to really work on my yoga. These are things that you can do. And then you're not just focusing on the negative. A lot of people are attached to the negative. They're attached to problems and they define their lives by them. I had one student in Hungary, who a while ago, she had a daughter who died when she was like six or seven, and she defined her life by that. She was like, oh, this Buddhism stuff sounds really good, but I don't want to let go of that. I'm like, let go of it. Who cares? It's over. It's done. You gotta let go. But she was fighting to hold on to that. She's fighting to hold on to the whole story of her daughter. She was fighting to hold on to her grief and her pain and her suffering from the death of her daughter. She wanted that present in her life because it reminded her of her daughter. She just got attached to it. It was something that was painful, something that created suffering and limitation. And yet, she was so attached to it, she wouldn't let go. She was like, no, I'd rather have my suffering and my attachment to something limiting than enlightenment, because that would mean that I lose whatever I value in my connection to the past. So, you know, people do that. Why they do it?

0:30:28
Because they're attached, right?

0:30:29
Well, you gotta let go of attachments. Letting go of attachments is really important. Otherwise, you just always limit yourself. You can't just always hang on to everything forever. It's impossible.

0:30:42
You have to be able to be fluid.

0:30:44
everything forever, it's impossible. You have to be able to be fluid. You gotta look at life and death in a little bit of a different way. We often think if someone dies, that that's terrible. It's like, oh, how horrible, it's the worst thing possible. But it's not really that bad. All of us have lived many, many lives. We've died many times. And from every lifetime, we have an opportunity to learn something. So it's more important for us to look at life and say, are we learning something good? Are we learning something positive? Are we letting go of limitation? Are we pushing ourselves into a brighter, more powerful condition? And if we're doing that, or if our friends are doing that, if our loved ones are doing that, then they're living a good, powerful, fantastic life. And then when they die, then you say, oh, okay. Yeah, it's sad, but at the same time, it's not a bad thing. I remember when I was in Nepal, I attended a funeral and and some, it was a man who had died at the age of about 65 and and they don't know why he died. He probably died of cancer or something. He was sick for a while, then he died. They had the Tibetan medicine guys out there with the drum, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. He might live. Tibetan medicine. Tibetan medicine's good. And, you know, he passed away,

0:32:34
and I went to the funeral,

0:32:35
and there was a lot of people there. And it was really interesting. No one was crying. Everyone was just in a very nice state of mind honoring him. That's what they were there to do. And I said, wow, this is interesting. Remember the last funeral I was at in America, everyone's all, oh.

0:33:18
Which is kind of normal or nice, but it's not that useful.

0:33:26
when you're mourning somebody else's death, a lot of times you're just being selfish. You're focusing on you. Oh, I'm sad because of the person being gone. And that's kind of, Of course, there's sorrow, but at the same time, you can't just indulge in it. You have to be able to look beyond it to a brighter and larger perspective. So one of the things that happened I got a call that Jaya had passed away. And he was just three, three and a half. You guys all know Jaya, right? It's a dog, Bodhiwood's dog. And I was like, oh, this is very sad, sad news. And I looked into it a little bit, and I was like, OK, well, this was karma. It wasn't something that went wrong. There was no neglect or something bad. So I was like, okay, this was his karma. This is his time to go. So that's okay. And then I thought, he had a good life. So I shouldn't be like, oops, I should have been nice to him or something, you know. You know, everything that happened in his life was good. So it was good, and it was constructive. So that was a very nice thing. So instead of, you know, feeling sad about it, I felt fine about it. like, okay, this is appropriate. And then I decided, okay, this is good. I'm going to go and help him in the bardos. And helping him in the bardos was a really amazing experience, which I'll talk about in a moment. But one of the things was, in the bardos, you're actually with them. It's like in the physical. So I'm like, oh, hey, little guy. I can feel, touch him. I'm like, oh, little happy fella. So I'm having fun with him in the Bardo's, because I have to let go. I have to go, okay, look, I'm carrying you, I'm helping you out here and there and there. But at some point, I have to say, okay, I have to be detached and let him go. Otherwise what will happen is he'll hang around me like a ghost. He'll be like, oh, I still want to hang around you. So some ghosts hang around because they like something. They're like, oh, I remember that, I like it, and I want to hang around it. But I have to let it go. You have to be detached, you're not held down by the past. A lot of people get totally filled up with thoughts of the past, And what it does is it just obscures your awareness, kind of like a windshield, right? If you're driving and it's raining, and then little raindrops start to come down, a few raindrops, you can still see okay. And the raindrops are, you know, thoughts, thoughts of the past, worries about the past, things that happened in the past. And these raindrops come down. So a lot of these things, when you get enough of them, they really start to obscure your vision. You can't see. You're driving and you can't see very well anymore. So that's why you need your Buddhist windshield wipers. Wipe away the past. To be detached, to let things go. So that you can see clearly. So that you can move forward. A lot of people hold on to the death for it. I'm like, I don't want to fight. Just do your thing. But this is an opportunity to learn that letting go is happy. And letting go is actually healthy. It's healthy for you and it's healthy for the spirit of the deceased. You know, that's why they say in the Bardo Thadol, when you're about to do the Bardo teachings, first get all the crying relatives out of the room. Because they're all attached and they're on the deceased in not a good way. So, when you're doing the bardo teachings, you just have to be detached. And detachment is very important. So I was having fun with little Jaya, and then at some point, he moved through, and I had to just let him go. Even though I wanted to play with him. I'm like, I want to play with this ghostly dog body more. You know, but then you just gotta let it go. You gotta see that, you know, life is like a movie. It's like a good movie, right? You're watching Avatar. You're like, this is a good movie. And then when it ends, you go, cool, that was a cool movie. Then you go away. Hopefully they have more cool movies. I was just talking to some guys, and I'm like, why don't they have any good movies anymore? Avatar was a good movie. Ramen Girl was a good movie. In the past few years, what's a good movie? Star Trek sucked. Star Trek's alright, but it wasn't, you know, I'm talking about like good movies, like Star Wars. Star Wars 1 was really good. But that was a long time What's that? It was alright. I didn't see that. So yeah, but you gotta think of it as a, you gotta think of life as a series of good movies. You know, you have the certain movie, the giant movie, and then when it's over, you say, that was a good movie. And you can't sit there and go, oh, the movie's over, it's terrible. You have to just be open to new experiences and appreciate the experiences that you have. You have to have that detachment, otherwise you get held into negative patterns. So focus on the positive and then, you know, when things end, we let go. that was truly amazing about Jaya's death. So he died, it was his regular karma. But during his life, he was just a good dog, good Bodhiwood's dog. And in the Bardo's, there was something really amazing that I had never seen before. I hadn't seen another being do this, which was a very, very important consideration for For some reason, Jaya just loved me.

0:43:10
I don't know why.

0:43:11
I pet him sometimes. I feed him biscuits sometimes.

0:43:15
But for some reason, he really just loved me a lot. It was cool.

0:43:18
So, you know, and when he was alive, I'm all, this is nice. But the place where I found that it was interesting was when he was dead. Because I found that he was able to really overcome tremendous barriers of attention, of karma, by just having a higher amount of love than that would overcome fear or distraction, confusion and delusion. So after I heard about his death, Ajna and Shabert and I, we went to our hotel and I said, we're gonna do the bardos. And you guys, I don't know how long it's gonna take, so we might be meditating for a while. So we sat down and meditated. So in the meditation, I went and found Jaya in the second bardo for a little while, like a number of days to weeks, and then they go into the next bardo, the third bardo, and then they usually have a terrible time there. And then they go to the fourth bardo and have a terrible time. And so I very often am dealing, when I'm helping someone in the bardos, helping them to realize that they need to move on from this world and go to the third bardo and Then I helped them with the difficulties the third bardo for most people is just a terrible time They're just like running left and right They're chased by something they're fleeing from something. They're heading towards something There's just a real big mess for most people they get stuck places and then that karma's pulled them. Now for Jaya, he started to hit those intensities, those really intense energies in the third bardo. And so, yeah, so first of all, he went right into the third bardo. I thought, oh, you're doing really well. Well, let's get you moving along. Went to the third bardo, he was able to just follow me right through the third bardo. So when really intense things happened, he would start to become afraid, and then I would say, Jada, come here. And then he would bring his attention to me. And because of his love for me, he was able to face these intensities, these powers and fears and fires, these really super, super, super intense energies. And he was able to let go of them, to overcome them, and to just move through these really difficult things. Like that. I was like, wow, that was wonderful. So, I actually, in about 40 minutes, brought him all the way through to the Bar of the Coming, to picking a womb. And then we picked a womb, and right before entering the boom, I said, oh wait, let's not do that right now. Because actually it would be good for my students if I bring him back to the second Bardo so that they can say goodbye to him. So we went the other way through the bardo. And it was amazing. I've never seen a being do that. And because he was able to go one way, going back was like no problem. And then brought him back into the second bardo, so everybody was able to say goodbye to him. And in the second bardo, that's where the spirit is really there. I could feel him, and I think Colleen and a couple others could too. You could feel him, you could pet him. He's like really, really, really right there. So that was important for my students and the dogs to be able to say goodbye. So after that, after a couple days of that, then he went back through the barrows and then I had to let him go. Now he found his rose apple island or the Western paradise or something. It's really, really one of the highest barrow transitions I've ever seen and the most amazing thing. So the moral of the story is, and the teaching, is that love gets you through the bardos. Like it's the secret teaching of the bardos. It really is. And especially in the situation that you guys have. You have an enlightened teacher who has some Siddha skills for navigating the bardos. And I really have kind of the lower skills of the bardos. Like, I can't get you to enlightenment through the third bardo. I know how to get people through to a higher incarnation. That's what I can help with. If you become enlightened in your bardos, that's because of yourself. Good, excellent. But for me, I can help with navigation to the Haryana Loka.

0:49:53
The Rose Apple Loka.

0:49:55
The Western Haranja. I don't know, somewhere good. Whatever name we want to call it. But this being, you know, the Kali Yuga, and being a dark age, a lot of kind of spiritually advanced beings stop incarnating here. They go to the next place, the next destination, the next evolution for a spiritual seeker, which we can call the Harania paradise. So yeah, so this was a miraculous trip through the Bardo's. And all he did was respond with love. So when fears came, I saw him and he got scared. Like the Herucas would come. And he's like, his first reaction is to look at them, become extremely afraid, and start battling and barking and stuff. But then I just go, and he looks at me, and I go, come here. And he can move through the Heruka, through that power, through that intensity, just because he would focus on me.

0:51:57
Amazing.

0:51:57
It was incredible. So I've never seen anyone do that. I've helped a number of people through the Bardo's. And usually, it's kind of funny. People get really stuck, and sometimes I just have to grab them and push them through. Get out of there! Which is really helpful for them, but at the same time, they just don't have any recognition, but he had recognition in every dimension of the bardos. Every single time I was off, hey, come here, and he was able to move through it. So that was really excellent and really, really powerful. And that was something that Schaubert got to sit through and experience as well. And that was very, very, very informative to them. It was a really good heart teaching, you know, of life and Pure love is good. Pure love, pure selfless love. If you can be pure and selfless in your love,

0:53:13
then when you die, it'll be so simple

0:53:15
for you to cross the bardos. You remember when we were learning about the bardos and listening to the reading of it and reading it? You know, it's like you're going through this and it's like, wow, some pretty intense stuff happening. You know, that guy's licking some brains. That lady's ripping a body apart. But really, you know, Jai's experience crossing the bardos was just, yeah, I mean, maybe there was 10% of like, what's going on over there? I'm about to freak out. And then light. So it was like 90%, just light, light, light, light, light. It was a beautiful, extremely nice and happy and awesome experience. That's how death can be. It could be wonderful. It could be very, very enlightening. And like Jaya, you can transcend karma. You can go to a very, very high, beautiful, beautiful place. So that's amazing. And this is something that you guys need to learn about. And Shabbert definitely learned something In 40 minutes, we went successfully in this awareness of love across from death to life. And back again. It's great. It's great. We'll talk more about this after a break.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
