0:00:00
Alright, very nice. So, you have completed an intense week of diving, focusing on the Bodhisattva Mystic Scuba Diver exercises. I think this is a really great thing. Surviving is an accomplishment. And it was really excellent. I think everyone did a very, very, very good job. This was not easy, right? It's not easy to take a large group of people, work on all these exercises, go, you know, it's like a big organization going out like an army, like a navy. The navy bodhisattvas, divers, right? And we go out on our boats and we do these exercises, and there's all of these details, all of these things about tonal that we have to do that we're focusing on. So it takes a lot of attention. Also, a big aspect of these, you know, of mystic scuba in general, is all the difficulties that you go through, right? So not only is there a lot of details, a lot of tonal, a lot of hardships. Sometimes it comes in the form of seasickness, sometimes just frustration with your equipment, you know, all sorts of interesting ways. And a lot of times you're struggling with buoyancy, or you're struggling with your skills, your basic scuba skills, let alone struggling with being able to do the subtle physical awareness and the healing techniques that we have in the Mystic Scuba exercises. So, there's a lot to this program, there's a lot to this process. And by making it to the end, it's really a good thing, you know? No accidents, very, very, very safe diving. Everyone did a very, very good job with your attention to the details of everything. The first attention of scuba diving. Everyone did a very good job. And also with dealing with your seasickness, dealing with all of the little hardships that come up, with the frustrations that come up in your own mind, all those difficulties. You know, stuff like, oh, I got in and then I, you know, I just had, you know, I felt funky that day, right? So I was trying to calm down. Or you know, I felt tired from the night before. So I was, you know, just had a little bit of a difficulty being focused. So there were like lots of experiences, subtle sometimes, violently intense sometimes, you know, in terms of seasickness and things like that. There's all of these difficulties that people go through in just going out to scuba dive and going through the practice, but it's a whole, you know, in terms of the whole program, everybody experienced the these difficulties and were able to push through and perform the performance requirements for the Bodhisattva Diver Merit Badge. So, you know, this is the beginning of the Bodhisattva Diver experience. This is something that we have new exercises and we're working on them for the first time. It takes a while, in most cases it takes a while to go through understanding these exercises, practicing them more. So this is, these exercises we will be practicing more throughout the year. So you get more of an awareness, more of an integration of the knowledge of these practices as you can do them more. So it's really good. One of the things that I like about the healing exercises is that they round out your attention in terms of being able to have a greater level of balance in your life. Now, so Mystic Scuba, the Bodhisattva Diver, is really good because it's something that you learn while you're diving, but it is something that you take with you as well. So, you know, you might practice any of these exercises while we're scuba diving, but you might find that when you're back at home, that you feel some stress, and it comes to mind. I'm feeling some stress. Hey, I remember there's this, one of the Bodhisattva mystic scuba exercises, I can, you know, work on my stress or relieve my stress with a breathing exercise. So, it might come to mind. It might not come to mind. Another aspect of this training is that it actually conditions your aura so that you kind of have an automatic response that has a greater balance. So if you're stressed out or something, you might not even mindfully bring a practice to mind, but just because of this experience, you relax a little bit more than, you know, breathing shallow. So the fact that you've gone through practicing and trying these exercises actually trains your body, it trains your aura, it retrains your energy. So it's a, you know, if these things come to mind while you're dealing with stress or something in your working world, then cool, good. These are very positive ways to help relieve stress, to cause a greater subtle physical balance and healing in your life. So, this is something that, you know, and again, we just began this process on our next dive trip, probably around, or you know, probably going to go to Monterey Bay sometime, right, in the Equinox. And during that time we will work on these exercises again. And you'll have a deeper integration of these practices. But this is, even this one thing, this is like a, this is what we call, we call them power dives. Because they have a powerful effect on you. Part of the power dive experience is that, you know, we're engaged in a Sangha event, and when there's a Sangha event, when there's a group of mystic scuba divers coming together, it has a greater charge, there's a greater energy. The whole group has a focus that we're all working on, And also we have the Dharma, the teaching has a spirit and it has a great truth. And when we all come here to work on this at this time of power, it has a big, powerful impact. At a subtle physical level, but also on a spiritual level. It has this, it has an impact. So this is a power dive. This is something that affects your experience in a profound way. Like, for example, if you learn some of these exercises, like, maybe you read some of the exercises in a book, or saw them on the DVD, you're like, oh yeah, there's a breathing exercise. And then you try it. It just has a, you know, it has a little bit of an impact. There's not a focus where your mind goes into an awareness of that exercise at a deep level. You're just like, oh yeah, okay. Even if it's something that fascinates you when you read it or look at it in a DVD, to really get to a deep level of understanding, you can't just get that from a book or a DVD or something like that. You can... you do get it from having a, you know, a power dive, right? Where there is a session of focus, of someone who understands the subtleties, the deeper dimensions of the practices, who understands the spirit of the practices, and exposes those dimensions to you, explains them to you, brings you into a program, into a process where you really experience those deeper levels. And this is even if you had trouble, even if you were just learning it at a, you know, like, well, I can't even do it, you know. So even if you're like, wow, I'm not even able to do this, there is a spiritual level of these teachings that really does affect you, affect your spirit, affect your aura, and really teaches you these things process, there is a truth that you're able to reach by participating. A really profound spiritual truth and subtle physical awareness. And that's why this is called a power dive. It actually has a spiritual effect and a subtle physical effect. But it is something that is real. It's kind of like, you know, a martial arts analogy is if you were watching, you know, the Karate Kid, learning Mr. Miyagi's you know, martial arts techniques, it might be really inspiring to you. And you see that it works, and it worked for the Karate Kid. But when you're learning from the movie or from a DVD or from a book or something, you're learning those karate moves, you're learning them only at a high level. You're learning them only in a surface way. However, if you go to a martial arts master's weekend or week-long class, and he's teaching a set of techniques. The master has a depth of knowledge and has a power that you experience directly by being with that master. And that master is able to show the techniques in a way that is truly effective and real. There's a power, a transmission almost, in being with the Master and being able to do the techniques with them and learn them from the Master, rather than you know, something like a book or something else that inspires you. So, the Master is a surface level, but a deep level of that power. And even though you're learning it for the first time, you know, you're learning some new moves for the first time, and maybe you can't do them very well, maybe you feel like you do all of it horribly, but at the same time, that experience creates a deep impact for you. So, it creates a foundation. It actually permeates to a deeper spiritual level than if you're watching it on a DVD or something like that. So, when you're learning it from the Master, even though you think, I'm not learning anything, you are. You really are. You can see that a little bit later maybe. Like, if you kept on watching the DVD about karate, and you kept training and training and training the DVD way, you would always have a surface experience. But when you learned from the master, after a while, even if you don't train with the master very often or something, you'll see, wow, that stuff was real and the techniques that came in your learning from that ended up being very, very, very powerful. So these teachings of Mystic Scuba are like true, powerful martial arts teachings. They are real. They have a tremendous power. And you're learning it in a structure and in a way where you really do get a very, very good foundation of these truths spiritually imprinted in your awareness field, which has an effect of giving you wisdom, a knowing of these things. And right now we're just going through these for the first time, but as you reflect on them later, you'll say, Ah, I do have an intuition about these things. I do have an understanding about these things. About health, about healing, about how to relieve stress, deep stresses, right? About how to still your mind and be more meditative. And about the Bodhisattva way, the way of taking and sending, bodhisitta, which is really the core practice of the bodhisattva. So this is something that, even though you went through a lot of hardships, a lot of difficulties, it's supposed to be that way. And bodhisattvas, they are there to deal with those kinds of hardships and difficulties. And you become powerful because you face these challenges. You face the challenges of getting seasick. You face the challenges of feeling uncomfortable underwater All of those things make you stronger, especially when you're in this scope of teaching, because it has that awareness of the bodhisattva. The bodhisattva takes on challenges. Bodhisattva takes on difficulties. can become strong and powerful and helpful to other people because the bodhisattva can take on challenges and difficulties. So it is a very, very good thing to be capable, to be powerful, to be able to handle the difficulties, the stresses that come up, and also at the same time be able to have a spiritual focus. So you might be, like for example today, the Dive Masters, we went down to around 200 feet. I was at 185, 190, something like that, and some people went down to 200. And we were, we had a change in our dive plan. We were going down a wall, but then at about 90 feet, the wall ended and hit a sandbank that just kind of went down. So we wanted to just drop down the wall, do our exercises, and come back up. But we had to get down and start swimming across the sand. And so we went down, had to start swimming across the sand, and you know, you eat up more air that way. You're losing your bottom time because, you know, you're going horizontal more instead of vertical. So it kind of, you know, it adds more stress. It makes it more difficult, you're using up more air. So it changed our whole dive plan, but we were still able to carry it out and do it. And as a result, we went into, almost all of us went into decompression mode. So usually when we do a 200-foot dive or something, we don't go into deco mode. We just kind of go down, have two minutes to stay down there, and we start heading up before we go into deco mode, and we're okay. But on this one, I went into, I think, ten minutes of deco mode. So I had a decompression obligation. And so as I was coming up, I was, you know, I was watching my computer, I was following my computer, so that I did my decompression diving correctly. However, it did change things. It added more stress, and it was harder because of that. But even though everybody went into deco mode and the dive plan was a little bit off and different, everybody was able to do a very good job, to have a very good attention, to work the problem precisely, and also to do our spiritual practice while we are at depth, or attempt to anyway. And attempting to is what it's all about, right? Even if you think, oh, I couldn't do it, oh no, I was bad, I was just focusing on the Good, right? But at the same time you did try to do your spiritual practice, your mystic scuba practice, and that effort brings you into that body of teaching. So, you know, there's different, there's dimensions, there's dimensions of experience. So when you're experiencing a deco dive, you can experience it as a regular diver, total focus on attention, first attention. But also, when you add that little thing, you know, where you're meditating at depth, when you add that focus to the third eye, when you add that focus of relaxation, of deep breathing, you enter into a different dimension of experience. And it is a dimension of experience that we call mystic scuba. It's a dimension of experience where there's greater light and greater awareness. And this is something that you experience more and more and more as you do it, of course. And it becomes quite profound to the point of what we call underwater Samadhi. You can really go into a state of perfect consciousness by doing these practices. Perfect consciousness. You're doing a deco dive. You have to totally focus, because you have to do it right. You can't get bent. You have to be a safe diver. But at the same time, you're focused on the third eye, you go into extremely bright states of mind. That's the power of mystic scuba. Perfect spiritual attention, perfect physical attention. It's a perfect balance and a very high level of spiritual focus. And that's one of the magical things that creates these high spiritual experiences. And it takes a while, you know? It takes a while to do it. Sometimes it happens, sometimes it doesn't, until you can do it really well every time. It's a powerful thing, dealing with that level of stress. You know, deco diving. Decompression diving is not dangerous as long as you do it safely. It just means that you have a safety stop obligation. That's what it means. So you've gone down deeper and longer than your computer says it's safe to just come straight back up. So your computer says, hey I want you to you know go to a certain place and wait there for a minute or another another level and wait there for a few minutes. So you know you just have to do it right. And as long as you are a safe diver, safe slow ascents, as long as you have a good breathing rate, then you're able to do those safety stops and spend that time, that decompression obligation and you go, okay, totally safe dive. you know, in paddy we are often saying, oh my god, don't go into deco, don't go into deco, it's so bad. It's not bad. There's tons of divers that go into deco. Tech divers, it's all about decompression, right? Or deep air is what we do. Deep air is that line of how do you handle decompression, decompression diving, in a simple way. Dikini was reading a book, she found a book in there,

0:24:31
it was called Shadow Divers,

0:24:33
and she was telling me about it. It's these guys who found a German U-boat, and they're diving down to 230 feet to hang out and check out the boat. And they would dive down there for like 25 minutes and they would have two tanks of air and just air, so they weren't doing mixed gas or anything like that. And so they would just be handling a larger decompression obligation. So as long as you have enough air, maybe you need two tanks if you're going to stay down longer, if you're going to get a larger decompression obligation. And then when you come up, you just have to do your safety stops. Totally safe diving. If you have a very strong attention, it's very safe. If you have a bad attention, a weak attention, it's dangerous, right? So when you're a mystic scuba diver, you know, we're not even doing tech diving, we're doing deep air dives. But you have to have a strong attention. You have to sometimes go and, you know, do a dive where you might go a little bit into deco mode. And that's where you're on that line where you have a great power. You've got that strong attention where you can go deep. You can even go into deco and you can manage it. Going deep beyond the recreational limit, going into deco mode really shows you something about your attention. It's good to do because you push yourself into a place that's not kosher to Patty. You push yourself beyond the regular limits. And when you push yourself beyond the regular limits, you find something new in your awareness field. A strong attention. A stronger focus. Now when you can have that stronger focus, and also the strong spiritual focus, that's very, very, very enlightening. So these are the practices that we go through. This is the kind of stuff that we do in Mystic Scuba. A lot of it's just sitting around in sand doing deep breathing and relaxation. You know, we're like, hey, happy, happy sand diving. But sometimes we do the really intense things as well. When you're ready, when you have the attention. Like I did this with the dive masters, because the dive masters have, you know, the right attention. They've got the experience, they've got the strong attention, and they can do it Eventually, I'm sure all of you will be able to do that But you know when you have the right attention when you have the right experience When you have the right breathing rate as you dive your your breathing kind of slows down after a while So even if you have like a really fast, you know breathing consumption rate. Don't worry, you know, just keep diving. You'll probably see that you relax a little more after a while and that you breathe slower. Very good. So, Mystic Scuba, the Bodhisattva diver, is someone who can handle things and be powerful in their lives, so that they may have a powerful and positive impact on themselves and others. So if you consider Bodhisitta, Bodhisitta is being strong enough to see another person's suffering, pain, and problems, and say, I'm going to be strong enough to take that. Right? If you're not spiritually strong, you don't want to take it. You can't take it. You're like, I'm not strong, and you want me to take on somebody else's garbage? I'm already not strong, and I can't take on more. I'm suffering too much. I'm too weak. That's being weak and that's not being a bodhisattva. Bodhisattva goes, I have my challenges, but I see that someone else has challenges too, and I'm going to help them with their challenges. I'll be a good dive buddy, a good bodhisattva mystic dive buddy for someone suffering. I'm going to deal with my challenges and I'm going to take on their challenges. And then at the same time, I'm going to project this awareness of enlightenment. What enlightenment I know, give to them. It's very, very powerful. That's what we do as mystic scuba divers, bodhisattva divers. And we do that in our lives. You know, probably a lot of the dive masters think, you know, these new age, crazy, stupid Americans are just sitting around in the sand, breathing stand breathing and meditating or whatever, right? Which is true! Unless... it's powerful. So, you know, it's like meditation or spirituality in general. If you're a spacer, you know, just spacing out and just meditating and like talking all this New Age nonsense, whatever, you know, OK, sure, that's fine. And that's the way most people think about spirituality. It doesn't mean anything, it's kind of new agey, or whatever. It's spacey. However, when the truth of your attention is powerful and strong, capable of being powerful and helpful for itself, healing itself, and also capable of being powerful and helpful and healing and enlightening for others. This is the bodhisattva diver way. So, you know, when you have a real, true, strong attention, then these spiritual practices end up being amazing. It's kind of like, you know, if you look at the whole discipline, even outside of mystical scuba. So I'm on the boat with the dive masters. All of them, I think the average income per person is a quarter of a million dollars a year, and they're all dive masters who can dive to 200 feet in deco mode and practice focusing on the third eye and experiencing a deep level of amazing brightness. So these are, you know, when you look at it with all of the balance of what's involved in our spiritual study, then you say, okay, we're not just a bunch of weirdos who jump off a boat and start meditating in the sand. Yes, we are. However, we have a lot more balance that you can see power in through our lives. So that means, oh wait, so you guys don't only just space out in the sand, but you guys can do deep dives with a very, very strong, safe attention, and do your weird spiritual stuff. But also, when we look at your lives in a bigger way, wow, you guys are all black belts? Wow, that's kind of cool, right? So then we started to think, okay, you guys are sports people. You guys are into high-intensity sports. You do black belt karate, you do deep diving. Okay, that's the kind of person you are. Oh, but you're also a computer programmer who makes a quarter of a million dollars a year. That's just weird. But it's balanced practices. Each different practice gives you power in different ways, and then each practice, each discipline, helps the other things. And overall, for your experience strong experience of life. So, you know, Mystic Scuba gives us an awareness, a balance of healing, of health, of bodhicitta that we can bring into our lives. You know, being a black belt in karate also does that. Being a top level computer programmer does that. When you use these practices or these disciplines or these careers or whatever, when you use these tools as tools of power for your life, but also for your spiritual life, these things are powerful, they're great, they're fantastic, they're healthy, they're helpful, and they're also spiritually powerful. So, you know, there's a lot going on in the mystic scuba experience. But there's a bigger picture of your life. And when the things in your life are powerful as well, the other things that you do, your job is powerful, your karate is powerful, all these things, they create a well-rounded, powerful, and intense individual that we call a bodhisattva. So the bodhisattva diver is the healing aspect. This is where we have a great awareness of spiritual rescue. So all of these relaxation, self-healing techniques, awareness of other person, diagnosis, understanding, being aware of another person's difficulties, pain, suffering, on a spiritual level, also a subtle physical level. These teachings from the mystic scuba realm are the teachings that help in your life in terms of a balanced self-healing and healing other awareness. So this is something you know, an intermediate practitioner of Bodhisitta, or a Buddhist mystic, because it adds a great, beautiful dimension of healing and balance, as great as the ocean. There's a big power that you gain from that connection to these healing dimensions. Connection to the ocean. And all of our healing experiences in the ocean. It's one of the reasons that we do these exercises in the ocean. Because in the ocean, we make deeper connections. We're practicing mysticism. So sure, I'm working on a breathing exercise to heal myself, and I'm focusing on my internal organs and colors. You're all okay. But you're also in the ocean. The ocean itself has a very strong healing aura, and by practicing these things in the ocean, you gain a connection to this healing power with the ocean. And we do it at this time of power because we also get the transition of this solstice power. So there's like, you know, there's the mystical aspects of this study as well, that become an experience that affects your spirit and your subtle physical body and your attention going forward. I'm going to do the final transmission. So we're going to have a little simple meditation on the third eye. We're going to do an open-eye meditation. And I guess I'll sit up here. I would like you to just look at that one healing chakra in my hand. I'd like you to focus on your third eye, and I'd like you to just look at my hand for just a minute, okay? Let's begin.

0:38:46
Thank you. So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. Okay. So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. Very, very nice. Very nice.

0:40:45
what you've just seen is you brought your focus, you brought your attention, your awareness out of the Bodhisattva Diver. Which is a selfless healing power. So just by sitting there and looking, you looked into another dimension. An invisible dimension. I know, you didn't see it because it was invisible. Ha ha ha. Just kidding. But I think you did see it. Sometimes you'll like sit there and look and then you'll go, wait, my eyes must be playing tricks on me, or whatever. But if you just, whatever you did, you looked at it. If you looked at it, you saw it because it was there. Just having a connection, your eyes and attention focusing on it, draws your awareness into this dimension. And it's a dimension that you connect with. It's a dimension that stays with you. It's a dimension of awareness that is a bodhisattva's healing. So, it's a good thing. It's a good thing. Very good. So I think you all did very, very, very well. Tomorrow we're not scuba diving. Oh, no. Tomorrow we're just going to require journaling.

0:43:38
Ha ha ha.

0:43:39
So, with the journals, by the way, I'm reading them, and I'm picking out some that I think are really good examples of experiencing the teachings, and I'm going to put them up probably on a wiki or something, so that you guys can see how others experience things. And I'll point out, you know, I'll pull out a couple different versions of experience for the different things so that you can see, oh look, someone did it and had a really amazing experience and this is good. And this is my way of saying, yes, this is a very good experience, a very correct seeing or something like that. And then that way it'll help you all say, oh yeah, I experienced something like that, just not as deeply or whatever, depending on your experience. Or yes, I had the same experience. This person just writes a whole lot better. So I'll put these up on a wiki so that you guys can kind of read through them. And when you're sharing these experiences in writing, it really helps everybody's first attention to say, Oh yeah, I had an experience similar. Oh yeah, I can reconnect to those dimensions. It's really helpful. So, that's very good. And one of our Bodhisattva things that we did on the island is we brought a year's supply of medication to the hospital Esperanza. And that is kind of a cool thing. You know, I just came across this hospital, you know, looking for dive shops. Somebody said, one of the dive shops said, we support this hospital. I was like, oh, why? Do they have a chamber? And I went to it, and I was like, there's no chamber there. But I was reading it, and I was like, wow, they're, you know, and she's asking for donations. She says, you know, she's like, hey, the way we get medications down here is donations. So I asked her, you know, what do you need for a year's supply of medications? She told me, and then we were able to go and get it. And one thing I have to say, I have to say a good thing about Igor. I put Igor on this task, because, you know, he had to have something to do. But he did really well. He made this giant spreadsheet. He called every drugstore, and he found out where the best prices were for the most medications. And then we were able to get like twice as many medications, you know, a bigger bang for our buck. So that was a really really cool thing. Another thing that we're going to do as a songa is we're going to, she said that her next big thing that she really needs is an x-ray machine. So we're going to get, we're going to get the hospital an x-ray machine. So you know, it's like, it's nice. That's a way that, you know, you making tons of money can help somebody else. When you have awareness, it's like, okay, this makes sense right now. So, it's a good thing. It is a good thing. Anyway, so, tomorrow, oh yeah, so the people who went to the hospital, they're gonna write up a little story about it, explaining their experience, because they had a really cool experience going there. And then we'll put it up on the wiki so we can all share in that thing that we all are participating in. So that's nice. But tomorrow, or even tonight, I'd like you guys to just walk around this area, the grounds of the resort, and find... I want you to do that healing thing where you find a place that feels healing to you, and then look at it, look at the physical qualities of it, and then practice the two exercises of bringing in the light of that... the aura of that healthy energy and then dark toxic energy out through your feet and then bringing in the light and then giving light and attention back to the place. I'd like you to just find a place here. I find that this resort has a very, it's a lot of like good prana, good healing energy. So I'd like you to do that. Now, I walked around there at night. It's neat, if you walk, like, way out there. It's really cool. It's like, um, what's that thing called? Avatar. It is. You're, like, walking through this jungle. The moonlight is so bright. It's really magical. So, you know, so if you want, wander around tonight, don't fall off anything or die or hurt yourself. And then tomorrow also, we'll have some time, you know, walk around. That point out there, that little peninsula, is amazing. It's incredible. Forget about it. It's so awesome. Yes, question.

0:49:13
I was there half an hour earlier, so people are very quick-flushed.

0:49:16
It's a good idea to take a flashlight.

0:49:18
I saw a black tarantula right in the middle of the crowd.

0:49:21
You saw what?

0:49:22
Like a black spider, tarantula.

0:49:25
A tarantula? Okay. Nav said there's a mutant spider on the path. So, bring a flashlight. But at certain times you have to turn the flashlight off and stop walking. Yeah, in fact, bring a flashlight or something, otherwise you might trip. Now that I know there's a tarantula mutant spider, I'm not going. I'll just watch from here. So, yeah. And then stop with your flashlight, turn it off, and just look around at everything. Because it's really, really beautiful out there. Very good. And I have amakua's for some people. Yay! So, if you don't have your amakua yet, I probably have it for you right now. So, after this, we're going to do amakua for those who don't have an amakua. You can't switch or change right now. Alright, very good. So I would just like to end our Mystic Scuba Bodhisattva session with the practice of bodhicitta. So go ahead and sit up nice and straight. And what I'd like you to do is I'd like you to, just for a minute, practice bodhicitta on yourself. And then I'd like you to extend your bodhicitta practice to someone on this trip who you saw having a hard time. Maybe someone in our group, maybe a dive master on the boat having a hard time, or someone that you saw on this trip having a hard time, practice Bodhicitta for them. And then I'd like you to extend your awareness of Bodhicitta to, let's say, the whole island, or as big as you can. But let's do the whole island of Roatán. Let's try to practice taking and sending with the awareness of suffering of every sentient being on the island. Okay? So we're just going to sit for a few minutes, a minute for yourself, a minute for another person who you've seen having suffering, and for the whole island. Let's begin.

0:52:01
So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. So Okay. So, I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. Okay. Okay. So, Okay. Alright, very good. Thank you all very much. Alright, now we have some announcements to Alright, very good. Thank you all very much. Alright, now we have some announcements to make.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
