0:00:00
Very nice. So that was music from our new album, the Satori album, which we hope to So, it's pristine music for meditation. And you guys might notice that I had you guys come in about an hour early, right? So I said, come at six o'clock, and we usually come at seven o'clock. And the reason why is because it's good to come early enough to be able to sit down and wait. It's good to come and have a chance to sit in the meditation hall, in the meditation room, and be kind of in a preparatory mood. So you kind of are sitting there and waiting for a while. My teacher used to do this all the time. He would always come at least an hour late. And we always would show up on time because, well, most of us would. And then we would just sit there and be waiting. I would always say, oh, I just can't wait. Something good is going to happen tonight. And it's kind of a nice thing. It's a good preparation. So in a lot of the Tibetan teachings, there's a preparation before meditation. So you're kind of ready. You're ready to meditate. And you're ready for the teaching. Tonight there's a very, very important teaching. It's a profound and having the proper preparation, the proper meditation, now we can talk about the important and profound spiritual teaching. And this is a, what they call the secret teachings. The secret teachings. This is a secret Tantra teaching. And it is, as far as I know, the best secret teaching in Tantra for enlightenment. It is the secret Tantra teaching for enlightenment. Very simple. And I figure, you know, since we've had enough preparation time, we've had our meditation, I'll just tell you the secret teaching and then we can go.

0:03:32
Because I was talking with a couple of my students about getting pizza afterwards.

0:03:36
And about why dilly-dally. I mean that's what we're all here for, right? We're all here for enlightenment. Not to hear we go off on some tangent, as I often do. You guys want to hear the secret teaching that will make you enlightened? Yeah, so, important secret tantric teaching for enlightenment.

0:04:14
So excellent.

0:04:16
Yeah, and then, you know, I'll teach you. Give you the secret teaching. You guys can go off and be enlightened. I can go have my pizza. That'll be great. So, the most excellent secret Tantra teaching for enlightenment is that you'll never become enlightened. That's the teaching. Alright.

0:04:50
You guys didn't seem to take that so well.

0:04:54
Come on.

0:05:00
It's like you didn't get it or something.

0:05:04
You'll never become enlightened. See that's the thing, that's the secret. That's why it's a secret teaching is because if you don't understand what it means, then it's a secret. I was reading a Tibetan book of meditations, and they had in there, the secret meditation for enlightenment. And I was reading it, and I was like, wow, they put it in a book. It used to be the secret teachings of Tibet that were so hard to come by. You had to be a Tibetan to get in. Or if you're a Westerner, you had to jump through a bunch of hoops and join a monastery and be a man. And it just used to be so difficult to come across these secret teachings. However, now they're in print. But that's the thing about secret teachings. Secret teachings are only useful if you have the awareness of how to use them. So you could read the secret teaching, like probably everyone who read that book, and not become enlightened. Just read the teaching for enlightenment. They gave some technique, but who cares? I'm going to go on to my Facebook now. So that's the thing about the secret teachings. I can tell you the best, most powerful secret teaching of Tibetan or I guess just Tantra, right, for enlightenment is that you'll never become enlightened. Forget about it. You're never going to become enlightened. See? There you go. And, you know, once you understand what is entailed in that secret teaching, then enlightenment is possible. It's very simple. And see, this is why this secret teaching is Tantra. This is why it's Tantra. So I know we've talked a lot about Karma Yoga and we've talked a lot about mysticism. These are our two kind of principle disciplines. We do a lot, we have a strong focus on karma yoga. We have a intense focus on mysticism. So whenever we do our mystic scuba, or whenever we're going out into the desert, these are our mystical trips. And then the rest of the time we're working on karma yoga. We work. So we talk about these things a lot. However, this school, this lineage, is a school of Tantra first and foremost. And we haven't talked about that too much because Tantra gets kind of scary. Especially in the West when we think about Tantra means sex. So it's just like cool. So Tantra is a little bit different. It's a little bit harder to understand. Tantra is a more difficult one to understand. So it's easier to do Tantra than to like conceive of it. And the proof is that you guys are doing Tantra. You guys are an expression of Tantra, of enlightenment on the Vajrayana Tantra path. So you've been doing it all along. Hooray! So, you've been doing it all along.

0:10:03
Hooray!

0:10:05
So, Tantra is the reconciliation of opposites. Tantra is where two things come together. It's where all things come together. But it's where you can see things that are opposite and see and understand how they're the same. That's Tantra. So, the secret teaching, you're never going to become enlightened, but you're never going to become enlightened. Those two things are opposites. The whole point of the secret teaching is for you to become enlightened, but the secret teaching is you'll never become enlightened. This is Tantra. There's these paradoxes and these funny things that just don't seem to work together, but they do work. They come together. So you're doing Tantra, just look at what's going on in your life. A lot of you are working in computers, or at least you're working, I hope. We work in the world, right? And we're out there living, working, and thriving in what people would say is a non-spiritual environment. And we're practicing karma yoga in our work. We practice impeccability and selflessness in our work. And this is a tantra. Most people would say, what is spiritual is the monastery, is the swami with the thing on his head. Then there's the monks with the robes. So there's certain things that are spiritual in people's ideas and concepts. Working in the world is not spiritual. No way. What's so spiritual about that? Well, it is, because it is. Obviously, you guys know because you've been doing it. And then you would also say the contrast of mysticism on our power trips or power dives is also something where it doesn't have to do with enlightenment, mysticism. Mysticism is magic. It's the study of power. So when you're reading the Don Juan books, there's power and knowledge, but not really enlightenment. And the study of mysticism or sorcery and all that stuff is a really good way to develop yourself and see many different dimensions and things like that. But magic, most Buddhists say mysticism, divination, any kind of magic is terrible because you get trapped in this whole world of power, power and powers. However, it's not so bad. And you can use it to advance yourself in an enlightened way. So this is Tantra. And even sitting in a hotel room wearing a tie, you know, or dressing nicely, it's like, why do we have to dress nicely? That's tantra. Yeah, there you go. This is tantra. And it works. We have our observations of discipline and these things work. They work for the aid of your enlightenment. So it's Tantra. Even though in most traditions you wouldn't see working and going and doing magic and sitting in a room like this or in a suit or something isn't spiritual, but guess what? It is because it's Tantra. Tantra is kind of like the anything goes school of enlightenment. Whatever works. It's just that there's proper spiritual discrimination of what actually really works. So, Tantra is kind of like drunken Kung Fu. So, you're like, I would like to learn drunken Kung Fu. Okay. So, your teacher teaches you some basics, and you have to start drinking. And you're like, oh, it works. You loosen up and it's going pretty nicely. So, this is great. But then there's a fine line between you actually doing the discipline of drinking so you can be more relaxed and fluid with your movements and unpredictable. And then there's this other side of that, which is just being a drunken brawler. And then there's another side of that,

0:16:08
which is passing out on the floor.

0:16:10
So, yes, yes, yes. So a lot of people who say they do Tantra, just do whatever they feel like doing, without proper spiritual discrimination. And then it doesn't bring enlightenment. It might bring interesting times, but not enlightenment. So there's something going on here. And you can tell because it works. It's something that works. It's an excellent thing. So this is tantra. This is a tantra school. No, we didn't talk about that very much before. Because people become confused about those things. So I'd rather you spend a couple years experiencing it, so that you see that it works, and then I say, oh, by the way, it was Tantra. It's kind of like people get into trouble with Tantra because they have difficulties reconciling the opposites. In the West, sex comes up as a big thing, but that's just not even a very big part of it. to say that, wow, even sex is spiritual. But rather than talking about sex, it's much more interesting to talk about death. Right? It's like, reconcile the opposites, life and death. We often say, oh, life is good, and death would be bad.

0:17:56
Right?

0:17:57
We like our life, and we don't really like our death. In fact, we're probably afraid about dying, usually. So people see life and death as the ultimate good and bad. It's the ultimate thing of opposites. cannot really figure out how life and death are the same. So that's why we study the Bardoth at all. That's why we learn about death, because we start to recognize that by the study of death. You gain some awareness that whether you have a memory of a past life or not, or if you remember any Bardo states that you've been in before, but if that happens, great. If it doesn't, it doesn't matter. But you gain some awareness by studying death. And this awareness shows you an immortal side of your being. Whether you're conscious of it, whether you believe it outrightly or not, some part of you starts to know. Some part of you starts to become aware that after you die, you go on. There's life after death, or there's awareness, there's consciousness after death. There's being after non-being. And you start to become aware of that. That's why we study death. Oh yeah, studying death, tantra. So we've been studying death. But most people can't. They can't.

0:19:54
They can't. They just see death as being the worst thing.

0:19:55
When I die, it's all over. And it's just the opposite of life, and they can't see it as the same. It's only through really going through the spiritual considerations of the Bharata-phala, where you can start having that insight. Most people read the Bharata-phala and they don't get anything out of it. They just read it and go, whatever. There's a lot of Herukas walking around or something, right? There's a lot of stuff happening. However, when you go through the spiritual consideration, when you take this as part of the lesson of death, then you have really true insight into your immortal self. Now, oh, there's a story of a yogi who decided he didn't want to die. He's like, I don't want to die. So he sought out other yogis. He heard of yogis who had the siddha power of longevity. So there is a siddha power for keeping yourself alive for long periods of time, right? Certain diet, certain exercises, certain meditations, and you could prolong your lifetime indefinitely as long as you keep practicing those things. So there's several ways, we've talked about it before. And he finally found this one really old sage who lived in a cave and he said, I'm a yogi, I've had insight, I love meditation, and I don't want to die. So what do I do? Teach me the Siddha power. And the sage in the cave said, oh I can see that you are sincere. However, you don't really have what it takes to learn the Suddha power." Then he started going into how difficult the practice was. He's like, you have to meditate for so many hours every day, and you have to have perfect concentration, and you don't yet. Then the yogi's all okay, but can I gain it? He said, no, no, no. At least now you don't have what it takes. I know you're sincere, but you don't have what it takes. And then he's like, and you know, you have to just eat one leaf a day, you know, and drink the sour tea. And you know, so he's explaining all the terrible things that you have to do just stay alive. Oh, and so this yogi was really kind of down. He's like, oh man, this is horrible. He's like, I want to live forever, but this master is telling me I really don't have what it takes. And also, I don't really want to drink that sour tea. So then the sage says, but you know, there's another way. And he says, Oh, what is the other way? He says, out in the ocean, there's a certain island that I know of, and I can tell you how to get there. And on that island, if you live on that island, you will never die. There's and there's many people who've gone out there because they they want a way out of death. So I can tell you how to get there. And if you go there, then you won't have to do all this crazy stuff. You can just be on that island. But that's the thing, you have to be on that island. Be on that island, you could be there forever. It's a nice island. There's fruits, monkeys, waterfalls, good scuba diving, everything. And so the yogi says, this is great, that's exactly what I want. I don't want to have to eat a leaf and drink sour tea. I know I can't meditate good enough, so I'm just gonna go off to the tropical paradise where I never die. Sounds like heaven. And then he says, okay, I'll tell you where to go. So he tells him where to go. He writes, you know, gives him a map. And then the yogi, you know, goes, makes a boat, and follows the map, follows the coordinates properly. Then he gets to the island. And on the island, a bunch of people come and meet him. And they're all like, oh hey, how's it going? Welcome to our island. And he says, is it true that you don't die when you're here? And they say, yeah. Some of us have been here for hundreds and hundreds of years, thousands of years. And then he's like, this is great. And he builds himself a little shack and he starts living there, he's having a great time and he's just so happy. He lives there a long time, maybe a hundred years. And then he starts to get a little bit bored. He's like, it's a nice island, but I used to like where I was before too. And I like to go from the mountains to the valleys. And I remember this town that I liked. And there's more teachers around to see and all sorts of things. Here I'm just stuck on this island. So he starts getting bored. And then he finds out that everybody on the island is bored. They're bored with life. And some of them even try to kill themselves because they get so bored. They're all like, well, I'm bored, I'm gonna kill myself. But they can't die because on the island,

0:26:31
you can't even get sick.

0:26:32
You can't even hurt yourself. On the island, you just live forever. You're like immortal. So he's like, huh, that's really weird. He's like, so okay. He gets to this one point where he just says, you know what, I've had enough. As great as this idea was, it's not great anymore. I hate living forever. He's like, in fact, I'd rather die. So he decides he's going to leave the island. So he goes back to his hundred-year-old boat, gets in it, and starts sailing back to the mainland. And as he's sailing back to the mainland, a storm starts to brew ahead of him up in the sky. Clouds get dark, rain, thunder, winds, right? And he's got just a little boat. So his boat's taking on water, big wave starts to come. He thinks, oh no, one of these waves is gonna capsize my boat. To make it worse, he sees that in the ocean around him, there's sharks, even though there's a storm, big waves, but the sharks are there, they're hungry. So he's like, Oh, no, this is terrible. I know this, the storms, if the storm doesn't kill me, the sharks will. And he's sitting there, you know, watching the big waves coming. And he starts praying for his life. It's like, oh, God, please, let me survive this. Let me live. And then he realizes something. He realizes that at one time, he didn't want to die. Then he went to the island and then after a while, he didn't want to live. And then he was sitting here, leaves the island because he decides that he'd rather die. And then on his way back, he's facing his death and he recognizes that he's just doing the same thing again. Now he wants to live and he doesn't want to die. So in that moment, he has that recognition of the opposites and he comes to an awareness that life and death are both okay. It's okay to live for a long time. It might get a little boring. It's okay to die. So he came to this profound peace in having these two inevitabilities, the inevitability of death or living with the inevitability of not death. And then when he makes his choice to go back, he has that opportunity to see, Aha, life and death, they're the same, they're okay. And that was for him a moment of enlightenment, a moment of satori. And then of course the wave capsizes his boat

0:30:16
and he's eaten by a shark.

0:30:17
Just kidding, that doesn't happen. He survives the crossing back to the mainland, and then he is enlightened and goes around living happily ever after. So this was a story of someone who experienced life and learned a tantric lesson. And this is what so many people can't do. It's like nobody is going to look at life and death as being the same unless you really reflect, unless you can come to an understanding through meditation, an understanding through experience that life and death are the same. Life and death are the same. A very good way to recognize life and death as being the same is to meditate. Meditation. See, the whole point of you're never going to become enlightened. The whole point to achieve that is to stop the self, is to stop the self that is never going to be enlightened, is to end it, over, Exit that self. And meditation is the same as life and death. It's exiting the self. When you sit down and stop thought, what happens is you stop self. the problems, that has the emotional wounds. You stop the self that has the stress. You stop the self that has work in the morning. You stop the stress that has the boss who yells at you. Whatever, right? You stop the self that has limitation. And when you sit even for a minute with no thought, you sit outside of that constructed life of that self. So, you're never going to become enlightened. So, what you have to do is you have to stop thought. And then you can become enlightened. But when you stop thought, it's a death of the self. And at the same time that you experience that death, you experience life. And it's a good life. So, stopping thought brings you into enlightened states of consciousness. And this is life unlimited. Life direct and uncut. Life full throttle. Life 2.0. It's good stuff. So you know from your own experience, when you meditate and you can stop thought or slow thought down enough, so then you start to experience life. You start to experience this transcendental luminosity. And it's always bright, beautiful, and fantastic. It's always something that's uplifting and just spiritually wonderful. And that's life. In order to experience life, you have to have death. Death and life exist at the same time. Death and life are in a beautiful communion. Death and life. So you can see death and life in meditation and you can see how to attend to the secret teaching. See the secret teaching you got to do something right? It's like if someone gave you a secret tip on the stock market, say hey I have some insider trading here. The secret teaching, the secret tip. They say, here's a secret tip, buy Apple. Or something, right? Then what you have to do is, you have the information, but then you gotta go and buy Apple. And so that means that you have to come up with the money, you have to go to your broker, and say, Apple. And then, you know, so yeah, once you find out what to do, you got to do it. And then everything works out really well, because the secret tip was a good one.

0:35:51
Yeah.

0:35:54
So, meditation. Meditation is an excellent way to learn about the reconciliation of opposites. The way to see that death and life are the same. Meditation is the ultimate tantra. So excellent. So I just have to meditate. That's the big secret. Meditating. Now there's another reason why people have trouble with Tantra. This one's even trickier. What happens is people perceive things incorrectly based on their fear, desire, and attachment. And they see the false as true and the true as false. They see things kind of in a warped way. They see things unclearly and then they cannot make solid, real, positive decisions. Their actions will leave them slightly off and then they can't be very happy. And a lot of people, because they can't see things correctly, can't understand life correctly, they just have a lot of suffering. They have suffering because of false information, suffering because they don't understand what's going on. There's a story of two boys, or two young men, friends went to college together, and they decided to go off across the country traveling. And they're on a bus or something, right? And then the bus falls off a cliff, yeah. The bus falls off a cliff. Of course, one of the boys dies. And it's like, oh, it's terrible. So the other boy is in the hospital and he comes across another patient who he finds is leaving the hospital and is going back to his hometown. And so he says, can you go over to my parents and the parents of my friend who died and let them know that we were in a bus accident and that I'm okay. I have a broken leg, but when it heals I'll come home and let them know and let the parents of my friend know that he died in the accident. So the patient who's leaving the hospital goes, okay, I definitely will let them know. So terrible that I'll go there and let them know. So travels back across the country, finds the parents of these two boys, brings them together, says I've got some bad news. There was a bus accident and Joe, not Joe, Jim, okay. Jim died, right? And Chris, he's in the hospital with a broken leg. Or was it Chris who died? No, no, no. Jim died. Jim died and Chris is in the hospital with a broken leg. And he's just like, is that, did I have a backlash? And then he's all, anyway, I just wanted to let you guys know. So actually, Chris was the one who died. And so the parents of Chris are sitting there going, oh, our son's in the hospital with a broken leg, but we're happy we're going to see him. And then the other ones, the parents of Jim, Jim's actually in the hospital with a broken leg. And they're feeling terrible.

0:40:59
Our son's dead.

0:41:00
Oh, it's so horrible.

0:41:03
And people are reacting on false information. They don't know the truth. And then they're confused. Did he get the name right? Anyway, agony, pure agony. And this is what people do. People react with life. They get false information and then it causes untold suffering. You don't know what's what. You see the false as true and the true as false. And this comes up because of the self. It comes up because of desire. Desire draws you into looking at life incorrectly. And it pulls you out of balance. When you have desire, it pulls you into a way of looking at things where, you know, it's like, if you're like, I really, really, really want that thing. I want that broccoli.

0:42:10
You're hungry, you want that broccoli.

0:42:13
And what happens when you're fixated on that is you don't perceive other things. You miss other things going on. Like the fact that right next to the broccoli is a lion. If you go for that broccoli, if you're so fixated on that broccoli, that lion's gonna probably eat you while you're eating the broccoli. Yeah, but it's like people do this out of desire and fear, right? So then if you're not operating on desire, you might be operating on fear. With your fear, you're looking at the lion, and you're like, scared of that lion. But I want that, no. So anyway, yeah, so fears always keep you away from doing something or trying something, and even illogical fears. And fear just holds you back from, you're so afraid you're paralyzed, holds you back from perceiving life properly. So people fall out of seeing clearly because of that operating system of fear and desire. Attachment to hold you back from perceiving. So these are the reasons that people have so much suffering because they don't look at life in a clear way. But meditation is fantastic. Meditation gets you beyond these things. Meditation breaks the karma of desires. Meditation breaks the limitations of attachment. Meditation gets you to face fear and to see that there's nothing to be afraid of, except for death. Then, wait a minute, there's no need to be afraid of death once you see that death and life are the same. They come together because in death you see that there is an experience of life. That's Tantra. Meditation is a profoundly positive discipline. It makes you clear, bright, makes your mind strong. It helps you to deal with the difficulties in your life. Helps you to deal with stress. When you meditate well, when stress comes, you're able to handle it. Someone who has a mind that's so bothered by life is someone who cannot handle stress. your mind becomes strong and clear and you can handle life, you can handle everything in life, you can handle death, you can handle yourself. And you can deal with difficulty, you can deal with pressure because your mind is strong for meditation. So meditation is Meditation is excellent. Meditation helps you deal with every difficulty. It makes you more capable, more powerful. Makes you tough. Meditation makes you tough. And it also makes you happy. You're able to really understand your life, understand your emotions, understand the places in your life where you have been hurt before. You get hurt, bad things happen. But when you recognize that bad things are good things, then you have learned a lesson of Tantra. Bad things happen. However, if you can see clearly, you'll understand that bad things that have happened to you are also lessons to your spirit for your enlightenment. And that clear seeing comes from meditation. Terrible things happen. Sometimes you won't survive. Sometimes you're a victim of a crime. Horrible things happen. However, when anything bad happens, you can look at it in a way of learning, in a way of enlightenment. And this seeing comes through meditation. You can say, wow, this really painful thing happened to me at this one time, and it's always bothered me. It's created a kind of damage in my being that makes me experience life in a way of with greater suffering. And I always think about that and I feel bad. But when you meditate, you can look back at those, those things that hurt. And you can see that it is a lesson, it teaches you something. And when you look at it that way, it makes you stronger. Ultimately things happen to you because it's your karma. And if it's your karma, that means that it was meant to happen. And if it's meant to happen, there's a lesson in it. It's the result of something. And when you understand that it's a result of something that you've taken an action on, then you can understand that it's bringing a balance. It's creating a certain kind of balance. When you see that in meditation, it helps you to move beyond the ups and downs of the karma. Sometimes people do bad things and then the karma happens. And then they do bad things and then the karma happens. And then they just keep doing it. But if you see through meditation your patterns that cause the results of suffering, then you can change things. You can learn from that bad experience how not to have the same actions that return those results. And then what that does is it frees you from cycles of bad karma. You can look at things and understand your life. You can look at difficult, painful experiences and understand your life. You can see your way through the transient suffering to the bigger picture of life. And you can see that something, even a terrible, horrible thing, is very enlightening. This is tantra. It's to see that bad is good. And it is. So in everything that happens to us, in every difficulty, we examine them, we examine these things, we look at the cycles, the patterns, and ultimately we have the spiritual discrimination to see that everything that is bad is good. Everything that creates suffering gives us a way to see suffering. And this is Tantra. Excellent. Why don't we take a break? I thought that I would be compassionate was by drinking three liters of water.

0:50:55
And more water.

0:50:56
All right, so thank you very much.

0:50:58
We'll take a break for, let's say 15 minutes, not too long. We'll take a break for, let's say 15 minutes, not too long. Come back and keep rolling.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
