0:00:00
It is time to practice bodhicitta instead of the regular ways of your lowest base karmas. So you can't just find yourself reacting negatively and saying bad things and being mean and nasty. No, you can't just sit there and find yourself muttering about in depression and negativity. When you observe difficult times, situations, places, people, that your mind is difficult, you have to practice bodhicitta. It's very important. Otherwise, you go into the dark. You go into the way, the low way. In all of the stories that I was telling you about, I could tell more stories about Buddhist monks or people on the spiritual path who had a difficulty, right? They had a problem, something that caused them great suffering, and they overcame it through the practice of the Dharma, and it led them to full liberation. There's so many stories. So your suffering can be a seed of virtue, where you transform the difficulty into the way to enlightenment, to the pathway to enlightenment, if you practice bodhicitta. So, when you have suffering, like many of these other stories of enlightened monks, you can take that suffering, learn from it, and become liberated. And it's important to practice that, because that's what we're here for. That's what we're doing. We're not here to wallow in our karmas of negativity. We're the practice of the Dharma. So it's important to practice. You know, a lot of the stories of the enlightened students of Buddha, or other enlightened practitioners that I told, these stories are, same suffering a lot of you have. The exact same things, angers, jealousies, self-importance, depressions. These were the stories that I told. I can think of another really good one. monk. And he was up on the hill at the ashram. And down in the village, it was like the big celebration of the year, like Indian Christmas or whatever. And everyone in the village was partying and having a great time. And he really felt bad because he wanted to go down and party with them. He's like, I want to party, but I'm a monk and I can't. And then he was just so sad. And he's just sitting there watching the party. I just going, I want to go and party. And then he's all Oh, he's like, a lot of a Buddhist monk is so horrible. And then Buddha says, Well, it's not so bad. And then he's, Oh, Buddha, I didn't know you were there behind me. To teach me something to make me enlightened. So, so of course, Buddha was right there, right when he said, Oh, my lot of the Buddha's monk is horrible, nothing could be worse. And then Buddha said, Oh, but no, you know, consider if you were a villager, you know, a householder, farmer, blacksmith, or whatever. You know, right now, it looks like it's a great thing because you could be in that party, but if that was your lot, you would have suffering in this way, this way, and this way. You wouldn't have an opportunity for additional teachings of Dharma that bring you peace and meditation and all these wonderful things that you benefit from. You wouldn't have those things. And then you would be stuck around a bunch of people who aren't spiritual. So he just started explaining, you have a lot of good things. And if you were in that situation that you, right now you say, oh, that's what I really want, that's what would be so fun, and that's what I need, and I'm sad if I don't get that. He's like, no, if you were there, you wouldn't be happy. You would be less happy than you are now. But this is the case of, the grass is always greener kind of thing. So Buddha said, yeah, so there's a lot of suffering, you know, being a householder. And there's also suffering, being a monk. And then Buddha said, they're suffering in the samsara. Whether you're a monk, you have the opportunity to follow the teachings that help you to transcend Samsara. So it's not what you're doing in the Samsara, it's transcending the Samsara. So that is the It's to go beyond your karmas, your dissatisfactions, your suffering. Whatever you do, your suffering is going to exist unless you transcend the samsara through the practices of enlightenment. So of course, Buddha teaches him this. He realizes it right away, it becomes enlightened. Bing! So suffering, whatever you do, in the world of samsara there's always going to be pain and suffering. Whatever thing it is, wherever you try to run away to, all those ideas of this will make me happy, that'll make me happy, they won't make you happy. You'll always be suffering, unless you practice bodhichitta. No, unless you practice dharma, where you could really, really figure out how to let go of the lower trends of karmas that keep you limited and bound to the ego. So, gotta practice bodhicitta. If you master bodhicitta, then it doesn't matter. You're enlightened, you'll be easy. Then it will be self-evident. All right, very good. So really, let's do like this thing called Clean Slate. Start over practicing because we've had a few weeks of poor practice, poor mindfulness, poor thanksgiving and taking. So now we want the good stuff. All right, we're gonna do a open eye meditation. I'd like or you can just relax. Very simple, easy, happy, mellow meditation. And let's begin.

0:08:43
so So, the the the So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. All right, very good. Let's see what's in the old agenda of things. Oh, first of all, I think since I put this in my little book, I will tell you about my special, my special Kai Guang amulet.

0:13:14
All right, so I was in New York, walking down the street, Fifth Avenue, and this guy dressed up like a Buddhist monk comes over. And I was with Fei, an ST2. She's Taiwanese, from Taiwan. And so he comes over and he has a little book, he has a picture of a Buddhist monastery and a bunch of Chinese letters. And he's all, oh, oh, oh, oh. And I'm like, what's he saying, Faye? And she's all, I don't know. And I was like, oh, look, there's signatures. And then she's all, oh, he wants us to sign it. And I'm like, okay. You know, well, he's gonna ask you for money. She's all, oh, I signed it, no problem. And then he's all like, turns the page. It's all, donation. And she's all like, oh, he tricked me. I was like, no, it's good. I'm like, you're gonna donate to a Buddhist cause. And she's like, oh, okay. And I don't carry cash, so I was like, you have to give him money. And then she said, okay. So she only had like a $20 bill. And she's all, oh, man. I was like, no, that's good. It's a good Buddhist cause. And then so she gives it to him. And then he's all, oh. And then I was like, ask him what it's about. And then she's all, what's this about? And then he shows a picture. And then I said, and then I was like, why don't you speak Chinese to him? She's all, he doesn't speak Chinese. I'm like, he doesn't speak English, he speaks Chinese. And then anyway, he gives her this. And I was like, oh, got something for your donation. A little special thing. And I said, Oh, you got double good karma. And then she then she was happy. She's like, Oh, okay, so I donated to a Buddhist temple. I'm like, Yeah, or you bought that guy lunch. Yeah, so it was quite nice. And anyway, he said he was Buddhist, so we believe. And since she didn't ask him anything in her language, we'll never know the truth.

0:15:49
But I don't think he was really.

0:15:52
Well, no, he must have been.

0:15:53
At least he was Buddhist enough to wear Buddhist clothing. It's a good scam on Fifth Avenue, I think. Better than those other ones. So anyway, it's really kind of cool. It has a picture of Kuan Yin on it, and it's all shiny. And it says, Work smoothly, lifetime peace. And it has a Chinese character over a lotus, and the Chinese character says, Bodhisattva, basically, Pusa. And I was like, wow, this is amazing. What it has to do with work smoothly, lifetime peace, I don't know. But it's amazing. So, just wanted to share that with you. But let's get down to the important stuff. Important things coming up, oh yeah, wait, wait, where are we? Uh-huh. Can I have a note here about important things coming up? Ah, I do. Okay. Solstice is coming. We're most likely going to have a meditation seminar together probably here on the day of the solstice, the evening of the solstice. So whatever day that is, the 21st or whatever it is, we'll set it up. So we're gonna all be together as a sangha meditating on the last day of the Mayan calendar. And if we survive what all those new age people are saying, then we have a trip coming up the next day. We're going to go to... So some of us are going to the Roatan trip, and we're going to be doing some mystic scuba. It's going to be very nice. But as a preparation for that, I wanna make sure you have your Patty cards. Now I didn't place the order for the advanced cards yet. And also I know that some people are missing their certifications. Some people are missing their original certifications. So what I need you to do is I need you to email me at the same email address where you sent your assignments and where you're going to send your next assignments. Email me a picture of yourself. And also tell me what level of certification you need. So if you got your advanced certification, then send me a picture and say advanced. If you don't have your open water certification yet for some reason, send me your picture and say open water. If you don't have your rescue, send me a picture and say rescue. And then I'll get you yours too. Okay, so, but please do this tomorrow. Send me a picture and tell me your certification. I want to get all up to date on certifications. Okay, that's one. Oh yeah, the solstice... so after the solstice dive trip, then for some of you, we're going on a shasta trip. So that's going to be the third through the sixth. So that means that you have to take off... I think what we're going to do is Thursday night we're going to have a meditation. So maybe you can work Thursday or maybe you might have to get off of work early on Thursday because we'll have like an 8 o'clock meditation and it takes 6 hours to drive there. So plan to get there for an 8 o'clock meditation. And you have to take off Friday from work. Then we'll be coming back on Sunday. So it will be the third through the sixth.

0:20:30
All right.

0:20:32
The other thing that you should do if you're going on the Shasta trip is you should be prepared to be sitting out in the snow on the mountain at night for long periods of time. So remember that one time when we almost froze several people?

0:20:53
In the summer?

0:20:56
In the summer. Well, imagine that, but in the winter. And me not noticing.

0:21:04
You'll be like, oh.

0:21:07
Freeze before you tell me. Oh, well. Oh well, Bodhisitta. Okay, now we have two writing assignments. Okay, so first of all, I would like you to write a recapitulation of the Avalokiteshvara empowerment. So it was the first Bodhicitta teaching. You might want to listen to it again, or just what you remember about it. Write it down, a recapitulation in proper detail. So as long as you want, but it has to carry the tonal and the second attention. It has to be structured in the explanation of what you experienced. It has to be true, clear, and have the light of the experience in it. See, I want to recapitulate the beginning of your study because I don't want things going by you without you being aware of it. We're going to start to keep a journal about bodhicitta. We're going to recapitulate the beginning of this study because I want to make sure that you learn how to do bodhicitta properly. It's such a helpful practice and it is the focus of our school. Okay, and I'd like you to write a second assignment. Write a story about a time when Bodhicitta worked for you. So it might be when you had a sitting relative Bodhicitta meditation, where you were like practicing taking and sending and then all of a sudden it was really bright and amazing. Or maybe it's when you're dealing with someone and being nasty or you felt sad, you were able to actually practice bodhisitta and it changed a sad situation or confrontational situation into something brighter, at least in your mind. So I'd like you to tell me of a time, write it like a story, of when you experienced bodhicitta really working. And again, there's no limit. It could be a hundred pages, if you want. It could be two pages or a paragraph. I don't know. Whatever you do, write it properly. So it's got to have first attention and it's got to carry light. It has to have the light of the experience in it. So this is a way where you learn to write without egotism, unlike many of your papers in the last assignment. So much egotism. You guys are just buying into your own... You have to write in a clean way, explain what happened, explain the situation, and explain how Bodhicitta worked, what it was, what the experience was, what the effect was. So, two writing assignments. Savitri will put these writing assignments up on the wiki so that you can re-read what the assignments are

0:24:49
before you just start writing an assignment,

0:24:52
which is talking about yourself again. Here, let me tell you about my self-importance.

0:24:57
Oh boy.

0:24:58
Yes, please do these assignments with just simple clarity. I had this experience, this is what happened, this is what happened, this is what happened, and explain the details of the spiritual subtle aspects, so that it carries the light of the experience. Again, the reason that we're doing this is because we're drawing into your attention in a concrete way the fact that bodhicitta has worked for you at some point. Sometimes you forget that. You just be, oh, I'm so suffering myself and, oh, bodhicitta, whatever. But when you've written this paper of how it's really been bright and worked, then you say, oh, wait, there is something to it. You're giving yourself concrete evidence that there's something to it. It's important. Lastly, I have some movie recommendations that I would like you to see before the solstice. Oh, and these writing assignments are due by the solstice, because I don't need them after we ascend.

0:26:27
Okay.

0:26:28
All right.

0:26:29
So, the first film is called Jiro Dreams of Sushi. It's a documentary about a sushi guy. And really, the first thing that he says in the first five minutes of the film is something about impeccability and yoga that is so important. And then the rest of the movie just supports all of that. But you see some really good sushi.

0:26:58
Okay.

0:26:58
The second film I would like you to watch

0:27:01
is called Paranorman. Paranorman. It's an animated film and it's about Bodhicitta. So please watch it. And zombies. And witches. Okay, that's enough for now. I won't give you a third. Watch those two first. everybody. So remember, start your practice anew. Oh yeah, I would actually like to stay here and talk to a few people. I'd like all the beginners to stay here. I would also like Jackie to stay and Morgan to stay. And if anyone else has a personal question And if anyone else has a personal question that you really need to ask me, then you can stay tuned and I'll answer your question. Okay, thank you everyone.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
