0:00:00
Good evening, everyone.

0:00:02
Playing with wires.

0:00:04
All right, why don't we begin with meditation, and then we'll get right into meditation.

0:00:29
How's that? Let's see... Okay, three songs.

0:00:35
Okay, three songs. the

0:00:46
the

0:00:53
the the the the the So. So, thank you. so the So, You. you. you the the the the I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to get out of here. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to get out of here. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to get out of here. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to get out of here. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to get out of here. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to get out of here. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to get out of here. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to get out of here. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to get out of here. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to get out of here. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to get out of here. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to get out of here. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to get out of here. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to get out of here. the the So, you you Please open your eyes and look up this way. you. So, thank you. So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. So, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You

0:12:36
Excellent. So good evening. Welcome to enlightenment. Tonight we're going to talk about the basis of the intermediate yoga, which is called Maitri. Maitri is a very, very popular practice in Buddhism, especially in the Mahayana schools. It's a very, very, very big deal to them. However, they kind of look at it in a hippie way. No, I think it's kind of changed over time. It's become this really, really, really strange idea, even to the Buddhist monks. And it's not really what Buddha taught. So, in the Theravada Buddhism, the Pali Canon, where there's Buddha's words written and recorded from his enlightened students, so it's really done cleanly, Buddha describes Maitri. And then when you study it, or if you hear about it from most Buddhists, it ends up being just this completely other weird thing. So you're going to get Maitri the real way. Maitri with a little extra. Extra Maitri. Extra-mitre. What is mitre? Well, it's commonly translated to be loving-kindness. But that's, you know, and so it's like, oh, loving-kindness here and there. Giving out my loving-kindness. And that's the, um... But even that term, even that translation, it's just not right. It makes you think, oh, Buddhism's all nice and happy. You know, it's not like that total vibe. And that's how most people perceive it. Give your loving kindness. So even the translation, and the whole way that modern Buddhists look at it is very strange, very strange. The way that Buddha describes Maitreya is not as loving kindness. And actually the direct translation means not loving kindness, but it means unconditional friendliness. That's what the direct translation means. And I like that better actually. Unconditional friendliness. And it's inferred that friendliness is to yourself, which is very, very important. The friendliness is to yourself. That's how the Buddha taught it. Also, the Buddha teaches that you can have that friendliness to others. But primarily the focus for a Buddhist monk is friendliness, unconditional friendliness So, friendliness. You have to think of a time where someone was just purely friendly and kind and helpful to you. Think of a time where someone was most kind, most friendly. So, you can forget the loving kindness. I don't even know what that means. Oh, loving kindness. I don't know how those things go. Forget it. So do not be fooled by those other Buddhists. Loving kindness is just friendliness, unconditional. So think of a time where someone was friendly to you. Very often we consider our enlightened teacher a spiritual friend. That means a friend to your spirit. And that means they are friendly to your enlightenment, to the illumination of your spirit. They're friendly. They're a friend to your liberation, an ally to your liberation. So when I think of a time where someone was a friend to my spirit, it was my teacher. And it was a time where he said to me, you can be enlightened. And I thought, wow, maybe. But it was actually unconditionally friendly. And it actually had a very positive impact on me. And I was very happy about it. I was like, wow, my teacher said that to me. This is a good thing. Usually he just yells at everyone.

0:21:15
I told you there was like a six year period where all he did was yell at us.

0:21:18
But during that six year period, he didn't only just yell at us, because there was that one time where he said, you can be enlightened. But really, honestly, that was something that was unconditionally friendly. It was very, very spiritually kind. But you might think of a time where maybe you fell down and hurt your leg and you were six years old and then somebody picked you up and helped you out. Kindness, right? Or you lost your wallet somewhere, you had a lot of money in it, and then the person who found it just calls you or sends it back to you in the mail, and the money's still there. You can think of all of these different times where someone was just friendly to you, just kind to you, where they did something nice. Maybe it was a teacher, a friend, someone acting friendly, unconditional friendship, positive expression of support for your well-being, for your health, for your money, for your spirit. And when you can think of a time where someone did that for you, did something nice, acted like a true friend, or was unconditionally kind. I like unconditional kindness instead of loving kindness. When they were kind, the feeling that you get when you go, wow, that was really nice. Wow, they really helped me. That was really great. And they're selfless about it. They're not all like, oh, now you owe me. Because then that doesn't feel good, right? That's not unconditional. So but there's been times where someone has been kind to you. And when you can remember that feeling of how it feels, it feels good. It feels happy. It feels really nice. So that's the feeling that you should have for yourself. This is the practice of Maitri. Having the feeling of unconditional kindness and friendliness to yourself. Be friendly to yourself. Give yourself meditation. Give yourself mindfulness. Give yourself a break. Yeah, give yourself a break with all your complaints of your suffering. Give yourself a break and be kind to yourself. Give yourself that energy. Do things for yourself. Exercise, you know, meditate, mindfulness, yoga. When you do these things and you see that you have this attitude of Maitri, you're happier. You're actually self-generating this energy of Maitri, which is a powerful spiritual energy. If ever someone has said something to you or helped you in a spiritual way and you felt that kindness, that illumination, that is Maitri. And in the intermediate yoga, you have to have Maitri. You have to really focus on generating your own Maitri. It's very important. So you have to start seeing that there is a power in your attitude toward yourself. A lot of people are negative about themselves because you know, life is suffering, we all know that. There's suffering. However, you don't have to get down on yourself. Don't get down on yourself. You know, have an attitude of Maitri. Be friendly to yourself. Life is hard enough. You might as well have Maitri instead of giving yourself a hard time. So like, oh God, this limitation, you enforce limitations, oh that limitation, this problem, that problem, this person, that thing, that, you know, all these things bother me and make it difficult and therefore, ouch, and oh. We, you, that, oy vey, you know, that kind of thing. However, maitri is a different attitude. Yeah, we face difficulties. Yeah, life is pain. There's pain in life. There's suffering in life. However, with Maitri, you can be your own best friend. Really, you have a good, wholesome, illuminating attitude towards yourself. Not an egotistical attitude. Not like all, Eww, I'm so good. I'm so special. I'm the best. Right? That's egotism. And, you know, that's for beginners. But when we go towards being an intermediate student, we develop Maitri, which is a positive and constructive power. It's that nice, beautiful energy of supporting ourselves and being positive. Yeah, so just like when someone's done something beautiful for you, you can do that for yourself. You start to generate that. Maitri is a power. It's a power. It is a power that exists. And what we do in the intermediate program is we tap into it, we utilize it, we bring it into our mindfulness and it adds a dimension to our mindfulness where we are able to generate that positive supportive energy of friendship and kindness to ourselves. So this is something that we begin to practice, that we must start working on. It is the kind of founding consideration for the intermediate yoga. Now, Maitri, after yourself, Maitri goes on to the awareness of others. So this is where it gets even more kumbaya for Buddhists, generally. Because even though Buddha focused more on Maitri for the self, the Mahayanas focus more on Maitri for others. They go, oh yeah, for yourself too, but also for others, all others. And you can't do that, you got to do it in a balanced way. There's a story of a Mahayana Buddhist monk, who, there was two monks together, and they were walking along in the Himalayan mountains. And they saw a nice boulder at the side of the road and decided that they would sit down and meditate. So they sat down and meditated, and they were both very good at meditation. So they were totally gone, absorbed in their meditation. And then they finished meditating and they found a giant snake had come out. And it was like, you know, so it was an anaconda from the jungles of India that came up to the Himalayas. And this giant snake had started eating one of the monks. He thought, you know, he's like,

0:30:05
I don't have to squeeze this guy, he's already dead.

0:30:07
So I'm just gonna swallow him whole. So, you know, he got him up, you know, about to, you know, halfway through the thigh. So he was like, you know, all the way, you know, up to a few inches above the knee, really. And he's just working on getting this monk in his mouth.

0:30:31
Big snake, little monk.

0:30:33
You know that old stitch. So then the monk is like, oh, oops. Wow, I was meditating really well. And the other monk was like, oh, oh my gosh. And the monk says to the snake, I will give you loving kindness. If you wish to eat me, you may eat me. So then the snake goes, okay. And he eats the monk. And then he slithers off. The other monk sits there and goes, oh my gosh, that was terrible. Well, I guess I'll go back to the monastery. Goes back to the monastery and then the abbot, the head monk, says, hey, where's uh, where's the other guy, monk guy, who was with you? Oh, he was eaten by a snake.

0:31:35
What?

0:31:36
That's crazy. What do you mean he was eaten by a snake? Yeah, well, we were meditating and then, you know, after meditation, he was, you know, the snake had him up, you know, was eating him and was already above his knees. And then the master said, well, why didn't he fight back? And then he said, well, you know, because he's practicing loving kindness. He wanted to be kind to the snake and give him a meal. The master said, oh, okay, that's great. What a beautiful practice of loving kindness. So actually, you know, there are similar stories like this. Even the Buddha tells a story of a time in the purple world where he, you know, there was an animal that wanted to, that was about to die, was starving, or maybe it was a couple lions or something that were starving. And then the Buddha said, here, you can eat me. And those are very loving kindness and complete sacrifice. However, this kind of hippie story of the snake and the monk and the monk goes, oh, please snake, experience some of my loving kindness by eating me, is inappropriate, inappropriate. The Dharma is for your life to thrive, not to be a sacrifice to a sneak. So these stories give people just weird ideas. That's stupid. The guy should have kicked and gotten out. The monk should have fought his way out of the snake's mouth. And then the monk could continue in the practice of the Dharma and become enlightened and then all sorts of other things. But no, having this misplaced practice of loving kindness creates a very strange thing. Now, actually Buddhists tell the story of loving kindness in a good way. They're all, oh, isn't it nice that this monk, you know, did this nice thing? No, it's not nice. That's stupid. And that's a misinterpretation of what Maitri is. Again, Buddha's primary focus on was for yourself. Loving kindness for yourself would be get out of the snake's mouth. So the over-emphasis on loving kindness for others is not the point.

0:34:37
Not the point.

0:34:38
The point is that you are awesome to yourself. Be excellent to yourself.

0:34:45
Right?

0:34:46
So it's really important. You gotta do this. You really have to start generating that positive energy. Now, here's a good story of loving kindness. One that I appreciate and that I concur with. So you guys know this story, I'm sure. Buddha was walking down the road one day having a good old time, and then he had this evil student, or ex-student who was mad at him, and he got this big elephant drunk. He's all, here, have some beer, have some wine, have a Roman Coke. And then the elephant was all crazy and drunk. And then the guy saw Buddha walking down the path. He saw, okay, now, and he pushes the elephant out and the elephant's all, oh, I'm angry, I'm running around. Oh, and there's only one way for me to go. So he's running at the Buddha, all crazed and angry. And then the Buddha turns, looks up to the elephant and he projects Maitri. He projects this unconditional friendliness to the elephant. And then the elephant goes from this drunken rage to this happy, beautiful state of mind. Comes over, you know, hangs out with Buddha, Buddha pets the elephant, and then they become friends. So I like that one because when Buddha projects this, you know, maitri to the elephant, it is a way of, you know, being, you know, kind to the elephant, but also kind to the Buddha. So I would say that is really the way to look at, you know, maitri in terms of other people. If you're going to be kind to another person. It's great, but not to the point where it's out of balance for you. So with the snake, it was out of balance for the monk. He's like, I'm going to be kind to you, but not kind to myself, because I'm dead. Buddha, more enlightened, projected Maitri to the elephant, so it's happy for the elephant. And then it's also happy for the Buddha. That is the way that we look at it. So it's great. Now that you're going to learn Maitri, you're going to have this power of loving kindness. And you have to be able to do it for yourself. Do it for yourself so that you're happy, so that it supports your practice. But you also can use that same power for others. Projecting Maitri, that unconditional friendliness to someone, is so wonderful. And it's a balanced thing, because let's say you're helping someone with computers. Let's say you're helping someone because they're sad. Let's say, whatever, you're working with someone, you're interacting with someone. Maybe you're just talking to someone and you project this wonderful, beautiful feeling of Maitre. This is a good thing for them and it's a good thing for you. When you project Maitre to someone else and you're interfacing with them, they become happier, they become brighter. And that's happier and brighter for you. So, the way that I would look at it is, I would say, my tree is good. Practice my tree. For sure on yourself, that's the most important. But definitely on as many people as you come across, because it always makes your situation better, happier, brighter. So, that's Maitri. Don't study Maitri anywhere else. There's just too many strange and incorrect thoughts of what it is out there. There's so many books that talk about it in just such a weird way. And the rempeshes and monks, they don't really practice it right. They're just all like, oh, be soft and, you know.

0:39:29
They don't know.

0:39:29
They don't know. They're probably nice people to hang out with them. But they don't do it in a way that's enlightening, but they're probably just swell to have tea with. So, listen to these teachings. Now, my tree has another side, another dimension. And this is exceptionally important. Maitri, I would say, more than being a feeling of kindness, of like, oh yay, that's one side Maitri is being tough. Maitri is being strong. And I would say tough, so that you can take difficulties. You can take it. So, of course, when you're facing difficulties and suffering in life. If you can give yourself these positive feelings, what it ends up doing is it ends up making you be able to go through the pain and the suffering. You can take it because you feel you're giving yourself this friendliness. So, one aspect of friendliness is like, you're like, oh, I have something to do when I have a hard time. Your friend pats you on the back and says, you can do it, I'll cheer you on. And that's the positive side. And then the other side, which is, I emphasize toughness. In fact, I used to not even talk about the loving kindness. I wouldn't even say that in the Dharma talk. I just say, tough. My tree means tough. Don't look it up on the internet. Don't read about it in a book. It just means tough. But the way that I would look at it is, if you are experiencing, let's say a battle. You've got to go into battle. You know what an unconditional friend does? They go in with you.

0:42:02
That is what maitri is.

0:42:06
It ain't easy, pat them on the back and go, go into battle, yeah, you can do it. That's not it. An unconditional friend goes in with you. So that means that maitri is tough. Maitri faces the hardships. Maitri faces the suffering, the pain, and the problems, and is right there with you, supporting you, and pushing to win. is really being tough. That's what it is. To be able to sit there through the difficulties of life, to be able to stay on the path, that is Maitri. I think that, you know, The two kind of mantras that you can train yourself with in Maitri is something that you might say to your dog sit and stay Because when problems come in your life you want to run You want to freak out you want to go hither and thither and be elsewhere. Your ego doesn't want to sit still, it wants to jumble around and have all sorts of problems and go, ooh, right? And also, when you have really difficult, difficult difficulties, you want to run from the path. I want to run away from enlightenment. I want to run from the pathway of enlightenment. But these are not to benefit you if you do those. If you're unbalanced and you're reactive, and if you're reacting and running from what would bring you the way that the ego reacts is not going to help you. So to practice Maitri, when everything is going crazy, you need to just say, sit. You sit there and meditate.

0:44:35
You sit there and do your yoga.

0:44:37
You sit there and shut up. You have to just sit there and go through it. Sit there and go into the battle, but practice maitri. And you have to stay. When you're like, oh, I just want to run away and hide and do whatever thing makes me feel... Like sometimes people play video games, sometimes people just watch movies or something like that, and you wanna run away, or you're like, oh, I'm gonna get on an airplane and fly away from enlightenment. It's far away from enlightenment, or something like that. You're like, I want to run. You have to practice stay. So you'll see that these are powerful mantras. You'll be sitting there in meditation, you'll be like, ahhhh, sit. You'll be doing yoga, you'll be like, ahhhh, sit. And then you'll be like, oh I can't do this, it's impossible, it never works for suck, stay. I might add, shut up, but not for you. That's for me to say. You can tell yourself sit and stay. I could tell you, come on, shut up. But really, being able to stay solid through the hardships, through the pain, through the suffering, through the difficulties. There's hardships all over there, all over around, right? The first noble truth that Buddha taught So, Maitri is having that friendliness to yourself, so that you can, you're supporting yourself to deal with the pain. You can take the pain. There's pain in life, but you can take the pain. You can do it. with Maitri. When it's all difficult, all painful, all so many problems, everything's impossible, Maitri. Because if you stay, then the problems will go away. But if you react, then you're following lots of karmas that create more problems. So it's important to recognize that there is pain in life and that with Maitri we sit and we stay. We face whatever comes and we practice Maitri. This support, loving, kindness to sit there and deal with the shit that comes up. And then by doing that, the ego stops reacting. You stop the cycles of the self running, jumping, all of its reactions. They come to an end. And then you see that by practicing this steadfastness, you're able to maintain your practice of meditation, mindfulness, and yoga. And you can succeed to a high degree because of that. But if every time you start doing yoga, you start freaking out, or you might not even find yourself doing yoga, you'll just be like, oh, I want to do yoga. But all these little reactions of self come up and guess what? You end up not doing your yoga or you end up doing bad yoga and you're not going to progress in personal power if you don't do your yoga. But if you're steadfast, if you sit and stay and not react when all the desires and all the crap comes up, you'll just sit there and go, gonna do my yoga. That's what Maitri is. It's sitting, staying, being steadfast in your discipline of the Dharma. It is that unconditional friendly support and kindness for you to succeed in your meditation, mindfulness and yoga. That is what it is. So, you know, Maitri is a practice. It's a practice of... It actually is a... I would say it's a dimension. It's a dimension of understanding. It's a dimension of support. It's a dimension that's very grounded. And when you apply this dimension to your troubles, you find that there's that help, just like if there was a good friend who's helped you with something in the past, or if someone did something very kind for you, that energy, that is help for you. The thing about problems, the thing about pain, is you can't get into a negative cycle about it. So I feel pain, so therefore I'm going to do negative things to deal with it, right? I'm gonna run away, I'm not gonna work hard, I'm going to complain and go just into negative ways of dealing with pain. So there is pain and I think maybe the ego's natural proclivity is to run from it, However, what we learn in Buddhism is that we have to take the pain, and we have to work the problem. We have to use our attention to get ahead. And even though it's painful while you're getting ahead, meditation, mindfulness, and yoga are the Dharma methods for getting ahead. Eventually, by following these methods, you actually transcend suffering. You really do. Especially, you know, the primary enlightenment is really transcending emotional disturbances and negative thinking. And that is a wonderful thing to do. Of course, you know, there's always, even for an enlightened person, there is pain in life. There is pain in life. It's just that an enlightened person has a vast perspective of awareness where they could say, I understand, yes, it's very painful, but also I'm enlightened, so I'm really happy. For example, Milarepa, right? There's that time where he was experiencing tremendous pain and he was demonstrating how much pain he was taking. So he's sitting there and he's like, just sitting there. And then they're all, you don't look like you're in so much pain. And he's all, let me show you. I'm gonna project the pain in my body onto that door. Right, and then he projects that pain. The door is like rattling and breaking to pieces and splintering, right? So it's like an enlightened person, you know, can take a lot of pain. They don't like to, but they can. Because of having Maitri. So, for example, myself, I take a lot of pain, but yeah, I take a lot of pain in terms of, let's say, toxicity from negative thinking from my students. That's the primary place where I take pain. And, you know, for me, yeah, it's painful. Yeah, I don't like it. It is painful. But I practice Maitri. I practice Maitri perfectly for myself, so I can take it as much as possible. But there is still a limit. There's a limit to what my aura can handle. There's a limit to what I can handle, basically. But spiritually, I can handle it to any degree. It's just the body and the aura have their limits. And if you were experiencing the pain that I experienced, you would just die. Like, I'm not kidding, you would just keel over and die. So I'm an example of Maitri taking on a lot of difficulty and being able to be happy. Sure, there's pain involved, but at the same time, Maitri is so wonderful. That dimension of enlightened support is so wonderful. And so many dimensions, so many methods of enlightened practice, so many methods of Dharma. They're so beautiful. There's so much joy, even though there's difficulty in pain. There is. difficulty in pain, there is, but there's so much wonderfulness that it balances out. So I am an example of tough. Now, I remember my teacher, he was also very tough. So he had a lot more students, and they were really, really kind of difficult students and toxic, and he was able to be tough to be able to work with them. And so he was definitely even tougher than me. And his example of Maitri, it still teaches me how to have a stronger practice of Maitri, how to be tougher. So he was very tough. Before he would come to meditations with us, sometimes he would sit there and watch, what was it, Rambo. He would watch Rambo 3, in fact. And that's where he's running around in Afghanistan, and the Russians are trying to kill him. And he's just like this lone warrior against all these helicopters shooting missiles at him. And so he would watch that as an inspiration for him to come and sit with us. So really, you know, that to do this job is means that you have to be tough to walk the path means that you have to be tough. Right? Because when you start walking the path, you have suffering, right? So you're like, Oh, wait, I'm walking but there's a little rock in my shoe, but I still have to walk the pathway to enlightenment. And then eventually you gain more personal power and awareness. You've taken the pain and you kept going. Then you realize that you could just take a moment, take your shoe off and take the pebble out. You gain wisdom. Great accomplishment. And then that way, you heal your soul. You heal to toe. Very good, very good. So I'm going to give you an experience of Maitre. I'm going to give you an experience of my tree. And we'll do it with a little bit of music. So I'm going to show you my tree, show you your tree, I'm going to show you my tree, let's see, with a little song, how about... And my tree is like, it's just a positive feeling. Like, it's just a positive feeling. Where's a happy song?

0:58:57
Okay.

0:58:58
Yeah, it's a positive feeling. And it kind of feels like you're sitting in a... Sitting in like a jacuzzi. Sitting in a jacuzzi and instead of like being warm, pleasant water, just like warm, pleasant energy. Okay, let's do a Maitri. Just sit, relax. You can have your eyes open if you'd like. And I just want you to feel my truth.

0:59:39
♪♪♪ Oh, Oh, you So It's a good thing. the So, thank you. ♪♪ ♪♪ Alright, I'll come back.

1:04:07
All right, so this is an experience of how you should be to yourself. That's what I'm talking about. This is how I am to myself, and it's pretty nice. In the intermediate teachings they say, always have the accompaniment of a joyful mind. At least you can give yourself that. You can be on your side. And when you have this powerful, beautiful, luminous feeling, you can face hard things. You can face suffering. You can face the pain. You can face the difficult stuff. And you can face it and yeah, that ain't fun. No, yeah, it hurts. But you can face it with this inner light, this support, so that you can stay on the path. And then it makes even the hard things doable. There's a couple films where there's some nice aspects of Maitre that come to mind for me. One is Joe vs. the Volcano. There's this one point where Joe asks Meg Ryan on the boat, he says, do you believe in God? And she says, I believe in myself. And that is actually the way that it's, that it comes across in this is, is my truth. When she thinks of divinity, she's like, do I believe in the divine? She says, I believe in myself. And he says, what's that mean? She's like, I don't know. But, and then she's all, I have confidence in myself. But what she's expressing is she's expressing loving kindness for herself, unconditional friendliness for herself. My true. So good to check out that movie again just for that little moment there because it is a an expression of my tree. Another one that's good is Spider-Man 2. Spider-Man 2. The one from like five years ago or something like that because I know that they just came out with another Spider- but this one every second year they're gonna come up with a spider-man reboot and a Batman reboot and a Superman and an Avengers reboot just gonna keep doing it because people keep paying for it. What movie should we do? What movie did we do last year that made a lot of money? We did Batman last year. Let's do Batman again! Only this time, it's going to be even baddier. So, these are a couple films to check out. Alright, we will take a break. 15 minutes, and then we'll come back and we'll see you tomorrow. 15 minutes, and then we'll come back and we'll see you tomorrow.

1:07:36
Take care.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
