0:00:00
There's a story of harmlessness and the Buddha. And there's one time where he was teaching people, he was like, oh, we're gonna, the monks were gonna stay over in this field over here. And the townspeople said, oh, you gotta be very careful. Be careful because if you go around this road to get to that field, there's a murderer, this terrible guy who kills people who lives near there and if he sees you on the road he will go and kill you like he literally killed dozens of people and he even made a necklace he would cut their pointer finger off on their left hand and he would make it he would put it on his finger necklace so he was like this really intense, messed up guy. And so everyone's afraid of him, everyone's talking about how terrible this guy is. And then Buddha said, oh, really? Oh, he said, okay, you guys wait here. I'm gonna go walk down that road. And then all his monks were like, oh, Buddha, don't go.

0:01:34
He says, oh, don't worry.

0:01:36
So Buddha goes walking down the road, and sure enough,

0:01:41
the guy's just waiting in the bushes, looking to kill somebody. So he's sitting there with a dagger, and then Buddha walks over, he springs out of the bushes, and he tries to attack Buddha. And you know his first lunge just barely misses Buddha. So then he lunges in again and just barely misses Buddha. So he sees that the Buddha is you know somehow getting out of his way. So he starts running towards Buddha. He starts sprinting, chasing him down, and Buddha's just walking, but somehow he can't get within striking distance of Buddha. He's running as fast as he can, and Buddha just appears to be walking in front of him. And he just can't get him, and he starts to wonder, what the hell's going on? He's like, I am running as fast as I can. And he was always very proud of the ability to be very fast. He was actually able to actually run down deers and kill one so he's like I could run down anybody even a deer and somehow while I'm chasing this guy he just appears to be walking but I can't get him so he starts to get a little bit tired and then he yells at the Buddha he yells stop stop. He's all, stop, god damn it. And Buddha, in a very calm way, as he's strolling just right outside of arm's reach, says to him, I have stopped causing harm. And so I can be at peace. And you continue to cause harm. And therefore, there's always a problem. And then just pointing that out to him, the guy had a realization. He went, whoa! He said, he just from that experience of the Buddha was so peaceful, just mildly going along, and he was running, trying to get him, and so stressed out, and he saw something in this message from the Buddha, in this teaching from the Buddha, he saw that harmlessness creates personal peace. So he then stopped, and then the Buddha was just standing next to him, and he had kind of this real profound realization. And then he said, okay, in that case, I'm going to stop. And he not only, you know, at that moment, really mastered Ahimsa, but he, you know, then became a Buddhist monk. So Buddha comes back to the town with the evil, you know, serial killer that everybody's afraid of. And they're all so afraid and then Buddha says don't worry he's a Buddhist monk now. And then they lived happily ever after. Actually I think he was I think he was actually put to death by the townspeople. No, no, no, no. I don't remember. Maybe. But either way it doesn't matter. Either way it's a good thing. I think the police said, we've got to kill this guy, he killed so many people, the Buddha's all... I think Buddha said, no, he's totally changed. And then the police said, okay. They're all,

0:05:53
We'll take your word for it.

0:05:54
So, it's a really good thing to observe.

0:05:59
Yeah, in fact, that is what happened. The police came, they wanted to kill him because we have to give him capital punishment because he killed so many people in Buddhist Hall. Don't worry, he's changed, he's a new person now. And so they said, okay, we won't kill him. But this is important to understand for yourself. You might have had a pattern, constantly doing certain things that caused harm again and again. Maybe anger, You might say, I can't stop because I've always done it. I've always looked at it this way. I've always experienced life this way. I've always had this reaction. I can't stop it. But just like this murderer, with the right understanding, with the right realization, understanding that for yourself, when you're being harmful, you're unhappy, and that harming other people isn't a good thing. When you really have an understanding of what a himsa is, you can stop cold. You could stop immediately. You can just say, oh, I see that this isn't a good deal. That's what happened to angry, angry, angry, angry, dark states of mind, fighting, evil, all this stuff. At some point, I just recognized exactly what this guy recognized, that it didn't make me happy and that it was terrible. And I had to stop. So I was going into this terrible direction and I was able to stop it. And this guy, of course, killer, killed many people, but in the moment of recognizing this truth, he stopped. And so can you. You can just stop your patterns by recognizing the effects of harmfulness on others and yourself. yourself, caring about hurting others, recognizing that your negativity does hurt others, and recognizing that it doesn't make you very happy either. Being harmful makes you unhappy. You can just change any moment. A himsa is a practice of the moment. It's a practice that takes place right now, in every moment. You can just say, no, I'm not going to be harmful here. I will not cause harm. So it's an important thing to recognize. Something we were talking about in Bodhi Woods during the Bodhi Woods meditation class for was very helpful, I'm going to mention it here, is blamelessness, meaning don't blame people. Because blame is you saying, that other person caused me suffering. And it is a defense mechanism of the ego. The ego is defending itself. So when you're blaming, you're being harmful. When you're blaming, you're in self-defense mode. People very often are like, oh, they hurt me. It's their fault. I'm just the victim, right? But when you're blaming, guaranteed you're being harmful. Therefore, don't blame. Don't blame. And the mantra is, it's not your fault, it's not their fault, it's not his fault, it's not her fault, it's not my fault. There's no one to blame. And, you know, we talked more in depth about what blame is and what blame does and what the response of the self is and different situations. We won't go into here. Here, it's important to recognize that blame is harmful. You can't just sit there and say, oh, I blame that person for this pain because I want you to understand when you are blaming that you are being harmful. Okay, very important. That's not the way to do things. So that's what you have to understand. That blame is you being harmful. It's your self-defense. You have to be, you have to understand the The way to practice Ahimsa, when you're looking at somebody you're blaming for causing you pain, the way to practice Ahimsa is to say, it's not his fault, it's not her fault. You stop blaming and you stop harming. Now, the reason I'm bringing it up for you to practice as well, when you observe that you're blaming someone for your suffering, is because I noticed a really positive reaction in the Bodie Woods students when they started doing that. It was amazing, actually, because what happened was they sat there blaming everybody for every little thing you can think about for blaming someone, right? And as soon as they started to say, it's not his fault, it's not her fault, it's not their fault, then a whole big wall of ego just vanishes. And then they're just stuck there with no reaction. So you're all like, oh, he's hurting me.

0:12:51
It's his fault.

0:12:52
He's giving me a hard time. He made my porridge cold. Or something, right? And as soon as they say, it's not his fault, then all of a sudden, there's no ego reaction. There's no harmfulness. There's no self-defense. All you do is just go, oh, I'm just sitting here dealing with my mind. So I thought that it was such a brilliant thing that I would tell all of you about it. When you start to blame someone, recognize it as harmfulness. Yeah, ego self-defense. Practice Ahimsa by saying it's not their fault and you can just let go of your own harmfulness that way. It's kind of boring. I remember hearing it from the Hinayana Buddhists and I'm just like, I'm so bored out of my mind. I want to kill someone. Buddhism is driving me crazy. They're all like, oh, you shouldn't kill animals and eat them because that's bad. Oh, yeah, okay, so that's killing, yeah, okay. But you gotta look at it in its real way. Because you can kill.

0:14:40
You know, it's like the precept is don't kill,

0:14:43
but you know what, you can kill. Well, I mean, you just have to have perfect intent, I would say. Impeccable intent. Harmless intent. And you have to understand the way that it is, and not just the simple little things. So, you know, let's take the vegetarian argument. So a lot of people, Buddhists and just kind of hippie type people and stuff, say, oh, yeah, I don't want to eat meat because it kills little animals. And that's fine.

0:15:25
You know, that's good.

0:15:26
It's not a problem with that. However, you can't be hung up on that idea. It's fine not to eat meat if that's what you do, but that's an incorrect idea. First of all, Buddha ate meat. So he had this rule, and he ate meat. So it's not a Buddhist practice to be vegetarian. It's something that people have been into observing the precept incorrectly with that kind of boring mentality. However, what you have to do is you have to have a true awareness of harmlessness. Harmlessness comes from intention. So, if you have the intent to, I'm going to have me a steak tonight.

0:16:38
Someone's killed that cow,

0:16:40
so I'm going to have that steak.

0:16:42
Someone took an axe and chopped that cow in the head,

0:16:46
so I can rip some of his flesh off and chop off.

0:16:51
If that's your intention, and guess what? Some people have that intention. If that's the intention, then you actually do accrue bad karma. But if you have the kind of regular, like, oh, I need food, I need to sustain my body, oh, a hamburger sounds great. Then there's no bad karma. You can have that steak and that burger and you could be harmless. See? Even Buddha did that. So it's a very simple thing. Harmlessness is in intention.

0:17:37
Yeah.

0:17:39
Steak.

0:17:41
Right?

0:17:43
Steak isn't a cow getting bashed in the head and cut and ripped into shreds for you to grind and then eat. It's just something that comes on a little styrofoam tray and saran wrap and Safeway. And you're like, oh, here's some stuff in a safe way to eat. It's your intention. So what I would say is bad intent is if a place where you start to accrue karma is where you take a live animal and kill it and then make food out of it because you actually killed it. it or if you tell someone else here kill this for me that will accrue some bad karma too or it accrues karma but then it also depends on your intent if if you take a chicken and you say I need to eat and you kill it then your intent is more if you just kill a chicken and then just let it sit there, you weren't killing it to fulfill the dharma of sustaining your being, then that has a worse karma. So, you know, it's intent that creates harmlessness. Same thing with anything else. Let's say, in life there's also death. So it's not the killing. Some people need some killing. It's not the killing of things that creates the bad karma, it's the intent to kill. You could be walking down the street, someone could surprise you, jump out of an alley with an axe, and then you can do your Shotokan Ozuki. Simply because someone's about to end your life. There's a dharma for you to defend yourself. So you go, Haiya! And then you just are defending yourself, you punch them, they fall down dead. You say, oh, now you don't get bad karma for that at all. You don't get bad karma for that, even though you broke the rule. If you go to a regular Buddhist, they go, oh, you killed someone so terrible, you broke the precept. And you're like, oh, I was just defending myself.

0:20:27
Perfectly fine.

0:20:28
There's a lot of warriors who go into battle with very, very high intentions. Intentions to save their country, to save their comrades, and they could go in and have that big, shoot lots of people, kill them all, throw grenades at them. They can kill the crap out of people. And yet, not really in spirit, not break the first precept. Because because they have no ill intent. They have excellent intent. Their intent is not negative. Their intent is aligned with a dharma. So, you know, when your intent is aligned with a dharma, whether it's sustaining your life force by eating a chicken, or if it's sustaining your life force by not letting someone stab you or something like that. When your intent is aligned with dharma, what happens is you are just an expression of life, and death happens in life. And you don't accrue... there's no self involved. The karma doesn't stick to the self. There's no stickiness. Karmic sticky residue is not there. So that's why we observe our intent. You could have beautiful intent and someone could sit there and go, hurting me, ow, you know, you bumped into me and it hurt, it's your fault, you know, and it's not your fault. You're not being harmful. If your intent is pure, if your intent is selfless, if your intent is giving, then you're just fine. And if another person bumps into you and hurts themselves or just has a weird state of mind and says, you're hurting me just because of your face.

0:22:55
Your face hurts.

0:22:59
People do that, right? Totally. People are like, your face hurts? Your smell hurts my nose. You're all, my intent is not to hurt you with my face or my smell. I didn't put on my angry face, I didn't rub a skunk on you just to piss you off. It's true. Some people just get mad or whatever, but that's them. That's them. If your intent is good, then you're practicing harmlessness. And it's wonderful. See? So you observe your intent. You observe your thoughts, and definitely your words and your actions. Very important. In martial arts, we learn harmlessness. That's why we practice martial arts. Isn't that funny? We're sitting there like beating the crap out of someone in the dojo and people are fighting. And you're like, how can this be? That fighting each other, learning to kick and punch, learning lethal power, lethal force is a way of being harmless. Isn't that strange? And the reason why is because you exercise control. You learn to control violent energies. So within you is everything. Life and death, tremendous beauty and purity, and also destruction. Everybody encompasses these things. So in order to be able to be at peace, to be in balance, you have to have control over those destructive energies. You can use them in very constructive ways, enlightening ways, let's say. So for So, for example, if I'm walking down the street with Dharma and then some guy comes over to attack me and Dharma uses his martial arts to block the guy, then what happens is Dharma just used this powerful force, or maybe Dharma knocks the guy out or whatever, but he's gotten control of to save a life. So you can use these energies in enlightening ways. But in order for you to have peace of mind, in order for you to really learn to control those energies, we practice things like martial arts. We also practice meditation and mindfulness. I mean, just meditation and mindfulness, you learn these as well. But we do a lot of martial arts. At least I talk about martial arts so that you learn the spirit of martial arts, so that you understand that it is an enlightening thing. It's a way of learning control. It's a way of learning a Himsa. A lot of spiritual people are so silly. They're like, I don't want to do martial arts because I don't want to hurt people. And you say, well, the problem is, is that you hurt people. The problem is, is that you can't, you are not harmless. And looking at martial arts and saying, oh, I don't want to be harmful is the wrong way to look at it. Martial arts teaches you to be harmless. It teaches you to be able to control those energies. My teacher used to say, a black belt's life is control, control, control. You always are controlling your negative energies. You're controlling the powerful, negative, destructive things, and then you can apply them to destroying the correct. You can apply it in a constructive way, in an enlightened way. You don't become, let's say, free of destructive energy. You learn to control destructive energy and to use it in your life in a way where you can destroy bad habits. You can destroy obstacles to your success. This is how we use this destructive energy. So martial arts, good.

0:28:07
Yeah, martial arts is good.

0:28:08
It is the way to learn to control those things in your mind that cause harm. It's the way that you learn to control violence. You learn to control harmfulness. You take all those destructive reactions and you learn to control it. And it's such a good exercise, martial arts, because it's physical, it's subtle physical, it's something that your body learns, but ultimately, spiritually, it's something that your spirit learns. And that's why it's part of our spiritual practice to do martial arts. Don't have to do martial arts, but at least considering it in this way helps you to understand that the kind of tantra of it, the martial arts violent energy is a way to enlighten. Martial arts is a very powerful thing. I've done martial arts for a long time, ever since I was like six. In my martial arts class, from all of my experiences, mostly my experiences once I started learning martial arts through my teacher. So I had learned martial arts, had gone through lots of street fights and stuff like that, and then I met my teacher. And my martial arts at that point changed. My focus after I met my teacher, my focus in martial arts became control. Not trying to punch someone as hard as possible, but trying to punch someone with control. So this is everything that I learned through my Buddhist considerations in all of the martial arts schools that my teacher taught me to go to. And I learned it in lots of neat, interesting ways. And when I teach martial arts, the principal thing I teach is control. Control, control, control. You can develop power through control. If you just go as hard and fast as possible, you actually don't develop as much power. When you constantly are practicing control, you develop more power. You actually get better by controlling yourself. So, you know, I know a lot of you guys are doing Shotokan, and Shotokan is just fast and hard This is a first teaching. I did Shotokan as well However, this is a first teaching in martial arts and In Shotokan, you know, they'll say go hard fast you know a hundred percent go and

0:31:33
and

0:31:34
You know, 100% go. And in a broader sense, you still are learning control. But when you come into my jujitsu class or something, tremendous focus on control. And you gain such a greater sensitivity and awareness and power. Someone who practices soft, controlled punches gets a sense of how to put it on someone. And if they want to, they can amp it up. So a lot of the martial arts students, the Bodans, are going to be, after the solstice, we're gonna be heading towards our black belt test. And to pass the black belt test, you have to beat a black belt from another school. So you have to go and beat them. And pretty much guaranteed, every other black belt that you're gonna face off against, punches and kicks harder than we do in our practice. But I'm not worried, because you guys move fast and you can hit them. You can amp it up if you need to. I'm not worried. If you have that control, you'll be able to match the power. You'll be more effective.

0:33:05
Yeah.

0:33:06
So it's going to be exciting.

0:33:07
It'll be a very enlightening experience for you as well. So martial arts is very good. Martial arts is a focus on control ultimately. I've also been in martial arts schools like, let's say, Krav Maga, which is a Israeli combat school, military combat school. And in Krav Maga, my teacher just would, just he'd be all, come here, punch at me. I'm like, okay. Then he'd be, he'd block it, then he would just, crap out.

0:33:51
Boom, boom, boom.

0:33:52
Boom, boom, boom. Boom, boom, boom.

0:33:53
It was really funny.

0:33:54
So, you know, I don't know, am I learning control here? He would just like, throw me around, beat me up, and it was real fun. But even in that real full force martial arts experience, I learned control. So even though I'm talking about control in martial arts and in Shogokan they say go full blast, you learn control. You learn control. But in my Jiu-Jitsu, we focus on how to hit soft. If you can hit soft, you can hit hard. So martial arts is quite interesting. I'm quite excited about that upcoming black belt test. Yeah, it's good. Bodons are looking good. It's quite nice. So in in Ahimsa, you need to have a proper awareness. Sometimes people are unconscious and that's what causes harm. Someone could be negligent. Just driving down the street, don't mean to hit anybody, but then I start texting. What was that? Oh my god. I ran over some lady. That is a negligence. For every situation, need to come up to to practice ahimsa. So if you get in your car and you're driving and texting and not looking where you're going and you hit someone, you get bad karma. So if you're in a situation, you have to bring your attention level up to the power and possibility of that situation so that you can be harmless. This is also important to learn with an enlightened teacher or any powerful teacher. You can't just be the sloppy self that you had been before. You have to bring your attention level up, and that's why we're actually practicing Ahimsa. You have to say, whoa, this is an opportunity if I foster selflessness, harmlessness towards this person, my light and happiness and power and enlightenment grows. If I hurt this person, then I go into darkness. There's a very strong negative kind of karmic result. So every situation, every endeavor requires certain attention. Even walking down the street, you could, if you're not paying attention, you can bump into someone and knock them over and they die or something, right? And you should have been paying attention. Walk out in the street, you're hit by a car, bad karma for you, you should have been paying attention. So everything from walking down the street to driving a car when you're dealing with a greater power. There's more power in driving a car, about four to five tons and about 200 horsepower, depending on your car, right? There's more power. When you're driving your car, you have to pay more attention. And as I say in Bodie Woods, when you're driving your car, if you're driving to Bodie Woods, you need to drive it like you're in a dojo. You have to have a strong awareness. You have to be like, gotta look out. A deer can jump out at any moment, right? Or if your attention slips and you're going across the turn, you can drive off the cliff, right? The energy fields there are on that on nine are very weird, very strange energy fields. They make people lose attention, they make people get tired, all sorts of weird things. There's accidents on nine frequently because people don't acclimate to the energy. They don't address it. They don't bring their attention up, right? So it's very important when you're driving to Bode Woods, or driving at all, ever, to bring your attention. Don't space out, don't space out. Practice not spacing out. I know you're in California. Practice not spacing out. Be ready, be ready for another driver to accidentally swerve into your lane. You have to drive like a martial artist. And then you brought your attention up to an excellent level and you can avoid accidents.

0:39:43
Look down the street,

0:39:45
you know, while you're driving. Don't just sit there and look at the same spot. You know, look around, look down the street. I see so many drivers not looking around, looking further down at what's going on. Gotta be aware when you're driving. You gotta look around. You're driving, look around. Your eyes should be going. Not like a crazy person, but you gotta look. You have to be aware. I see people just like looking at the same place. Then you don't see when the deer jumps in front of you. Or you're looking here and then all of a sudden there's a car that's stopped up ahead and you're just going at it at 60 miles an hour. It's like you have to look around. Please practice that. Drive like a martial artist and look around. Look further down the street sometimes. Practice that. See if you can do that. It's going to make you a much safer driver. So, yeah. Strong attention in driving is appropriate.

0:41:01
you crash your car, you get into accidents.

0:41:05
And that's harm that you didn't need. And it's harm because of a neglect to attention. So attention, proper attention for the situation is very important, very, very important. Sometimes practicing harmlessness requires that you intervene with another person. So if I'm sitting on the Golden Gate Bridge going, hey, that's really pretty, and then someone's all, oh, I'm going to jump, I'd say, oh, no, don't, and stop them. That's a practice of ahimsa. I don't want someone else to do something stupid and hurt themselves, right? If I just go, okay, they jumped and died, well, I wonder why they did that. Then I get bad karma, because I could have done something. And, you know, I should have done something. I used to, when I was a kid, like to watch other kids fight. If two kids would fight, I'd be like, oh, cool, I wonder who's gonna win. I used to take some pleasure in watching kids fight. But now if I see two people fight, I'll break it up. I'll say, hey, stop. I'll just say stop or something. Or if one guy's attacking someone else, I'll say, hey, there's police right here, look, police. And then they'll go, oh, police, I don't wanna get in trouble, right? So it's like I try to take some action to stop something where someone's in a fight or getting hurt or something like that.

0:43:11
It's kind of important.

0:43:12
And sometimes you just do that with your sangamates, not in terms of a fight, but maybe a misunderstanding, or maybe someone's about to do something stupid in their yoga and hurt their brain taking too much time doing the wrong stuff or something. And you can just intervene and say, oh yeah, well, I don't think that that person meant to do something that would hurt you. I think their intent was this. And you go, oh, okay, so I don't have to be mad at that person because they didn't mean to hurt me. There, I'm happy. Or, don't code that, code this. Don't hurt your brain on that, work the problem on this. Any way that you can intervene so that someone else doesn't have suffering is a positive thing. It reminds me of a joke. There was these two guys. I'm going to make this a Buddhist joke. It's got to be a Tibetan one, because there's alcohol involved. Alright, so, they're in the Tibetan monastery, and it's drinking night. So, they're drinking and drinking and drinking. And then this one monk says, no you can't. And then he's like, yeah I can't. And he says, well watch. He climbs up to the fourth floor, goes, I can fly! And jumps off. Blah! Right. Oh, hurts himself. And then the next day he's got bruises, broken arms, legs, and he's just sitting there like, oh man, I was so wasted last night. And he says to his friend, he's like, dude, why did you let me do that? Why didn't you stop me? And his friend's like, stop you? I had 20 bucks riding on that bed. I believed you. So you know, that's not proper attention, right? If your friend is going to do something stupid, you have to say, no, don't do that. Don't bet on them miraculously flying. Unless they prove it to you when they're not drunk.

0:46:01
Those are the rules.

0:46:02
So yeah, it's really important to, when you can intervene, when you see if someone's going to make a mistake, if they're going to do something where they could be harmed, that you just say, oh wait, don't do that. Do this. You might get hurt doing that. And they go, oh, so I shouldn't jump off

0:46:19
the Golden Gate Bridge.

0:46:20
I just wanted to see, I was going to go swim. I thought it would be a nice, it's a hot day. I was just going to go take a dip. Yeah, but the thing is, you'll die. Oh, I know what I'm talking about, the Golden Gate Bridge. It's the 75th anniversary of the Golden Gate Bridge today. Yeah, so 75 years ago, they made this bridge. And it's called the Golden Gate Bridge. And ever since I was a kid, I was like, isn't it red? There were some things that tripped me out when I was a kid. I was like, gold is red. And Angel Island, I remember taking the ferry to Angel Island. I was like, angels and ferries. And I was like, where's the ferries?

0:47:22
I was looking around on the boat.

0:47:24
I haven't seen ferries.

0:47:26
And I'm like, oh, maybe it's some angels. And I got to the Angel Island. And I was like, there's no angels either. And I was like, mom, this is whack. Yes, growing up in the Bay Area. Yeah. Imagine how awesome Marin would be if there was no Golden Gate Bridge. We would have had Bodie Woods in Marin. Marin has such a population. There's so many people there, the energy lines are just difficult difficult difficult but boy is it beautiful Marin early in the morning or late at night is wonderful or if you can get way out onto Mount Tam or somewhere else you know it's like it's just so beautiful amazingly beautiful energy It's heavy and spacey, but all in all, a wonderful place.

0:48:32
So, what to do to become harmless?

0:48:37
What to do to become harmless? There's a harmlessness practice. I mean, of course, it comes down to practicing mindfulness, but the esoteric teaching is a teaching of a dimension, and it's a powerful and useful dimension that really works. We're going to take another break. We'll come back and we will talk about this teaching. We'll come back and we will talk about this teaching. We will enter the dimension of Ahimsa.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
