0:00:00
Okay, can you hear me in the back alright? Alright, very good. Alright, so tonight we're going to get into really the core aspect of the Bodhisattva Divert Teachings is something that we call Bodhisitta. There, simple. Bodhisitta means awakened mind or awakened heart. And it is a practice of the spiritual essence of healing. So when we look at healing in a surface level, we look at, you know, someone has an ouchie on their knee and then they get a band-aid, right? So they have, someone has a physical problem and then it becomes addressed. That would be a surface problem, something wrong with the physical body. We look more deeply in our breathing practices to kind of emotional problems as well. So the healing extends not only, you know, it's not only the physical body, but it extends to your whole emotional life. Because feelings and health and your mental awareness, these are all kind of together. So when we practice understanding our physical health, our healing, the physical condition, we can also have an awareness of the emotional, physical and subtle physical health, and also your mental state and attention. These are things that we can address with our healing practices. But at the deepest level of things in life, we get to not just your emotions, not just the things going on in your head and what you're thinking about, and your whole ideas of life and mental concepts and personal history and all these things. life, a deeper aspect of being, which is the spirit. So bodhisitta is a practice of, essentially, spiritual healing. So healing at the deepest core spiritual level. And when you have the capability to heal at the deepest level, at the spiritual level, that is a difficulty isn't so bad. But when your spirit is unhealthy, no matter what in the physical world, if your spirit's unhealthy, your life is a tremendous problem. So, you could be rich and have everything that anyone could ever imagine having, including people and airplanes and everything. You can have position, you can have fame, you can have any stuff that you can imagine, but if your spirit is unhealthy, if at your spiritual core there's a problem, greed, anger, suffering, you know, at the deepest level of your spirit, then everything in your life is going to be horrible. It doesn't matter that you have everything. You will be soul sick. So, then, if you are, let's say, spiritually healthy, if your spirit is balanced, it's bright, it's illuminated, then in your outer circumstances, all sorts of terrible things can go wrong. bad physical health, you might lose all your money on the stock market, your wife and your kids can run out on you, everything bad can happen to you in one day, but if your spirit then everything is fine and everything in your life is great, even though those things seem like bad things. The most important aspect of one's experience in life is the balance So, Bodhisitta is a way to address healing at the spiritual level. When we practice Bodhisitta, we start to learn to look at the deepest level of ourselves and others, so that we can practice practice a technique for creating that balance and luminosity of spirit, which creates health. So Bodhicitta is the fundamental, essential, spiritual healing practice. Another word for bodhicitta could be compassion. So you could say that bodhicitta is the practice of compassion, and that compassion is the spiritual healing. When we are seeking spiritual healing for ourselves or for others, we look to the suffering of that being. We look at their surface suffering, we look at their ultimate suffering. So we might see someone who seems like they're having a hard time, a bad day, they have emotional disturbances or upset about something, and then we can start to work with bodhisitta. We can start to have compassion for them in understanding their suffering. We can also look at someone who seems like everything's fine for them at the moment, that they're happy and that things are going well for them. But when we are looking deeply at that person, we can see beyond the transient moment that they have, we can start to understand where they are in the suffering of their spirit. If they're truly balanced or if they're at the moment kind of happy, then anything can upset the apple cart and they can get very, very, very upset. So we start to look more deeply when we're dealing with someone or ourselves about the condition of their spirit, the balance of their spirit, the suffering of their spirit. So ultimately, we're looking at the spiritual suffering that someone has. Sometimes, you know, little things in the outside world cause someone to have spiritual suffering. Like, you know, it's your wedding anniversary and your husband didn't get you flowers. And then that just goes to your core. For some reason, that just tells you all of these things that make you feel so bad. It just keys something off that brings you to a place of deep emotional and spiritual suffering. Sometimes it's other silly things like getting stuck in traffic and getting angry, but it creates for that person at a deep spiritual level, dissatisfaction, suffering. Sometimes everything is going great on the surface, but deep down inside someone suffers just because of their lack of awareness There are karmic conditions that keep them in a place where, you know, if something happens, there's all these potential seeds for suffering. And then when these things kick off, they just will react in a way of great spiritual suffering. spiritual healing, the way that we approach someone or ourselves to heal is we approach them with a deep awareness of suffering, of their suffering. We understand their surface, their situation, their emotions, their thoughts, but we look deeply into them. Not just what's going on at the moment, yes, if that's creating suffering, we look at that, but we're looking to someone at their deepest spiritual level to address their spirit with healing. And when we can recognize suffering, when we can understand and see where someone feels spiritual suffering, then we can practice the actual healing exercise. So there's two aspects. There's actually having the recognition, the seeing, the understanding, the awareness of another's suffering. That's very important. You've got to be able to understand it, to see it, to look at that spiritual level and understand that that person, where that person's at. This is a practice that we gain over time. of Bodhisitta is the actual steps that you take toward healing. Now the steps that you take are called taking and sending. So when you see someone and you have a recognition of their suffering and you want to do spiritual healing, then you will do taking and sending. When we say taking, we mean taking their suffering. So, we say in essence, I see that you have a thorn stuck in your spirit. I'm going to take it. And we have the intention of actually taking whatever suffering that they have, their spiritual suffering, we take it and then the second part is sending. And what we do is we practice sending light. So the construct of light, spiritual light, that bright white or gold energy, which the enlightened teachers talk about being their experiences of samadhi, we focus on that light in our meditation, we get to understand that light, and then in the practice of bodhicitta, we practice sending that light to another. Or if we're healing ourselves, we send it to ourselves. So, we have a way of taking our intention to take their suffering, whatever it is. Maybe they're angry, maybe they're sad, maybe this person is just suffering tremendous limitation in their awareness. practice taking that. And then you practice sending the brightest light that you are aware of. You send from you to them. And when you do that, it creates spiritual healing. So it's a very profound exercise because this healing exercise works at the deepest level of a being's experience, their spirit, and it's dealing with the primary aspect of dissatisfaction in life, suffering. If someone had no spiritual suffering, if there was no spiritual deficiency or imbalance, they would be ecstatic and happy. And all the difficult things, ups and downs of life would not bother them at all. So when we practice taking that, we remove that hindrance, we remove that dissatisfaction, we remove suffering. And when they are free from suffering, then their experience is going to be happy, balanced, and powerful, no matter what external things happen in their life. But then, not only do we take their suffering, and we just take it upon ourselves, then we project light. We give them the brightest light that we are aware of. We give it from ourselves to them. To make this practice work, we put it on the breath. So that means we might look at a person, understand their suffering, and then with our intent to take, we inhale. We inhale their darkness. We inhale their suffering. We inhale their disturbing emotions, their anger, their dissatisfaction. Whatever identify as their suffering, whether it's an emotional disturbance, disturbing thoughts, something physical that's happening to them, whatever we can identify as their suffering, we imagine inhaling it in the form of dark clouds of gunk, darkness. However you can imagine their suffering, like dirty, gunky, or whatever, you practice taking it in, envisioning it coming in through your nose as you inhale, and it comes into you. You take it through focus on the breath. And then when you exhale, you focus exhaling light. You focus exhaling brightness, enlightenment to them. So the actual technique is inhaling and exhaling. Taking the dark, sending the light. Identifying someone's got some suffering, trying to understand it, to really be aware of it, to know what it is, and then intending to take the suffering by inhaling it in the form of darkness and exhaling light to them. This is the practice of bodhisitta. It's a very simple practice, really, but it's a very profound practice for spiritual healing. This is the essential practice for healing at its deepest core. practicing bodhicitta, we might start practicing it on ourselves. So when you are thinking, okay, I want to learn how to do this, you can start with yourself because you understand yourself immediately. You know, kind of like doing our stomach palpitations, you know where your tight spots are. You know where your sore spots are. So you can say, well, you know, for the past week I've been feeling very sad about this, or I have a physical pain, or something with my family or my job, you know, there's these problems. You know what they are. So what you do, the way you begin, is you begin by kind of envisioning yourself like you're looking in the mirror. And you look at yourself, you recognize your suffering, and then you practice taking and sending on yourself. You say, ah, there's me, I'm angry. I'm going to practice taking. Take in the dark and exhale light. So you envision taking the dark, bringing that anger, that sadness and inhaling it, seeing that it moves away from you completely and that you are able to take it away so that you're free from it. And then you exhale light and you see light, brightness, white light or gold light, but bright luminous light come from you in that breath over to the reflection of yourself and you see that that light illuminates you and that's the practice of taking and sending where you begin with the awareness of your suffering and practice taking and sending for yourself. After practicing taking and sending for yourself, then you can start to have the compassion and awareness for others. So maybe you see someone else who's having physical pain, maybe somebody else is struggling, you can see that someone's having emotional disturbances, that someone's sad. When you have the recognition of someone's mental disturbance or physical situation, you become aware at a deeper level of their spirit and the spiritual imbalance So, then you practice taking and sending for another. So you will practice the inhalation, taking at a spiritual level, taking their darkness, sending light to them. The whole awareness of the bodhicitta practice is taking and sending with a focus of their spiritual condition. When you practice taking and sending, if you see someone who's got a wound, or let's say a bad knee or something like that, and you're like, oh, I see that this person spiritually suffers because of this physical ailment. When you practice taking and sending, it will not fix their physical problem. That's not what bodhicitta is for. What bodhicitta will do is it will, if they're suffering and they're like, Oh, I can't go running with my friends, I feel really sad, my knee hurts, ah, you know. It will address their spirit. And then, spiritually, they will come to a place of balance, where they say, My knee is hurt right now, however, in time it will heal. And there's other things that I can do. So they come to a more enlightened understanding, with a greater perspective, with balance. So, bodhicitta addresses not the physical level, the emotional level, or the mental level. It really addresses the spirit, the deepest level of a being. You might call it the jiva, the spirit, the soul of someone. And then when you are working with taking the dark, sending the light at that spiritual level, then there is an ability for their spirit to be healthy, balanced, free of suffering, and more enlightened and capable of dealing with the difficulties that come up in life. So this is the practice that we will work on, and we're going to work on this continuously for the rest of the course, because this is the spiritual essence of healing. Right now I'd like to sit with you and practice taking and sending, practice bodhicitta. I'd like to practice bodhicitta where you bring yourself to mind. So you bring to mind something that makes you suffer, and bring to mind the awareness of how it makes you spiritually suffer. Then, you will practice looking at yourself as though in the mirror, and practice inhaling the dark, exhaling the light. And we're going to do several repetitions of this. You're going to maybe do it for a couple of minutes where you just have a continued awareness of taking and sending, taking and sending for this suffering that you identify in yourself. We're going to practice this just for a couple minutes, and I want you to bring to mind this suffering so that you're very, very aware of it. Awareness of the suffering, of that imbalance at a spiritual level, is the most important aspect. If you're not aware, taking and sending doesn't do very much. So you have to bring to mind that greatest difficulty. Then practice taking and sending. So let's do that. We're just going to spend a couple minutes practicing taking and sending bodhicitta on ourselves. Let's begin.

0:25:30
I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. Thank you. Okay. I'm going to go ahead and get started. So, I'm going to go ahead and get the camera out of the way. I'm going to go ahead and get started. Alright, very good. Very good. Now, we're going to move from this core spiritual level

0:29:39
which is the spirit. We're going to move out into the subtle physical body, into the physical body, into the emotional body, into the mental attention of a being. Now, healing... so all the mystic scuba healing practices that we have been doing up until this point have been dealing with the subtle physical and physical, the emotional and the mental. Bodhisitta is a profound teaching that is, that works at the core spiritual level. But now we're going to practice a very, very, very kind of fundamental healing technique with breath. Okay? And this is inhaling light and exhaling darkness. The way that we practice this is we practice this to heal a condition. Somewhere where you have pain, physical pain, emotional pain, you will inhale light to that area and then you will exhale darkness from that area. This is how you heal the physical or the subtle physical or the emotional body. So, the basic practice works with the sushumna and your mind, or your head, actually. The basic practice is to inhale light from the navel chakra. We kind of inhale and we feel that light we see, and become aware of bright white light coming up the Sushumna. So coming up, straight up the spine. Right? As we inhale, we imagine that light coming to your head.

0:32:42
Right?

0:32:43
And when that light gets into your head, maybe it, sometimes people make it swirl around. Sometimes just the light comes to the head. And then we exhale, and we push out darkness. The darkness comes out of our exhalation. You can see the darkness push just right out of your whole head. So this is one of the essential practices of bringing in light and exhaling the dark and it's a curative effect. It clears your mind. So I'd like to practice this technique with you. We'll just inhale up, light, exhale, and when we exhale we imagine all this darkness from our minds, darkness from our heads, dark thoughts, dark feelings, dark weirdness. We just imagine a dark energy, like a cloud of darkness, being expelled from our heads. So let's do this together. I'll walk you through it. We start to inhale, bring energy of light up the spine, all the way up, the light comes to the head, and then we exhale darkness from the mind, darkness from the head, long exhalation is one breath cycle. Then inhale and exhale. That's two breath cycles. I want you to go at a pace that's comfortable for you. So, you know, don't try to breathe too slow. Don't turn purple. We're going for light, not purple. So, just breathe at a pace that's comfortable for you, but envision the light coming up the spine, and as you exhale, whether it comes out of your mouth or your nose, or if it just blasts out of your head, darkness shoots out. Okay? So let's do eight breath cycles. Let's do 8 breath cycles.

0:35:19
Let's begin. So, I'm going to go ahead and get the camera. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay.

0:36:57
I'm going to go ahead and get the camera out of the fundamental fundamental teachings of self-healing in Qigong, in breathing exercise, where we bring that light up the spine. That light comes into the mind and it just permeates all the aspects of your mind and your brain. And then when you exhale, BAM! Darkness comes out. It's a very, very, very healing exercise. We'll be practicing this a little more, so you'll see as we practice a little more how wonderful it is. It's a great exercise. But now we're going to extend this exercise. So, the way that we extend it is simply by finding something else that hurts. So we were just practicing on our heads, right? And that's the general basic exercise. But let's say that you have a hurt knee, right? If you have a hurt knee, then what you're going to practice doing is inhaling light to the hurt area of the knee. And then when you exhale, you see or imagine dark clouds exhaling out. And then what's left is a shinier knee. So this is a way of purifying and cleansing the aura or heal the subtle physical body, then the physical body follows that energy to health. So, if my knee hurts, I will go, I will go inhale, and I will inhale, and as I inhale, I will see just light filling my knee. White, bright, beautiful light. And then when I exhale, I see in my mind's eye dark clouds. So this is a healing exercise with breath. Inhaling the light, exhaling the dark. You can also do this with the emotional body or the mind. So let's say or feeling stress, or feeling angry. You can bring light to... Let's say you had an argument. And what you can do is you can bring light into that argument. So, you're like, I was arguing with Joe. Me and Joe were arguing. And then you say, I'm going to heal that. You inhale light all around that argument, all around your feelings of anger, and then you exhale all of the darkness, all of the frustration, all of the anger, the whole problem away. You exhale the darkness out, and that very quickly solves the anger. So, the next exercise that I'd like to do with you is for you to identify something that hurts on you. Like, what hurts on me? Maybe it's your knee, maybe it's your back, oh, maybe it's your neck, your elbow, maybe the person next to you is the thing that hurts on you. It happens, right? Maybe you're angry, maybe you're, you know, depressed. Whatever the thing is that hurts, you can inhale light to that thing, and you can exhale the stuckness, the congestion, the toxicity, the problem. Exhale it in the form of darkness, and then it's gone. This is a very powerful healing exercise. For emotions, it's really, really good. It blows out negativity. But it's also very important that you do learn to focus it on a physical ailment. So, bring to mind something that hurts. Okay? Now, I'd like you to inhale, bringing light to that thing that hurts. Imagine it being filled with brightness, bright white light. And as you exhale, exhale deeply and push all the toxicity, all the congestion, out as darkness. You see it leaving the knee, leaving the back, leaving the situation, leaving the feelings are gone. They dissipate. Okay? We're going to practice this for a couple minutes, where I'd like you to do eight inhalations and exhalations. Right? So eight breath cycles of breathing in light and exhaling dark for something that hurts on you.

0:43:22
Okay?

0:43:23
Let's begin.

0:43:24
I'm going to go ahead and get started. I'm going to go ahead and get started. Okay. I'm going to go ahead and get the camera out of the way.

0:45:35
Alright, very good. Very good. So, in bodhicitta, we take in the dark and we exhale the light. And our attention, our awareness, our intent is working at a spiritual level. Very important. And then when we're working on healing at a physical or subtle physical level, then we are inhaling light and exhaling darkness. Don't get the two mixed up. It's important. They're opposite in terms of how you use light and dark. But it's important to understand that, I guess the reason why. Bodhicitta works as healing because it is the opposite of egotism. This is why it works at a spiritual level. So the ego is always trying to defend itself. At a spiritual level, most people are pushing off things that they don't want, and they're trying to get things that they want. Right? So, at a spiritual level, when we decide, I am going to accept the suffering of another, then you do the opposite of an ego. And the consciousness, that defense, that limitation of awareness that the ego is all bound up, unfolds. And in that unfoldment there is a light that transcends self and for you and the person you're practicing bodhisattva on, whether it's yourself or another person or everyone, experiences the light of letting go of a self. And that creates spiritual healing. It's the experience of enlightenment, actually, essentially. So, this is a spiritual healing. This is spirit. And that's why you would do what seems opposite to what you would normally do. You would take the darkness and send the light. Now, in the physical, subtle physical, we would never take darkness, right? It doesn't make any sense. It's a totally different dimension here. So, when you're working at the physical level, emotional level, you are going to practice in a different way by inhaling light. You're not inhaling light from another person. You're actually directing light, subtle physical light, from the universe. Or from yourself, you might say. You're directing subtle physical light, and this is a subtle physical light that creates healing. You're also using your intent, your power, to purify your aura, or purify an experience, purify disturbed emotion. So, when you inhale light into it, you're directing healing, subtle physical energy. And when you exhale, you're directing negative, congested, toxic energy out and away from the physically hurt area, or the subtle physically hurt area, or the emotionally hurt area. So, this is very important to understand that these are, even though they're two exercises of breathing light and dark, that they're done differently for different reasons. Bodhicitta is at the core spiritual level profound because it has the opportunity of the experience of enlightenment. It's a spiritual healing of complete proportion. And the breathing, taking light and exhaling dark for the physical body, the subtle physical body, this is a way of dealing with stress, dealing with disturbing emotions, dealing with physical pain, subtle physical pain, it's a more physical, subtle physical level of healing. You can do both, but you just have to know the dimensions that you're working on, right? You could practice first the subtle physical aspect. You see that experience, you're hurt about it, you're bothered about it, you breathe light into that experience. And then you exhale the darkness. creates a way for you to say, ah, I've removed stress. My emotional disturbance is at peace. And then you say, I understand that I suffer because of something like this. Or the other person suffers because of something like this. So I'm going to see myself. I'm going to practice taking and sending bodhicitta. Taking the dark, taking that suffering and unhappiness from that situation, sending light, the light of samadhi, the light of enlightenment. And that is a true, at the deepest level, transformation of that suffering into awareness and luminosity. So you can do it for both. You can do it for My knee hurts. Send the light. Inhale the light and exhale the dark. Then you say, I suffer spiritually because of my knee. Then practice taking the darkness, sending the light. It's important to know both because a lot of times you're just dealing with a little bit of stress, or you're dealing with stress, or you're dealing with a little bit of emotional disturbances, and you just want to get some relief, right? And if you want relief, breathing light, exhaling dark, is a way to get physical, self-physical relief. But sometimes you want to look at it in a different way. You want to look at it in the ultimate way. Who cares if I have relief for a moment? I want to be able to understand this suffering ultimately, so that I can be spiritually at peace, so that even if these things come up, which they will in the future, I don't just have a band-aid, I have a spiritual balance, so these things don't bother me. So this is the difference in the levels of teachings. It's important to be able to do both for the purpose of mystic scuba. So the next thing that you do is you extend it. So this is where we're going to talk about healing, not just in yourself, for yourself, but healing for another. So with bodhisitta, you can see some other person who has suffering. And then you look at them and say, oh, that person has suffering. You say, I will inhale that suffering as darkness. I will exhale the light of samadhi, the light of enlightenment to them so that they are not only free of the darkness that causes them suffering, but they're filled with the brightest light that I could ever experience or imagine. So you can practice that spiritual healing on other people or for other people. And for the self-physical healing, you can practice on other people as well. So you see someone who's got a bad knee, and then you can just bring to mind, look at their knee and go and inhale light to someone else's knee. And then exhale, pushing the toxicities out of their knee. So, these self-healing exercises are easily extendable. Very good. So, these practices we will be doing tomorrow when we're scuba diving. Yeah, so somebody, I think it was Chi on the way back on the boat, said, Hey, why don't you do bodhicitta underwater? Is it more powerful? And I said, Yeah, I don't know. Let's find out. So tomorrow we're going to find out. So intermediate students have been practicing bodhicitta. You'll get to find out if it's more powerful underwater. And for beginning students who are just learning about Bodhisattva, this is an intermediate study and so it's a little bit maybe hard to do, I don't know, maybe it's easy. Do it anyway, give it a shot. It's a very powerful practice that we're going to go underwater, and we're going to do bodhicitta on ourselves. Okay? So we'll sit there and go, oh, there is me. Me has suffering. And you will practice taking and sending with yourself as long as you want. You can do it while you're going on while you're chasing the divemaster or running away from the divemaster. Or whatever. You can do it while you're moving. You can do it negatively buoyant in the sand. You can do it hovering. Hovering. That's good. Okay. neutrally buoyant. So, but I, you know, this is a very, very important and profound practice. Do it a lot. And, you know, the experiences that you have in this bodhicitta are very, very powerful. So in your dive logs, they should be glowing with light. When I can finally read them. And we're also going to practice the two practices of self-healing of the physical, subtle physical body. The first practice that you will do underwater is you will inhale the light up to your head, see that light shining throughout your whole Exhale to dark. Okay? So, we'll practice that and just, you know, I don't know, maybe eight cycles or whatever you're comfortable with. Just do it until you have the experience and maybe do it a couple times or a few times. And then, we'll go on to the third exercise, which is find something that hurts in you. Say, my knee hurts. BAM! And you go, inhale the light, exhale the toxicity. Or whatever it is, maybe it's an emotional pain, right? And practice inhaling light into that emotional pain, exhaling the toxicity out. So, for intermediate students, we usually don't do these subtle physical exercises, this subtle physical physical healing. We just usually don't do it, because I really want you to focus on the bodhicitta. But it's good to be able to relieve yourself of stress. So, sometimes you're just so stressed out, and you're doing bodhicitta, and that's good, spiritually, but your body's all, ARGH! And it's just good to go, ARGH! So for years of Bodhicitta practice, you're just always taking in the dark, sending out the light. And then it's good once in a while for you to just let the darkness out of your own physical body. You know? Figure out what's going on in there. And then breathe light. You can also do that, that's one of the ways to that you can work on tonight when you're going to bed, to work on loosening the areas that are tight when you're doing the stomach palpitations. And that is you go, oh yeah, it's tight right here, and then you inhale light to that tight area, exhale the toxicity from that tight area. So I'd like you guys to work on that one tonight. Everyone still there? Mostly? Okay, good. Sorry. Okay, those are the exercises. So, tons of bodhisitta. You exercises, okay, so Tons of bodhicitta. You can practice bodhicitta on fish, too. Oh, poor fish! Right. And then, and then light, white light up the spine into the head and blast out the darkness that's in your brain, and then focus on an area that hurts. Inhale the light to the tight areas, exhale the darkness. These are core healing exercises. Spiritual healing, and also auric healing. Subtle physical healing. All right, so, I think that's it. Now, I really, really need dive logs. Did you guys send them to me? Yes. Yeah. Send them to me today, too. I'm going to start yelling at you guys about dive logs, but I can't get my email to open. So I'm going to yell at you anyway. What are you guys writing about? But yeah, so it's very, very important for you to do your dive vlogs where you have good tonal in your dive vlogs where you're explaining everything in the proper, you know, like, here's what happened physically. But also, you need to explain the subtle physical awareness or the deeper dimensions of awareness. They have to be there. You have to look into those moments, understand it deeply, so that it clicks in your mind, and you go, I get it! Alright, I understand the exercise, alright, I had an experience in this exercise of awareness, of a deeper dimension of something happening. You've got to, with every exercise, do it enough so that you get a greater awareness. We're not just doing these exercises just to go, okay, I'm going to... I'm going to do something... I went through the steps... Because you can't just go through the steps and it doesn't do anything for you. You have to take each exercise, take your time, be present in the moment, be awake, wake up! And do something, right? And then when you write it down, you have to write it down so that it exposes what happened. When I read these, I have to see the light in them. I have to see the dimensions in them. Otherwise I'll say, oh, you're really not learning what's being taught here. And it's important to learn what's being taught. Especially Bodhisitta. Especially Bodhisitta. Okay, so, yeah, so really, you know, since I'm not just sitting here with a few people where we're talking about it a lot and going through, I'm like, what did you do today? And or I'm right with you and I'm hitting you and saying, no, start meditating, you know, so since I can't be like right there with all of you at the same time, I'm looking at what you're writing, so that I can, or going to look at what you're writing, so that I can make sure that you guys are practicing correctly. And I've been doing that with your Bodhicitta practice for the intermediate students as well. You know, it's a way for me to review what your experience is, so I can say, oh, they're not seeing this, or they're not experiencing this correctly, and then I push, I'll teach more on the subjects where you're having trouble. Very, very important. Good. Sounds good. So today was pretty good. It was our first day of diving for most of us, or for some of us. So, you know, it's hard, there wasn't any current, there was water, so, you know, it's difficult sometimes. So if you're struggling with your dives, it happens. Diving is a struggle, you know, you're in the boat, you get sick, you're in the water, you barf on the water, you get sick, you make a lot of fish happy, and, you know, it's uncomfortable. It was cold going back. It was cold underwater on the second dive. You know, all sorts of uncomfortable things happen. And I remember when we would go out with my teacher. So my teacher just said, okay, hey, learn to scuba. okay and then hey we're gonna go to some island and dive okay and I liked it I was like yeah underwater fun but half the people didn't like it half the people are like I don't like scuba dive and then they're all why do we have to scuba dive this sucks they're like it's cold I barf it's very uncomfortable you know like people are just struggling because they were just getting their patty cards. And he said, you know, he said, no, it's really good. There's a whole dimension of psychic awareness and spiritual health to this activity. The element of water is a beautiful element to connect to. I know it's hard, but, you know, go through it, you know, keep going. Or, you know, even if it's hard, keep going. And that's what Jesus got to do, you know. And he gave an analogy of, you know, if you're going to go run five miles, it's really healthy, but while you're doing it, it might not feel great. You know, some people get that runner's high, and they're like, yeah, I like running. But for me, I used to go running with my friends, I'm all, this is horrible! This is terrible! Oh my god, oh my god! I'm kind of like, I'm always like a sprinter, and not like a long distance runner, so when I would run a couple miles with my friends, I was just like, this is horrible! But then afterwards, I was like, yeah, okay, this is really good, I feel healthy and strong. But the experience of the exercise was not my favorite. So, you know, for some people it's like that with running, for some people it's like that with martial arts, some people it's like that with scuba. But whether it's running, karate, or scuba, these are constructive things where you're able to develop in certain ways, so it's worth doing them. So tomorrow, you know, we'll see. The one good thing I've heard from everybody is that we have really laid back dive masters. So on the second dive we were able... what? Not at Tropical. Okay, well, we'll have to have Zen have a little... have some words with them. But you... so we can, you know, on the second dive, we can tell the dive... we told the dive masters, can we just kind of chill out in the sand for a while? And they were like, all right. Weirdo. And they're like, okay, that's fine. So that's great. And probably, you know, with tropical, Zen can go over to them and say, look, chill out, little shit in the sand, shut up. And then they'll probably be okay. And all he has to do is give them a mystic scoop of book and say, this is what we're doing. Now, we had a good day of diving. I heard a few people got sick, stuff like that, but everyone's safe, that was really good. So a safe day diving is a really good thing. Tomorrow I want you to be safe again. Good safe diving. Probably we're not going to do any very deep profiles. We're going to just try to work on our mystic scuba. If there's any exercises that you didn't do very well today, do them again tomorrow. So we only have three exercises. Bodhisitta, light up to the head, and then also light to a place that hurts. Okay, good. So, you know, just a few more exercises. These are, these, but these exercises tonight are like really core healing exercises. So, as we go forward, we're going to be working on some additional specifics. We're going to get a little bit more technical, but it's very similar to these exercises that we were doing tonight. Very good.

1:10:17
Let's see.

1:10:19
I do have to talk about a difficult subject. So, we're on vacation, and we're all people. However, when we come here, we have to put a lot of our lower selves away and focus on higher things. So, for guys, there's a lot of girls walking around in bikinis or whatever, right? But that's not what this is about. You shouldn't even think those thoughts. Really, you shouldn't. Because it creates an unhappy, uncomfortable atmosphere. And for psychically sensitive women, it's very important, you know, when we come out to these islands and we're doing mystic scuba and stuff together, or any time we're together, just all the time when we're together, you have to have an etiquette where you don't go around thinking all those sexual thoughts all the time. Just put that aside for a little while. The things that we're working on here are supposed to be higher, and when you're thinking these thoughts and looking at girls like that, it keeps you in a lower state of attention. So you've got to really stop doing that. If you don't stop doing that, I think tomorrow I will point you out. And I'll say, EWWWWW! Right now I'm trying to be polite, because I want you to correct it, but it's not cool to do that. So don't do that. It's such a bad scene. It's not our etiquette. It's not our way. You can go off, find some girl somewhere else, no problem. Or, you know, whatever. But here, we're focused on something different than that. So we don't want to weigh down our awareness with a bunch of, you know, second chakra energy. Unless it's the healing part of the second chakra. But, yeah, we don't want to focus on a lot of sexual energy, and if you do, it bothers the girls. They get... they feel uncomfortable around you, and they feel, you know, like your energy hurts them. So, fix it. You know, stop. Just stop thinking about that crap. You can think about it a few, you know, a few days from now. Think about it all you want. But while we're here, let's focus on writing our logbooks really well, you know, and doing these exercises and meditating and aspiring to something higher. your conditioning and desires and stuff like that, they're heavy and they're not enlightening. And that's not what this is about. And if you don't stop, I'm going to point you out in front of the whole group tomorrow. And it's really important that you stop. And if you don't stop, I won't invite you to the next trip. I'll say, alright, well, you know, you kind of aren't fun to be around for a lot of people, so, you know, you can't come to the next trip. So, this is a place where we, you know, we're holding our attention in a higher way, and throwing around a lot of lower energies and stuff. So, guys, stop it.

1:14:30
Okay. Thank you very much. Okay. Thank you very much.

1:14:33
Alright. And Merry Christmas!




Transcribed with Cockatoo
