0:00:00
During the break, Ajna said, what about the story in the Zen monastery where the Zen master says, hey, you're not practicing bodhicitta. And he kicks the monk out, and then everybody else in the monastery becomes enlightened. Yeah, probably a lot of stories like that. But that is the unfortunate way. Like the time where Buddha came in to give a discourse on the Dharma. He had hundreds, maybe 1000 students, monks, they're ready to listen. And then the Buddha says, oh, the song is not ready yet. He just waits. Then he's like, the song is still not ready. Then like his older students are all like, song is not ready. And then one of his top students, this is putra cuts up. He starts looking at everybody reading their minds and he goes, Oh, it's that asshole over there. He grabs him, throws him out of the meditation hall. Then Buddha goes, Enlightenment! But I just feel sorry for that poor monk. Like, dude, you missed something really great. He went the way of the higher self. There's a lot of stories like that too. There was the fifth patriarch of Buddhism and he was the fifth in the lineage after Bodhidharma and he was enlightened. He had lots of monks, thousands of monks, and he had to choose the successor of the lineage. And there was this one guy who was the top student. He knew all of the sutras. He read everything. He memorized everything. And he acted right. But he wasn't enlightened. And in fact he had some character flaws. He had territorialism, egotism, anger, self-importance. And so the fifth patriarch, one day saw this lowly new guy come in, and this guy spent most of his life just in hard labor, being a farmer or something. And then the guy comes in, you know, and he goes, Oh, you're going to be the sixth patriarch. And then the guy's like, Well, I don't know anything. He's like, You're going to be enlightened. Don't worry. Like, I'm going to give you the scroll of my stamp of enlightenment, the amulet. And here you go. And he's like, but we can't tell anyone because the other top student, he has a gang of monks. And if they find out that you're the next guy in line, they're gonna kill you. So he sneaks him away, this guy disappears and he gives him some meditations to do so that he could actually become enlightened and then He becomes enlightened somewhere and he goes look I have got the amulet Super one this or something I have the seal approval. I'm the one The sixth one And then though intergalactic one Amulet of intergalactic oneness and the scroll saying I'm the sixth one and then you know when the other monks hear about it the gang of monks they go oh man so then officially all the Zen practitioners go and start studying under him but then they were so angry they created their own gang their They're separate gang and it was called the slow pathway to enlightenment school

0:04:30
Yeah, so not the not the happiest way to go

0:04:33
But you know they do that so, you know, of course there's many many instances of problems with monks but we try to look at the way that monks can succeed on the pathway to enlightenment, and overcome these problems that so many people have. There's so many ways to overcome things. And I was just reading about the Buddha's 108 Arhats. I was like, wow, they figured something out. Whether it's about anger or jealousy or just feeling bad about themselves. Like there was one of the Arhants, he felt horrible about himself. First of all, he was just too hard on himself. Everything he would try to do, any of his tasks, and even he just he just couldn't do it perfect enough and he was always frustrated. Even if he was supposed to memorize a sutra, if he couldn't memorize it fast enough or perfectly enough, he always just gave himself a hard time, beat up on himself. And then he just was depressed all the time because he's always like, I'm a total loser, because I can't do everything right, or I can't do it right enough, or even if I do it right, it just takes too long, or I don't do it right, even when I do it

0:06:13
right."

0:06:14
So he always was really, really, really, really just down on himself. And then finally, he goes over to the Buddha and says, oh, I do everything wrong, or it just takes too long, and I'm really sad about it. And then the Buddha just said, this is a incorrect reflection of yourself. You're adding ideas about what's good and what's bad onto yourself. If you just drop the judgments of yourself and just do your work without adding any, this is good or this is bad to it, then you will be free of this dissatisfaction. So then he started going about his work without judging it, without saying, this is good, this is bad, or this is bad, this is bad, or I'm this, I'm that. It's just like, don't look for the fruits of your labor, just labor. So he just said, just do your work. And then he just started doing his work and he didn't sit there and go, I did that well or I didn't do that well. And then his depression went away very quickly. And then being free of this dissatisfaction, he figured this thing out, then he became liberated. It's often that if you take your hardest thing, the thing that you wrote about probably in your paper, your hardest thing, your worst thing, your greatest anger, your greatest depression, it's usually that once you figure out that really, really, really, really hard thing that you figured yourself out to a very large degree. Because the big things are the big things, and once you figure out the big things, figuring out the small things isn't too hard. So he figured out this dissatisfaction and depression that he had with everything that he was doing. His whole life was overlaid with this dissatisfaction about himself and his ability, and he was just so sad about it. And when he figured that out, when he followed the Buddha's teachings, he practiced the Dharma, the way, the higher self way, and then once he figured that out, it's very fast, very quickly he became liberated. So I like the fact that it's possible. There's a world filled with impossibility, but then in the way of the higher self, there's always possibilities. Always possibilities for enlightenment. The lower self, no possibility. Everything's stuck in the routine of sucks. Everything sucks. But then, the higher self looks at it in a brighter way, sees ways that you can find light. And there are always ways to find light in any situation. And when you go into a difficult situation, you're having a hard time, and it's a problem, and if you just make the problem worse with your negativity, you're following the way of the lower self. Too easy. There are ways to succeed. There's ways to win. Or there was the competitive monk. There was this one monk who was competitive. He always had to be on top. He always had to put himself in the highest position. He would even go to the arhants and they would give talks on the Dharma or he would hear something that the Buddha said then he would go and find other monks who hadn't heard it and then he would sit there and say the Dharma like he would say the Buddha's words like it was his own and everything he's like oh yes I've come to this understanding and then everyone's like, yes, I am in a higher position. And he felt really happy when he could put himself ahead of people. So he was always competing to be ahead. And then he was also bothered by people who were already ahead. Then he would kind of, you know, fight with them. Till the Buddha finally talked to him. And he said, there's no one to compete with. No one to compete with. In our school, we always say, you know, compete with yourself, you know.

0:11:17
Don't compete with other people.

0:11:18
But really, there's no one to compete with. Because, you know, all you're doing is going out there to do your best. And you don't have to worry about what the returns are on that work. You just do the work. So when Buddha told him, there's no one to compete with, reflect on that,

0:11:45
he reflected on that.

0:11:47
And in every way where he went out and did something, he started to see where he was competing, where he had these ideas of trying to get into a higher position, trying to look better, trying to be the best in every situation. And then he learned to let go of that, let go of self-importance, wanting to be in a high position. And then when he did that, then very quickly he became liberated and So there's just, you know, once you really reflect on your greatest suffering, like in your papers, if you reflect on it, you understand what your suffering is, and then you practice the Dharma, the reflections of the teachings of enlightenment or Bodhisitta, then you start to really understand your suffering and understand how it limits you. And you are utilizing tools that make you enlightened, that get you to transform that ignorance, that dissatisfaction, that darkness, that suffering into enlightenment. able to see a lot more brighter ways of looking at life and dealing with life when you're

0:13:22
enlightened.

0:13:24
Okay, so what I'd like to do is I'd like to see if anyone has questions about bodhicitta. Any questions about bodhicitta practice? Yes, in the back.

0:13:43
And for children, really, no.

0:13:46
Maybe they're not suffering at the moment,

0:13:49
there's something else going on,

0:13:50
they're thinking very hard about something. So you're not exactly right. But it's okay to do bodhisitta anyway, I mean, it doesn't hurt. Absolutely. You're like... Even though you may be wrong. Yeah, even though you may be wrong. Someone might sit there and smiling and you think they're angry because they got one of those weird smiles.

0:14:17
And definitely it won't detract from his positive mood. And the good thing is that it gives you an opportunity to whatever inspires you to practice bodhicitta, to think about lessening the suffering of others. Even if someone's not suffering, but you're somehow inspired to consider all the other beings, that person who's not even suffering and all the others that could be suffering, whatever triggers that experience of bodhicitta, the awakened mind and heart is a good thing. So you don't have to sit there and second guess yourself. You're like, Oh, I see that guy suffering out of practice. Wait, but is he suffering? I don't know if I'm going to do taking and sending unless... I don't know if it's worth it. Why bother? No, it's always better to practice bodhicitta of focusing on a person, especially in meditation? So when we do sitting meditation focusing on the chakras, we don't focus on people. After we do our sitting meditation, we bow and then we practice relative bodhicitta. In relative bodhicitta practice, you focus on people. But it's not meditation, it's Bodhicitta. It's the taking and sending. So not a danger. Totally different. Yes. No.

0:16:43
Do you actually physically feel driven to do something? Like somebody who's getting sad, do you go talk to them? Oh, you can do that.

0:16:55
That's not a bad thing to do. Any time that you think that you can do something to make a situation better for someone, it's a good idea. It's always a good idea. But the most important thing is to do it in your head. But definitely, if there's ever a point where you're like, well, let me just go over to the person and say something, or I can see that person's having trouble with this, let me help them with it. That's always fantastic. So if it makes sense, if it's balanced, if you can do it, then definitely do it. But see, sometimes people help somebody else out because they see that they're having a problem, but they don't have actual compassion or the awareness of bodhicitta. They're just all, oh, I'm just, you know, they're just like conditioned or whatever. You know, some people are like, oh, I'm a nice person. So when I see someone crying, I'm going to pat them on the back. See, I don't even do that. I just go, Bodhisitta. So most important is that you have

0:18:07
Bodhisitta in your mindfulness,

0:18:09
but definitely if something occurs to you, a way to help them, then that's really excellent. Yes? Yes No

0:18:21
The whole universe

0:18:23
It's true

0:18:25
Yeah, it's funny because you know when we start talking about what he Cita you're sitting there going. Okay. There's this miserable jerk

0:18:32
Might be practicing on yourself and miserable jerk. And you're all like, I'm taking all their gunk. I feel like I'm full of their gunk and then I'm giving them all my light. But actually, and then you, you learn to bring it to larger and larger groups. And actually taking and sending, whether it's for one person or the universe or the whole universe, all sentient beings everywhere is really exactly the same.

0:19:17
It's exactly the same.

0:19:19
So there's, you know, there's no limit. No limit to the darkness you could take! Yes! And no limit to the light that you can send.

0:19:30
Yes.

0:19:31
That was kind of my question.

0:19:32
Should we be doing it just giving and receiving with one person or can we do more than one

0:19:41
at a time? Absolutely.

0:19:44
It's really important to be able to practice taking and sending with one person and then you can expand it to a group of people and to all people if you can. But if you don't establish the awareness of another's suffering and practice taking and sending with one person, then it's hard. You start to lose focus on lots of people. They're like, oh, people in general. What

0:20:22
am I doing?

0:20:23
I was just wondering if I could, instead of doing one meditation song for one person, could I split the meditation song and then just do like, you know, one minute on one person and one minute on... or should I just say the one song for the whole person and the next song, do it for somebody else?

0:20:44
Absolutely. You can manage it the way that it's comfortable for your mind. So sometimes you'll sit and you'll practice taking and sending for a whole session on just one person or maybe just yourself. And maybe another time you establish that feeling of bodhicitta very quickly for one person and then you work on bringing it to multiple people So maybe it takes a few seconds or a couple minutes. It really matters that you establish true bodhicitta, true taking and sending, taking the dark, sending the light and that experience of transformative light of bodhicitta. Then when you have that awareness, when you have that feeling, you can just direct that energy towards others. It could be a whole group of people. Yes. Is it a practice of discrimination to be able to quickly establish your understanding of the suffering of somebody else and also be able to establish your seeing of them becoming

0:21:50
enlightened? To be able to do that quickly, sometimes I find it takes a little bit of time to be able to do that.

0:22:05
I don't know if it's necessarily discrimination. It is really getting in touch with your higher intent. seeing of another person's enlightenment, there is in this practice the intention of giving to them enlightenment. So you just have to really, really want enlightenment for them. That's one of the really cool secrets of sending. If you are practicing taking and sending, if you know your highest, brightest experiences of light, if you really want that for another person, then the sending is really easy. And then you don't have to think about it or see their innate enlightenment. You just have to really wish to give them life.

0:23:18
Yes.

0:23:22
Sure.

0:23:23
kind of sink into what I perceive to be someone suffering, and I feel like I'm ready to start giving. Yeah, so the breath is just one way to habituate your mind towards taking and sending since you have to inhale and exhale.

0:23:43
I mean. I mean. I mean. I mean.

0:23:46
I mean.

0:23:47
I mean. But like, for example, I do it a different way sometimes. I do it really fast by blinking a little bit. I sit there and go like this. Well I don't even even know if I open my eyes very much, but I go into it. My eyes quiver up and down and it's taking and sending really fast. Yeah. Yeah. So, so it doesn't have to be associated with breath. I found that the I thing was really cool. Worked really well. So, you know, eventually it has to, it's just something that you figure out. Breath is a really easy way to do it. Just like, you know, you have to think about it first. You sit down, okay I'm going to do bodhicitta. I'm gonna think about this thing and that person and I'm going to... you know, you reason this thing out and then you start practicing taking and sending. You're like, okay, so I'm gonna... darkness comes in and light comes out. You're just kind of imagining it and going through the motions. But when you really connect the Bodhicitta, you don't even have to think anything anymore. There's no thinking. There's just awareness, taking and sending. So the process of thinking about it habituates you in the practice, but eventually you will experience in your taking and sending something powerful, which is called Bodhi Siddha. Something that's beyond words, beyond ideas, beyond practices. and sending, yeah, it exists there, but it's the same thing. It is the actual experience of Bodhicitta. So, you know, it's something that you figure out. You figure out the breathing and how it works, and then when you have the experience, you'll be like, ah, the experience! And you figure out by thinking about it. Now I'm thinking about bodhicitta, taking and sending, and then you go, oh, I get it. You get to become aware of the bodhicitta beyond the processes of thought and breath. And sometimes beyond blinking fast. I know that the second part, I guess, is giving light, but if you're not feeling very light and you're kind of like, hmm, I wonder if the light that I'm generating is actually lower than...

0:27:01
You're like, I see this like sad person practice taking and sending and they're getting worse.

0:27:12
I'm dragging them down with my bodhisitta. Well, that's the good thing about bodhisitta. Bodhisitta can never hurt someone. Bodhisattva can never... Even if you do it horribly, you're all confused, you're taking and sending, and you're thinking of really bad things while you're sending.

0:27:48
You're all, I'm going to send them light and flame. Why did I add the flames again? Light

0:27:58
So, you know, the mind is a funny thing and it, you know, it adds all sorts of weirdness and until you figure the thing out for a while. However, bodhicitta is a structure in the second attention, a structure of compassion, and any of your negative thoughts that accidentally, inadvertently get in there, they actually don't cause harm for another person. And even though you have impurities and all sorts of mental defilements in your taking and sending, you're working within a structure that eventually perfects your attention. So sometimes you're sitting there taking and sending and you're all like, wait a minute, I don't wanna take that guy's crap, actually I wanna take his light. And I don't wanna give him my light, I wanna give him missiles. So sometimes you go through that. And when you do, you're like, oh, wasn't that the most horrible thing? Wasn't I just a vampire and tried to destroy someone at the same time? Yes. But since it's all done in the big ball of bodhicitta, it doesn't actually harm them. And it shows you in your mind, oh, yeah, that was weird. I'm pretty messed up. And then it gives you an opportunity to say, okay, let me try to do this right. And through through the practice, you eventually perfect yourself.

0:29:46
Yes.

0:29:47
I have hard time to imagine the darkness, in the darkness and giving light.

0:29:57
So I wonder if there's something to help to see that.

0:30:05
Yeah. So when you really, really, really, really are stuck with not even being able to conceive taking dark and giving light, then you can open your eyes and you can use crafty things. So for example, let's say that on your altar you take a picture of someone who you know suffers a particular way that you can practice taking and sending off. So let's say you have a picture of them or a picture of an animal or something that gets Bodhisitta working with you, in you. Now what you can do is you can have a little picture of them and a little piece of black crumpled up paper So what you would do is you would put the black paper on top of them and then you would practice Taking it off of them and then you can take something like a flower and put it on them or you could take a picture of something that, like the Buddha, picture of the Buddha, put it on top of them, and then practice that way, just to habituate your mind to, I want to relieve them of, or it could be a picture of something bad, like if you know the person's afraid of fire, you say, here's the person, they're afraid of fire, that's the suffering I'm gonna practice for, you put a picture of fire on them. You take the fire off. You hold the fire. You take the Buddha, put it on them. So this becomes a physical practice, but it's still a mental practice. And you actually see yourself going, take that away and put that. You're dealing with the symbols in pictures and crafts, but eventually it's something that you can do just in your mind. So, you know, if you're struggling with something, this is a good practice for everyone because the symbols are so real. If you say, here's a picture of a person or someone, you know, it might be a picture of yourself. If you're practicing taking a selfie with yourself. Yeah, really. Or a certain group of people or something. You say, here is that person or people. This is the picture of the thing they're afraid of, or just picture of something black. And then you take a picture of a Buddha, or just a flower, or something that to you is a symbol of enlightenment. And doing this practice habituates your attention and mind. So this is a another good way when you're thick headed. Actually, it's a good idea to do because of the aforementioned reason. When you really just don't get it,

0:32:59
taking and sending,

0:33:00
putting it down into physical things helps.

0:33:02
Do you keep on switching that or something?

0:33:04
Yeah, yeah. So you can kind of dark back on them? Yeah, yeah, yeah. So you're like, you're like, here's the Buddha, then you go, okay, now I'm going to take the dark again. And then you just intend there's dark on them. I take it. And then I intend again, the Buddha goes on. And I intend here's the dark, I take it. So you don't tend to put the bark, only have the intention of taking. And that's good, because a lot of you do a funny thing. You do partial taking. You're all, I imagine the person there with a whole bunch of suffering and pain, and I take, there's a big dark cloud, and I take some of it. And then I give them some light, right? And I'm like, well, take it all. This is important. You must completely exchange yourself. And you guys are very partial. I felt some doctors coming in. Take it all. So if you have that little piece of suffering paper picture and you take the whole picture, then you completely see that you're completely taking. So it's a good practice. It's Bodhicitta, Buddhist monk craft. Yes?

0:34:40
Is the feeling of Bodhicitta practice any different to meditation practice?

0:34:47
Absolutely different. Because there's compassion versus emptiness. It's a good point. So that's why we have relative bodhicitta, which is the precursor, oh sorry, ultimate bodhicitta, which is the precursor to relative bodhicitta. It's a good question. Because if you can't establish the proper awareness in ultimate bodhicitta, then it's hard to establish yourself in the energy, in the structure of bodhicitta. But they're very, very different. Bodhicitta is a much more specific technique of consciousness. ultimate bodhicitta meditation is bigger. I would say. We'll talk a little bit more about it later. Yes. Is bodhicitta limited only to humans or can you also practice it on animals, inanimate objects, non-sentient beings. And the reason they talk about sentient beings is because we relate to them more. So you might relate to a bunny. Oh, the bunny. Oh, the bunny suffering. It doesn't have a carrot. And it gets you to have a lot of compassion, right? You're like, oh buddy. And you imagine the carat of light going through you.

0:36:55
14 carat gold light.

0:36:58
14 carat gold light. Yeah, so this is true. If it's an animal and it gets you to feel... And a lot of animals are so cute. They suffer because they're ignorant and you're just like, oh, poor little thing. And it just gets a lot of compassion going. So animals is really great. But, you know, who knows? You might be more open-minded than even the teachings of the book. You might look at a cauliflower and say, poor thing, if it inspires you. Because cauliflowers are alive too. And their consciousness is different. It's different than a human's consciousness or sentient being's consciousness. But, you know, trees and plants and cauliflowers and things like that, they have a life force and an assemblage point of being alive. Everything. You could have bodhicitta for a rock. You're like, oh, that poor rock. It could happen, really. But usually we identify more with people of a similar assemblage point, is what we call the sentient beings. So, anything could inspire bodhicitta. It's usually you identify your suffering closer to sentient beings, but it could be anything, really could be. So if it ever happens that a rock inspires Bodhicitta in you, don't limit yourself. Practice taking and sending for the rock. Taking and sending. In the back.

0:38:55
So for the visualization aspect of bodhisattva, are there any points on your body that are kind of like better than others, for example? you know, taking and then sending and taking and then sending. Is it possible to just, like, for example, take everything into your heart and then push all the light out of the

0:39:20
top of your head or something like that? Yes, that's a good one. So you might find that there's ways that are easier for you. Like sometimes you might see that taking it into your heart is easy. Giving the light from the third eye is easy. Sometimes you might just do it the way I do with the eyes, in and out from the eyes, because the eyes are actually very delicate. So that's one way too. Sometimes you might notice it from the hands is very, very powerful. So you can do that in sitting meditation. Sometimes you feel it coming in. You can move your hands while taking in and sending. And just, you know, there's chakra in the center of the palm. palm and sometimes you can feel that that works better, that feeling of bringing it in and sending it out when you make the chakra go this way and this way. It does do something. Focusing on taking into the heart chakra. Some people take in to the navel chakra, let out heart. I would say explore. See what works for you. Yeah, you'll find all sorts of ways work at different times. You'll find many different means. Many different means. But hands, chakras, you know in the book they say your nose right? Inhale and exhale. So the nose is one way, but chakras are also powerful ways of focusing on taking and sending.

0:41:29
Or can it be constant? It can be constant. It's easier to habituate yourself in taking and sending.

0:41:38
But bodhicitta is something that is both taking and sending at the same time. Bodhicitta, when you really hit that feeling, you're like, it's just a light, but it's a light that takes away darkness and gives light. So it's yin and yang and yin and yang. It's the damn. Yes.

0:42:14
Can you make something wrong in a way that you end up being more selfish or egoistic

0:42:23
Mm-hmm. Yeah, like your papers So the way the way that you become more selfish in bodhicitta is by Practicing extremely poorly or not practicing That that's basically it so if you don't practice if you are always just reacting like your lower self and Not practicing and not really considering bodhicitta, then, you know, I guess you don't get worse because of bodhicitta. It's just that you stay the same or you follow the path of the lower self. So, practicing bodhicitta, even if you're sitting there going, OK, I'm trying really hard and when I'm taking, I actually, oops, I took his light and, oh, I sent him missiles. Oops, but I'm trying. Whenever you're actually doing bodhicitta, you are not getting lower. You're noticing things, learning things, and getting better at bodhicitta. You're following the way of the higher self, learning about your mind, understanding your negative considerations that don't make sense. But you start to figure it out. You go, oh, that was weird. Why did I do that? When you have that higher intent to do bodhicitta, to apply the Dharma, then even though you might notice lots of weird things in the beginning, lots of negative things, you'll always get brighter from it. So when you're doing bodhicitta, when your intent is to do it, when you're practicing bodhicitta, it's always enlightening and elevating. The only problem with bodhicitta is when you don't do bodhicitta. So it doesn't lower you, it's just that you're not accessing the higher teachings, you're not using the Dharma to get higher. You're following the path of the lower self.

0:44:38
Yes?

0:44:41
Is it reasonable or smart to keep a bodhicitta journal or a structure of a book where you can, where it's a good way to reflect? Absolutely. Wow, you know, it's like you're reading my mind.

0:44:58
This is something that I was going to recommend to you guys to keep a bodhicitta journal. Because your mindfulness practice is very poor. It is. It's very, very poor. And you just let so many negative, lower self thoughts go by without any consideration of bodhicitta, the majority of you, it's horrible. It's not the practice of Dharma. So it's a great idea to keep a journal. See, I wasn't even going to give you that assignment tonight, because I have two other assignments for you. However, why not? Yeah, really, you should sit there and say, Whoa, hey, I just thought this, and I practiced bodhicitta, and I had an experience. Let me take a couple minutes just to write that down. Because when you write it down, it becomes clearer in your mind. So for the few of you who did your Bodhicitta assignment correctly, it was very constructive and good. You were able to really clarify your personal suffering and see that another person or persons experiences the same thing and the considerations of Bodhicitta from your suffering for them. It helps solidify your understanding of the practice. So when you keep a journal, the same thing, you'll see things happening during the day, you'll recognize where you've not had the strongest practice or where you had good practice, you can write it down and for the places where your practice wasn't poor, you could say, oh I should have thought this, I should have reacted this way, and then you help correct your mindfulness during the day while you're going through your day. So it would be good. It would be a good thing. Because you know, you might as well learn bodhicitta properly. And keeping a journal helps you to be more mindful. Or even if you do it at the end of the day. At the end of the day you say, what happened today? Oh yeah, that guy came over to me and made me angry. I should have practiced bodhicitta. And then you write down what you think and how you can resolve things with a greater amount of relative bodhicitta mindfulness practice. It's very good. Good question. Yes?

0:47:59
Yes. How do you develop...

0:48:01
What are the good ways to develop this feeling of really wanting to take or really wanting

0:48:06
to sound like sincerely, not just... Right.

0:48:16
So that's the... That's one of the tricky parts. look at some situation with some person where you could actually trigger a feeling of compassion or pity. You have to have something that you see as, oh, that's bad in the other person's suffering. So it might be that you, you know, what this assignment was, was identify your suffering, see that other people feel the same way. So you know about yourself, oh, I feel so bad all the time. But then if you see another person and say, oh, but they feel the same way sometimes, then because you know you're suffering, you can have some awareness of suffering of another and know that there's a reason to care about it. However, sometimes it has nothing to do with your suffering. It could just be, think of a situation, a person, a place, a thing, something that happened to somebody that really gets you to say, I feel pity for that person. I see that that person suffers and rather than me just going whatever some other person I don't care. You like look at the situation and go oh my goodness that person suffering I feel some compassion and pity for them. So you have to you have to find that. It's out there. You got to search for that one thing. And then when you find that one thing, you really practice taking and sending. You really focus on that so that you actually can practice bodhicitta. And if you can practice bodhicitta for that one thing, maybe it's, you know, you saw something bad, like a person being robbed, a person being beaten, and you really felt sorry for them. Maybe it was a big kid picking on a little kid, or a man beating up a woman, or someone abusing a dog, or something like that. Whatever, you've got to find something from your experience, or a movie you watch, or something, where you really feel compassion. And you have to really take that practice, taking and sending, until you can have the light of Bodhicitta. Then you can grow your awareness of suffering to other people. You're like, okay, well that one thing really gets me to practice Bodhicitta. Now I go to the other thing, the neutral party, or the enemy, or a greater amount of people. But everyone has got to find the one thing. Maybe it's only one for some people, but maybe it's lots for others, but you've got to find something that really gets you to feel compassion. Movies are really good, right? Because movies are... very often there's circumstances that are just horrific, that you don't see every day that are completely horrible where someone's in the lowest worst place you could practice that could ignite your compassion you could be practicing taking and sending for Alec Baldwin or something

0:51:52
Yeah, or that guy.

0:51:54
Anyway, who's that guy who plays Batman?

0:51:56
Oh,

0:51:57
what a difficult life.

0:51:58
Right. So whatever, you know, whatever you see, that's why, you know, we, we can watch films and really identify with the characters, you know, you know, suspend disbelief and just watch the movie, take it in like it was a reality, and it can ignite real compassion in you. And maybe you start off practicing taking and sending for a character in a movie that doesn't even really exist, and then you develop real compassion. And then you could say, well, there's other people who aren't in movies who have similar situations, and you could practice compassion for them. You just grow your compassion. But you've got to find that one thing or something where you really really can practice taking and sending. Good question. You want us to make a daily log even if we have like a pretty clear idea of who we're giving it and sending it to Yeah, because it's just up for notes. Yeah, yeah for notes Because every time you practice taking and sending you'll learn new things You'll say I know what I'm doing, but every every time you practice your awarenesses will change You'll start to see more light you'll gain more information about the person suffering. You'll say, oh wow, I felt like I was able to send light in a stronger way. I felt like I was able to take in a new way. So yeah, you want to just keep the notes on what your experience is, what you're learning. It makes it more concrete and real.

0:54:01
How will you know when you're experiencing true compassion and true bodhichitta?

0:54:11
So first of all, it feels really good. It feels extremely bright. And you kind of go beyond the transient awareness of the thing. So you're sitting there working on it, really feeling and thinking about the suffering and taking and sending. Then all of a sudden, there's an experience of light. It might be taking and sending, it might be a consideration, but there's just a tremendous spiritual experience of brightness and it feels amazing. So if it feels amazing, good, you're doing it right. Very simple. There you go. If it feels amazing, that's bodhicitta. Until it feels amazing, then keep working on it. And then once it feels amazing, then keep working on it. And then once it feels amazing, master amazing. Because that's what you should do. You should be able to practice taking and sending to the point where you go, wow, this is so bright. The sending and the, oh wow, what an amazing experience. And then you should be able to do that with everything. And then you have to do it with a straight face. Because for a while you'll be going around going, huh?

0:55:41
And then after a while you'll be like, ah. Yeah.

0:55:54
You still have to be a warrior. But you'll be a happy warrior.

0:56:01
Yes.

0:56:05
I find sometimes I feel something else in bodhicitta, which is you imagine a person suffering, and you can feel it, and you can internalize it, and then you feel their suffering, with it. And you could wish for to experience that instead of them in their place. But then you just kind of feel that you feel like sad or sorrow about it instead of maybe the brightness

0:56:41
part.

0:56:41
So, yeah, that's, that's, that's one way to look at it, too. You see that someone's got some suffering and then you really feel compassion for them. So you say you have the intention, I can take your suffering so that you can be free from it. So you feel all of the whatever situation or things that that person feels, you really have a strong awareness of feeling that and taking that, holding that, and seeing that they're free of it. So that's what I call, that's a really good thing. And you know, that is when you say, wait a minute, who else but me? You know, should this person go through it? They don't know about Bodhicitta, right? I can take this from them. I practice meditation, yoga. I know about Bodhicitta. I am strong enough and trained enough so that I can deal with this, so that I can take that burden from them, then they can be free. So that is also a very, very strong intention which creates Bodhicitta. And then you see that, you know, essentially what that is, is it's taking the darkness. But then you also have to practice giving light. But it's a very, very powerful way for taking the darkness. It's understanding that whole situation. Like maybe, you know, someone gets beaten and thrown down and robbed. And you can practice knowing that situation and saying, I can take that whole situation where I was beaten and that person can be free from it. And then you're just like, yeah, so it's like, oh yeah, I have a black eye and they took my money. And you have the whole feeling of all those details. That's a way of taking the darkness. And you're like, hey, I can do it. In fact, I want to do it. You know, I'm perfectly ready to do that. To take that. I can take that. I have the awareness of the Dharma. This person doesn't. So that's right. That's a good intention for taking the darkness. Yeah, I mean like most people, they don't have bodhicitta, they don't have mindfulness, they don't meditate, they don't have a strong mind, they don't have personal power, you know, they just get ravaged by the world and follow their karmas. However, if you say, wait a minute, I have bodhicitta, I have a strong mind, I have meditation, I have the pathway to enlightenment. It's like I'm actually in a good position to actually practice this, to help people. Then you can say, I'm willing to take it. And that's a powerful way for taking. But you sending webs of light. Other questions? Yes, in the back.

1:00:05
Is it limited to the present? So, for example, something that happened 20 years ago and came left over from that? Or even a pathway.

1:00:25
Yeah, great. Yeah, or someone who's dead, right?

1:00:30
Bodhichitta and dead people,

1:00:33
sitting there on the body. So in the Enlightenment workbook, there's this place called Healing the Past, and that's a practice and a technique for bringing attention to a past traumatic event and by having a certain consideration now we can release the energy that's stuck from that place. We can definitely do that with bodhicitta. So bodhicitta can be reflected on past events, past situations. It's really good to do that actually. Because when you have some personal history that you just can't let go of, some traumatic event, or someone you know, someone you can't see anymore, someone who's died, you've got like problems there that you suffer from, or you saw that they suffered, you can do taking and sending for that time. You can do taking and sending for a time far, far in the past, in a past life, or a situation that you were in that you saw that isn't around anymore, or a person that you saw that isn't around anymore. You can definitely practice taking and sending for that, and it Yeah, it works. So you could take a situation where, let's say someone did something bad to you and hurt you and you were always bothered about it. You can do taking and sending, focusing on that, and you can see that pain go away. It actually goes away. So like there was the one time where the person did something bad and mean and you were really hurt and it's the worst thing in the world, you know. And then you can practice taking and sending for that you or that person back then and it heals it. It really works. So definitely taking and sending bodhisitta for things and people in the past is very, very good.

1:02:50
Yourself in the past as well. Absolutely. Yeah, so it could be

1:02:53
In fact, that's a really good one. If you have like a painful point that you're so hung up on You're like the time in my life where I was most hurt was this one point Where you know I got dumped or something and then you go, oh, that was so painful, so horrible, that person was so terrible, and I felt so bad. And then you practice taking and sending. You can see that whole problem heal itself, where it's no problem anymore. Because you take the dark and you Yes.

1:03:36
I'm almost using someone's suffering to benefit me in a way and I'm wondering if I'm really helping the receiver.

1:03:47
That's true. You know, so it's like, you're like, Oh, give me somebody who's suffering so I can get more enlightened. You know, seeking out the most suffering people, people to cause me suffering so I could practice taking this ending more. Yeah, so it is true that someone else's suffering makes you enlightened when you practice bodhichitta, but we don't look at it that way. It's kind of like in meditation, when you meditate, it makes you enlightened. And it's the same with taking and sending. If your awareness is just purely an awareness of suffering and an awareness of taking and sending, then it's spiritually elevating. And you're also not focused on what you get out of it. You're actually the opposite way. You're like, oh, they're suffering. I'm totally giving the light and taking the problem. So it's actually very enlightening that way. But that's what a lower self would do. They would go in there and go, what am I gonna get out of this? How am I gonna get some enlightenment out of this without being selfless? So it's funny. It's funny if you think about it. It's a paradox. However, you know, when you just practice it, then it's not a problem. Yeah, so you shouldn't worry about it or think about it and say, oops, I'm getting so much more from this than the other person, because I'm, you know, the other person is just still sitting there and I'm all happy and bright because I've just experienced bodhicitta. Then that should just give you more reason to want to give that light to them. And, you know, eventually you see that the light of bodhicitta is a really, really, really wonderful benefit to someone's spirit. It might not change their outer situation right away, but eventually when you understand bodhicitta in a very deep way, you see that bodhicitta has a profoundly positive effect. And if you see that you gain a lot from it, you have to understand that so does the person you're taking and fending for. They gain a lot from it. Win-win situation. Yes?

1:06:56
Is there a way to practice bodhicitta in your dreams?

1:07:01
Oh yeah, absolutely. So that's the thing. So you guys all have terrible dreams all the time. But how many of you practice bodhicitta in your dreams? See, when you have a strong bodhicitta mindfulness practice, you automatically practice bodhicitta in a difficult situation in your dreams. So if you're a strong dreamer, then you can start intending to practice bodhicitta in your dreams. But you don't even have to. It's more important that you focus on practicing bodhicitta as your mindfulness practice in the waking, and then you'll just see naturally that it occurs in your dreams. So then in your dreams when, you know, someone comes over and is yelling at you, then instead of you like reacting back in a negative way like you normally would, you see that automatically you've fostered enough discipline in Bodhicitta, you have a higher intent than your regular lower ways. And automatically in your dreams, you'll see that you just start interacting through Bodhicitta, and it makes situations a lot brighter. And then all your crazy, lame, stupid, problematic, boring dreams turn to brightness. They turn from stuck karmas of the lower self to opportunities of bodhicitta. So, if you are a strong dreamer, go ahead, push it. But mostly, just get into the habit of practicing bodhicitta for real as your mindfulness exercise and then it will happen automatically in dreams. You know how you learn to code in your dreams and stuff? It's because you're putting enough energy into coding in real life. So when you're doing your yoga, your work, and then you're in the dreams doing it, it's because you're putting enough energy energy there. So bodhicitta is an intermediate practice. It's a little harder to do, but you have to do it. And then you'll see it appear all over the place. Big splotches of bodhicitta splatting everywhere.

1:09:31
In the example of the robbed and the robber, it's easy to feel bodhichitta for the person being robbed. But then if you try to feel bodhichitta for the robber, is it conditional bodhichitta? If it's like, oh, you're miserable, I'm going to focus this light on you, so the world is a better place for the person being robbed, not for everybody. It's kind of conditional, but it sort of works.

1:09:58
So it's most important just to be able to do some bodhicitta for someone. After you could do it really well for someone, if you could just always have bodhicitta for some pathetic person like yourself, then what you're able to do is, you know, have a strong practice. But eventually you want to open up your practice to include what we would call enemies. So you would go over to the person who's wronged you or a person who wrongs other people. And you can have the same powerful, bright bodhicitta for them. I always say the person who's causing another person harm, they're in a worse state. So the other person, oh, they're getting beaten up. But actually, the guy who's doing it, who's like the bad guy, spiritually, he's in a worse place. So there should be more bodhicitta for him. So that's the way I look at it. Because I can do bodhicitta for students, I mean enemies. Recently, oh yes, yeah, so but you know it's a good practice, give it a shot, make sure that you definitely have a strong bodhicitta to to enemies, criminals. Just look at Darth Vader. He came around.

1:11:45
Yes? If you find yourself getting stuck like when you take somebody's darkness and you kind of find yourself getting stuck in that darkness, what do you suggest? Just push more on sending or do bodhicitta

1:11:57
on yourself? Okay, so when you take the darkness from someone, you have to be happy. You have to see that you're taking away their suffering. So you're like, I'm taking it away. And when you take it away, you're like, I've taken away that darkness, and now I see that they're free of it. You have to be happy. Otherwise, you can get stuck. So you have to be like, yay, I freed them from that poor suffering. And then you say, great. And being happy for them then inspires giving the light. So when you see, when you've taken the darkness from someone, they're suffering, their problems, and you see that they're free from it, you should be like, this is great. Imagine a person who's got a problem and then you take away, they got a thorn in their thumb and you take it out and then you're like, good.

1:13:01
This is good.

1:13:02
You should have a happiness feeling of removing their pain and then this is good. I've taken it so that you can be free from it and now I'm happy about it. Then it inspires giving the light back, just like removing a splinter or a thorn from someone. Otherwise, if you're focusing on the dark and not seeing the person free and being happy, then you can get cloggy. Yes?

1:13:34
If you feel clunky, take a lot of dark medicine, if you feel hard to purify that, is it good to, is it nice to do that, when you take, it's changed to the light? Yeah, sure. What is the way to do that? So, you can have the awareness of,

1:13:57
I just take your dark, and now I give you my light or you can have an awareness of I've taken all of your dark and then it changes into light and throw it right back at you. So you can see it as a transformative process and that also is a good thing.

1:14:25
Any other way to do it?

1:14:32
That way works. Yeah, just taking and sending. It's just something that you learn about by doing. And sometimes you'll focus on all sorts of things. Like sometimes you'll just say, Oh, I'm just going to take it into my heart chakra." And then sometimes they'll say, oh, I see that when I take it in, it transforms into something, into light, and then it gives me more light to give back to them. So it's good, and it's good to explore, keep a diary of your bodhicitta so that you see the changes as they happen. And every time you practice, you have new experiences and learn more in different ways of experiencing, taking and sending. Bodhisitta is a very active form of love. So it is love, but it's love that is very specifically working on something. So the light of Bodhisitta always is taking a darkness and a suffering away and then giving light. So it is a love, but it's a form of love that's active and precise, focusing on suffering, relieving suffering, and bringing love, light, in the place of that suffering.

1:16:27
So if you're attached to someone and it caused you suffering? Okay. All right, so

1:16:33
So it's really, really good to practice taking and sending on someone that you have an attachment to, because it's a way of transforming the attachment. So if you see that that person suffers, then you practice taking and sending for their suffering. If you have attachment to them, through the process of practicing bodhicitta becomes more powerful than the attachment. So it is very good. If you feel suffering for your attachment to that person, you practice taking and sending on your suffering. And if you see that your attachment hurts a person, then you practice taking and sending for the hurt that you're causing through your attachment.

1:17:40
Yes?

1:17:45
So does it work in any way to say, summon Avalokiteshvara, to say, think of the ultimate compassion being, and maybe kind of request a piece of his compassion for you to become like an instrument of that same compassion and do the taking and sending?

1:18:09
Yes. However, it's very important to also see that you're directing it. It's got to be coming from you. So if you say, I have access to this Avalokiteshvara, and it's really awesome. And what I'm going to do is I'm going to take my access and give it to someone. I'm going to take their darkness, and I know something that I'm going to hook them up with that's super awesome. I'm going to give that to them. Because otherwise, they don't have it. But if you just say, oh, this is going to be, the sending part's going to be up to Avalokiteshvara, would not be Bodhisitta. You're all like, I suck at this. Hey, Avalokiteshvara, why don't you help that person out a little bit? Yeah, no, it has to be from you.

1:19:05
But that's a cool thing.

1:19:06
It's like if you say... One of the ways that I do bodhicitta is I've experienced really, really bright, amazing light from my teacher. So when I'll do bodhicitta, I will say, Oh, there's this dimension that my teacher gave me an experience of and I want others to have that experience. So, something that was really cool for me, I give to others.

1:19:43
Yes? How about we ask for your help to help us to feel it and help the other person?

1:19:54
Sure, yeah, absolutely. You definitely can ask Avalokiteshvara, or Kuan Yin or something, to come through you to help with taking and sending. But as long as it's, you know, you are the doorway to that other divine light and that you're giving that light to the other. But yeah, you can ask them to help. Yes?

1:20:21
Is there a way to practice on that? Is there a way to practice it where we don't hurt you?

1:20:30
If you're practicing within the structure of Bodhicitta, it doesn't hurt me. It's when you're not practicing Bodhicitta...

1:20:40
What does that mean, though?

1:20:42
So if you're reading the book and you're like, okay, I'm going through the things in the book, if you're practicing Bodhicitta, and if you're doing the Guru Yoga and you're doing it on me, because you can't think of anything better to do, it doesn't hurt me. If you practice Bodhicitta on me, you're all, oh, I gave somebody a hard time last week. I give him Bodhicitta. It doesn't hurt me. That doesn't hurt. It's in a safe structure. The place where it's painful, where it hurts, is when you don't practice bodhicitta. But the whole realm of bodhicitta is a realm of harmlessness. So if you're sitting there, oops, I imagined flames going at someone, it doesn't hurt them. It's a safe place for you to learn about your mind and learn how to do compassion

1:21:33
Okay, very good.

1:21:37
Alright, we're going to take another break. Let's see what time it is. Alright, yeah, another ten minute break. And we will come back and have further discussions. But I just wanted to, you know, talk to you guys about bodhicitta. answer your questions to see if you can practice it. Practicing it. Practicing it. Okay, we have just about 10 minutes of short break.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
