0:00:00
All right

0:00:02
The problem mind When you have a

0:00:06
Problem you know when you're when you're facing difficulty what happens to get into a state of mind When you're dealing with it, so you might be sitting there happy you're dealing with it. So you might be sitting there happy, thinking about enlightenment, then all of a sudden an issue comes up, a person's demanding and pushing and bothersome or something's happening. And when you have to face that that pain, that difficulty, that problem, what happens is people naturally start to go into kind of a self-defense mode, they start to be unhappy, they start to go, oh, a problem. And then they go into the problem state of mind. That's why with Maitri, we don't look at things as problems. We start to learn that what I don't see here, I don't see a problem. It's just a way We practice. When difficulties come up, we practice. And we don't really define things as a problem, because a problem is something between you and happiness. You can be happy dealing with difficulties when you practice Maitri. people usually fall into the problem state of mind. They're cut off from their happiness, because the problem came up. They're suffering and they're unhappy. And what happens in that state of mind is your thoughts are what I would call problem thoughts. So when you're in a problem state of mind, then your thinking is not going to be very good. And unfortunately when people run into problems, they start acting upon their thoughts. They say, oh if I have this problem and I'm in this state of mind and I'm suffering and dealing with this, I'm going to make this decision and do this and do that. Bad idea. The best thing to do when you have a serious problem, even if you don't know the solution or the answer, is to meditate, stop thought. When you can stop thought, then you're tapping into that deep aquifer. You start to find that there are resources, there is a way, there's a way to succeed. And you don't have to go into problem mind. You don't have to go into the problem states of mind. You stop thought and then afterwards you practice Maitri. You give yourself that positive support. You can do it. You believe in yourself. You have confidence in yourself. You can do it. You can stay, you can sit, you can be steadfast, you can deal with the difficulty. This is practicing. This is practicing Dharma. And then you don't fall into a problem state of mind. And then you're able to deal with it in the most enlightened way. Maybe it doesn't end up being the most ideal thing, but you'll get through it with poise. You'll get through it being happy. So it is possible. But you want to avoid problem mind. Because when you're in the problem state of mind, reacting to problems, you're going to make bad choices. The way to deal with problems is to not see them as problems and to practice meditation, mindfulness, Maitri, yoga. And then it's better. It's kind of like, you know, in scuba diving, if you're doing a deep dive, you need to have a plan. You know, they always say in diving, plan your dive and dive your plan. If you go on a deep dive and you plan your dive, okay, I'm gonna go this deep for this long, I'm gonna take a break here and here, a rest stop on the way up here and here, that's the plan and you should dive that plan because when you're sitting up on the surface planning it, you have a clear state of mind. Now, when you go underwater, when you get to that deep dive, you start getting some nitrogen narcosis. Also, your consciousness and awareness shifts because of the energy of the water, the place of power. You feel just really wonderful. I've had many, many, many times where I was so blissed out underwater that I'm like, why go up? But there's a reason to go up, right? So I have to maintain my plan, my dive plan. And that's what we call tonal. So you go down there and you're like, oh, I'm so happy, maybe I should just stay down another minute. Oh, that could be a dangerous minute. You have to go down and know what your plan is. It has to be clear in your mind. When you get down there, there's all sorts of underwater Samadhi and so much brightness and beauty and less dexterity and coordination. You go into a completely different state and condition of awareness, but you've got to follow the plan. So that's the way I would say you can be clear that you're doing things in a positive way. Now consider this for a problem. Once you get into a problem, it's like all of a sudden you're in a different place, like the divers in a different place when they go underwater. There's all these different conditions and experiences of consciousness. And if the diver's underwater and they're making decisions, well, what should I do, what's my plan? Well, I feel really good down here, so I'll stay down. Right? Not a good plan. You have to plan things from the surface. So when you're in that problem, if you're in a problem, then you're in a bad state of mind. You're not happy, you're not blessed out, you're in problem mind. And the things that you decide to do in problem mind are not good. They're not good ways to deal with it. So you must strengthen your resolve in your mindfulness, in your meditation, and in of Maitri, because when you practice Maitri, when you hit a difficulty, then you don't go into that state of mind, and you don't start acting out the karmas of making bad decisions. So it's very important to recognize that problems change your mind, change your state of mind. Another example is martial arts. So the Bodons, there's 10 Jiu-Jitsu Bodons who are going to have their black belt test soon. I'm setting Very soon, maybe even tomorrow, it'll be set up, and I'll tell you. So soon we will have a black belt test. So in our training, now we're starting to say, uh-oh, this is serious. We're not just training, we're getting ready for a fight. So that introduces you to problem mind. So you go, uh-oh. So what happens is you have more tension and you start to like you start to actually do your your your jiu-jitsu differently. For example, like on the Thursday night class, the students were going too hard. They were going too reckless. So four out of ten hurt themselves. Yeah, just a little bit, not too much, but enough so that they couldn't train on the next class. And that's because too much tension. You're in problem mind, and you're not actually practicing what you've trained. You start to go crazy, basically. I remember this with Savitri. Savitri was getting ready for her black belt test, and when she was like, oh, this is intense, I'm going to go and fight a black belt. And when she was sparring, she was way out of control, going way too strong. So she ended up being too much energy, too much force. But that's not what we practice in Jiu-Jitsu. We always practice being relaxed, soft, speed, and control. So, you know, because you start facing, oh wait, I'm gonna have an actual fight now, doesn't mean that you should start, you should stay with your training. Doesn't mean that you should start going, and start punching as hard as you can and kicking as hard as you can. What will that do? It will slow you down because you're becoming tense. It will make you prone for hurting yourself and another person. So when you are facing the problem of finding another black belt, you need to stick with your training. That is where we made our dive plan. That is our discipline. That's the balanced part. So you need to maintain your Maitri, which is keeping you relaxed, keeping you focused on the techniques that we do, and not becoming tense and strong and stiff, prone to hurting yourself. It will only make your fight worse when you become too tense. So that's another way of looking at problem mind. So jujitsu. Jujitsu practitioners, you Bodhans, we are going to have a black belt fight. Absolutely. However, see the Bodhans, they have to be able to beat a black belt from another school in order for them to get a black belt in jujitsu. This is just a tradition for me.

0:11:20
In my small circle of jujitsu school,

0:11:25
you didn't have to beat someone to get a black belt. But that's how I got my first Shotokan black belt. If I could beat a black belt, I would get it. And that's how I got my kata black belt. If I could beat a black belt, I got a black belt. And my teacher talked about the competition black belt being the coolest black belt. You could just sit there and do katas for a few years and then they say, oh yeah, you know the katas, you move right, here's your belt. So that's important. But also, actually being able to use your technique, that's actually more real than being able to show it in a kata. So that's what my teacher called the competition black belt. So my first black belt was a competition black belt, and my last black belt was a competition black belt. I think it adds a reality to the belt that you're wearing. So stick to your technique. The technique is very, very good. Don't get stiff, don't go into problem mind. Practice maitri in your jiu-jitsu. Also, I remember hearing a story similar to Problem Mind. There was these incidents in surgeries at some Seattle hospitals, I think it was, where the surgeons just kept making these horrible mistakes. They would leave clamps in people, sponges in people. They're all like, leave a scalpel in somebody. I don't know if it was a scalpel, but they were having surgeries and they would leave some of the surgical equipment in. They're like, okay, we took care of that problem, now just sew them up. And then the guys all, oh, feel a little weird still. And they go, oh, let's see, now we have to have another surgery. Who left this in here? So there was this happening, that the surgeons were making lots of mistakes. So the head of the hospital system there, he said, he tried talking to the surgeons, and the mistakes just kept happening. And they would just say, doing the surgeries, we're under a lot of pressure, you know, and we don't want to make these mistakes, but, you know, we can't deal with this pressure. So he thought about it and thought about it, and he said, who deals with pressure and deals with it in a way where they can mitigate these mistakes? And then he found the nearby fighter pilot Air Force base, and he talked to the fighter pilots, and they say, oh yeah, we have a checklist. So, yeah, so we plan everything that we need to check,

0:14:38
and we check everything.

0:14:40
And then we don't make those stupid little mistakes. And we have lots of little things to check, but we go through that checklist. It's totally important. So he went back and he made a surgery checklist. And at first the surgeons were like, what? You're asking me if I wash my hands? I always wash my hands. You're asking me if I put on scrubs? I always put on my scrubs. You know, so they were like all right and then what happened was the incidence of these mistakes dropped off by 90% because they followed a plan when they were in surgery they were in problem mind they were just like oh I'm stressed out problem I'm just gonna leave this in your... Here, put some more stuff in there. I've got to go home and have a scotch. So, you know, that's what happens. But, you know, when you make a checklist of enlightenment, a checklist of Maitri, you're going to deal with problems in a better way. So mindfulness, like the Enlightenment workbook, it's all about teaching you how to do mindfulness. It gives you your shields, your antidotes, it gives you your ways of labeling problems. So, oh, that's that problem, and I use this thing to go against the problem. And what happens is you end up with like a checklist of, you know, shields, antidotes, and wonderfuls to deal with everything perfectly and properly. And when you really practice that, you learn mindfulness. And then when you add some Maitri to it, bam, you knock it out of the park. It makes your experience really, really bright. So basic mindfulness is that checklist. Identifying bad thought, identifying problem mind, and saying, ah, let me think my wonderful thought. Let me apply my shield. Let me apply my antidote. And you go, okay, I can deal with this. Now, when you have Maitri, it just deglazes any bad states of mind. It adds so much more light and power. So we are working on that. This is what we're doing. So it's the next step in mindfulness, and it leads to even more wonderful places yet to come. So I asked you to think about a problem because what we're going to do is we're gonna find the answer to the problem. And we're gonna find that answer even though everyone's got maybe different specific problems, we're going to find the answer by practicing a kind of a seeing method to see the answer, to see the solution. And it is supported by Maitri. And when you do this, it's a very, very, very simple thing. And the answer, I would say the answer is kind of a, an inner awareness. Let me show you. So I'd like you to bring your focus to your fingertips. Focus on your fingers the same way you focus on your chakra. See? You've already done it. You've moved attention to the fingers. Very good. So you've made a movement of attention. Now, bring the focus to the third eye. Just still your thoughts. Bring the focus to the third eye.

0:19:18
Okay. All right, very good.

0:20:31
So with this shift of focus, it's a silly little trick, but it shows you the solution. We're going to do it again. But you have to... I don't know, it's a silly and interesting little thing. When you bring the focus to the fingertips, what happens is your awareness shifts to an aspect of you. You could be to the toes too, I suppose. But you bring it to an extremity, where you're like, oh, okay, focus is here. And then what happens is you become aware of fingertips. And then when you switch the focus back to the third eye, because of that shift, you've kind of made an opening. And the opening, it's a funny thing, but it shows the solution, because that's our intent, to see. So this is a seeing exercise, really, and it's one that creates a shift. Because, what is that shift? It's a shift in attention. It is kind of like martial arts, too. You know, like in martial arts, if you just sit there and punch at someone, they're going to block. But if you like move in a certain way, it throws them off and then your punch works. You kind of, this is kind of what you're doing to yourself here. You're making a shift so that there's an opening and then you slingshot through and it just automatically works. So cool. But what did you experience when you did that? You experienced a sensation in your fingers, and then you experienced a concentration and awareness of the third eye. And there was the answer. There was the answer. There was the solution right there. You might not know what that was. We're going to do this again, and you're going to...now that you know what's going on a little bit, you're going to see what it is. There is a, what did you experience? A sensation in the third eye, and you all experienced a good bit of silence, a good experience of stillness. Now, the answers to how do I succeed in yoga? How do I stop thought and meditation? How do I get over this emotional problem? How do I get my life together so that I could be, have personal power? How do I increase my personal power? So the answers, these deep answers, how do I get over this anger? How do I get over this anxiety, this depression? The answers are there. There is an answer. And the answer isn't an answer in words, it's an answer that comes from the silence you just experienced. There is a great wisdom in this technique for you to see the solution, to get the answer. To practical to practical things, yeah, because they're things that are very, very deep. Now, in that experience of silence, in that experience of quiet, there is an answer. It's a feeling, it's an energy, and it's there, and you experience it. Even if you have thoughts, there will be some, there's a stillness there. It is there. It's available. So we're going to just do it one more time and bring our awareness to our fingertips. Fingers feel the energy pulsing and filling your fingertips with light. Like E.T. Everyone's got E.T. fingers. Spirit fingers! Hold the focus there, feel that. And now bring the focus to the third eye.

0:25:21
Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay, good. Very nice. experience was a seeing, in fact more than a seeing, just an apprehending the solution. Maybe not in the first attention, but the feeling, the consciousness, the awareness, the luminosity. The maitri that enabled you to experience that.

0:26:34
It's a powerful Dharma.

0:26:38
You experienced the solution. You felt it.

0:26:45
It's there. There's a solution to everything. And you experienced the spirit of solution. And from this experience, you can draw out the tonal, you can draw out the solution in the physical reality from the kind of intangible experience of light. And you'll see that as the solution occurs in the physical, that it's feeling, it's spirit, you saw it, you know it. You experience it. You have awareness of it. It is with you. So this is another aspect of Maitri. This support for solving, transforming problems into the pathway to enlightenment. All right, thank you all very much. Now I have maybe a couple announcements.

0:28:42
Announcements.

0:28:46
Yes, okay The next reading assignment, did you guys all enjoy?

0:28:56
the Lord of light Really cool, right?

0:29:00
Yes, I didn't even tell you guys about that This is like all happened in space.

0:29:13
All right, anyway, we're going to go into the next book,

0:29:18
which is the Mahabharata. And that is also a really, really, really, really, really awesome story. One of the ancient tales of ancient times. I think it was, I have to reread it, but I think it was the third age. Yeah, it was the third age. So yeah, it was the third age before the Kali Yuga. So this was way back, like 1984. So this is one of those really great stories. So we're going through our very important Indian stories of stuff that happened. Some of you were there. Yeah, that's good. So we went to complete that book, and if you're reading any other books, complete it by the equinox. Equinox. So when we hit the equinox we're going to be going on to another book, so an important one. So get your reading assignments done by then. Very important. Okay, the Winter Solstice. I don't know what we're going to do for the equinox, but I'm planning ahead for the winter solstice. The winter solstice, you know, 2012, where everything either gets destroyed or we turn into light or whatever people say.

0:31:01
Nothing's gonna happen.

0:31:03
All those prophecies or whatever, just a bunch of garbage. But there's nice opportunities. There are some nice opportunities. But I think there are for lots of solstices. But there's something special about 2012, actually. And it does have to do with higher spiritual learning, if you have enough personal power, if you're up to speed, especially if you're an intermediate student, no problem. So I think that there is a good opportunity for us, but there's not gonna be anything that isn't happening right now. War, earthquakes, stuff like that. Those things will still be there, but it's going to be a little different. So, a lot of the Hobson people have a couple difficulties. One is that they can't travel so much, or not all of them can travel yet. And the other thing is they make a lot less money than the rest of you. So the trip is going to be to Roatan, which is a little island just off the coast of Honduras. The trip will probably cost about $3,000. So if you have that budget, then good. If you don't, then maybe the trip is not for you, and you need to get your tone out up. Or if you're a Hobsonite, you can't. So what I'm going to do is... the solstice, I think, is on a Friday. We're going to have the solstice meditation probably here. Or we might go to Mount Tamalpais or something like that, a local place of power. We're going to be all together as a sangha on that Friday. The Saturday after, whoever's going to the island, we're going to go to the island for a week. So we're going to be there through the Christmas period. So Christmas, a full week in Roatan. Beautiful diving in Roatan. And we're getting this small resort. It's small, so we're gonna have to like, you know, kind of cram in and share rooms. But the whole resort will just be us, which makes this really nice. Space is limited. I'm gonna take pretty much the first 50 signups because there's some people in Hungary who would probably want to come too. So what you have to do is, how do we sign up for these? We have a wiki or something? Okay, well, we will make a wiki and when the wiki is available, you have to sign up. And if you're number 51, I might still let you go. I'll say, I'll say, I just have to figure out where you're gonna sleep. And I could bring a pillow to the bathtub. Depends how resilient you are. But definitely, you know, there's room for 50 in the inn. And it looks like a really beautiful, happy little resort. And it'll be all for us. It'll be so exciting. And we have to plan ahead, now that we have a sizable group. It's no fun to go to a bigger resort where there's all sorts of crazy stuff going on with other people. It's just no fun. It's really nice to be in a place that is your own place. And they don't have houses like the Villa Bellagio there. So we go for a resort that we can take over. And boy, beautiful diving, wonderful diving. So that will be the diving trip. Hobsons are not loud because some of them have the money and the immigration status to go, but not all of them do. So I'm gonna keep the Hobsons as a group. When I come back the next week, we're gonna do a four day trip somewhere. Maybe Anza Borrego, maybe Shasta, maybe Lake Tahoe, I'm not sure, a place in California that we can drive to. It will be a power trip. It will be an awesome trip just for this group. So you can choose which one you want to do, a dive trip or a desert trip, and you can just see which one you want to do. I imagine a lot of you will want to do diving because it's a great break, you know, it's like the Christmas break, a good time to go on a diving trip. So that is good, but I would say if you can't afford it, if there's some scheduling problem, then you'll plan on going on the second trip. So the Hobsons have to go on the second trip, but you, if your situation is that the row of 10 trip won't work out, then you can come on the second trip. And the second trip will be awesome. It will. It will be really fantastic. But the first trip, diving, I really look forward to that. So that is the solstice. We'll put the dates up, the exact dates up on the wiki as well. Next is Armani. Let's talk about Armani. Okay, so Le Collezioni, right? So there's Giorgio Armani boutique, don't go there.

0:37:39
That will just annoy me.

0:37:41
Le Collegiati, that's where they have

0:37:43
the classic Armani looks.

0:37:46
At the boutique, they do the seasonal things. They're very seasonal, which means that they do things that are a little bit more floofy, and they just don't look like the traditional, this is Armani kind of thing. Yeah, so Armani. If you can, when it makes sense for you. Or if you need to save up, start saving up. It's good. At these events, we try to come with really high tone out. We want to come with really high tone out. So at these events, you bring your best. You can think of your Armani suit as your uniform for these events. And I used to, we used to have Wednesday classes all the time before, you know, when it was just a smaller group. And I wore my Armani black suit every Wednesday. You can wear the same suit, I mean, it's like a gi, right? When you got your gi, you know, you got the one gi, you just keep washing it sometimes.

0:39:17
So, wearing the same suit every time is good. And you only need one or two of these, you know,

0:39:26
because we live in California,

0:39:28
there's no other reason to wear these suits except for our events. So it really is, this is your uniform. So try to get your Armani. Additionally, since this is your religious garb, you'll be able to, the money that you spend will be counted as a donation to the Vajramund Chalia. Good. Makes sense? Excellent. Alright. You know, no rush. Just start getting out there. And also, don't rush, because if you go out there and you're like, oh, I gotta buy something, you might not buy the right thing. Take your time, check different places, check Needless Markup, I mean Neiman Marcus.

0:40:36
Check Saks Fifth Avenue, they have a nice collection.

0:40:39
Just don't go to the Giorgio boutique. Because you know, like, collezioni is their classical looks. I mean, I've, yeah, we don't change over very quickly. Only when, if the suit starts looking really messed up, you go, oh, that doesn't look good anymore.

0:41:02
And you look, that'll happen.

0:41:05
So you want to get a really good suit and you want to just have it.

0:41:16
Good.

0:41:17
Let me see if there's anything else on my list. Any of my important things. Oh, I got my fifth degree black belt. So I did my test. I made sure to do my test before my students have to do their first degree test.

0:41:33
And I had to do the same thing as you guys. I had to fight another black belt.

0:41:39
I don't think anybody I fought was a fifth degree black belt. Okay. That's it for now. There's a couple other things that we'll probably discuss very soon, but for now, this is good. And don't forget your Maitri on the way out. Don't leave without your Maitri. And I'm just going to sit here and hydrate for a moment. I need to hydrate. hydration.

0:42:33
Yes.

0:42:34
I checked out Chanel. The thing about Chanel is they have one suit. One great suit. But only one. And so it would look ridiculous. So you can't do that. It was a nice suit. It's only $10,000. Yeah, but stick to Armani, Le Collezioni. That will be the tone now. You know, there's other things that look good sometimes at other places, but Armani Le Collectione is consistently excellent. You'll make no mistake going there. And if you got something somewhere else, I might go,

0:44:16
I don't like it.

0:44:18
Oh, you screw up. Oh, you did terrible. Yeah, we'll start, you know, take our first step into Armadi's late collectione, and then we'll see. Maybe after that Chanel will have multiple good suits. Because they have a lot of suits, it's just that there's only one that's good. Excellent.

0:44:56
But I might as well tell the black belts, since I'm here, what your test is going to

0:45:02
be. We are going to have a martial arts tournament and we're going to invite multiple schools to this martial arts tournament. This is gonna be a martial arts tournament that is targeted to black belts. So in the martial arts tournaments that are out there, they have everything. And then they have tons of little kids who come to it, and then hardly any adults do it. So over the years, in the beginning, all of the martial arts competitions, point sparring, was all adults. And then it became 90% children. And then like the four adults show up to fight. You get two fights. So we're going to target it to adult black belts. We're going to have two divisions. First degree black belt, and then we're going to have second degree and up. So that means that you will get to fight first degree black belts, which is what I really want you to fight. And then whoever else shows up to the tournament, if they're third or fourth, there'll be a black belt, and they get to fight each other. So we're gonna have the tournament, we're gonna do the tournament, we're gonna be the tournament's sponsor. And that way, we're making sure that we get good competition for you. That means that you'll probably be able to get a good number of fights, because there will probably be a lot of people who come to your division, since it's targeted. When most black belts hear about a tournament, they go, a bunch of kids, a few people. But when they say, hey look, this is for adults only, and only black belts, then they go, hmm, I would like to try that. They know, you know, we're talking to them, who we want to be there. The reason that the regular tournaments are open to everything and get so many kids is because they do it to make money. They charge $50 per fight or event or something like that. And tons of kids come and then they go, cool, we made a whole bunch of money because we were open to everyone. We're not doing it to make money. We're doing it to have a nice competition experience. So it should be a nice competition experience.

0:47:47
Isn't that nice?

0:47:48
So the thing about that is, you know, who goes to competitions?

0:47:53
Usually people who are pretty good at them. So you'll probably, you'll have really good competition. But I think that you're, 95% of you are ready. 5% of you need to work on blocking. Don't let someone hit you, it's really important.

0:48:26
Actually block.

0:48:28
Okay. Isn't that nice? I'm not sure on the date yet, but it's going to be a black belt competition. Hooray. Thank you all very, very much.

0:48:43
Thank you all very, very much. Thank you all very, very much.

0:48:46
Nice, nice.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
