0:00:00
Okay, so see

0:00:04
Let's talk about problems We've got so many problems there's so many problems There's no end to problems You think you have problems

0:00:13
There's no end to problems.

0:00:16
You think you have problems.

0:00:19
So does that guy and this guy, everyone. Even me, I have problems. Mostly they're you. It's really important to take a look at problems, because a lot of learning to do Maitri is learning to transform problems. Maitri actually transforms problems. Transforms them into what? Something else. As long as it's not a problem, it's probably pretty good. But yeah, Maitri is a way of transforming problems. Because actually, the pathway to enlightenment really is about finding solutions. Finding solutions to the problems of life. Finding the solutions to the suffering of the self.

0:01:44
So that's what it's about.

0:01:46
It's like, what's the path about? You know, we can look at the path that we're on and say, oh, the path is about making a lot of money, scuba diving and having fun, dealing with hardship and being happier. And those are part of the path. But essentially, the path, the study, this whole thing we're doing, is a way of solving the most essential, quintessential problem, the most existential problem of being, which is the self, the suffering of the self, the limitation of the self. So we find solutions. And we use our methods. We use our Maitri, we use mindfulness, we use meditation and our yoga. We use our practices to succeed.

0:02:51
So it's problem-solving.

0:02:53
Enlightenment is problem-solving.

0:02:55
I heard of a really nice

0:02:57
problem-solving thing. This is a good one. So in Mongolia, they found that there was a lot of minerals, copper, gold and things. So they're like, hey, let's start mining here. But in order to mine, you actually need a lot of water. And most of Mongolia is a desert. And for thousands of years, there have been these coveted wells. So, you know, water is essential for the life of the society, and there's a limited amount of water. So they're like, okay, we know our water really, really well. We've been here for thousands of years using these water resources, so they really understand it. So the mining company, they went, hmm, so you guys are using this water. And they said, well, I'm just going to try something else. I'm going to, you're drilling down 100 feet and finding water. I'm going to keep drilling and drilling and drilling and drilling and drilling. And they eventually went down to like 1,000 feet drilling. And they hit a massive aquifer. Massive. Like a hundred times bigger than the water resources that the people knew about. And then they said, okay, great, we can do our mining. So, you know, I think that when we look at solving problems, when you go deeper, you drill deeper, you can find a wealth of light and a wealth of opportunity, solutions to problems. When it seems like it's impossible, like there's every possibility for success at any time in any situation You just have to meditate and become still and Eventually you find the answers. It's very bright and beautiful So if they can do it in Mongolia You can do it in your meditation. You can do it by going deeper and then you'll find the resources to overcome your problems. So what is a problem? A problem is when we don't get our way. If we get our way, it's not a problem. Well, I got my way. I want this, I got it. If I want this and something gets in the way, that's a problem. Right? That's a problem. And the problem with our problems is that we have an idea of what we want. We have a goal we want to reach. You might have a desire. It might be a concept, a desire, or something. Usually it's around something about a desire. You have a goal. You say, my goal is to do this so that I can be happy. What's wrong with that? That's nice. And when something gets in the way of that, then you're unhappy. You're like, oh, it would have been nice, but now it's a problem and it's a difficulty. So in Buddhism, we tend to look at things differently. We practice looking at things differently. Our goal is not to attain a desire. That's not it. We might be working on our yoga to attain something, money, a condition, success, a software product. So we might be working to that goal, to that means, but we don't have the outlook that once I code this, and once I sell it, and I make all this money, then I will be happy. Because if you set that up, you'll be chasing a desire. And we don't chase a desire. What we do is we do yoga. We work on yoga, we work on yoga, we work on yoga. And when we succeed, we have just more cash flow and energy flow and we're happy working on yoga. So from the outset, you cannot set goals of, if I do this, if I get what I want, if I set my goal, it will make me happy. That's when you will run into problems. And that's when you will be unhappy because the problems get in the way. But with Maitri, just like the selflessness that we practice in yoga. We set goals for enlightened practice. We set goals, you know, it's like, I'm going to get my black belt. And getting a black belt, will that make me happy? I don't know, maybe if you set that up as a reason. But if you just get it because it's powerful. I'm just getting a black belt because it's powerful. And it's part of the study. There's nothing about me desiring it, me going, if I get it, then I will be something. I will be someone. I can kick, I can punch, and now I'll be happy. If I can kick and punch, I'll be happy. Or whatever. If I get the job, if I get the yoga success. You can't say, once I get that, then I will be happy. You have to seek instead just the goals as the discipline that we work on. I'm going to get a black belt because this is what I'm working on. I'm going to succeed in yoga because this is what I'm working on. Not that it will make me happy. We seek instead goals that will give us balance. So instead of seeking happiness in the goal, we seek balance in our goal. So I will have a greater balance when I'm a black belt. I will have a greater balance when my yoga makes 10 million dollars. And we say, great, it's fantastic. But you can't set it up as happiness. You have to set it up as a goal for balance. And then when a problem occurs, it's not a problem. It's not the thing that's stopping you from in between you and your happiness. It's just something to work on, something to practice Maitri about. And the actual practice of mindfulness, practice of yoga, practice of maitri is the result, which is balance. So it's not a problem anymore. It's a practice of balancing whatever pain, whatever suffering, whatever difficulty comes up. You work the problem, do what is intelligent, take the right actions, and you don't look at it as, oh this is stopping me from my happiness, it's horrible. You look at it as, this is This is something that I practice my yoga and Maitri about. I just practice with this. So as Buddhists, we don't see problems. You know what I don't see here? A problem. What we do is we work on everything in our lives. Wherever there's an imbalance, we practice Maitri, yoga, mindfulness, meditation, and these methods bring us into balance. So instead of sitting there and saying, okay, I get this result, I'm happy. If you're on the way to that happiness, you have bad feelings, we say, oh, wait, that doesn't make any sense. Because that means that under certain conditions I feel horrible, and then when I get the money I feel happy. But then when those conditions happen again, then I'll feel horrible. So we actually want to master the difficulties that arise in life. We don't want to skip over them. We don't want to just avoid them. When it arises in our mind, in our life, we actually deal with them. We learn from these experiences. So we actually take problems as spiritual lessons and by dealing with them, by using Maitri, selflessness and impeccability, we're able to overcome the difficulties where we create balance. We can take on a difficult thing and we can create balance and then move beyond it. So the actual difficulties give us the same experience as the result, balance. So that's how Maitri really transforms problems. Very often people blame, right? They say, this is a problem because of you. And that's kind of the regular ego self-defense mechanism. And we try to look at it in a different way. Instead of blaming another person, We try to look at it in a different way. Instead of blaming another person, we practice maitri. So we practice this friendliness to ourselves and to the other people. We don't blame them, we actually take the responsibility ourselves of the situation. Even if it's a difficult person causing difficult problems, we still have this attitude. This attitude makes it much better. There's a story about a Buddhist monk who practices Maitri when he's dealing with a difficult person. So he's in the lower foothills of the Himalayas and they have a lot of lodges up there. So he's in the lodge, and in the lodge they have a big main room and they serve food So he's in the lodge, and in the lodge they have a big main room, and they serve food and drink and everything. So it's this old monk, and he's sitting there in the corner, and then this wild man comes in. He's got knotted hair, and he's dirty, like most Tibetans. Oh, that was so bad. Yeah, so he's just filthy, dirty, smelly, horribly disgusting, but he's big and he's strong and that makes him even more smelly. And he comes in and he's like, oh, I'll have some wine. And he grabs the wine, drinks it, and then he goes and bothers people. He's all, hey, what are you eating? Give me your chicken! Get out of here! Why are you looking at me?" He gets in a fistfight with someone and beats someone up and the monk sees this horrible thing happening. This big strong guy is bothering everybody and creating such a problem and everyone's scared and having and all bothered. But beaming at him. Smiling, beaming, filled with maitri. And then the guy notices what's with the monk and he goes over to the monk and he says, what are you doing? It's all like, why are you smiling at me? And then the monk says, I think I see a family resemblance. He's like, what? I don't look like you. And the monk says, when I was first a monk, I had a lot of youthful energy when I first became a monk, and I still had a lot of trouble with my sexual energy. But I was in a monastery with a bunch of guys who were practicing celibacy, but I had to do something. So at night I would jump over the wall and I made love to a yak. This guy's like, what do you mean? Family resemblance. He's all like, I think you might be my son. So this is my trick. It's looking at a difficult person, a difficult situation, and just thinking of the best, like as if he's your son.

0:17:37
You just love him.

0:17:39
So this is how we solve problems with people. Don't look at the problems with people as,

0:17:46
oh, that guy's a jerk. Think of him as your yak boy. Yeah, so, you know, very often we see ourselves as, you know, dealing with problems. We're like, oh, because of this person, this thing, this stuff, you know, it's like ABC, all of these things cause my suffering. And the only way I will be happy is if those things go away. That's not true. You know why? Because if those things start going away, you'll just start getting picky about other things. You'll say, oh, the thing that really makes me unhappy is my job. Then you'll get fired. And then you go, well, the thing that really makes me unhappy is that I don't have a job. Okay, it's not even a job. It's money. I don't have the money. So you'll, and then you'll say, oh, you know, the real problem is this person doing this to me. And then they'll stop doing it, they'll go away. And then somebody else will. Or even if the things, you say, these three things, they bother me. As soon as those three things go away, you'll notice other things. Because your mind falls into dissatisfaction and looks outward. That's why we have to fix it inwardly. Because actually, this is the fault-finding mind. The mind looks out, blames other things, but the truth is that your outlook is the problem. There's something wrong inside that creates dissatisfaction, and then it just finds something else out in the world. It says, oh, that thing is going to be the reason. I'm going to assign this feeling to that thing. And then you say, great, this is fantastic. Now I have something to say. This is a problem. It's kind of like the pathway to enlightenment through negation, only wrong. So the pathway to enlightenment through negation is you ask yourself, who am I? Then you say, am I the body? No, I'm more than the body. Am I my brain? No, I'm more than my brain. Am I that chair over there? No. Am I in my thoughts? Am I in my feelings? And you go through all of these things, and you say, am I this? Am I that? Am I this? Am I that? And you just keep saying, no, I'm not this. I'm not that. And then you finally find that you're nothing, and you become enlightened. Bing! So, if you try to practice the pathway to negation incorrectly, you say, the only thing that will make me happy is if I negate everything that makes me unhappy. Then you'll always miss it if you're always pointing to, that person makes me unhappy. So if I negate that, then I'll be happy. Oh, but then that thing makes me unhappy. If I negate that, then I'll be happy. Oh, no. You'll go in this endless process of negation. The only way to really understand negation or how to solve problems is to negate the self. So the pathway to negation is about you. Who am I? Am I this idea? Am I the son of this person? The king of this country? Whatever you are, right? You'll find that no, you're not. And it's all inner. It's all inward. Anything outward, negate that, negate that. If you're trying to negate problems, boom, boom, boom, boom, then you are looking out and you're unbalanced. We always look in. We negate the problems within, and then we see that outside that you can deal with the things that happen. You don't have to call them problems. You can deal with the things that happen.

0:22:21
Stuff happens.

0:22:22
There's still pain in life, but when you've negated the problems in your spirit, then outwardly you can deal with it. I would say you can deal with it. You're still in the Kali Yuga. There's still pain and suffering. There's still difficulty, but you definitely, definitely we work on looking inside, looking at ourselves, and not getting confused, not sticking to, oh, this is an idea of myself, this is how I was, and therefore that's how I am now. Because when you stick to ideas, you actually limit yourself and you end up looking at life incorrectly and then what you do in life ends up being incorrect. And I have another little story, a joke about this kind of situation. So there's this guy, a very proper gentleman, and he always wears a suit. And he starts having some problems. He starts having a headache, and he starts seeing stars. He's like, oh, I see stars everywhere, and my vision kind of goes out, and then there's just lights and stars, and my head's a little bit light and headache and I feel funny. So he goes to his doctor. And he says, doctor, this is horrible. What's happening to me? The doctor examines him. Doctor looks in his eyes, sticks a thermometer in his ear, taps him on the head. And he says, I think this might be a brain cloud. He's like, I've seen this before and it's not good. There's nothing we can do about it. So, you know, I would give you maybe two months to live. And he goes, oh, doctor, this is horrible. What should I do for my last two months? The doctor says, I don't know, you know, have a good time. You'll see stars, you might have a little bit of a headache, but you know, you should be able to experience life in a good way, and then you'll just drop dead. So he says, okay, thanks, doctor. So he takes all of his savings, and he goes, I'm just gonna have a really good time. Buys a new car, goes out to dinner at good places, and he's like, I'm having a good time. And he goes, oh, you know what I always wanted to do? I wanted to get a, he liked, would always dress really well. So he's like, I'm gonna get an expensive tailored suit. So he goes to the best tailor in the town. And he says, all right, I need a suit this size and actually let's tailor me a shirt as well. And this is gonna be really nice. Taylor's like, okay, good, $5,000, no problem. So he's measuring for the jacket and everything, and everything's good. Then he's getting measured for his shirt, and then he says, okay, we're gonna give you about a 15 and a half collar, and we're gonna do 36 on the inseam here. And then the guy goes, wait, wait, no, no. I have a, I do 14 on the collar. And then the tailor says wait let me measure it no no it's 15 look I goes no it's been 14 that's the way it's always been I always have 14 on the collar and then the tailor goes if you have 14 on the collar you're Oh. So he had an idea of how he always dressed.

0:26:22
His neck got a little bit bigger as he grew and he kept wearing the same shirts.

0:26:27
So when you're out of sync with life, you know, when you look at life in a, oh, it's always been this way, this is who I am. It actually creates what we would call the problem. The problem is initiated by you thinking life is a certain way, that you're a certain way. And then you go out and put on shirts that are too tight around the collar.

0:27:09
And you start seeing stars.

0:27:10
And then you think that you're gonna die. Your doctor doesn't know. Doctors all, yeah, there's something wrong with you. So this is why we always look inside. We look inwardly. And this is where we solve our problems. And then we don't do stupid things outwardly, we can deal with them in a balanced way. From our introspection, through our meditation, mindfulness, the practice of Maitri, through our contentment, an innate balance, and just an inner happiness. That inner happiness of your, you know, that friendliness and kindness to yourself. You just have a good feeling. Even when we face difficult things, there's a good feeling deep down inside. You can do it. You've got the support of your own mind. You have the support of your own, of your positive mind. That's Maitri. And then you can experience things in a good and positive way. So if you look at problems with people, so you're like, oh, this guy, he really bothers me. Oh, because of this reason and that reason. Now, if you're content, right, if you are like, I'm happy and content, does that person really bother you? No, not when you're happy and content. You're like, I feel really good, and then you look at that person and you're like, I feel really good. If you're content and happy, you're not jealous. Can you be jealous when you're content and happy, you're like, oh, I used to be jealous of that person because of those cookies. Because she has all the cookies, so I get really jealous. But then when you've eaten some cookies, your cookies of my treat, then you're content, you're happy. You're like, I'm content. And then do you look at the girl with the cookies and feel jealous? No, because you're content. If you're content, are you angry? No. If you're content, are you depressed? No. Maitri brings you to a state of contentment, and you're able to face difficulties, things where you used to be angry, you used to be jealous, you used to be out of balance, you used to be all strange, and you're able to face those things with an inner poise and an inner luminosity and be okay with those things. When something new comes up, you can deal with it because you have contentment inside. That is the practice of Maitri. Pretty cool. All right, now we're going to do just a little happy meditation again. This is going to be an open eye meditation for no specific reason. Just a little meditation. Just a little bit, just relax, you know, offer some friendliness and and to sit quietly. Don't worry too much. Don't worry about thinking or not thinking. Just sit quietly with your eyes open.

0:31:53
So, Thank you. Yeah. the So, So, You

0:36:12
Very nice. Yeah, so on our way to the intermediate teachings, there are certain transmissions of light that can't be spoken about. It's an empowerment. And we can talk about Maitri, we can experience Maitri, but some of the transmissions, there's nothing to say. There's only the direct awareness and the actual transmission.

0:38:11
It's very nice.

0:38:12
So we'll just take another short break, your biggest problem. And for a lot of you, most of you who are at an intermediate level or doing well in your job yoga, but the primary way that you're going to make a tremendous leap in your spiritual practice, meditation, mindfulness, and yoga, is by succeeding in yoga. So yoga is the place where we can actually take the actions, like Milarepa building his little towers, we can take an action that burns off karma. We can apply ourselves to something that enlightens us. So our work can make a huge jump for us. Now, meditation, yeah, it's harder. You know, you could, of course.

0:39:38
Maybe that's your problem.

0:39:39
Your meditation is broken. But I want you to think of what's your main problem. And for a lot of you, it's actually some key people. How do I make this yoga hit a home run? Because then, when you figure that out, massive jump. It's like, you know, it's cash flow equals energy flow. When you get it, it is like explosive in terms of power. I was like, it was my satori moment. Not really, but really enlightening, bright. My whole awareness is luminous and I felt so much power when I made a sail. And those are just little steps up on path. But for the yoga projects that we have, we have some that have really huge potential. And that is their destination in the second attention. And when we get it there, it really leads to a real tremendously bright shift. Very similar to Milarepa. This is a big opportunity. Yoga is very powerful. If you're doing a bad job with yoga, you're making a huge mistake. Yoga is your best friend, and it is giving you Maitri, but you have to be there for it. You have to be present and engaged to receive the Maitri from your yoga. So your yoga is your spiritual friend. You should do an excellent, wonderful, impeccable, selfless job with your yoga. Very important. So yoga is a huge way to move up. But some of you might have other problems. Some of you have other problems. Some of you have some serious other problems. So if for you it's just getting a job or keeping a job or something like that, maybe that's your problem. But I want you to take the break and just say, what is my biggest problem? Just to ponder it. Again, not to get yourself down into your problems, because we're going to find a solution. We're going to find the way out. We're going to, you're going to see the answer.

0:42:35
Die Antwerp.

0:42:36
Okay, so we'll take a little break and we'll come back. break and we'll come back. break and we'll come back. Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
