0:00:00
First of all, for the majority of you, today was a better diving day. Great. So I want you to, when you're going to eat, feel your tension. And see if you notice any difference. Because you did, you know, like, I don't know, my group, we had like, a good half hour session sitting in the sand on both dives doing these exercises and boy was it really wonderful. Bodhi Sita underwater is very good. Very good. It was very nice. Okay, so today we're going to take the same concept of the hurt area. And we're going to practice an exercise called the five gems. And when we're doing the five gems, we're focusing actually on internal organs not here yet, but in Chinese medicine there's energy stored in organs and We're able to access the energetic level through this breathing exercise which promotes Not only organ health the health of a you know your lungs or your kidney but those organs that store energy have connections throughout the body they have meridians, energetic pathways associated to them and acupuncture points associated to them so it actually promotes health throughout the whole the lungs, right? So the lungs are here somewhere in your chest and it's good for them to be healthy, but when you have healthy lung energy, then the lung meridians run all the way down the body from the top from the forehead down to to the heel. So it actually promotes positive energy throughout your whole physical body. So this exercise... Oh, you got it? Okay. So this exercise is very similar to the exercise last night light, exhaling the darkness. But we have a color for each of the five major organs. So the first gem. Inhale light, exhale the darkness, and as the darkness goes away, your lungs are a white diamond. The second part is the kidneys. So you've got two kidneys located in the back. As you inhale, you inhale blue light. Dark energy comes out as you exhale. You can imagine the dark energy coming out of your mouth. You can also envision the dark energy just shooting right out of the kidneys, you imagine that your kidneys are sapphires. Shiny, bright sapphires. So that's a symbol that you make in your mind. Okay, then you bring your focus to the liver. Tara, where is the liver? On the right side below the ribcage. On the right side below the ribcage. We have the liver. We inhale green energy, bright green energy to the liver to be a bright, shining emerald. Then we focus on the heart, kind of like the heart. And we inhale a red light, a bright, happy red light to the heart. exhale the darkness, and as we exhale all the toxicity and darkness, we see the heart as a ruby, a bright happy ruby. And lastly, we focus on the spleen, and everybody knows where the spleen's on the left side, under the ribcage. And that's just a spongy tissuey organ, but it's a very important one for storing energy and for the health of your body. the spleen, we inhale a brilliant yellow light, we exhale the toxins, and we experience a kind of shiny topaz, a shiny bright yellow topaz in the area of the organs. So let's do it together, and I will walk us through it. So yeah, sit up nice and straight, nice and easy. We're going to first focus on the lungs. Inhale white light to the lungs. Inhale. Exhale. Exhaling dark toxicity. Everything bad comes out. And as the darkness goes out, you see that the lungs are white diamonds. And again, inhale. Exhale the darkness. See the shiny diamonds. One more. Inhale. Exhale. White diamonds. Very good. Now we're going to bring the on the sides. Inhaling blue light, exhaling darkness. Inhaling blue light, exhaling darkness and seeing two sapphires where the kitties are. Shiny Exhale. One more. Inhale. Exhale. Very good. Now we're going to bring the attention to the liver on the right side under the ribcage. We're going to inhale green light. Exhale exhale the darkness inhale the green light exhale the darkness and see a shiny emerald inhale bright green light exhale the darkness. One more inhale the green light exhale the darkness. Shiny emerald. Very good. Now we focus on the heart. Inhale a bright red light to the heart. Exhale darkness, toxicity, stagnant energy. Inhale bright red light. Exhale the darkness and see that the heart is a ruby. Inhale, the red light. Exhale, the darkness.

0:09:46
One more cycle.

0:09:48
Inhale, the red light.

0:09:49
Exhale, the spleen. Inhale a bright yellow light. Exhale darkness. Inhale bright yellow light. Exhale the darkness and see a bright, shiny topaz. Inhale, bright yellow light. Exhale, stagnation toxicity. One more. Inhale. Exhale. Alright, very good. So, I don't know, we went through that kind of, you know, kind of quickly so that, you know, it's something everyone can do. Of course, you want to do it slow breathing, whatever's comfortable for you, but slow. And really work on the envisioning the light, the energy of that bright light going to those organs and exhaling darkness out of there. Get the bad energy out. And then seeing that your organs are shiny gems. That's the five gems. White for the lungs, blue for the kidneys, green for the liver, red for the heart, and yellow for the spleen. That's all you got to remember. Okay, so that is the exercise we'll work on tomorrow. It's a cool exercise. I think you'll have fun doing it. But we're also going to do another exercise tomorrow. So we're starting to expand the scope of our awareness into the world of rescue. So we're going to do some rescue exercises tomorrow. So we'll have to tell our divemasters, hey, we're going to do rescue exercises. And they'll say, okay. And then maybe, you know, they can advise after they start seeing what we do. So what we're going to do is, we'll probably have, I'll probably give you guys some scenarios tomorrow morning, but it's most likely going to be this. For every dive master and every rescue diver, you're going to perform a rescue. We're going to work in rescue teams, so you won't be alone, it'll be you and your rescue will be helping a victim, a victim diver. So it will most likely be, for the case of everyone, but I might give some variation, there will be an unresponsive or unconscious diver at the surface. And someone will point it out to you, and then the two of you have to go and handle it. And the scenario will be that most likely you go, the person's not breathing or something, they have to do rescue breaths, you've got to get them on the boat, so two of you have to get somebody on a boat. I'm on a boat! And then once you get them on the boat, you have to see if their heart is there, if they're breathing. I'll give a scenario so that you actually, you're going to know what you're going to have to do, but you're going to have to do it. So it will be a challenging scenario for rescue, where you have a diver in the water that you got to get on the boat. And then you have to check them with everything. So for rescue divers, you have to go remember your rescue, right? Cuz you're going to have to go through the steps tomorrow. And then, of course, if you forget steps, then somebody will point it out to you. Hopefully, another dive master or maybe the dive master of the boat, whatever. But while we're doing rescue, these rescue practices for the rescue divers and divemasters, we're going to practice the healing exercise from yesterday. So we're sitting there doing rescue breaths, pulling somebody out of the water, and going through all the regular stuff with regular tonal, but at the same time we're going to add a second part of our attention. A second attention. And the second part of attention is going to be the breathing light up, exhaling darkness out. There might be a case where in your scenario you see that the person has a specific problem, like their elbow, and then you'll say, oh, they have a problem with their elbow. And then you'll inhale light to the elbow, exhale darkness from there.

0:15:30
To their elbow or to the elbow?

0:15:32
not a self-healing practice. This is a healing another person practice with the same basic inhaling light, exhaling the darkness. So you will be in a rescue dive scenario and you will be practicing this second attention of healing. So this is a very, very powerful thing to be able to do. To be able to work on the first attention of all sorts of things, right? you guys know, that's what happens in rescue. But I want you to have in your, you know, the second part of your attention continuously on bringing, of breathing light. And it might not even be associated with your breath, you might just use it with your mind. The intention of raising light into their mind and pushing out toxicity. This is a practice that makes sort of magical things happen in a rescue. Some people when they're doing a rescue, they just have a presence of mind and a calmness that makes the whole situation better. So somebody like might have a horrible thing, like they got their leg bit off by a shark and they're all, oh, I'm gonna die. And then this awesome rescue person's on. It's okay. And then they're just, get them to be calm so that they don't go into shock, so that the problem doesn't escalate. And this kind of, you know, these kind of calm, powerful, healing energy techniques are something that heal and make the situation this aura of betterness. So that will be the practice that we do. We should probably do it in between dives. And so you first dive, and then you're doing a surface interval. Whether they've got to go back to the doctor or not, just say, hey, we want to run some rescue scenarios, take a little longer. They're supposed to be there on time tomorrow at 1130, so we'll have a little bit more time to do the exercises. Okay, and then maybe after the second dive, if there's a little bit of time, we'll do some more of them. We don't have to get them all done tomorrow, because we can do them again the next day. So that will be very, very fun. Now, if you're not a rescue diver, you get to be a victim. And it's good to be a victim. So, you will know what you're supposed to do in this scenario. My elbow hurts, or I'm just supposed to lay here and pretend I'm unconscious. And it's really important that during this exercise, the victim doesn't laugh. It's very important. Yeah, so we actually have to do these exercises seriously. It's actually important that we actually take it seriously like it is a real rescue problem. So I remember we were doing a rescue class when I was getting my dive master, and my dive instructor, what he would do during the rescue class. So he has four guys doing rescue. And then he was like, OK. He told me, all right, I want you to jump over to the other side of the boat and pretend you're unconscious. And then he's just like, hmm, hmm, hmm, hmm, hmm. And then someone on the boat's all, hey, what's wrong with that guy? And then the four rescue guys are all, huh? And then the instructor's like, oh my gosh, unresponsive diver. And then they're all, they didn't know if it was real or not. They're just like, is this part of the class? Wait, we just got to help this guy, right? And then they took it very seriously. And it's important to actually take it seriously. It fosters a realistic attention. So you don't want to just be goofing around and, oh, I messed that one up, and laughing at each other, don't do that, right? We want to take this seriously in our mind to make this a serious experience. It helps with the rescue attention and it also helps with the healing attention. So, yeah, so no laughing. I know it's hard, but no laughing. So you have to be in the state of mind of, you know, emergency and healing. So yeah, so if you're not a rescue diver or dive master, you'll be able to volunteer if you want, if you want to, you don't have to, but you can be a victim. And being a victim is awesome. You know, you say, okay, here's how I have to be this problem. And then you really can see and be aware of how people can rescue you. And how, and how, and also you'll be aware of the healing energy that they're projecting while they're rescuing you. So it should be very, very interesting.

0:21:03
We will do that tomorrow.

0:21:05
So is there any current rescue divers or dive masters? That's right, current, if you're a card-carrying DM or rescue, then you can do it. But if you're advanced open water, you can just be a victim.

0:21:23
Yes?

0:21:24
When you rescue people, you don't have their gear on, right?

0:21:28
Sometimes you do.

0:21:31
Do victims have full gear on?

0:21:35
Sometimes they do? Yeah. I guess I'll write the scenarios out and give them to you tomorrow. Okay. They were just wondering, who's got gear on? The victim? Does everyone have gear on? Sometimes. Okay. So, that's the practices that we will be doing tomorrow. And then otherwise, you And otherwise you can work on any of the other healing exercises. The Bodhisitta underwater, very, very interesting. Really like it a lot. It's really good. So yes. And then we will be journaling the rescue experience and also the five gems. But I think that this rescue experience should be very, very interesting. Okay.

0:22:23
Now thank you.

0:22:24
I see a bunch of books and medications over there. That's fantastic. We are going to put a team together that's going to go down there, but it's not going to be tomorrow. It'll be the next day. So, for the... we have a lot of books. That's really good. So, for the books and the meds, we're going to put a team of four. They're gonna go and disperse medications and mystic scubas Good and thank you gentlemen for Improving yourselves it's like Like in Italy And this is certain sections where these guys are like, these young guys are hanging out on the street, and then a girl walks by and they're all like,

0:23:17
Hey! Hey! Hey!

0:23:20
Hey!

0:23:21
Hey!

0:23:22
Baby! Baby! It's like, and then, you know, it's just like some woman's just trying to go somewhere and she's getting bothered by all these guys. We don't want that situation kind of happening at a Mystic Scuba Meditation event, right? Not at all. It gets bothersome and stuff like that. So it's really important to, you know, not... Don't go into those energy cycles. That's a waste of energy. A waste of energy. Okay. I think that's going to meet tomorrow at 10.30 again. The bus, he said, he was clear that he was supposed to be here at 11.30. And it looks like we have all the meds and the books, so that's good. Any other questions?

0:24:20
Yes?

0:24:21
Repeat the assignment for the dive log for the people that came a little later.

0:24:29
Oh, dive log. Oh, yeah. So, okay, so I've been slowly looking at the dive logs, and they're looking good. So, basically, you know, you're going to take any experience that you have during this trip that is a bright or powerful experience. Especially every exercise that we get, we work on them underwater, and we really meditate deeply, reflect deeply on the exercises, and we try to understand a deeper awareness or dimension of the exercise. So whether it's an exercise or just a super interesting, powerful, spiritual moment, you will, anything of significance and all the exercises, you will write a log about. And the log should basically be like a little story that explains the situation, so explains the tonal of first this was going on, then, you know, it's like, we went down this, this happened, this happened, this happened. But the most important thing is that in the log you express the awareness. You can write down, I did bodhicitta. I did taking and sending. But you have to actually have an in-depth reflection of what taking and sending, the experience of it, is for you. Or if it's the five gems. When you do that, yeah, I meditated, or I did the thing to my lungs, and I imagined the white gem. I did the thing to my kidneys, and I imagined the sapphire. You have to get deeper into your experience of what was it to you. If it was exactly that, don't describe it in those words. Describe it in a meaningful way that actually conveys the awareness that you experience. So it's kind of a tricky exercise, because you've got to write down something that conveys your awareness. Very important. Very important. Otherwise it's just kind of boring. And it's got to shine. So this is an exercise in condensing an experience of attention into words that actually convey that light or that dimension. So it's important to really, really, really reflect deeply on your experience, to practice deeply, and to, you know, and to say it in a way that expresses that meaning the best.

0:27:48
Very important.

0:27:50
And, you know, so I'm reading logs and they're looking good so far. Which is really good. Because the last Bodhicitta writing assignment was not so good. I was like, what? Who are you people? Okay, so very important. Rog your rogs. And it might not even be an exercise. It might be you're going out on the boat, or you're driving on the bus to go somewhere, and you have an awareness of Bodhicitta, or something like that. If ever there's a significant moment then on the trip it's something that you should log. Okie-doke. Any other questions? Meeting adjourned! Okie-doke. Any other questions? Meeting adjourned! Yay! Good. I kept it brief.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
