0:00:00
All right, we're not going to go too much longer. I guess the amazing transformation of the Jaya. So it's very, very, very possible through aligning yourself with enlightenment to make rapid transformations. The bardo is a time that's really, really important because it's kind of a time of power. There's a radical transformation that's going on there. And usually for most people, the bardos are just kind of a sucked zone of karma. You go in with one state of mind, and you come out with... the state of mind that you're in at death, you come out with as your next incarnation. So it's usually just a suck zone of karma with a lot of horrific things that go on. You think it's horrible while it's happening, but it just will put you right back into the same position at birth. So that's what it is for most people. But if you have a teacher, if you're very advanced, or if you have a teacher who can help you in the bardos, then there's, if you have purity and selflessness, if you can align yourself with enlightenment at that time, then you can go very, very, very high, to a very, very high place. You can transform at that time in a significant way. So there are special times and special considerations in life and you work for enlightenment in your yoga, and if you do right by enlightenment, it creates very powerful and beautiful transformation, spiritual shifts, even in life, indefinitely in death. in depth. There's a book that I'd like you to read that really demonstrates this same kind of transformation that Jaya went through. There's an energy very similar in this book. So it's a way for us to understand aligning yourself with enlightenment. It's a way for us to understand the tremendous transformations that one could make, and the power and the beauty and the excellence of really serving an enlightened person in an excellent way. So the book is called the Ramayana. And we'll send out the link to you guys. We'll put it on the wiki or something tonight. But I'd like you to read this book. This book definitely has... It's a cute and kind of amazing little story, but it's actually a very, very powerful and beautiful story. There's a couple characters in there that serve enlightenment very purely, and I want you to especially pay attention to those characters. And with that we'll just have our final meditation of the evening. Very nice. So

0:04:34
don't get all heavy and weird.

0:04:37
Instead get all heavy and weird. Instead, remember that with all the things that you face, all the difficulties, even facing death, even facing your boss, even facing your yoga, meditation, meditation to have the Buddhist attitude, which is to look to win, to know that you're going to win somehow, and seek a higher way. So don't find yourself all glum and weird. You've got to stop that. You've got to push your attention. Wake up. And be positive. That's what this is all about. Positive in life means to succeed, to live, to be brighter. And not to be all weird out and feeling like you're strange. You have to say, oh, well, I need to fight and think and get brighter and see away, right? That's the attitude. That's the Buddhist attitude. And we're going to read the Ramayana and we'll see a couple characters who fight alongside enlightenment and they have this attitude. They don't have the loser, I'm a weirdo attitude. You have to have a positive attitude. So we'll read about that. the jaya teachings of aligning yourself with enlightenment. All righty, thank you all very much. The Schaubert, Ajna, Raja, Luke, Olga and Kali in my drawing room. The Schaubert, Ajna, Raja, Luke, Olga and Kali in my drawing room.

0:07:09
I have a room.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
