0:00:00
Tonight we're going to be meditating to some of the music from the City of Light album. It's a new one, but what you're listening to might not even be done. It's just underway. It's quite nice. One on the navel, one on the heart, and one on the third eye.

0:00:28
the the the so you you the the the the you you you you you. you you So you you you you you you you the the the the So, thank you. you you you So tonight, we're going to make a transformation.

0:11:53
miracles, which is turning one thing into another, or finding where the two things come together, the impasse of self. We're going to find a This is a very important consideration in the yoga of compassion. Every practitioner of bodhicitta needs to master.

0:13:07
The good news is that it's not hard to master.

0:13:09
It just takes repetition. But it's not hard. It just takes repetition. The other good news is that you have a lot of energy for the success in mastering bodhicitta. for transforming the darkness and limitation of the self to compassion and the pathway or selfish bodhicitta. And this is to say that you have to begin understanding compassion and bodhicitta by suffering by having compassion for yourself.

0:14:32
So in the beginning it's difficult sometimes for people to really have a strong connection

0:14:37
and awareness of why you should have compassion for other people. Or you might have compassion for certain people and not other people, or certain things, not other things. But it's easy to find in your own experience the impetus for compassion, and that is understanding your suffering. Because when you maybe see another, you might not understand intimately how they're feeling. Just on the outside, if you just look at the surface, someone might look a little sad on the outside. You might not be able to really feel and understand how they're feeling inside. So you're like, ah, the guy looks a little sad. There's a person crying. However, you understand from your experience and your own experience of suffering, that sadness really, really, really hurts. Or when you're crying, that you're really, really, really sad. And you understand what that suffering is to you. So when you understand it for how you feel, for yourself, you can understand how it feels for others. And you have to have a strong amount of compassion, practice of bodhicitta for others.

0:16:53
Because by practicing compassion on yourself,

0:16:58
you come to balance and understanding of the nature of suffering, because you know it most directly in your own experience. And since you intimately know suffering, you're able to understand it in others. So that's we are mindful of our experience of suffering. Because it informs us of the true nature of the ego, or the limiting factor of one's life and experience and awareness. And then when we have an understanding of that, when we have a way to be mindful to create an open space and that constrictive energy of self, then we create a balance in our being. And we're able to understand that same condition in others. and through practicing bodhicitta on our suffering. You see, everyone suffers. Everyone with an ego. Even enlightened people, because they have a physical body. They don't have any spiritual suffering or emotional disturbances. But existing in this physical world, there's difficulties. There's difficulties, there's physical pain, there's limiting karmas. So everyone suffers. When you recognize the essential nature of suffering, which is the limitation of spiritual awareness, the constricting factor of egotism, those factors of desire, fear, that delude and confuse you. They draw you into very, very limited thoughts that bind your attention and consciousness into a very, very small perspective. When you understand the nature of that yourself, when you, through the yoga of compassion, start to open that space, start to loosen the binds of those limited attachments and viewpoints. Then you start to get peace for yourself. And you also understand how to create that of limitation and suffering from egotism that you experience is the same that others experience. have suffering is from a limited perspective, a limited viewpoint, limited understanding of life. Their consciousness is bound to the self, to the smaller mind, limited aspect and all of their fears and desires, their attachments. And therefore when difficulties arise in their life, they can't understand them, they don't have perspective, and then they suffer. And then in their delusion they create more karmas of suffering. The cause of suffering in you, as in others, is the ego, is that factor. So when you know it, and you understand your suffering, you understand others. And understanding is the most important aspect of compassion. If you don't perceive it and understand it, then you can't practice bodhicitta, because you don't know what to practice on. You won't be able to effectively practice taking and sending, because you lack the awareness and the comprehension of what you know very, very, very well, your own suffering. So there's two ways to go in life. You can take any difficulty, any problem, be it small or large. You know, be it you know a war, death of a loved one, or maybe it's just that you broke a nail, or you're sitting in traffic, or you got into an argument with a friend. Any negative situation in life can either create a stronger egotistical reaction where you feel bad, where you act, where you react, become negative, where your mind becomes darker, and your viewpoint and Or, you can take any situation and you can learn something from it and have a more enlightened perspective by practicing mindfulness, by practicing the yoga of compassion. You can accept that lesson that life gives you, the situation, be open to it take it in. And become a brighter. Being. Because of it. There's lots of stories of people experiencing great difficulties. Horrible things in their lives. And then they come out stronger because of it. They come out more compassionate because of it. I was listening to a story on NPR the other day. They were talking about Black Monday, the stock crash of 1987. And there was a Wall Street guy who was making tons of money, having a great life, making millions, having a lot of fun, driving nice cars, just a great, fantastic lifestyle. And he's also doing a little bit of drugs and stuff. And when the stock market crashed, they started laying people off at his financial firm. Then he started to get scared that he would get laid off. So he started doing more drugs. Eventually, he did so much drugs that he did get laid off. And then his life went in a terrible way. He was doing too much drugs, he lost his family, he ended up living on the streets, just having a terrible, terrible time. And then he kind of cleaned up. He was at the brink, actually, of jumping off a bridge, I think the Brooklyn Bridge. So he was sitting there saying, I gotta jump, because it's the best thing. So he's just trying to talk himself into jumping off the bridge. But eventually he didn't. He said, maybe there's a chance I can turn it around. So he really got to that lowest point, where he really was having a horrible time living on the streets in a cardboard box and trying to get enough courage to talk himself into jumping off of a bridge. But he somehow just got by and didn't do it. And then later on, he cleaned up. There were some other bums on the street who went to an AA meeting and told the people at the AA meeting, hey, there's some guy on the street, this young guy, and he shouldn't be here, so help him out. So they went and got him and helped him out and he rehabilitated. So he had a horrible, terrible experience in his life. And then what he did after that is he cleaned up, doesn't do drugs anymore. And then now he spends a lot of time, he's a great proponent and a volunteer of a suicide hotline. And he's able to be effective at that because he's experienced it fully, completely. And he was able to change himself because of that very, very horrible experience. Now, that is an enlightened way to deal with suffering. And we all can do that. We all can deal with the worst, most terrible things in an enlightened way. And that is to say, yes, that's horrible. Yeah, that was terrible. Yeah, everything was crap. However, you know, what can I do to help others who experience that crap? You know, that's really compassion. what you can do. You can examine your own experience of suffering. And you can say, wow, I've had this horrible anger, this horrible depression, this problem in my life with my father, my brother, my monkey, my chinchilla. And you can say, you know, other people have these same problems, and I can help them. Because I've been there, I know what it's like. That's compassion. That's not just rolling over and being a victim. because that karma could crush you. Or it can make you enlightened because you learn from it. You say, whoa, this karma is terrible. It's the worst thing. And then you can learn from it, which means you transcend it. And because of that horrible karma, you become a more enlightened being. This is the path of compassion. Now, in the West, we have this idea of self-esteem. And I think it's more important for you to focus on self-compassion. So self-esteem is different than personal power. Self-esteem is more aligned with egotism, but the West is all about self-esteem. So it's like, oh, I have good self-esteem have stronger egos. And people with bad self-esteem have stronger egos. Like, they're like, oh, everything's terrible.

0:30:54
Me.

0:30:55
There's no way out. So either way, when you look at this understanding of self in the West, you've got to be like, yeah, arrogant and powerful. Being arrogant is great for business. Being a big jerk is great for business. People love you, they hire you, they argue with you, you beat them, and you get paid more. That's the American way. So this is that we are actually conditioned to see, Hungarians too, the West. We're conditioned to see that the biggest, you know, loudest mouth is the one who's the best. Right, the person who puts out the most energy is good. And then if you're not loud, and if you can't put out the energy, then you feel bad about yourself. So this is a paradigm of egotism. And we don't want to focus on self-esteem, good or bad. We want to take that out of the equation, because that has to do with egotism. What we want to focus more on is self-compassion. So when we feel bad about ourselves, instead of going into the self-esteem bad cycle, where we're like, oh I'm terrible, I feel horrible, you know, you want to start to give yourself compassion and understanding. Very often we end up being critics of ourselves. We look at ourselves and say, Oh, I'm such a jerk. Oh, I'm so horrible. And to some degree, you're right. To some degree, you have to say, okay, just logically, that was not an enlightened thing, in a mindful way, so that you can learn, but you don't take it to heart, because then your ego is kicking in. What you take to heart is compassion for yourself. And you start to say, wow, I'm thinking some very negative thoughts. And you say, boy, it's really hard to be in this situation and to think these thoughts. It's a difficult thing that I'm going through. You have to give yourself a little bit of softness and understanding and then you're not so critical and judgmental about yourself. People are more critical and judgmental about themselves than others. Most people. Some people are more. But even the people who are always like, that person, that person, that person, it's because they're not dealing with themselves yet. They're experiencing the judgmental aspect outside and avoiding the inside, but eventually, all of that that they're being judgmental about on the outside is in them. So when you have a judgment about someone else, it has way more to do with you than the other person. In fact, it's a reflection of yourself. So some people are more outwardly judgmental, but that's just because they're not looking inside to see how that's reflecting outwardly. But for most, let's say, meditators, most Buddhists, we tend to be very judgmental about ourselves. We think terrible thoughts, and we're mad about it, and we're sad about it, and we're just so upset. But we can look at others, and we might get bothered by certain people at certain times, but in general, we're not as upset about what's going on with others. We're more upset with what's going on in our heads. And when we see problems in others, we're like, hmm, that's them. But when you see it in yourself, you're like, oh my God, this is horrible. The worst thing. So it's like, if you look out and you see a big fat slob, ugly, circles under their eyes. And you're like, wow, that person, oh, they're horrible. Right, how nasty, what a disgusting looking person. Then you go, oh wait, this is a mirror. Then you go, oh, this is really bad. This is the worst thing. So when you just see it as someone else, you're like, somebody, whatever, you know, sucks to be them. But then, when you realize that it's you, you're looking in a mirror, it's worse. You're like, ah, it's me. It's even worse than I thought it was. So when you when you tend to see a person with your same problems, you go, you see what the problems are, you go, oh, mm-hmm. But when you see yourself with those problems, oh, this is horrible, the most terrible thing in the world. So this is something that as Buddhists practicing compassion, we need to understand that we need to give ourselves less criticism and more compassion. You don't have to criticize yourself to move on, to be successful. In fact, criticizing yourself drains you of personal power. So if you're just sitting there going, oh, I suck, I can never learn technology, or oh my gosh, I just failed two tech interviews, I'm never gonna get a job again ever in the universe. When you go through those critical judgmental thoughts, then you drain yourself of energy. You drain yourself of personal power. But when you take the same situation and you say, okay, well, I'm having a difficult time right now. And it's a hard time. You start to have perspective and you say, okay, but there's plenty of options for me. Everything's not so bleak for me. You start to give yourself compassion. You start to not be so difficult on yourself. And when you're not difficult on yourself, and you just give yourself some compassionate, positive support, and this is just basic mindfulness, then you see more opportunities, you see more options for success, and you're able to move ahead more constructively. You're able to actually succeed more quickly and to a higher degree because you're not sabotaging yourself with all the criticism, with all the judgments. So it's important for you to recognize that when you're looking at yourself, you should not criticize and be judgmental and nasty about yourself. When you see bad things, you should recognize that they're bad and limited, but you should say to yourself, boy, this is a difficult thing. You just got a reaction and made yourself... You had anger, you had a difficult experience. That's a sad experience. However, you can change, and you have in the past. So you give yourself those kinds of messages, and then it gives you the ability to stop the reaction and to move on and to succeed, to come into balance and to get ahead. So it's very important to give yourself a break, to be compassionate towards yourself. So if you're looking in the mirror, and you're like, gosh, look at my teeth, they're horrible. Oh, look at my eyes, they're so ugly. And my hair, I don't even have any. You know, so you're just sitting there, all these problems. I would say to you, isn't there anything good you see? No. There anything good about you at all? I guess I have very good eyesight and I'm good at seeing all the problems I have. So it's like, you know, that that's the negative judgmental way of looking at the self. Rather, you should look in the mirror, see the self, and if you see all these nasty things, you should be supportive and you should say, well, maybe I'm not a beautiful person, but I'm a lovely monkey. Or a very cute and cuddly Chewbacca. Or whatever, right? You've got to have a sense of humor about yourself. You've got to look at yourself in positive ways. I mean, Halloween's coming. And being a Chewbacca's not so bad once a year. So, yeah, you've got to give yourself a break. Don't look at yourself in such negative ways. So important. And when you have negativity, you have to really work on compassion. You have to work on saying, all right, I have this anger, I have this depression. Okay. going to practice taking and sending to myself. So taking and sending is a very, very, very powerful exercise. So when you have to be like a good friend and say, oh no, it's not so bad. That's the foundation of your outlook on yourself. But you do recognize that you have these problems, you have this pain, you have this suffering. It's real, right? But in that atmosphere of a larger perspective on your suffering, you practice taking and sending. And taking and sending with that awareness of that pain that you have, that suffering that you have, is a way that you can transform your suffering and also bring this light of Bodhisitta to others. So by knowing your suffering, by knowing it in you, you're able to help others. of a woman who, I think, she lost her child, her daughter, young daughter. Her daughter died somehow, sucked up into a vortex or something. And she was like, oh Buddha, the worst thing happened to me. I am suffering the most anyone could ever imagine. And the Buddha said, what happened? She says, my daughter died. It was horrible. We were sitting under a palm tree. She got sucked up into a vortex. The worst thing. And so she was just stricken with grief. And the Buddha said, I understand. He said, Do me a favor. Go to everyone in this village and ask them, every house in the village, and ask them in each house, how you can deal with this unique suffering. And she's like, that's your advice? You're the Buddha, you're telling me to just ask the village people? And he says, yeah, yeah, just go and do that. Ask every single one, then come back to me, and then we'll solve your problem." So she says, okay. So she goes through the hundreds of houses in the village, knocking on each door, explaining her situation, and then asking people for advice, their advice on her unique problem. And everyone had a little bit of advice. But when she came back to the Buddha, she was transformed, because what she had realized is that her unique and terrible and horrible suffering that just struck her was not unique. That everybody, every household that she visited had experienced something very similar. The loss of a family member. It might have been a grandmother, a grandfather, a son, a daughter, a baby. They all experienced some loss of life of a family member. that her personal suffering was so painful, but that everybody experiences that suffering. And when she recognized that everyone experiences that suffering and that it's so bad, it was a release for her because she learned compassion. She learned a way of understanding her own suffering by seeing that there's so many that experience the same thing. And she learned that there's a release and a support for the suffering of others, which is compassion. It's an energy of support that she got from the Buddha, that she got from her experiences going around to each household, and then telling her whatever advice from their experiences. So, upon coming back to the Buddha and having this experience, she very, very, very quickly attained enlightenment because she had learned the lesson of compassion. So, the lesson of compassion is very, very, very powerful and it's very, very, very enlightening. And that's why it's so important to learn it. It's so important for you to take your inner suffering and understand it and through the practice of bodhicitta, the yoga of compassion, you can transform it for understanding yourself and understanding suffering of others. And in that understanding, you're able to have a release, a release of egotism. So it's a very, very, very powerful, powerful experience. Bodhisitta seems very drab sometimes. You're just looking around going, all right, where's all the crap? That girl said, you're just going around, you know, when you when you're doing bodhichitta, you get in that mind frame, looking for suffering, inhaling, exhaling, like, you just, you know, from a kind of outward way of looking at things. It could seem kind of bleak. You're always looking for something. Where's all the crap I'm gonna inhale it? Exhale everything I know. Now I feel terrible.

0:49:23
You know, so when you're looking at things in that way,

0:49:25
it's not really the best way to look at it. But not really the way to look at it. But the truth is that bodhicitta is not bleak at all. The nature of bodhicitta is that in practicing that, there's a release. There's a liberation. So the awareness of taking and sending is an act of liberation. And it's not an act of looking for trouble and giving yourself away. It's a way of breaking through taking and sending. It breaks away the self-defense of the ego. It breaks away the attachments to an old self, an old view, personal history. And it brings you into an open, clear, beautiful, and limitless experience of consciousness. So it's not a, you know, it's like sometimes you can just start looking at it in a limited way, because it's such a simple teaching. Look for any suffering, take it in, give light. So it's something that looks maybe in its essence, or you know, I guess not in this, it looks in its surface, that is kind of a bleak exercise. But actually in its essence, it's a bright, happy, awesome exercise. A lot of people look at Buddhism that way, as being bleak. They say, oh, nirvana, what is nirvana? Nothing. What about myself? Will I be happy there? No. Because there will be no self. So a lot of people, when they hear about Buddhism, the final goal of nirvana, they're like, No, take it away. Take the nirvana away. But it's not like that at all. Just when you hear it on the surface, it sounds like, oh, this is horrible.

0:52:04
This is worse than hell.

0:52:05
At least in hell, I'm sitting there suffering.

0:52:07
But in nirvana, I'm not even there, which is worse. So therefore, we have a different experience in the practice of Buddhism, we see that nirvana is fantastic. Bodhicitta is fantastic. See, this is the kind of weird thing about the paradox, right, of enlightened practice. It's that you see from practicing compassion, from taking and sending, that there's something amazing, powerful, luminous, that it brings you from this single condition of self-construct to a great unity with all of being. And that's selfless. That's where you move beyond the self and you experience nirvana. You go beyond the self into a great unity with all things. You're no longer just you, you are everything. And being everything is not so bad. But the practice of compassion is powerful. It's something that has a real effect on your consciousness and your experience of life. And it has a real effect on the experience and consciousness of others when you practice compassion. story, there was a young man who was a martial artist, and he had heard about this Shaolin master, I think the abbot of the temple at that time. And the young man was a strong martial artist. He had been able to go around and beat up a lot of the other Sifus in the town. So he's like, I'm going to go over to the Shaolin temple. He's like, because only that one Shaolin master is better than me. He just knew it. He said, that guy, I could tell from his personal energy that he is more powerful than me. So he said, all right, I'm going to go there and I'm going to just ask him for the teachings. So he goes to the Shaolin temple, and the Shaolin monks try to keep him out, but he beats them up and goes in. They're like, you can't come in here.

0:55:03
Get out of my way.

0:55:04
So then he goes to the abbot, and the abbot is sitting there, teaching the young monks about Buddhism. It's like, here's the five precepts.

0:55:17
Be good.

0:55:19
Be better. Don't do this.

0:55:22
Oh, wait, no.

0:55:23
It's not all.

0:55:23
It's not be good. It's all don't do this, don't do that, don't do this, don't do that, don't do that. And then the little monks are like, OK, great. So he's teaching them these really good, wonderful things. And then the guy comes over and goes, Hey, he says, I want you to teach me the secret of martial Zen.

0:55:43
So,

0:55:45
you know, Bodhidharma, the founder of the Shaolin Temple, and the founder of Zen Buddhism, he taught a special thing called martial Zen. And that's what we do too, which is martial arts and enlightenment. And so the abbot said, all right, I will teach you on one condition. And the young man says, what, what is it? He says, you have to do exactly what I say and comply with it. You have to make an oath to that. And then the guy says, okay, I'll do whatever. I'm down for it. And so the abbot says, OK. He says, we're going to have a competition. And the loser will be killed, will be put to death. And then the young man's like, oh, OK. And then he started to get a little bit uncertain. He's like, well, I know this guy is a really strong martial artist, even though he's nearing 70 years old, but he has a lot of internal power and technique. So he started to become a little bit nervous. And then the abbot said, come over here, sit down at the table, we're going to have an arm wrestle. And then the young man's like, arm wrestle? He's like, I can beat this old man in strength, in physical strength. It's like, now, the guy might have some internal power for striking, but I'm sure I could beat him in arm wrestle. So he sits down confidently. And then he says, hey, wait a minute. When I win, how am I going to get the teaching? And then the master says to one of the monks, go and get the scroll of the secret. The secret scroll to Marshall Zen.

0:57:50
So that comes back with this secret scroll.

0:57:53
And it's like, okay, so if you beat me, you just will get the scroll. And so he says to the monks, if he beats me, give it to him. They were like, what? But then he'll take it. We won't have a secret. And then the guy's like, great, let's go. And then they sit down, their arm in arm. And then the abbot says, OK. He calls his strongest monk. And the monk holds a big stick. And he says, whoever's hand hits the table, I want you to strike them in the head and kill them. And this monk was very powerful, one of the best martial artists, and he was capable of that. And then the monk was all, but what if he wins? And he says, if he wins, you must follow my direction, strike me in the head, and kill me. And he's like, so promise. And the guy goes, OK, master. So he's sitting there with a stick, ready to hit whoever loses. And then they begin their match. And the monk all of a sudden seems to have a great amount of strength. And then the young man starts losing, steadily losing. And he works really hard, pushes as much as he can. But this old monk is beating him. And he's watching his arm go down, down, down. And then the big guy with the stick turns towards him. And then he goes, he starts thinking, as his arm's going down towards the table, he starts thinking, oh my God, I'm such an idiot. He's like, you know, of course this guy is going to win. He made the game. You know? He recommended that we play this. And then he's like, I was so stupid for coming here. This is the worst idea. I shouldn't have taken that vow. He's just like, I'm the biggest idiot. This is so terrible. Woe is me. I was just trying to learn the secrets of Marshall's head. So he's just going through all this prison himself and having just a hard time. And he's feeling sorry for himself. He's like, I'm just a young stupid guy this month about to kill himself. And then, for some reason, in all of his thinking and problems and complaining about himself, the young man just catches a glimmer of the monk's eyes. There's just like a little twinkle in his eyes. And he just looks at him for a moment. And something about that look changes his way of thinking. Then he starts to think, oh, well, this is going to be the end for me. However, at least I ended my life instead of going around fighting in the village, I ended my life seeking the truth, the Buddha Dharma, seeking the scroll of the secrets to martial Zen. So he's like, at least I'm dying in a noble way, and I'm dying to the abbot of the Shaolin Temple. And he comes to this acceptance of his life, acceptance of his situation, and he just gives himself this support of compassion. And right before his hand hits the table, he notices that, wait a minute, I'm coming back. And then he goes, hey, wow, this is really good. And he comes back to the center. And he's like, wow, maybe my positive thinking has gotten me to kind of start winning. And then he presses on, presses on, and then he starts bringing the old monk's hand down onto the other side. And then the Shaolin monks are all getting scared. And then the big monk with the stick kind of turns to look at him, his mouth open. Master, no. And he's getting his arm down. He's getting excited and pushing his arm down further and further and further. And he's getting really close to the bottom. And then he looks at the Buddhist master. And then he says, wait a minute. He's like, I have lived this ridiculously stupid life, where I've been going around being a jerk, being a fool, and causing problems for everyone else. And then there's this good Buddhist monk who is just sitting there teaching the small children what not to do the five things

1:03:23
what not to do.

1:03:24
You know, he's all like such a good and holy and pure being. It would be horrible for me to beat him and have him killed, even though it would get me that thing I wanted. So he goes, he makes a decision to bring his hand back up to the center, and then he lets go. He says, so he's like, I don't want to be in this anymore. And then the abbot says, okay. He says, well, I taught you what you wanted to learn. And then he says, what? He's like, yeah, I told you, if you do what I say, I'm gonna teach you what you wanna learn. The secret to martial Zen. And then the guy says, I didn't learn the secret. And he says, Yeah, yeah, you did. And then he's like... Then he says, how? Explain to me what I learned here. So then the abbot takes the scroll, opens it up, and there's this big Chinese character there that says, compassion.

1:04:57
And he goes, oh.

1:04:59
And the master says, at first, I was winning, and you were going through all of your thoughts of self, and then you had compassion for yourself. And then you were winning. And then instead of defeating me, you had compassion for me. And he said, once you were able to have compassion for yourself, you were able to have compassion for others. And that, and compassion, is the secret teaching of Marshall's end. And then the young man had a satori moment in realizing, becoming aware of what he experienced, and then he became a Shaolin monk and was one of the famous arhants, enlightened teachers of the teachings of martial I'd like to practice with you. Bodhisitta. And I'd like to start the practice of taking and sending with yourself. You know, a good thing, a little bit of homework here. When you go home over the next few weeks until we have our next seminar, I'd like you to look in the mirror. Look at yourself. don't be judgmental, don't go into the kind of low esteem or high esteem kind of things. You want to look at your pain, look at your suffering, understand what it is. There's a certain kind of honesty that you have when you look at yourself. You know, in a lot of ways in Buddhism, we look at ourselves. We look at ourselves in our thoughts, mindfulness, we look at ourselves in our stopping thought, meditation. But this is a practice of actually looking at yourself, looking at your form, It's a way of giving you access to that internal dialogue with your suffering. I want you to look at your suffering. I want you to be honest with yourself about what's going on. And you can do it once a day, once a week, whenever it strikes you as a time to do it.

1:08:22
Do it.

1:08:23
Take a look. look and just see take stock of what impressions you get of your suffering. Because this is a way for you to really see and understand your suffering so that you can extend it to others. Or like the woman who was with the Buddha, you can learn that everyone has suffering like yours, and that there's a reason for practicing compassion for all. So we're going to practice bodhicitta, where we become aware of our suffering, we become aware of our pain. We're going to practice taking and sending on ourselves. So, it's a self-absorbed meditation, in an enlightened way, where you really say, oh, I feel really sad about this. I feel really mad about this. This thing in the past made me sad. I'm bothered by this person sitting next to me right now. Or whatever. Anything that is going on that is negative and dark in your experience that creates suffering, pain, unhappiness for you, you're going to bring them to mind, bring those sufferings to mind and You're going to practice in with the inhalation taking in the darkness Taking in that suffering and then exhaling light now One way that is really effective for practicing taking and sending is to imagine yourself standing in front of yourself or standing in front of your mind's eye. As if you're looking in a mirror, you could say, oh look, there's me. How pitiable I am. Look at this little jerk. So angry. So depressed. So idiot. So you're just like, oh, how pathetic. But not in a negative way. You just are really like, wow, it's so sad that I'm a pathetic bump on a log who's so angry all the time. You've got to really, really be honest about your suffering, your problems. But we kind of detach ourselves and say, this is me objectively. You don't just sit there and go, I'm so sad and angry right now. You don't get trapped in it, but you take it, you take inventory of it, and you practice taking and sending with this you, this you, as if you're looking in the mirror. It's a outside yourself. So you say, oh look, there's that pain from when you were in third grade, and someone pinched you. And then you practice taking and sending, right? Taking the dark and the suffering and sadness and the anger, and then you send light, you send brightness, you exhale and bring the light to yourself. And you see yourself in that light, relieved of that suffering, but that suffering is absent because you've taken it away. And then in the light there, that you are happy and enlightened. So this is a practice of taking and sending. And I'd like to practice this for one song with you.

1:12:43
Okay. Okay, let's see. Thank you. you you you you. the you the So, you So, Now we're going to continue our consideration of Bodhicitta for just 30 or 40 seconds.

1:18:59
I'd like you to take this feeling of taking and sending for the suffering that you have, and I'd like you to expand it, to extend it to others. Maybe you have a sense of another person who's experienced something similar. Maybe you have a person you know or a situation you've seen before. In practice, extending the same taking and sending to them. Or, if you don't know of anyone with the same suffering, imagine that there's others out there who've had similar experiences. Maybe not someone specific, but someone out there has had the same suffering. So we will practice extending taking and sending. So we're just going to sit for 30 or 40 seconds, but clearly practice taking and sending for another. Let's begin.

1:20:11
Okay. Okay. Okay, good. Very nice. creates a very unusual field of energy and a very positive one. It takes you out of that constant self-wrap, you know, get wrapped up in your own suffering and just focused on yourself which is miserable, right? And it opens you up to an actual dimension of light that comes

1:21:44
through you when you get out of the ego. It's the opposite of that quality of experiencing life in a limited way. The self is always in self-defense. The ego is always in self-defense mode. And it's like, oh no, But bodhichitta is the opposite. That's bad. Take it. And that experience of opening up to that is the opposite of egotism. And when you practice it with repetition,

1:23:32
it changes your awareness field.

1:23:34
This energy changes the way that you are. So instead of always kind of defending and keeping things out and seeing life in a selfish small way, you're always opening. You're always opening to life and you become spiritually strong through the practice of accepting the dark and giving light. So it's a good, it's a much more positive energy field than dwelling on the self. All right, let's take a break. All right, let's take a break. Take a break for 15 minutes or so.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
