0:00:00
Well, happy winter solstice, everyone. So, according to the Mayan calendar, this is the last day of everything. But I guess there's advantages to following the pathway to enlightenment. Because I have a calendar at home that gives us till the 31st. Little tricks, right? Secrets, secret ways. So we shall see. It's going to be like 3 12am when the winter solstice hits. And everybody expects things to blow up. Well, not everyone, just most people in California. Some people say that it's going to be solar flares, and that it's going to happen when the sunrise comes. That's why I have the Hungarians on the line.

0:01:22
It's already 9am over there.

0:01:26
So when we hit noon there, if they're still there, we're gonna be okay. I really like these end of the world things that come up. We've had a couple so far. We've been through a few. Yeah, we went through the, as a song,

0:01:51
maybe not all of you are here,

0:01:52
but we went through that year 2000 thing. Like, whoa, year 2000. We partied like it was 1999. And then it wasn't. And then there was at least a few other things. There was one time in 2003, I think it was, when there were a whole bunch of Swamis saying that, they were saying that we're shifting from the Kali Yuga to the Golden Age. Meanwhile, everything sucks. This is the Golden Age.

0:02:36
Forget about it.

0:02:37
And then we had that one Christian group that said the world's gonna end. That was a good one because it was gonna end time zone, one time zone at a time. Because everyone's like, yeah, it's gonna end. Wait, is it gonna end in New York?

0:03:03
Or Texas?

0:03:04
Or Maryland, who cares? So, yeah, these end of the world things are very interesting. I think they're good because it gives you an opportunity to punctuate your life. Gives you an opportunity to see these moments and consider the end, the end of the self, the end of life, the universe and everything. It's just interesting. And then after 2012, they're going to have to come up with something new, right?

0:03:40
They will, trust me.

0:03:42
So that's just interesting. So, but this is a special solstice. This solstice has a special quality that's different than other solstices. How is this solstice different than any other solstice? There's something about it. This solstice has a very beautiful power and energy, but there's a spiritual quality or spiritual dimension available during this solstice that I'm aware of. And it provides practitioners, people who have a discipline spiritual study provides us with an opportunity, and a really bright opportunity for liberation. So tonight we will be bringing our attention to that opportunity so that we can take advantage of it. It's a special thing, and quite unique. I haven't seen it before, this type of opportunity in the solstice. I've seen lots of power, but the spiritual quality is something very special. So that's why we're sitting here at midnight, and we're going to be meditating until 3.30, 3.45 in the morning. And that's why we have the Hungarian Sangha joining us in the astral, floating around. And this gives us an opportunity to all be together as a samba on a special solstice, where we'll be meditating together on this special time for a very special opportunity that we can all take advantage of. So that's why we go way out of our way for these strange things, like times of power, places of power. Fortunately this place was pretty close to home. It's a really lovely place. And a very, very special time where the photon beam of light and the center of the universe, or whatever is going on with the mind, it's all happening. And it's all happening. That's all true. Whatever is happening, it's a good thing. It's a positive thing. And I think that it's really important for us to be together for this opportunity. It's a rare opportunity, this energy, this dimension that's available. And it's something that is a little bit different than what we're accustomed to in a time of So it takes a very precise and different kind of focus. And we will be focusing there so that we can see that dimension together and access it. But it is a little bit different, but also very, very good. So the opportunity that we have is really, I would say, a spiritual opportunity where your energy can go up. It's not so much associated with power, we talk about the energies that help meditation, a lot we talk about it in mystical ways. This one is maybe a higher energy. You might say it's a dimension more associated with the heart than with the navel chakra, and it is an uplifting spiritual energy. And when you can access it, when you benefit from this spiritual, uplifting energy. So it's a liberating energy, a liberating dimension. is something that we can grasp more easily at this time. Now, of course, this dimension is something that's always really there. It's just that during this time, it becomes more exposed. So it's easier to connect to. And then we're able to benefit from it. This energy is one that we can use really break free from a lot of problems, a lot of patterns of negativity, patterns of attachment, patterns of limitation that we've experienced in the past, where we're lift up above it. So there's a very powerful uplifting energy that breaks you away from old cycles, old patterns. energy in this teaching to break free from patterns for good. And this is something that is really nice when you have something that just is a reoccurring pattern. Let's say you're sad, it keeps coming back, and the same problem, or you keep wanting something, a desire that keeps coming back and are sad because you're not getting the thing. Where's my stuff? Or in anger, that person just keeps pissing me off. So these things that keep coming back over and over and over and over again, and then you battle it with mindfulness, you battle it with bodhicitta, those things work. But in this energy that's available, this dimension, this teaching, this dharma of this time, it's possible to break those links to those karmas. So breaking that attachment to that dissatisfaction, to that suffering. Or sometimes you just feel a limitation. You don't see. You just have a limitation of awareness. You're able to go into this dimension of light and your consciousness expands. You become more aware, less habituated in seeing life in smaller ways. So this is a teaching, a power that's accessible, that really can lift you into a new place. That's it. It lifts you into a new place. But it's something that you can start tonight. It's a beginning, but I think it'll take a while. It might happen tonight. I would say that the scope of this teaching is the next year. So from this solstice to the next solstice. Or to the next winter. However, it should be a significant awareness that you see right away. The Buddha, in his teachings, he had four levels of attainment that he taught the students. And he would mark where his students are. He'd say, you will attain this or that. And the first level of attainment is entering the stream, is what he called it. Which means establishing yourself on the pathway to enlightenment. And this is very important. Most of you have done this, which is very, very important. That's establishing a meditation practice. Really deciding that you're going to focus on liberating yourself, becoming more aware of your mind, following healthy, bright, powerful, constructive teachings of spirit. So it takes a while to actually enter the street to establish yourself on the pathway to enlightenment. Some people do it right away. They go, oh, I'm here. Bing. And some people take a while, they go, huh, what, meditation?

0:15:16
Oh, yoga? Why?

0:15:19
Yeah.

0:15:20
I mean, it's like, why do yoga? Of course there's all these benefits to doing it. But then there's work involved. And there's no immediate payoff. Maybe if our software sells, of course it will pay off. But until that time, I'm just working really hard. And my yoga teachers are yelling at me. So, you know, it's like, establishing yourself in a practice of yoga, it's kind of hard. Establishing yourself in the practice of meditation and mindfulness, you know, this is what we call entering the stream. So most of you have attained the first attainment of the Buddha, which is establishing yourself on the pathway to enlightenment, which is really, really, really good. In the spiritual traditions of Tibet, it's a very thing. Sometimes a person will be walking along the mountain path, and then this old master would come over to them and just go, bing, and put them on the path. You'd be like, I'm going to put you on the path, bing! And it's like an enlightening blessing. It establishes that person in the way of Buddhism. So, you know, it is a really, really, really amazing thing, being established, entering the stream. So that meant that you had reached another level of attainment where you've burned off a lot of bad karma, but not enough to go on to heaven, to leave this world and go to a higher loka, like the Haramya loka, the Western paradise. So, but you burned off a lot of bad karma, and Buddha would call that attainment the one-time return. And that means, it doesn't mean that you get, it means if you return one more time and you meet another enlightened teacher and you do such a good job, then you'll move on. So it doesn't necessarily mean one time return. It depends on your conduct. But if you follow the Dharma, then it ends up being maybe one time return. But it is a distinct level of attainment when you burn off a whole bunch of carbon. So that was the second one. The third level is called the non-return. The third level of attainment is the non-return. And this is the level of attainment that each of you can attain in this teaching, the third level of Taiton. It's like, whoa, jumping all the way up from the stream, through that second one that no one wants, to the... So, the non-return is really good. That means that you've burned off all the karma, you've learned all your lessons on this world, and that in your next incarnation, you will move on to the Haran Loka, the Western Paradise, Roseapple Island, or Malibu. Just kidding. So it means that you will move on to a higher existence. So this is what we're talking about here. This is the lesson for this solstice. It is the attainment of non-return. And we could look at this in terms of, yeah, you've burned off a lot of karma, and then in your next incarnation, you're going to go to some other loka. But at the same time, we can look at it in our lives every day, in our minds every day, in every moment. A non-returner is what I'm talking about when I say, the dissatisfaction that you've always had, that have repeated, you become a non-returner to them. So if you've had an anger that's kept coming up and going around every once in a while, coming back, and whenever you think of it, whenever it comes up, it causes you suffering, it causes problems, or if you have depression, or if you have desires, when these things come up again and again back, that they keep on bringing you back down to that sadness, sorrow, and suffering. So the non-return is a teaching where you actually break above it and that thing doesn't come back. And And that is awesome. It makes things a lot better. It's fantastic. So when you break free from the big things that really bother you, attachments, desires, angers, all these passions and frustrations, and also for some of you just limited viewpoints of looking at life, just so much limitation, that you break free from that, and then you don't return to that limitation, you don't return to that suffering, you don't return to that attachment. And then you're in a space where you're a lot more free, and you're happier. So, this is, this teaching of the non-return is something that you can experience and benefit from immediately. And it's something that ultimately leads you to a better destiny, a better lokah.

0:22:22
It's a real good thing.

0:22:24
And this is really, you know, this teaching is the teaching for that attainment, for the attainment of the non-return. Non-return to suffering, non-return to attachment, non-return to anger, sadness, desires, where you can actually be free of those things that keep snagging you. So for myself, I've experienced this as well. I told you when I was an intermediate student, I had a problem, a repeating problem with anger. And then at one point, from experiencing enough and understanding suffering enough and from having enough personal power and momentum in my meditation and my yoga and my mindfulness, I was able to break free from the attachment to that experience. And then I became a non-returner to that suffering. So this is something that happens through the process of the teachings. It's very normal for this to happen as you work your way through things. But because we're hitting this special time of power where there's a special kind of uplifting spiritual energy available, we can hit a certain kind of power and awareness that very quickly in our practice we can become non-returners. opportunity of this solstice. I'm going to be taking breaks a little bit more frequently tonight so that we can have the Hungarian Sangha translate. So we're going to take a break now for 15 minutes, exactly 15 minutes, so please be seated in 15 minutes. And the Hungarians, I'd like you to translate going to take a break now for 15 minutes, exactly 15 minutes, so please be seated in 15 minutes. And the Hungarians, I'd like you to translate everything in 15 minutes, and then we'll come back and continue on our path to being a non-returner.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
