0:00:00
So as we discussed earlier, martial Zen and compassion. So when you practice bodhicitta, you can't be an idiot. You have to be intelligent. So you live your life in a grounded way, in an intelligent way. When you're dealing with difficulty, you have to work the problem. When you're dealing with difficulty, you can't simply, you know, sit there and go, I'm just going to take and send. You have to actually deal with the physical matters at hand in an intelligent way. So, for example, oh, there's a, I think it's a true story, or it's just a joke. There was a woman in India, and she was on a rickshaw going to see her Buddhist teacher. And while she's on the rickshaw, some guy comes over and grabs her purse and tries to steal it from her. And he's kind of like hitting at her, and she's kind of pulling while the rickshaw is moving. And then just this very strange struggle ensues. And then somehow he can't keep up, and he falls down and goes away. And then she's like, so she goes to her Buddhist teacher and says, What? What should I have done there? You know, I was trying to practice compassion, but he was stealing my purse. I have given it to him that compassionate. And then the Buddhist teacher sees that she was holding a full length umbrella. And he says, You should have compassionately hit him over the head Which is really really good advice. That's what you should do in that situation If I were getting mugged by someone I might You know break their nose Break their arm whatever I have to do to work the problem to deal with the situation.

0:02:26
Right?

0:02:28
Because if someone's got a knife and they're coming at you, it's like, oh, I don't want to get hurt. I have to deal with this situation in a grounded way, which might mean that you have to really use energy to hurt someone. And that's how you're grounded. That's how you're balanced. That's how you work the problem. But inwardly, you practice bodhicitta. So you break their nose and practice bodhicitta. Really. Because you have to. Otherwise, you're not grounded. Otherwise, your compassion doesn't have a balanced foundation. So it's actually compassionate to do that, because it's worse karma for the person to hurt. It's worse karma for the person to win in their scheme against you. So there's a dharma for you to protect yourself. So if in that situation, you have to deal with it in a practical way. And if the practical way means that you hurt them physically, then you hurt them physically. Whatever the situation is, I mean, you can get down and dirty with whatever you have to do to make the situation work out. However, at the same time, your inner consideration is a consideration of compassion. Like, literally. You could be punching them, but also at the same time having compassion for them. And that's what you should do. What's horrible is when someone does, let's say they attack you, and then you get angry. And you're all, I'm enraged! And then, whatever you do, whether you throw a punch or not, whether you win or you lose, you are so upset. You're angry, you're terrified, you go into this horrible karma. So that is the lack of compassion, you do martial and you do zen. So you do martial arts. You handle the situation, you work the problem intelligently. And that might mean in certain situations, talking to people, that you have to yell at them, that you have to point out difficult things to them, you have to give them a hard time. You have to seem like a tyrant. Like Genshin when he was out there beating up the deer and throwing rocks at them. That is martial Zen compassion. That's dealing with the situation in a very grounded way for a very serious reason. Otherwise, the deer would have been more easily hunted and killed. So when you're dealing with the situation, you always work the problem. Then that way you're grounded. But instead of having bad feelings because you're doing difficult things, yelling at someone because they're attacking you. Instead of feeling bad and angry and out of balance and scared and all that stuff, you actually practice compassion. And then you do the actions, but at the same time, you're taking and sending. It's kind of funny, but it's true. But it's what you've got to do to stay grounded in this world. Because this world is a world that's out of balance with the Dharma. Very often when you're dealing with people and dealing with situations in the world, they're at odds with the objectified Dharma. So martial arts in general is a way of compassion. That's why they call it a self-defense. Because you could use it as a self-offense. You could learn martial arts and go and start fights. But the way that we learn martial arts is we learn it as a defense. So if something terrible happens to you, someone attacks you, that you have the power to deal with the situation. You can work the problem. So this is important. I really like the philosophy of, oh, I don't want this person to hurt me because then it would give them bad karma. So then you do your little block. But then you have to end the situation. So you say, okay, I'm going to win, right, but I don't want to hurt them. So, I don't want to be hurt, and I don't want to hurt them. And this is a compassionate way of ending a conflict. So, in Aikido, they use the other person's aggressive force, and then they do a little circle, and the person's on the ground, and then they can't continue with the fight, because of the Aikido form and technique. So this is a wonderful way of looking at martial Zen and compassion. Understanding that you can take someone who's creating bad karma and you can make them, you can help them to avoid it by using this technique and then you can end the conflict without even hurting them. And this is a beautiful way to look at martial arts, and I think probably really the highest way. So the founder of Aikido stated this as his philosophy, and it's there in all of the teachings. All of the techniques in Aikido and Jiu-Jitsu are techniques where you can subdue an opponent without actually hurting them. Because if you only know karate, you probably, to subdue the opponent, have to beat them about the head. You have to actually punch them or kick them to be able to end the conflict, which is an excellent way. However, if you know Jiu-Jitsu or Aikido, then you have other methods. I remember when I realized that, because I had grown up since the age of six doing kicking and punching. And I really liked it and I was kind of effective at it. And I remember one time I was in New Canaan, Connecticut, stopped off to get a bottle of water at a store after being in the dojo. And then, you know, some guy comes over and he wants to start a fight with me. He walked out of a bar or something like that. And I was sitting in my car and I was like, well, so if, you know, if there was a fight right now, here's what I would do. And I said, well, now that I know jujitsu, I could do this. Because I didn't really want to hurt the guy. But I thought of, you know, that situation, how I could win. And I was very happy to realize that I didn't have to go out there and punch and kick the guy until he fell down and was unconscious. I was like, wow, I could just trip him and get him in an arm lock.

0:11:08
Wow, sweet.

0:11:09
So that was a really important realization for me.

0:11:13
I don't have to beat him senselessly to work the problem here.

0:11:18
So yeah, it's really a powerful way, the way that we engage in martial arts is a powerful way to learn compassion of martial zen. I mean, even if you're doing karate, you learn it. You learn it from karate. So, because we all saw Mr. Miyagi, he was able to defend without actually hurting

0:11:44
and just kind of push guys away.

0:11:46
Martial Zen compassion. Also, compassion is kind of tricky, because it's so different from what an opponent would expect. So there's a story of the heaven of 33. This is a place that Buddha talked about a lot, because Buddha spent some time there in his previous incarnations. And there was the king of heaven 33. His name was Sokka. And Sokka was sitting there having a good time, but there are these other beings, so there's the heavenly beings that live there, but then there was this other race called the Asuras. And the hideous things. They were in heaven and they were kind of like these lower weird gods and they were kind of ugly and strange. So Sokka said, I love this heaven of 33, but why are they there? It's like, they kind of make the view a little bit ugly. So he had an idea. He invited all of the Asuras to a big party and he got them all drunk. And then he brought them down to a different heaven, the heaven of 32. Which is definitely not as cool as the heaven of 33. But at the same time, it was a place that they could hang out and that made sense to him. He thought, you guys can hang out here, I'll hang out here and then you know I don't have to look at you every day. Now when the Asuras woke up out of their drunken state and they realized that they got duped by Sokka the king. So they formed an army, and they said, we're going to go and take over heaven of 33. So they came and just ambushed Sokka and his royal court. So they all started to flee, and they got in their little chariots, and then they started running away. And the Asuras were like, yeah, this is great. We have them on the run and we're gonna run them right out of the heaven of 33. Now on the border of the heaven of 33, the way that they were going to escape, there was a forest filled with Garudas. These are birds, spiritual birds, and so the chariots of the king and his royal court started to go through this forest and they were so big and so you know strong they started hitting into the trees and then the baby Garudas would fall out of the trees and cry and they were just in so much agony from falling and hurting themselves that the king stopped because he said, even though I would escape, I will be causing harm to these birds. So therefore, instead of going further into the forest, he slowly comes out so he doesn't knock any of the trees. And he says, we're just going to face the azoras, and if they destroy us, they'll destroy us, but we're not going to go and cause harm to these poor birds. So they come out, and they're standing just in front of the forest, and the azoras are like, yeah, we got them on the run. Whoa, wait, they're coming back. And then the azoras stop, and they start wondering, what's going on? Because we totally have them outnumbered. And then they're like, oh no, they must have reinforcements hiding in those trees somewhere. So the Asuras turn and they run right away from the royal castle and they just say, oh we can't even deal with this. And they go down to the heaven of 32 and they stay there. And then the king says,

0:16:26
Oh, that was cool.

0:16:28
But see, when you act out of compassion to someone, it will catch them off guard because you're not following the regular process of an ego. You're not doing something that an ego would normally do. And then that way they feel, Hey, wait, maybe I shouldn't fight. It can change situations to be very, very, very positive. Also, there was an event, something was happening in Thailand where these illegal loggers would go into this old grove forest old growth forest near a Buddhist monastery, and they were just like, eh, there's some great lumber here. So they were chopping down the trees. They were coming in at night, chopping down the trees, and taking them away, and profiting pretty well from them. But the monks felt really sad about it, because the monks really liked the trees and they were like, well, if you're going to be killed by these loggers, we're going to make you monks. We're going to make the trees spiritual. And so that way they would have a higher spiritual experience in their...or a karmic change in their death. So they anointed and created the trees as monks, and then they put little robes around them, so they took their robes and put them around the trees. And then the loggers come in at night and they're like, huh, what? This is very strange. So the loggers, the monks thought that they were just spiritualizing the trees so that the trees can have a nice next incarnation. But the loggers were so confused by it that they ended up not cutting any of the trees anymore. First of all, they're like, why are these trees dressed up like monks? And they're like, I don't get it. It's just so unusual that they just decided not to do anything. And for them that would have been a place to get a great profit, but because of this strange act of compassion, they didn't understand it. It's illogical. So sometimes compassion can be tricky. It's always good to be compassionate. And when it baffles a wrongdoer and gets them to stop, you know, doing wrong. That is a good thing. Otherwise, martial Zen. So, you know, in Buddhism, we must be balanced. We must have inside a tremendous focus on compassion. And on the outside, we deal with the world intelligently. We deal with conflict intelligently. What's the fastest way to end this conflict? How can I get out of this? How can I solve this problem so that there's, you know, the most efficient way to get things done in the best way? We always work the problem this way. And when it's difficult, we deal with the difficulty. If there's violence, we deal with the violence intelligently. But at the same time, we always have compassion. We always have that inner focus. But we definitely, completely, 100% have a intelligent way of dealing with the world. We deal with our careers intelligently. We deal with our lives intelligently. And at the same time, we practice compassion. Compassion is the inner aspect of our awareness and dealing with the world with tremendous tonal is the outer aspect of our discipline. Intermediate students, it is essential that you don't make rookie mistakes anymore. So when you learn compassion, when you learn the intermediate lessons, you really need to make sure that you're impeccable in your tonal in the world. So you no longer can make silly mistakes at work, like doing stupid things, doing things that make your personal power go down. You have to follow all of the teachings that your yoga teachers and I have given you so that you have a strong career, so that you're intelligent, so that you don't do stupid things at work to make yourself, I don't know, get fired or make yourself not strong in your career path. You have to develop yourself intelligently. It's important for you to also be impeccable in your yoga. I should not get a report of someone being unimpeccable in their yoga. It shouldn't happen. And if it does happen, I'm going to start addressing you directly about it. So usually your yoga teacher will bring to my attention places where people are unimpeccable in their yoga. And then I would talk to them and say, here's how you should work with this person and help this person and teach this person. And that's great. Now, we should get to a point where it doesn't happen, or if it does happen, it happens very infrequently. And I will address these issues instead of your yoga teachers. And if you make me work that hard, I'm going to come down on you really hard. This means that you need to be responsible. No more bullshit. Be impeccable in your work. Do your work right. Do your job right. Do your yoga right. If I have to get involved with your job situation or your yoga situation, it will not be pleasant You must start taking proper responsibility a lot of you do fine Some of you have repetitive problems that you know about That your yoga teachers have pointed out again and again and again and guess what it's time to fucking fix it I'm sick of it, and I'm gonna I'm going to be in your face about it if you continue See this is compassion. It's true. But I am. Because this doesn't work in the intermediate study. When you do this in the intermediate study, you make bad karma. And that's not going to happen here. So, you know your problem. Fix it. Pay attention. Do your status reports. Don't be an idiot, you moron. So really, it's not like it's out of the blue. You know what is right. You've been shown it time after time. And now you need to make the commitment not to make those mistakes. When you make those mistakes, guess what? It's not like your yoga teachers won't notice. It's not like I won't notice. And what we're going to do is we're going to formally bring these things up as teachings. And I recommend that you do it correctly. But if you want to learn the hard way, it's always interesting. But I would rather not spend attention on something that you should already figure out yourself. You should be responsible for this level of tone out. And you need to be in order to continue in the intermediate teachings. So, you have a responsibility for doing your yoga right, doing your career right. And you have a responsibility to practice compassion. So we spend most of the time talking about compassion because this is the new subject, the new state of mind, the new way of looking at things. But you cannot abandon your grounded tonal. You must be impeccable in your tonal. Without impeccable tonal, all this compassion stuff is hogwash, poppycock, you know, it's nothing. So it's very, very important that you recognize that you gain personal power to the discipline of job yoga and our company yoga. You gain tremendous power and there's magic in it. That's what makes you succeed. That's what gives you that power and strength. Don't abandon that. the core and foundation of practice after meditation. This enables you to be successful. This enables you to be successful in yoga. This enables you to be successful in bodhicitta and higher spiritual practices. So it's very important So please take this seriously. I don't want to have this conversation again. But we might. Okay. We'll end with that.

0:27:13
Thank you all very much.

0:27:15
However, I have some announcements. Some special announcements. I think firstly, about your homework assignment for the theme project is a costume. Halloween is coming. Next Saturday we're going to have a party at Bodie Woods. It will be a costume party where you wear your compassionate costume. It's our past lives of compassion themed costume party for Halloween or close to Halloween. So from your seeing or your awareness or your feeling, you have to piece together, intuit to it and figure out what costume would be most fitting of that incarnation. And you have to put that costume together this week and put it on for next Saturday and come to All right. Don't forget your mirror exercise. Look in the mirror once in a while. So yeah. And, you know, remember, when you're looking in the mirror, you're, you're, you're having What's going on in there. You know really you're getting in touch with your your

0:29:36
suffering and your situation

0:29:38
life so that you can have a

0:29:39
deeper awareness of how and why to do compassion. What does that note mean?

0:30:01
I have no idea.

0:30:02
Oh, this is like from a different one.

0:30:04
Oh, okay.

0:30:05
I'm like, oh, that's strange. So a note on the Parisian music we heard, the City of Light album. I've just been meditating to it while I was in Paris. It was really nice, and so I wanted to come back and let you guys listen to some of the music that I have been listening to and meditating to recently. Just really beautiful, beautiful dimensions. And we're still working on it. We actually have the Satori album that's ahead of it. Should be done soon. But the Paris album, something I've been meditating to recently. Very nice. Paris was really fun. As I say, it's the best city on the planet. And I've been to all the useful ones. And, And yeah, Paris is good.

0:31:15
You know, when you go to Paris,

0:31:16
it's always kind of like mostly about food. You know, so you're like, all right, let's go eat. And then we'll go over to that tourist attraction because there's a snack bar there. So, you know, where did we go? We went to the cafe in the Dorsey, we went to the cafe in the Louvre, there's a restaurant on the tower, you know, there's just so many places to eat there. Except for at Notre Dame, there's no food. So you're sitting at Notre Dame going, I'm so hungry. You can bring a picnic. And yeah, Paris is nice. We'll be meditating to the Parisian music. Paris is one of those places that has a very strong kind of throat chakra energy. So it has very nice dimensions. It's also a city, so it kind of sucks. But as far as cities go, there's some very nice things about it. Oh yes, I don't know. So, we're going to have weekly bodhicitta meditations at the Saratoga Yoga And this is for everyone except for people from Bodhi Woods. So in Bodhi Woods we have weekly meditations where we'll be talking about the things that we need to talk about, which are how to live in Bodhi Woods and what to do in Bodhi Woods and compassion exercises in Bodhi Woods. So in Bodhi Woods there's its own thing going on, which includes Bodhisita. But for those of you who don't live in Bodhi Woods, Sundays at 8, Saratoga Yoga Dojo, we'll get together and we'll talk about the aspects of compassion. There's a lot of things to consider in the practice, a lot of impressions and empowerments and therefore it will be important for us to get together more than once a month to peruse them together.

0:34:14
Okay and as of the last

0:34:18
Equinox there's been a few people who got their spiritual names and I didn't tell them yet. And I'm not going to tell you guys tonight. But I will, I'll be telling you during All right. If I start calling you by a different name, maybe you'll notice. Those of you who are in the new Bodie Woods 3 neighborhood, or who are going to be in the new Bodie Woods 3 neighborhood, I'd also like to meet with Jeannie and Katya and the new kids, the uninitiated, the people who are not Buddhist monks, the people who are a little bit new. So I'd like all of you to stay. The rest of you, thank you very much. The rest of you, thank you very much.

0:35:51
The rest of you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
