0:00:00
Alright, so you guys did night dives right? How did you enjoy sitting in the water with it. I like it a lot. So tomorrow night I'm gonna I'm gonna bring the open water divers to do a night dive as well and if you're if you're brave you can turn off your light. I don't even know if I'm gonna bring a light on. But also there's no moon out, so it will be pretty dark. It should be exciting. I remember one time Ajna and I were diving in Ceiba,

0:01:00
in the Caribbean, South of here.

0:01:02
And it's a wonderful place to dive. And we were doing a night dive, and we were on a boat, so there were a few other people. And then Ajahn and I went away from the reef, out into the sand, and we were just hanging out, or at least I was, hanging out in the sand. And I turned my light off, and I was just laying down in the sand. And then there were these two nurse sharks that kept on bumping into me. They would come around to see what I was doing. And I was like, this is a little unsettling. Even though they're nurse sharks. Nurse sharks don't bite people unless you put your hand in their mouth or something. But they're generally pretty friendly but you know I was sitting there trying to do my mystic scuba meditation and then I have these sharks bumping into me. I'm like this is too strange. Out here you guys are fortunate no sharks you don't have to worry about it you can sit in the dark and no sharks will come and bump into you. So that's great. I remember a time where the older Boneywood students went through a very similar, powerful mystic scuba lesson. And that was our first year that we were living in Hawaii. And I don't think they were even certified because I wasn't an instructor yet. But one day it was the weekend and we decided to go scuba diving. So we found this dive site called the Blowhole. And it was called the Blowhole because the water would crash against kind of a cliffside and under the cliff there was a hole that went up so the water would crash against the cliffside and the water would go under and shoot up through the hole and you would see this spout of water. kind of an advanced dive. And on Oahu, it's the place where the most scuba divers have died. So that's quite interesting. So I thought, oh, exciting. That's the place where most scuba divers die? I'm taking my students there. And at that time, I think that, that was Kali's first dive. And I think the rest of them had had a few dives or something like that. So they were kind of new to scuba. But I thought it would be a great opportunity to learn about death. Now that place was an amazing, it was an amazing place to dive. Very, very, very strong, powerful, powerful place to die. But it's also really, really, really intense. So fortunately, you know, I was there to supervise things enough so that everybody survived. And everyone did very well, and people learned really, really wonderful. One of my favorite ones was where we, what you do is you go in this kind of narrow area where there's a lot of waves, and then it opens up to the wide ocean. And the waves at that point come straight across, and they crash against the cliff. And that's where the scuba divers got. So one time, you know, Tao and I had come up out in the ocean and the strong current was pulling us towards those cliffs. And Tao was kicking against it, but having a hard time. And so she was getting frustrated. And then I came over to her and I said, hey, you know what's going on here? And she's like, what? I said, see those cliffs? And then we look over and these big waves hit the cliffs and it looks really scary. And I said, we're getting pulled toward those cliffs and then we're gonna end up in those waves." I said, so at this point we have to really focus on swimming back to shore. And I thought that, you know, if she was having too much of a hard time I would tow her back. But then I just made it seem like she had to do it herself and I couldn't. And then she did it! She swam against the current and swam back. And it was, you know, it was a really amazing thing, because it was really hard to do. And that was a really powerful event, because she definitely faced death and saved her own life. That's one of the wonderful things about Mystic Scuba, we really recognize that we can learn to save our own lives or that we can deal with tremendous stress and duress in the water and be able to survive. So when we come out here through these exercises, we go into them with education, tonal, we try to be as safe as possible, but there is a strong and powerful factor of death. You can be the best scuba diver in the world, and if you go into the ocean at the wrong time, you'll die. It's like the ocean is way more powerful than any of us. And we go out into, you know, over the wall, out to where the current could be strong. It's a really, really, really humbling experience because we do the best that we can. We learn as much as we can. We work, we have the strongest tonal that we can. But when we enter the ocean, we are entering a power, a force, that is far beyond our capability

0:08:08
to deal with.

0:08:10
We can deal with what we can deal with, but we're putting ourselves in a place of death. We're putting ourselves in a place where, you know, who knows what would happen. Sometimes we've been here before, diving at Cobalt Coast. We can't dive there this time because the conditions are too bad. The waves are very high. And sometimes you go to Cobalt Coast and you go out and it's beautiful, amazing diving. You go deep, down the wall, come back up. And sometimes it's different. And I remember one time we went there, and when we went down the wall, we found out that all of a sudden there was a current that was pulling us away from the wall, out to sea, like towards Cuba. And then, so you're going down the wall, and then you see the wall start to become very distant. And then we had to start swimming back up against it. Now fortunately, and it was a strong current, but fortunately I was there with a lot of the rescue divers and dive masters, and they were able to, you know, handle that difficult current. However, if the current was twice as strong, it could have been, and if it was, we would have, you know, unwittingly found ourselves at maybe 150 feet being swept away from the wall out to sea where we have no visual aid to understand where we're at. And we would have to do a blue water ascent where you're not able to maintain yourself in the current at all. And we could be swept far out to Cuba, you know, and come up out of the current so far from Grand Cayman that we wouldn't be able to swim back. So it could happen, these terrible insane currents can happen. Now I say this because tomorrow we have some boat divers going out and fortunately when you're on a boat, the boat can deal with the current. So even if you get dropped into current, you just go down and wherever you come up, the boat will come and get you. How fantastic. And then the next day, well actually tomorrow we also, the people who aren't going on the boat, most of you are going to be diving Lighthouse Reef. And Lighthouse Reef is the real deal, right? We had some people dive Lighthouse Reef today, right? Yeah. Yeah, okay, that's the real deal. There's a long surface swim to get to the wall. You drop down onto the wall. Wall's about 65 feet, so 65 foot drop. And then you can go over the wall. Now, when you're going out there, there might be current, right? You have to be you have to be aware of how strong the current is. You have to look at where the building is on land and as you go out you have to see if you're drifting far down to the south. So if you see that you're drifting, then you have to compensate with your kicking. And if you see that you can't compensate with your kicking, that as you go out, that the current gets stronger, then you have to come back in and get back ashore, or do a shallow dive. So you have to watch your current. Now a lot of times you're able to see the current at the surface so you're able to go straight out, understand that the current is not very strong, and then you're able to go down and come back up. But sometimes there's current underwater. You go down and then all of a sudden it starts pulling you out or pulling you one way or another. And then you have to observe when you're going down look at the wall where are you on the wall see if you find yourself flying down the wall also as you breathe from depth let's say you're at 100 feet look up at your bubbles if your bubbles go up and turn like this all of a sudden So, you have to be aware of current. Current will, it'll just sweep you away, so it'll pull you far from your entrance, from your exit, but also, once you realize that you're in current, it tends to make you afraid. Your heart beats faster, your breathing becomes more shallow, because you start to worry. But you shouldn't worry. With everything in scuba, you want to first breathe deeply. You want to first relax. And then you just say, okay, the best thing I can do is kick against the current. Okay, try to maintain my position and get shallow. Now I need to head in. And therefore you can deal with it. Yeah, that's good. So be aware of your current. Divemasters will be aware. They'll be looking for it. But you should be looking for it too. So you see what's going on while your dive master is saying go this way. So if you're on the boat tomorrow, the boat is going to actually be a afternoon boat. It's a 1245 boat so you don't have to get to the dive shop at 7 tomorrow. That's good. But you will be doing a two tank dive so you will do no morning dive. You will go to the boat, they'll have you do a deep dive, and then they'll have you do a shallow dive. So probably a hundred, hundred and ten foot dive and then like a 50, 60 foot dive. So you'll get two dives in on a boat. It should be wonderful. Now remember when you go on the boat you're going to go under the dive tech format and that means that you're you might you know you're just going to buddy up with somebody. You might not be with your dive master. You're just gonna buddy up with another diver. But everyone on the boat has some experience. You guys have been through a number of dives and I think that you guys will do fine. However, keep your wits about you. Be careful about your buoyancy. When you're going over the wall, when you're coming down, make sure that you're monitoring your buoyancy. Don't go too deep. Try to find that neutral buoyant place. As you come up, if you're at 100 feet, you're going to come up to the top of the wall, which is at, let's say, 60 feet. You have to remember, while you're coming up you don't have a runaway ascent. You're coming up, let air out every time you see that you're coming up a little too fast. Come up nice and slow. We want to work on very slow ascents. Slow, happy ascents. Come up ridiculously slow because that's very safe and that means that you're very careful to let air out of your BCD and kick yourself up. Okay I'm not running away I'm going nice and slow. And if you're diving Lighthouse Reef it's the same thing when you're coming up make sure that you don't have a runaway ascent because if you hit a hundred feet and you have a runaway ascent that's where you can that's where you it's very likely to get decompression sickness and That is not a good thing Not a good thing. So on our on our deep dives Going into our deep dives tomorrow on the boat or lighthouse for ease Buoyancy is something you have to be most mindful of. I know you guys can breathe underwater. I know that you guys can relax underwater, but buoyancy is going to be the most important thing. When you go off over the wall, be very careful to put air in your BCD so that you don't go too deep. When you're coming up over the wall, take air out. Be very conscientious that you're not going up too fast. Better for you to have air out, all your air out, and kick up. Because that way you know that you're not going to have a runaway.

0:17:55
That's it.

0:17:55
Navara?

0:17:56
Yes?

0:17:56
A lot of them don't have dive computers, so they won't be able to tell how fast they're coming up.

0:18:03
Doesn't matter. That's why I say come up slow.

0:18:05
If you see that you're coming up faster than your bubbles,

0:18:08
you're going to be sent. Get up. If you find that you had a runaway scent, that you came up faster than your bubbles, get to shore. Get to your buddy. Get to the boat, and then you're going to go to the dive shop or the boat captain and say, I had a runaway ascent. I think I might be bent. And then they'll say, ah! And they'll probably give you oxygen, and then they'll monitor you for any decompression sickness signs. So if you find yourself with a runaway ascent, don't be shy about it. You're going to have to go to the boat captain or the dive shop and say, I had a runaway ascent. So if you see yourself flying up over your bubbles, that's a complete problem, an error. But just be very, very conscientious. When you're going down, put air in your BCD so that you don't fall all the way 6,000 feet down. If you're going to 100 feet, as soon as you hit 85, you should start putting air in your BCD. If you're going to 100 feet, you should hold your thumb on the air button for about six seconds. like that or a little more and that will that will give you enough air in your BCD so that you could be neutrally buoyant at a hundred feet so don't be like you have to hold it down for a long time because you're at it you're you're that deep that holding your thumb for six seconds will not fill your BCD up. It will, you know, if the air is a lot more compressed at 100 feet. So go for six seconds and then if it starts pulling you up, then just drop a little bit more air. When you start to come up, this is like the third or fourth time I'm saying it, when you start to come up, have your purge button in your hand. And as you're coming up, let air out. If you feel that you can't control your ascent, if you feel you're going too fast, drop a lot of air out and just kick up. Right? Very serious. And close to 100 feet is serious, right? So that's where the dimensions become very, very serious. So if you're at 100 feet of water and you're coming up, you have to come up very, very slowly. Now, I think that if you're going on the boat tomorrow, they're gonna make you rent a computer if you do not have a computer, which is fantastic because I love the computers that they use. And they will instruct you in how to use them. Dive tech is a very good operation. So it will be a nice experience for you. If you're gonna dive Lighthouse Reef and you want to use a computer, you can rent one from Dive Tech and they will instruct you how to use it. But it's not necessary. You definitely don't have to have a computer. You can just practice coming up slow. So, very important. The reason I'm talking about this, a sense, sense, awareness of current and being relaxed and deep breathing, right, keeping yourself balanced is because we have completed more simple dives, right? This is day what, two of diving? Oh day one for some of you guys, okay. Open water we started on the 20th. Ha, okay, but when we go forward in diving, we're going to go into more difficult conditions. So the energy is already pretty intense out there, and we're just gonna go to the wall. And when we get to that 6,000 foot drop off, that is a place of power. That is a place of power. And you have to respect that place with impeccable tone out. You got to do what you're trained to do properly. Keep yourself balanced. Breathe deeply. When you maintain mental balance, then you can do everything well. mental Balance then you can do everything well, so first of all everything's okay Just relax breathe deeply When you're when you're in a balanced state of mind you can handle anything out there Unless the ocean wants to kill you And then you can handle that too. You'll just be dead Okay, but I don't foresee that in the karma of the event here. So keep yourself in a balanced state and then be very aware of current, be very aware of your descent buoyancy and your ascent buoyancy. Then you should do just fine. But these observances of tonal are extremely important when we go out to the to the edge of the wall. When we go to these places of power, these are very very important observations. You must get yourself prepared for this. Mentally prepared. You're taking on something strong, something powerful. These are, when we go out to the walls here, these are powered dives. You're going into strong field of energy, a lot of depth, and walls that go down forever, right? So you definitely have to be prepared with your impeccable equilibrium and buoyancy So serious stuff this is serious stuff Good, but I think you'll do well. Yeah You will be well and it'll be very exciting

0:24:57
Very nice

0:24:59
Okay. You know, there's this one teaching I had in San Francisco, where I was talking about monkeys and tigers, and I was saying that my students were tigers, but they were hanging around with monkeys, and they thought that they were monkeys. And then I said, but then I come over, and I'm a tiger, and I tell you, hey you're a tiger, not a monkey. Anyway, I think shortly after that meditation seminar, Jackie gave me this card, it's like a solstice card or something, and it's pretty cool so This is that the that process, you know This is the process of becoming a warrior or becoming a tiger, right? At first you're kind of a monkey and You're you know, you're not aware of your power your capability And your ability to do cool things like jump through a fire. And then after you go through facing really intense powerful things you gain that ability, you gain that personal power, you gain that awareness, that consciousness of what you're capable of, and then you can do it. So you become the tiger that can jump through the hoop of fire. And it is by you know living your life in a way where you learn skills, you learn tonal, you learn capabilities of dealing with power. Even though it might be difficult situations you put yourself out there so that you can do it, so that you can deal with it. And whether it's learning technology, whether it's getting a computer programming job, buying a car, renting a house or something like that, buying a house, you're doing things, you're putting yourself out there where you're learning things, you're doing things, you're gaining awareness and experience, and those things make you strong, make you capable. Or it might be getting your black belt. Or it might be diving in the Grand Cayman, or diving in Hawaii, or diving in Monterey Bay. All of these things, especially diving and martial arts, these are very, very powerful experiences. And getting a technology job. Or doing sales, right? These are very, very powerful experiences. I would say getting a technology job, doing sales, getting a black belt, diving the Cayman Walls. These are powerful, powerful experiences. And this is, these experiences make you a warrior. This is how you become the tiger. The tiger jumping through the fiery hoop. So you know, one of the cool things that's going on here is that you guys are becoming tigers. You used to be a bunch of monkeys and now you're actually becoming capable of doing really intense, powerful things. And tomorrow we will be facing, tomorrow and the next day and the next day, we will be facing some powerful and intense things. things but you're trained keep your tone now keep your balance you can do this you can succeed and it's pretty fun quite exciting so I have a couple couple interesting announcements. First of all, one of my students has now gotten her spiritual name is Yogini, as in Vajra Yogini. So her name is Yogini, but it's the namesake of Vajra Yogini. And Vajra Yogini is a very powerful and cool, enlightened manifestation. So, Clara shall now be called by us in our sangha and in the Hungarian sangha, is her spiritual name. So it's fantastic that she made it on the trip and it's also fantastic that she has succeeded in sales. You know doing yoga really gets gets spiritual energy, personal power, and spiritual consciousness. So when you do yoga, even though it might be doing something like sales, it actually, you know, sales is a very physical thing, you're calling people, trying to get them to pushes your spirit into the second attention of the structure of yoga. So it pushes you into being operative in enlightenment. So Clara has taken herself and she has succeeded in meeting two sales quotas. So I know some of the AppBuddy people were working on a sales quota for this trip and something cool could have happened, but they didn't meet their quota. So Clara has met not only this trip's quota, but last quarter's quota as well. gained enough personal power and connection with the second attention in yoga that there's a there has been a transformation and the transformation the transformation where you go from you know having your regular name to your spiritual name is a significant transformation. And what causes that transformation is also significant. It's almost always yoga that creates that transformation in our school, because we do yoga a lot. It could be a meditation, but it's almost always driven by your yoga. And she has done an excellent job in her yoga and it has pushed her to a place where her kind of higher spiritual nature has evolved to take a specific kind of form, Vajra Yogini. So this is a cool thing, very interesting. So I just came to see this right after the meditation, right after I bowed, I saw Bhajra

0:34:15
Yogini. Bhajra Yogini is real. Yeah.

0:34:20
She is a very powerful enlightened spirit. So additionally there is going to be for a couple of the Americans there is going to be a special little trip. So for the two best yogis in the American Sangha, I'm going to invite you to come and Paris, Texas

0:35:13
For some tacos just

0:35:15
I'm going to invite you to join me in Paris the two best American yogis and The reason why is because Paris is a nice experience of tonal. I just that there's there's some things some things not everything some things that the French do that are totally cool. It does sometimes have to do with their attention with food, attention with art, architecture. And in Paris also, there's a very, very cool energy. I think it's pretty much the coolest city in the world. So I will be inviting two of the Americans who are doing the best yoga. The best yoga. I don't know when I'll decide who they are though. At least not tonight. Maybe I'll decide tomorrow. But we shall see. Yeah, I'll decide tomorrow. So I will look into the personal development of each each yogi. And this is to encourage you guys, you know, if you do a good job in yoga then you know you can you can come and have a fun experience you know in parasocial. I like to go to certain cities like Santa Fe, New Mexico, Florence, Italy, Paris, France. Certain cities where they have kind of a throat chakra aesthetic energy. So that's where there's strong tonal, that's where the arts are powerful or interesting. And you can see and learn different dimensions of things there. So, yeah. And it's also different going there with me than going there by yourself. I remember, like, it's funny, like, sometimes my students would go places with me. Like, go to Japan. I don't go anywhere, you know. Go to New York or something like that, and they would think that, wow, Japan is the best place in the universe. New York is the best place in the universe. Las Vegas is the best place in the universe. And the reason why is because when we go there together, I only go places where there's a dharma to go to. So if we go there together, there's a Dharma. If you go there out of your own personal desire, there's no... that's not a Dharma. Remember your last vacation on... when you went by yourself on your own volition? That's a bad idea. It really is. It's a very bad idea. Unless there's a mission, a Dharma mission. But generally speaking, if you're planning a vacation on your own, that's a bad idea. You're just following a desire. You should follow a Dharma. Now, Dharmas can be good. Like, for example, my teacher when I was living in New York, said, we're going to go to the Caribbean and learn to scuba dive. And I was like, great. And then I continued to come down here, like every other weekend, to continue my scuba experiences. And there was a dharma for it. So I got to come to the Caribbean, you know, for little weekend vacations. But I was within a structure of Dharma. So don't just go, you know, plan a vacation on your own. It's a bad idea. Plan a vacation that has Dharma around it. That has a way of Dharma, not just a way of self. Because the way of self will always get you drained. suck don't do it do something with Dharma and one of the great things is that we do scuba diving so going to Paris with me is pretty interesting who shall be named tomorrow will be the ones. Yes, indeed. Then if you think you are the best yogi and you don't get chosen,

0:40:56
it's because you had too much egotism.

0:41:00
Not enough selflessness is a very big part of yoga. Impeccability, which is cash flow capability, but also selflessness, just putting yourself out there, doing what needs to be done, working, right? Working your butt off. That makes a lot of difference in yoga. So I pretty much can see right now who the two people are. So I'll just name them.

0:41:43
It's Sean and Robert.

0:41:45
A minus B plus in terms of impeccability, but A minus B plus in terms of selflessness. So that's very very good. Now if you guys bring it up a notch, right, then that's where you may have a bigger transformation. That's where you enter into such a strong connectivity with the second attention in yoga, that's where you get like a spiritual name. That's where you gotta get a solid A in both. I have something special for a couple people. On the 23rd, I'm going to take Josh on a dive. Probably Lighthouse Reef or something. Or we might have to jump. Yeah, hopefully we don't have to jump on a boat but hopefully lighthouse reef. And I'm going to take Josh down to 200 feet and I'm going to do the underwater This is because of his just selflessness in a very specific regard that I won't go into. So on the 23rd, Josh, underwater samadhi. Now this is really cool because It's kind of the pinnacle of Mystic Scuba. It's to have this experience, because it is a real cool Samadhi experience. You gotta be ready for it, you have to be a good enough diver, so that you can go down, be comfortable,

0:44:10
deal with the depth,

0:44:11
but at the same time, you know, have an ability to maintain your buoyancy and be able to take a moment to still your mind. And it's really cool. Very, very awesome. Brahmananda, as you guys know, Brahmananda, He had this saying, there's two parts to the spiritual experience. There's the before samadhi part and then the after samadhi part. So once you have an experience of samadhi, you have a certainty that enlightenment is

0:44:44
real.

0:44:45
Before that you're just struggling and having a hard time and you know, I don't know You're just having you're just a you know, you're just trying to get to see if anything's enlightening in life you're just working on it and working on it and Usually you work on it work on it work on it until you get to a very very very high place and then you have samadhi and and sometimes you just are meditating it's your fourth time meditating and you have samadhi because you're lucky yeah, so it just happens sometimes hey what's going on? it's talking to me it was a lie so yeah So, yeah, so Samadhi, the Japanese have this funny way of talking about Samadhi. They call it Satori or Satoru or whatever, Satori, let's call it. And they're like, Satori is this animal in the forest that is very hard to find, very hard to capture. So if you're going out to get Satori, you might be hunting Satori with an axe, and every time you try to get Satori, it runs away. So what you have to do is you just have to sit there and chop wood, and then eventually your axe will fly out of your hand, fly behind you, and land on Satori. So you can't intend to get Satori, you have to just accidentally get it. So this is a Japanese story about how to experience Samadhi. Unless you're advanced, unless you're a master of meditation, you can't say, okay, I'm gonna sit down and go into samadhi right now.

0:47:18
You just can't do it.

0:47:19
You have no control over if it's gonna happen or not. But for me, I can do that because I became a master of meditation. I can say, oh, I'm gonna sit down and go into samadhi in three seconds. And I go, boom. And it's very, it's something that I've trained to do. You train to do it, eventually happens. That's when you're a master. But before that, it's like there's this fish called Satori, and you can't just go out there and capture it. But sometimes, it just happens. You might be advanced, you might be not advanced. As long as you are in an established lineage and you learn to meditate correctly or if you have very advanced past lives you can experience satori just out of nowhere. In every meditation that we have together you have a great opportunity to experience satori. If you just get yourself out of the way, you could experience it very quickly and easily. But most of the times you guys are sitting around thinking, so... but if you just relax and let your thoughts subside, you could experience the Torah. Especially when we meditate together, it's a tremendous opportunity. However, it's also possible when you're just meditating on your own. The conditions are right for it. A fish called Satori is always swimming around you. However, through Mystic Scuba, I can put you into this experience of Satori. We call it underwater samadhi. And that's something where you have to be generally prepared and capable, and then you can do it. And then you have this glimpse into, you have an experience of enlightenment. Satori is an experience of enlightenment. It's not an integrated experience where your consciousness is always in that place. You go into this world of enlightenment and then you come back out. But it's great because you could say, wow that was real. I can't get back there by myself right now but at least I saw it and I got there and it was real. So you know having that experience gives you a certain kind of proof that enlightenment is real. Before that you're just kind of like, I don't know what enlightenment is, I don't know if it's real, I'm just going to try to meditate and try to get a job. And then that's proper, because that's how you develop yourself, where you yourself can continuously meditate and go into the story. On the 24th I'm going to bring Dave down to 200 feet for underwater Samadhi for the exact same reason. He did something very selfless to help another person. So very very very very cool awesome wonderful things that merit underwater Samadhi. Excellent so some wonderful wonderful things good Good stuff happening. You know, we've got death We got Vajrayogini. All right, we got underwater Samadhi and We got Parasvams There we go Sounds like good things Now I'm gonna let you guys go but I'm gonna take Zen Parvati and Ajna and we're gonna go on a little walk up to Ram Point. First of all for Zen it's Zen's birthday right so he's got the solstice birthday so it's a extra special time but Zen today on his birthday did something that merits a special empowerment. He basically, what did he do? He did teaching. That's it. Teaching. So he And when he was my Divemaster Helper, he entered into a very high Dharma and he put himself aside and he did an excellent and powerful job in teaching, you know, part of our, teaching our mystic scuba, you know, our magical spiritual scuba adventure perfectly, just excellently, and that's a very, very excellent and wonderful thing to do. Now a couple people on the open water checkouts, they have had water phobias, you know, like experiences with water that were very traumatic and that, you know, they were like, oh no, I could never even put my face in the water kind of thing. And then today they were, you know, doing their checkout dives, you know, hovering, regulator recovery, buddy breathing, mask off and on. And then we went on a dive down to the devil's grotto and going through the little caverns there. And doing that is extremely powerful and way beyond their ideas of what they can do. So Zen was very, very helpful in working with one of them. Very, very helpful. It was just a very powerful selflessness. And just bringing the Dharma of mystic scuba and the spiritual lesson through him. For Zen, this will bring a spiritual empowerment that's very special and directs him towards a higher dharma. So that's excellent. And then Parvati and Ajna, I want to sit with you guys as well. Parvati and Ajna have just completed their black belt testing. So Ajna has gotten his second degree black belt in Jiu-Jitsu and Parvati has gotten her third degree black belt in Jiu-Jitsu. So we're going to go and have a have a reflection on that. So thank you all very much. Very exciting evening. Tomorrow we're diving deep. So this is power dive time. Strong impeccable attention. Stay balanced. Keep your awareness of current, awareness of going down and buoyancy coming up don't have any runaway ascent. This is serious business that you that you do your diving right. business that you that you do your diving right. Excellent. Thank you all very much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
