0:00:00
Tonight, we're going to have a serious discussion. And I'm going to teach you a very powerful mantra that Buddha taught his monks before they went into battle against the Hindu army. You guys following all this? The idea here is that in Buddhism, there's a way. There's a way to be, a way to be a Buddhist. A way to conduct your life, to conduct your mind. And it's different than the way most people go about life with fear, desire, and attachment, and it draws them into just misery. But the Buddhist way is a different way. It's a different take on things. It's a way to engage in life and be positive. It's a way of having a positive mind. That's what the Buddhist way is. So we always proceed in our lives with this way, the way of the positive mind. And when we engage in difficult situations, we bring a great deal of positivity to it. Just like when Buddha would lead his Buddhist monk army against Genghis Khan. We have a new student over here from Hungary. His name is Attila. And someone was asking me, do you think he needs to change his name? And I said, no, Americans recognize Attila. Sure, no problem. You're all like, Attila, whoa. It would be kind of similar, in fact it would be the same for Americans if his name was Genghis Khan.

0:03:19
What's your name?

0:03:20
Genghis Khan.

0:03:21
Oh.

0:03:22
Okay.

0:03:23
It's a name that we recognize, so, you know. If it's one of those other weird names that we don't recognize, then it's not good. but, oh, Genghis Khan, Attila, same to us. So, I like it. We finally have an Attila the Hun. I was wondering when we'd get one. It reminds me of the first time Kali mentioned Zen. She said, could my friend come over from Hungary? I said, no, wait, what's his name? And she said, his name is Zoltan. And we were watching that movie, Dude, Where's My Car? And he was an evil cult leader, the space cult leader guy, his name was Zoltan. It was so funny. So I started laughing and I said, you gotta be kidding. I said, no, it's a common name. I'm like, okay, he can come. And that's how all this Hungarian business started. I digress. So, it's important to have a positive outlook and to deal with difficulty in a positive way. One of the ways that we deal with difficulty is with humor, being able to laugh at life, laugh at yourself. I always like it when someone makes me laugh. When I'm talking to certain yoga teams and they tell me jokes or they make jokes, it's really good. Because, you know, adding a little bit of laughter to your yoga, laughter to your life, creates a great balance. So humor is always an excellent way to be more positive. Laughing makes you feel good. There was a Buddha, they often call him the laughing Buddha, and you probably have seen some big Buddha just cracking up, like in little Chinese pictures or something. Well, I think his name in Chinese, I think, well, I think they call him Laughing Buddha, but I think they call him Pu Tai or something like that. And his story is that he was sitting there meditating like a normal guy, then he became enlightened. And his reaction to enlightenment was he just started laughing. So that was his city, his experience, his expression of enlightenment, was he would just start laughing, just start cracking up. And I think that's a really cool way to enter nirvana. And then his teachings were that he would go around to groups of people and he would just sit there with them and they're all, oh yeah, so the venerable monk guy. And then they'd sit there with him and he'd be sitting kind of serious. Then he'd start, he'd start laughing a little. Then he'd start laughing a lot. And then he'd just start laughing, and it was infectious, and everyone else would laugh. And this was the way he taught. This was his spiritual teaching, was just laughing, and other people would laugh, and it was a good situation. So, yeah, that was his expression of enlightenment. It kind of reminds me of when Dave and I, we went down to the depths diving into enlightenment in his underwater Samadhi. What he did was his reaction to underwater Samadhi was laughing. I was like, well, keep your regulator in your mouth. Good to laugh. That's our school. Super tone out. You got to be able to go down to 200 feet, underwater, laugh without dropping your regulator, go into Samadhi, and look at fish. That was our way. So, yeah, laughing is really good. And a lot of people think that laughing or humor isn't spiritual, but my teacher was very funny. I mean, I don't know how he pulled it off, because he yelled at us for like seven years straight, but somehow it was really funny. He always had a humor that was just very positive. Very positive, he would never demean people or belittle people. So he wouldn't just sit there and cap on people. You know, capping. Yo mama so ugly. He would never do that. He'd be all, ah. He would never do that. I don't know how he made us laugh all the time though. Buddhist master, that's how. So yeah, humor is really, really, actually very, very spiritual. And you know, we look at the Don Juan books. Don Juan and Don Hinero were just sitting there cracking up all the time. Carlos is all, you know, so strange, he's out there. And they're just cracking up. It was just really funny. So yeah, it was pretty funny. And I crack up too. Usually I don't do it when I'm around you guys, but I'm sitting there at home and I sit down to meditate and then I just remember my students and I'm all... You guys are like better than a movie. I laugh, I cry, I laugh, I get a stomachache. Yeah, it's kind of funny. I remember one time, I had a friend who, David Bren, some of you know him, he was a student of my teacher's, and my teacher was trying to get rid of us for a while, so he's all, why don't you guys go check out some other Buddhist teachers? He's like, if you go and see three other teachers, then you might find that you like them better. And he's all, in fact, you have to go see. You have to go. And then we're all, oh, okay. So my friend David, he was in this Japanese Buddhism Sokugakai for a long time. And so he said, let's go to the Sokugakai school. He's like, I haven't been there in like three years or so. And he's like, I know it all. And for me, it would be something interesting. So we went there, and it was just really funny, because first we did this chanting, where we had this little chant book, and he had memorized the book. So he was just all, dong, dong, dong, dong, dong, dong, dong, dong, dong. And I was like, oh, okay. And for me, they wrote the Japanese words out in English. Yeah, well, sort of in English. I was trying to read it, but they went so fast. I was all like, I can't say these simple syllables that quickly. So then I just kind of was all... And that was all great. So that was the spiritual part. And then someone got up and gave a Dharma And most of, a lot of secular Buddhist concepts are really weird. They are like, do you know how big the Heart Sutra. I'm like, I'm not sure. So they're like, well, let's tell you how big it is. If you took this universe and turned it into dust, and then you went over not one universe, but two universes, and dropped one speck of dust and then went over not one universe but two universes and dropped a second speck of dust and then how many pieces of dust you have from this universe crossing not one but two universes in every step that's how big the Heart Sutra is and I was like I was like listening to it I'm like okay so that's like a big ass sutra but I'm like okay all right you could just say it's big But I didn't know, so I was just like, okay. You know, my teacher usually made sense, but. But anyway, so I was listening,

0:13:43
and then my friend David's sitting there,

0:13:45
and he's all listening, and he's been through these, he did like 10 years or so for that guy, and he's all listening, and then all of a sudden, he breaks out laughing. Baaa! Right in the middle of this Dharma talk. And then I realized they are saying really preposterously strange things and it's really funny that he's laughing. So I really wanted to laugh but they didn't think it was spiritual that he was laughing. So they all got mad at him and looked at him. And since I was sitting next to him, I used all my willpower not to laugh because I thought it was really funny. So instead of laughing, I made a really mean face. So every time I wanted to laugh, I made a meaner look at my face and I moved around because I was holding in my laughing. And I looked at him. I can't believe this guy. I'm not with him. And it was a beautiful experience. Needless to say, that didn't make any sense. That was interesting. And then, I just have to tell you, one of the other meditation teachers I saw was a Tibetan Buddhist. And he got mad at me in the meditation class because they had laying down meditation. I think you were there, Shaki, right? Yeah. Laying down meditation, which was cool. I'm all, waking me up. I said, don't fall asleep. I'm all, huh? And I said, if you fall asleep, don't snore. I was all, that was just my mantra. I can't do my own mantra. So you know, spiritual practice is hilarious. Funniest things happen. So it's good to keep a sense of humor. When you do silly things, or when you see other people do silly things. And a lot of times, you know, when someone does something that is bothersome or makes you angry or something like that, or it's a really difficult situation, you could look back on it and laugh. But the key to real spiritual practice is to laugh while it's happening. Laugh while the really difficult stuff is going on. And then that way, you're All right. All right, I'm going to have to take a break right now. So we're just All right. All right, I'm going to have to take a break right now. So we're just going to take a break for 10 minutes, come back.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
