0:00:00
Box seats. We're getting to the actual stuff. This is a very, very old, old, old, old, old, old, old, old, old, old, old, old, old, old,

0:00:21
old, old, old, old, old, old, old, old, old, old, old, old, old, old, old, old, old, old, This is a book called The Great Pathway of Awakening. You will read it at least a dozen times. A little bit. You've got to read it all. You've got to read all the notes and the footnotes and the notes and the commentaries and conclusions and interruptions. Everything. interruptions, and everything.

0:00:53
In that order.

0:00:54
In that order.

0:00:55
He'll read this cover to cover a couple times, and he'll just read the actual 108 aphorisms again and again and again, basically memorizing. So, this is the Mahayana Buddhist practice called the Seven Points of Mind Training. And included in the Seven Points of Mind Training is the Yoga of Compassion. the yoga of compassion. There are things around the yoga of compassion that give you considerations of how to use it effectively. So you will become well-versed in seven points of mind training just because why not, it's nice. However, you will become experts in the yoga of compassion. So we're gonna talk about the actual practice

0:02:07
in the yoga of compassion.

0:02:09
It's called bodhicitta.

0:02:11
That's how I say it.

0:02:13
I say everything the way I feel like it. So we call it bodhicitta. And Bodhicitta is the yoga of compassion. So it is a yoga. And it is a yoga of meditation and mindfulness. Essentially they call it taking and sending. And what you do is you have an awareness of someone else's suffering and you practice taking that suffering. And you practice sending your light. That's it. You take the dark from them, you send the light from you.

0:03:12
Simple concept. And it's simple to do. However, it's very, very, very profound. And in fact,

0:03:13
this is a practice that I do. And even if you're not listening, this is what I do. I do the yoga of compassion, I do bodhicitta, because it's something that is happy for me, enlightening for me, but also it's enlightening for you. So I always have an awareness, I'm always feeling with people where I'm aware of their suffering. I'm never unaware of your suffering when I'm talking to you, even if I'm ill maybe, because you're having a hard time. I'm aware of your suffering and I practice taking your suffering, taking the darkness in your mind and giving you light. And what that does is it creates a greater condition of enlightened attention and luminosity for your spirit. And for me, it's beautiful. That's why any of us, that you have compassion because it's a bright way to be. When you practice taking the darkness, taking the suffering from another, and giving them your freedom, your enlightenment, your Then what happens is you automatically do the opposite of an ego. An ego is always trying to get for itself. Keep the dark away from me and me light for myself. And keep others from getting it. So that's what the ego does. It's always trying to promote itself and defend itself. The yoga of compassion is the opposite. We actually look at the suffering of others and we take it. And then we give them what is good and right within us. It's the opposite of deitism. It's a fantastic thing. So when we practice that, it's a very simple practice. We just have that consideration of taking and sending. And as we do it over and over and over and and beautiful it is, and how illuminating it is, how it helps other people, and how it becomes bright for ourselves. The empowerment that we're going to have puts you in, let's say, a stream of light. And that stream of light goes from Avalokiteshvara to you. But it actually doesn't do anything until you take and send. When you take and send, then that stream of you will blast. So you become a doorway to the light of Avalokiteshvara by practicing taking and sending. It's very powerful and it's very bright. And it's fun. And it's selfless. But you have to, you will observe as you practice this that the self will find itself and let go of selflessness and limitation and defensiveness and finding faults with others. Over and over when you practice this simple practice of taking and sending. In bodhichitta the way that we practice is as they say we put it on the breath. So when another person, we inhale the darkness, the suffering, the pain, the loss, the anger, the depression, whatever you perceive as their suffering, you inhale it. And you can just imagine it as dark, nasty, tar, garbage, muck that you inhale. Or you might really understand the vibration of their anger or their depression and just inhale it. And then you exhale light. You exhale the brightest light that you can conceive of in your mind. The brightest light that you've ever experienced in meditation. You say, I am aware of this light and I give it to you

0:09:16
So that you can be happy

0:09:18
So that you can be free of the darkness Free of suffering and filled with the luminosity the brightness that I've experienced or I've glimpsed in my spiritual practice I I focus on giving that light to you. When you do that, you become the door to Avalokiteshvara's light. You have to get into that mode. And as you practice. So it's a simple practice. When you're talking to someone, dealing with someone, you first have that disposition of awareness that other people suffer, this person's got suffering. That's the most important thing, otherwise you will just not even look at that. You won't have anything to practice on because you won't even be aware that that person has suffering. And then you might not notice any suffering from them. But just the fact that you're like, I understand this is a sentient being, this person has suffering. If you don't see them crying or having a hard time, then maybe you don't need to practice bodhicitta. Maybe if you see them having a hard time, you can practice bodhicitta. Your compassion is kind of stimulated by seeing that someone is having difficulty. Practice taking and sending. Inhale the darkness, exhale the light. Simple practice. Now We practice bodhisattva in two ways. First as a sitting meditation. We do this at the end of our morning and evening meditations. So you'll sit down and you'll do your regular meditation practice. Very important that you do that. That is the foundation of bodhicitta. In fact, that is when you read the book they call, they have the first practice called ultimate bodhicitta. That's what it is. It's basically your meditation practice. After your meditation practice you'll spend One song or two songs Just just a little probably just one song So you'll meditate and then on the last song the practice bodhicitta And for the period of time of practicing bodhicitta just one song you will progressively go through considerations of compassion. So, the first consideration is compassion for, let's say, friends, people that you love. You say, oh, poor doggy. I really like my doggy. He's so cute. But sometimes my doggy's experience is suffering. And then you have a feeling of compassion. Practice taking and sending to your daddy. And you go, oh, my mom and dad, they were bastards, just kidding. My mom and dad, they experienced suffering, and I love them so much. And practice taking and sending. And then you go, oh, my good friend, she's so upset. She has such a hard time practicing taking and sending. So you practice on people that you like. Or maybe also things that are easy for you to feel compassionate about. So if you have that thing where you're like, oh, I really care about African people. Taking and sending. So things that are easy for you to feel pity about. Then you expand it. If you have an attachment, it's very important that you're able to expand it. And have compassion for things and places, people, no not places, things and people that you wouldn't normally have any stirred up emotions or compassion for. So they'll say, what about Eskimo? They suffer. It's really cold there. So you have to you have to expand to things that are neutral. Oh, there's this guy I work with. Yes, he's something. You start to you start to take these neutral things and start people, other groups, other stuff that you're usually not just compelled to feel some compassion for. That those things actually, those people, those groups, those sentient beings also have of suffering in beings. And you practice taking that suffering, seeing it as darkness coming into you, and you inhale and sending your light, exhaling light to them. And seeing And then you start to focus on enemies, difficult people, people who you perceive as giving you a hard time. And you say, oh this guy is giving me such a hard time, he's suffering. Practice taking his suffering. If you feel you're in a battle with him, then take in the loss and give him the victory. Take in the darkness. Give him all the light. So you start with things that you feel compassion for, people that you feel close to. Then you go to neutral parties. And then you go to the most difficult considerations, enemies. Enemies of the state. The state of you. And you go into the practice of Bodhicitta as a mindfulness exercise. And this means that whenever you find yourself going into your cycles of whatever, it might be you having an issue or problem with another person. And whatever you come across, you practice bodhicitta for. So if it's a person that you have a problem with, you practice bodhicitta for that. However, what if it's just you're depressed, you're like, I'm sad, I'm feeling bad, then you practice a higher level of bodhicitta, which is, there's no other specific person, however, there are you're sure that feel the same way. So if you're, let's say, angry or depressed, you say, Oh, it's terrible. And maybe it has nothing to do with anybody specific, you're just feeling that. You say, there are many people who feel angry. There are many people who feel depressed like I do. I intend to take from all of them this feeling of anger, this feeling of depression in me, take it. And I will give to them, all of them, who have suffered this anger and depression, I will give them my life, my freedom from This is a way to bring you from a place where you are always stuck in your own head, always stuck in your own This is a very, very, very powerful technique for dealing with difficult people and dealing with the difficulties of your own mind. Because when you are practicing mindfulness and dealing with difficult people, you go, oh wow, so this guy is giving me a hard time. I'm going to be aware that you are suffering and practice taking and sending. And when you are just sitting there having your own hard time, because you didn't have to deal with anybody else, then you start to feel pain. There are many people who suffer anger, many people who suffer depression, many people who suffer this jealousy, or whatever it is that appears in your mind that creates suffering for you. Other people feel it. You are not just the only one in the room that feels it. Other people experience the same suffering as you. So you have to develop the intention to take on their suffering, whoever they are. Maybe you can remember another person who felt angry, another person who felt depressed, another person who felt jealous, another person who felt confused, another person who felt completely stuck, another person who felt everything is impossible. You might have seen another person experience that and you can bring them to mind and practice taking and sending. These are really powerful techniques to deal with these difficult comments of the mind. This is a technique that's different than the beginning mindfulness. Beginning mindfulness is kind of deflecting. Like, oh, I have this terrible thought. Let me think about something happy. Right? And that means that you shift from experiencing it to putting yourself in a different place. But the fact that it's there means that there's a karma in your attention. That anger, that depression, is a karma. And just by pushing your attention away from it, it means that you're not dealing with it in a way. You are dealing with it in a way, but it doesn't go away just by focusing your attention off of it. You become stronger, you gain greater personal power, you cut the karma of reinforcing it. But it's there for a reason. It becomes weaker because your mind becomes stronger. But when you practice bodhicitta, instead of running away from it, you embrace it. See, the self voice wants to run away. So bodhicit is kind of the opposite of basic mindfulness. Instead of going, oh it's bad, I go away, you go, oh it's bad, I take and I take not only it, but I take it from anyone who's ever had it. And you have to dig deep and take it. When you become an intermediate practitioner, a practitioner of the yoga of compassion, you're saying, all right, I'm going to step up and I'm going to deal with this suffering maturely so that others can be free from it. You can quite literally make someone feel better. If someone's not feeling good, you can take the darkness and send the light. And then they'll be like, I feel better. And you're like, I feel powerful. Because what you did was you liberated them from a certain difficulty, a certain darkness of mind. But you didn't run from suffering. You took on life in a powerful way. You transmute the difficulty of another person or the difficulty of your own mind by taking it and bringing the highest and brightest light within you to free the So you become responsive, strong, because you're taking on suffering, you're not running from suffering, you're not defending from other people, you're not running away from your mind. You let it in. You take it in. You say, I can handle this because I meditate. I'm on the path to enlightenment. By doing yoga, by doing mindfulness, you do all these wonderful power I can take this. If I can't take it, I'm holding the craft. And then you go and you summon the greatest light. The doorway opens and the light of the father of the spirit comes through. Bam! And it helps the amorphous people who experience anger. It makes the person in the universe and all the people who suffer these things a little more enlightened. And for you it's a powerfully enlightening experience. Not run from suffering, to be able to take it. And by taking and sending, you realize it's transmuted. Suffering, you can come to understand it. So if you have a depression, you can understand it, cope with it, master it, to a point where it doesn't stop you, it doesn't squash you. It's possible. introspection, the selfless willingness to take that vibration of suffering into your higher enlightened self, to be able to take it. And the intent to free all others from suffering and give them life, give them success, give them freedom from that suffering. That intent directs the compassionate power of Avalokiteshvara. And it's awesome. It's an awesome thing to experience. And if you've got ingrained samskaras and karmas, yeah, guess what? It's going to come back again and again and again. It's not usually that you experience it once and then it's vanquished. The best way to overcome these repeating conditions of anger, depression, dissatisfaction, confusion, delusion, any type of darkness and suffering that appears in your mind, is the intent to take it. to give them the greatest life that you're aware of. That is the way to deal with your mind. Just come to terms with the karmas of darkness in your mind, to the point where you become free from them, you understand them by going through this process. So it's a powerful, enlightening yoga for yourself and for others. It's all about others, but it really has a very enlightening effect on yourself. So I say, it's fun. It takes changing your intent from being a selfish bastard to really giving a damn. So it's funny. And then you just love it. You're just like, wow, where's someone who's pissed off? Come over here. I don't have to look far. But yet at the same time, because of our tremendous discipline of the navel chakra, we don't get out of balance from this. We have all the enlightenment, all the bright, beautiful, amazing luminosity, but we are really grounded and we have a strong foundation of power. So it's not all like, hippie la la, fun fun stuff, right? It's just not conceptual, it's powerful. So these are the three practices that we do. We practice in the last song of our meditation or maybe just a few minutes after meditation. So if you want to do your full hour of meditation, half hour of meditation and then just sit in silence and go through this consideration, that's fine. Or maybe the last song of the meditation, go through this consideration. Taking and sending. You first start with people you like, then mutual parties, then enemies, and then try to get some bigger awareness of people. Everyone in my country, everyone else's family. You can try that in your sitting meditation. And then you go into your mindfulness mode. So So you've already developed the skills of mindfulness, the practices to identify when your mind is in a dark place. And then you've done enough of the deflection, the shields, the antidotes, the wonderfuls. You've done enough of that to gain enough personal power so that you are able to get out of cycles of karma, to get yourself higher. But the real way to take on these cycles of dissatisfaction, anger, all that stuff, that darkness that comes up again and again, is to take it. Take it from yourself, take it from others. Be able to hold and take that vibration so that others can be free and to send your brightest light to others so that they can be illuminated. Taking and sending. Taking and sending is bodhicitta. Bodhicitta is the yoga of compassion. Simple practice. One of the big things about bodhicitta is you've got to give a damn. You have to actually develop compassion and care for another, for others. So this is why we start with the practice of whenever you talk to others, whenever you are dealing with others, whenever you are looking at another person, instead of just having self-reflection, you have to start saying, just start saying, this person suffers too. They want to be happy, but they are suffering. It starts to get you to see the suffering of others, and as you start to see it, you start to care about it, caring grows within you. Compassion is, I think, a very, very, very, very natural thing. It's just that we live in a very, very unnatural world. You know, it's just rare, although it's a very natural. Like let's say a monkey a monkey has a baby and then the monkey is taking care of the baby. Baby monkey. So the monkey is taking care of the baby monkey. The baby monkey gets in danger and the monkey takes care of the baby monkey so that it doesn't get hurt. The baby monkey is cold so the monkey warms the baby monkey. So a mother and child is a very simple way of seeing compassion at work. The mother, even in nature, the mother usually incurs compassion. It's a very normal thing. And there's no, why do they do it? There's no social rule that you have to do it. There's no religious It's just a natural, normal dharma. So, compassion is a normal thing. Now, the circle of attention has to grow. You can't just become attached to having compassion for one thing or one person. You have to develop compassion for everyone that you come across, in every difficult situation,

0:37:58
everything.

0:37:59
Compassion is really, you know, the ultimate, the compassion is completely selfless. So compassion is normal, actually. It's very normal. You can see it in the animal kingdom and in the human race. And it's something that should give you at least an example of the fact that confession is natural. In the seven points of mind training they tell you to consider your mother. They say look your mom took care of you. Your mom raised you. She wiped away your filth, kept you from harm, and did the best job that you could to help you, brought you into the world, squeezed you out. So they say consider your mother, consider your mother, call your mother. Your mother did all these good things for you. A teeny little peanut. And therefore, that person has done such a great thing for you, they themselves experienced suffering. And this should engender compassion for you. You should be like, wow, mom did such a good thing for me. She's so nice to me. She fed me. She clothed me. She wiped away my filth. And then, you know, she did all the good things that she could do for me. Maybe she has some limits, but she did what she could. And I'm alive, so hey, she did something right. So, you'll have a look at those really good things, and then you say, wow, guess what? She suffers. My mom has a hard time. And then that should engender a bit of compassion for me. It should get you to realize that you care a little bit. Someone did such nice good things so that I could live and survive and thrive and that person suffers. That's where you should start to recognize a feeling of compassion. Now, as I joke around, being in these degenerate times, a lot of Westerners don't like their mothers very much. You know, like, oh man, their mom pisses me off, right? And it's because you went into teenager mode. And that's okay. Some people have really horrific problems with their mothers or whatever. But this is a template for understanding compassion. And if you had problems with your mom, maybe you can practice this for your father. If you have problems with your mom and your dad, maybe you have a grandmother that raised you. Someone who did right by you helped you. You have to consider that person. You have to figure out, hey, who really was selfless and helped me out? Might have been a teacher, might have been a neighbor, might have been someone at church, who knows? But try to find those instances where someone did right by you, and then recognize that that person has suffered. Maybe someone at church, you know, did something nice for you, cooked you a meal one day when you were hungry or something, and then that person ended up having a stroke and was suffering. You can reflect on the nice thing that the person did to you, and then the fact that later on they had suffering, or maybe they have suffering now or something, and you can find that you have compassion, that you care for people. And for some of you it's not going to be evident or obvious, but it is a reflection that you must do deeply to find a feeling of compassion. You have to find a feeling of caring. Because you can practice with that care, with that understanding of someone's suffering. That's when you can practice taking and sending. Because if you don't know what to take, you are just going to be kind of cerebral about it. And you should be cerebral about it in the beginning. You should be like, okay, I don't know, but I'm going to practice inhaling the dark and exhaling the light. That's fine, that's great. But it's best, the more compassionate the feeling and care, the more you can take the dark and the more powerful the light. So, you have to find within you the motivation to care about people. First you care about your mother and your sacrifice and your family, then you go to a neutral acquaintance and you have to bring that same feeling as if it were your mother. That's what they say in Buddhism, they say, everyone's your mother. If you can feel that compassion, they say, everyone's your mother. First feel the compassion for your mother, then extend it to someone who's not your mother, but you still like them. Then extend it to a neutral party, then extend it to an enemy, then extend it to all sentient beings. So you have to have that feeling, real feeling of care for another person's Very simple, the yoga of compassion.

0:44:48
So that's the actual practice.

0:44:50
You do it in sitting meditation, and then you do it in your mindful practice. Quite simple, but profound. The way to really experience light is to want light for another person. It's a trick. There's a story or something in there. This guy who is going to the door of Nirvana, he knocks on the door, and then on the other side this voice says, who's there?

0:46:07
It's his eye!

0:46:10
And the door doesn't open. So it's just getting to the real target. And then he finally gets to the door again. Who is there? And he says, it is we. And the door opens. in nirvana, they say, there are no eyes in nirvana except for the one eye. In Sanskrit there are no eyes. There are no eyes in nirvana in Sanskrit. So, you know, this is true. You to enlightenment with self. And in this doctrine of the seven points of mind training, the Prajnaparamita, we want enlightenment for others, for everyone. So it's exactly what Avalokitesvara did. He said, I am about to go into nirvana, but wait, I don't want to just go in by myself, I want everyone to go into my mind. So this is the great pathway. Mahayana, the great pathway to awakening is our focus. So the great pathway is not just enlightenment for me, but enlightenment for everyone, enlightenment for we. Of course, you're included, but really the focus is on not just you, the focus is on everyone. There's also another play by an existentialist Frenchman, Jean-André de John and Doreen, pardon my French. Anyway, it's a story where there's all these good people and they're spending their lives trying to be good, going to church, giving to charity, just trying to be good. And then the reckoning comes. God brings them up to heaven. And they're like, yes, we're in heaven. Or right up in front of the gates, and there's a saint, whatever his name, angel name, whatever, and they're like, oh, I'm about to let you guys in. And they're all, yes, because we are good. And they're all, and then God goes, I was going to damn those sinners and stuff, but since it is the end of the world, I'm going to forgive them and bring them up here too. So then all of a sudden there's other group of people come up and it's all those sinners and God forgave them. And then the good people go, what? What are they doing here? They're the sinners And we were the good and we tried so hard to spend so much effort We did so many good things and they were just like they were like we can't stand for these bad people to be here We're the ones who are good. They're the ones that are bad And then guess what happened? They ended up going to hell. But it's totally true. So it's like, you know, when you want enlightenment for yourself, then you can get it. It's easier when you want enlightenment for all. It's a secret teaching. Want enlightenment for others and you have more enlightenment. The great path, Mahayana. Quite a claim. Okay, we're going to take a break, then we're going to come back and we're going to do the So this is your battle of Kurukshetra.

0:52:05
Remember that whole thing?

0:52:08
That little skirmish? That little book was about? So, you know, for Arjuna, He had to face a greater dharma that he was karmically aware of. So Krishna got him to focus on the dharma in a way where he had to be strong, where he had to be powerful, where he had to be impeccable. But it was a shift. He, according to his karma, would feel bad and sad about the situation. And then Krishna said, hey, no, look what's going on. This This is what the Dharma is and here is what the duty is. So there is a lot of action to take, impeccability. And then Arjuna got up and did his work. And for him it was being in a battle, fighting. And for you, it's fighting for compassion. The dharma shifts away from the path of your ego all the time. The dharma always shifts away from the karma of the self and do selfless stuff. You have to completely change and put a ton of effort into doing something a different way. The yoga of compassion. But at the same time, you need to maintain maintain impeccability. You have to be excellent, powerful. As I said, now that you're becoming an intermediate student,

0:54:34
you have to be an excellent

0:54:36
student. You've got to have your job yield down. You have to have impeccability in your yield. So you can't make mistakes. And I have heard about a couple of mistakes actually. So we do things in a certain way because it works for personal power and works for yoga. So couple people who did things like renegotiate their contract. So you just say, hey, I want to make more money or else I feel like leaving. We never do it that way. What we always do, if you want to make more money on your contract, Go out, interview, and get a contract that pays more. And then give your current job the option of keeping you for the same amount. And in that way, what you do is you develop a stronger career path. If you just say, I'm thinking of leaving if you don't pay more. They might fire you on the spot. It's bad style. It's bad form. It's bad etiquette too. So just do it in a proper way. Go out, interview, get a higher paying job offer and then you can, if you really don't like your job, you can give notice. Otherwise, you always give them the option of keeping you for the same amount or more, depending on how much you like the place. So that's important. Don't just start renegotiating without having another job already offered to you. That way you don't develop your personal power properly. You just end up being a sneaky negotiator. Additionally, I've heard of a couple people who just quit their jobs without having another job lined up. This is a huge mistake. A huge mistake. Never do it this way. Consider a job to be a power line. It gives you energy, it gives you power. So if you're making $50 an hour, you're like, okay, cool, you can pay two bucks an hour, so I'm not worried. Now, if you interview and shoot for 75 if you bomb free interviews you don't care you have enough energy you're happy you're like I'm doing okay for myself I'm trying to shoot for more and you get more paid possibly then you take that step up but if you quit your job at $50 an hour then when you're trying for the 75 you're desperate your energy is weaker and then therefore what happens is when they say, well will you settle for 60? You say, okay, sure. And that means that you put yourself in a worse place. And if you're going to spend the time and energy to work, you might as well try to get the most out of it. That's what the game is of stepping it up. It's to get the most out of it. So quitting is not a good idea. And one of the people said they quit because they were having trouble being at work and trying to find a job at the same time. But that's what everyone does. That's what we do. That's the way we do it. Everyone else can do it, but that person can't. So what this does is puts them at a loss in terms of personal power. And it's a real loss. It's something that is a mistake even though they don't get it. They don't listen is the problem, because of selfishness. But we will observe this, based on this person just having a selfish idea of, I feel like quitting because of whatever selfish reasons, we'll observe how long they don't work. I'm sure it's going to be longer than they expect. Sure, if you're not working for a week or two, not a big deal. But if it's longer than that, you start to actually lose a lot of momentum. Yeah, this is really weird. You can't do things in a stupid way. That's a stupid way. You have to do things in an intelligent way. When you start doing things like quitting your job because you feel like it, you kind of don't like it, and then don't get something else set up, and then you just move on and quit. That is a way where you don't develop personal power. You're not stepping up in a way that is constructive. And if you say, oh yeah, I can get a job, no problem,

1:00:32
then do it right.

1:00:34
Because there's actually a structure involved here of developing yourself. Guaranteed, you won't be able to make, if you just quit, you lost your steam, you lost your energy flow, you won't be able to make the same jump as if you had maintained a job. And the other thing was, she hadn't visited her family in a while, and she wanted to go visit her family. So I told her, get another job offer, tell them that you can start in two weeks, quit the other job, go visit your family, and then come back to your new job. And that's the same thing if you want to take a little vacation, that's what I say you do. It's a great idea. But if you don't do it that way, you say, oh no, I'm just going to quit and then try to get another job, then you throw everything off. You lose energy, the time when you're not working, longer, especially when you're in debt, that's not the right way to do things. It's improper. This is like negligent attention. It's important that you do things right. It's very simple to do things right. I mean, what, you don't want to make money? You don't want to schedule things so that they're more powerful, that they work out better? Of course you want to make money, of course you want to schedule things so things work out most effectively. So don't start doing things because you have weird ideas. Do things that make sense.

1:02:12
It's a standard pattern in the way that we develop ourselves here.

1:02:13
And when you start going, well, no, I feel like taking a vacation. No, I feel like doing this. I don't like this job, I'm just going to quit. That's selfishness.

1:02:17
It's a bad attitude.

1:02:18
I don't like this job, I'm just going to quit. That's selfishness. It's a bad attitude. And it's not conducive of intermediate practice. It's bullshit. So now that you're becoming intermediate students,

1:02:36
you can't get sloppy.

1:02:39
You have to be strong.

1:02:40
You have to be more intelligent. You can't make these beginner mistakes. No more rookie moves. Some of you who have had yoga teachers who tell you, hey, do your work, and you do sloppy work, and they keep on telling you over and over again how to focus, how to work correctly. student. You look at your yoga teachers, they don't make those stupid mistakes. And you're not a beginner anymore. So you must stop making those mistakes. It is ad-dharma. It's against and not be responsible. So, no more of this bullshit. You guys have to step up because you have a greater responsibility in your foundation, the naval chakra, exercises, discipline in meditation, mindfulness practice, yoga, job yoga. You've got to have those things strong. Those have to be tight. You've got to do things effectively. You've got to have that down. Don't be sloppy anymore. Don't make stupid mistakes. Don't be a jerk. Because now you have to focus on a higher level of teaching, So this is the way that you really make significant spiritual kind of transformation. It's by being impeccable in your disciplines, learning new ones, the foundation of what you've learned must be strong so that you can take advantage of the new teachings. Very important. And then that way you become strong, you become tough, and also powerful and enlightened teachings. So this is where you have to have a really sober foundation. And then we have these really, really high and selfless practices like compassion. But if you're practicing compassion and you're making a mess out of your day job, or you're not developing your career properly, or you're not practicing yoga correctly, or you're not It's not going to work. So it's very important for you to do the things that you learned as a beginning student impeccably and then to take this on. Learning the yoga of compassion is hard. It takes a lot of soul searching, introspection, a lot of practice, a lot of expanding your awareness. It's work. Good work, right work. It's very different. And it requires that you have the foundation of your power from the other teachings as a disciplined and equitable practice. So, I want you to see a step up. I want you to see a step up. Yeah, you know, Krishna was a bad ass, right? Krishna was a honey badger. I crack up when I read the Mahabharata. Krishna is so sneaky, so tricky. like he's just totally like combining all these problems for the other side he's like I'm gonna kill you guys I really like it because you know these warriors get together and they go all right we're gonna have us here big-ass battle we're gonna wipe you guys out let's start with some rules first of all no hitting below the waist second of all no hitting in the back third of all no women on the battlefield. And if there is one, you can't do anything. They come up with all these rules, right? And Krishna said, never mind. And then there was that there was that one brother on the other side and his mother said I will lift my blindfold and whatever I see will be safe, shielded for many times. So this guy is going to see his mom and he's like, okay, well I'm going to just come all naked so that I'm going to be invincible. And then Krishna all of a sudden appears and he's like, Dude, at least cover yourself. I mean, have you no modesty? You're going to show your mom your junk? And then the guy goes, oh, okay. So he kind of covers, and then his mom, why did you cover yourself? Now you have a part that could be harmed. He says, it's okay, most of me is okay, mom. And then Krishna says, hey Bhima, get him in the pool.

1:09:01
He's so messed up. There you are.

1:09:07
There you are. Nice sign, baby.

1:09:12
And he did so many things like that.

1:09:15
And then, there was another time where one guy who's a father of ours,

1:09:20
he's there, and then he gives off his chariot or something, and you're not supposed to attack when you're off the chariot, or to turn around or something, and the Christians are

1:09:40
like, kill that motherfucking Christian!

1:09:42
And the Americans are like, oh no, that would be breaking the rules!

1:09:45
And the Christians are like, kill him!

1:09:47
And the Americans are like, okay, shh, he's dead, whoop, we won the war!

1:09:56
I love it.

1:09:59
It's so funny to me, to crack up watching Krishna. Krishna was there to win. Everyone else was like, oh, what's this? What's that? What's this about? All these crazy things, but Krishna's just working his way around it. Krishna's a good gentleman. I like it because you know it's like here is God's figurehead in a battle killing people or telling people how to kill people. And he's so sneaky. So that's our next book on compassion that we're going to read. It's called the Art of War. The Art of War. 春秋兵法 The Art of War. And this is a book that is Taoist in philosophy. And it was actually used by generals a long time ago in China during the period of the war in the states. However, it is a book that really teaches about the conditions of problems and conflicts. And it also teaches a compassionate way to deal with conflict. So we'll be reading in the future. You can get it. We'll be talking about it probably in our next meditation seminar. But it's funny that the art of war is a study of compassion. Which we think is very important, very important important for intermediate. So Krishna was fantastic. So interesting. I like how in the and to Krishna. These guys were warriors, yet they were known to be the incarnation of Vishnu. They were enlightened. They were the Godhead or whatever, right? But they were And this is a sobering way of looking at enlightenment. Enlightenment is a reward. And for us, you know, our path is the pathway of the enlightened warrior. And compassion is our battle of Kurukshetra. This is our battle, our war. I mean, we got our computer war,

1:13:19
our software successful,

1:13:22
and we have our compassion wars. For some of us, we have martial arts wars. So we have eight new black belts, we have our martial arts tournament. That was pretty impressive. So you know, it's important to recognize that enlightenment is kind of tough. That's why I showed you guys my fight video, because a lot of you guys are like, Oh, I'm so tired. Because, yeah, you know, things are tough. I have a hard time. And, you know, pain and stuff like that. But at the same time, I'm kind of tough that's kind of funny and now that you guys know the joke of compassion you guys can If you see that I'm having a hard time, you can practice, oh you see that. You don't have to worry about silly things. It gives you a way to actually transmute the darkness into brightness. Mostly if you guys are happy, then I'll be happy. Okay, Bodhi Sita is a very good way. Worrying about other stuff, worrying about it, worrying about me in selfish ways is not very helpful. It's a pain in the ass, actually. A couple of my Russian students were telling me about this one video called called shit Russian grandmothers say. They were explaining this one scene where the grandson is sick. He's got like diarrhea. He's at the toilet. The grandmother is knocking on the bathroom door. And she's all, what's wrong? I got diarrhea. And she's all like, okay, well, I'm going to go and make you this and this and this. So her way to fix the problem is she wants to eat it. But the shit she chatted with the stuff that got her sick, her diarrhea, and she's like all like trying to pry into the bathroom all thick and thin. It just doesn't help. It's just horrible. So it's important to help in positive ways.

1:16:46
Why don't we make you a greasy pirozhki?

1:16:48
That will help you guys.

1:16:55
Yeah, so there's appropriate ways to help. Bodhisita is a positive way to deal with everyone, in the Sangha especially. It creates positive interaction. And you'll learn to do bodhicitta really kind of as a reaction. I guess for a while you just sit there and work on it and work on it and work on it. And then after a little while it just becomes your reaction to people. Bodhicitta is your instead of selfishness. So that's our goal.

1:17:41
Bodhisattva, your battle of Kuruksetra.

1:17:45
Where you have to be a honey badger of life. Alright, well without any further ado, we're going to do the Atmanukshara empowerment. For this empowerment, we're going to do an open-eyed meditation, looking up towards me. And we're going to help people come to the United Nations. I'm going to focus on the heart.

1:19:14
Try to still in my mind.

1:19:16
I'm a wealthy man. He said, hey, I'm a wealthy man, I have a good life, but I don't have any spirituality. I want to have a real powerful spiritual aspect. What do I do? the yogi says well I'd like you to leave here on your way home if anything comes to mind just follow him so he's like okay just follow him so he's walking home after talking to the yogi and he's like okay when am I going to fall? What's going to come to mind? What am I going to call it? And it's just like, mind is open to the possibility. And he's all, Shrine-do-God. And he's like, um, all right, I'm going to give an offering. Yeah, that's right. I'm just going to go there and give an offering. I'm like, what should I offer? And the first thing that just comes to his mind is rice. And he's like, OK, I'm going to just offer rice, and it's going to go with this. So he goes and buys some rice, a bowl of rice, and he brings it up to the shrine. And this shrine is way out of the way, like, no one goes up there, and just puts the bowl of rice in front of the shrine. And then he goes home. And then at home, he's like, that was the stupidest thing I've ever done. So silly. How could no one give rice to a shrine? So then he says, that's stupid. I'm just going to go remove that rice before someone comes over and wonders why it's there. And he starts walking back to remove the rice. Now, while he's gone, there's this older guy who has made a habit of going to that little remote shrine that nobody else goes to. Hardly ever. most shrine that nobody will go to. He would go there every day and he would just kind of take care of the area. He would clean the shrine because he believed in the God. He was a caretaker. He cared about the place. On this particular night he had no food. He was like, all of his food he had to give to his family. So he was going hungry. And on the way to his shrine, he was just like, Oh, God, give me some food. I'm hungry. Please, I've been a good servant for a long time. And then he gets up to the shrine, and below him, there's a bowl of rice. He's like, oh, wow, God answered my prayers. So he eats the rice. Then he leaves. Then the rich man comes back because he's embarrassed that he left rice in the shrine. And he gets there, and he sees that the bowl of rice is uneaten. And he's like, wah, he I just want this thing and I have this idea to give rice to God and then God ate the rice. It's amazing. So then the next day the rich man goes back to the yogi and tells him the story. The yogi is like, where is it? And then he's like, so what should I do next? The yogi goes, just keep doing the same thing. So, you know, keep doing the same thing. Be open. Be open. He goes out again. He's walking, looks at the shrine, and he says,

1:24:16
Silver.

1:24:18
I'm going to give silver to the I this time. So he goes over, takes a little silver coin, and he actually puts it somewhere in the shrine where no one can see it. And he's like, oh, thank you. He walks away. And then the poor old guy rents something at home where, like the refrigerator broke. to pay for medicine for his dog or something. But for whatever reason, he needs that silver. He's like, oh, I need silver, otherwise something bad's going to happen. I won't get the medicine, I won't get the silver, warm, or whatever. And my food does not even go in there, well, why? So he's all worried. He's like, oh, where am I going to find silver pieces for him? And he just goes up and he starts cleaning the shrine like he usually does. And then, lo and behold, he's like, wait, what's this under here? A silver piece! God, he answered my prayers. He looked out for me. Got me a silver piece is gone. And he just keeps on giving these offerings time and time again. And they just so happen to be the exact thing that the poor man needs. So the poor man every day is like, oh, I could really use some bread. Oh, look, there's bread. Oh, I could really use a gold piece. So day after day after day after day he just keeps getting and it ends up being the perfect thing. Until one day he's heading home kind of late and he's like, oh yeah I'm going to go and give another silver piece or something. And he actually gets there at the same time as the old man. And then the old man goes over and he's all like, looking, and the rich man goes, what are you looking for? And he's like, I'm looking for my silver piece. And then he's like, what do you mean,

1:27:05
looking for a silver piece?

1:27:06
And he's like, oh, I come here every day and God always gives me rice, bread, silver, gold, whatever he needs.

1:27:16
And then he's all like,

1:27:17
I brought a silver piece to give to God today. And the old man goes, oh thank you.

1:27:24
And then he walks away happily.

1:27:26
And then this man goes,

1:27:28
he's like, God wasn't taking my stuff. This is this old guy, right? So he goes back over to the yogi to complain. I'm like, oh, yogi, this is a terrible thing. All along, I thought that I was giving to God. But I was just putting it there and some old guy would come over and take it. So then the yogi says, you were giving to God. And you know what? He says, yes, you were giving to God. And God was giving to the old man who needed it. And then the rich guy said, Why did I need to spend the money or take the time to get it to the old man? Why wouldn't God use his own hands to get it to him instead of me? And then the yogi says, well, it's obvious. And he grabs the guy's forearms and lifts his hands up in front of the guy. And he's like, these are the hands of Kala-Uttapisvara. This is our practice. There is always a constant giving, a self-giving light. Taking the dark, And through this process of offering, offering ourselves to all sentient beings, offering ourselves is a practice of divinity. It's a selfless offering to divinity. And to, as they say in the book, the Lord of all sentient beings. But essentially it is becoming the those hands of Avalokiteshvara. With that, we will.

1:30:04
Focus on the heart. Alright, fantastic. For most of you, this is the first higher chakra in Taoism, Transmission. It is very good. Very Avalokiteshvara.

1:30:37
Avalokiteshvara is this powerful enlightened force of compassion. And El Doshara is very present. You have a connection. This is a study that we will be engaged in for a while until you master it. And then we will move on to many other wonderful adventures This is a yoga where we have a tremendous, tremendous focus on compassion and we live it. We live compassion. It's pretty intense stuff. You know, focusing on doing your life right. It's important. And at this point you've got to have that down. Now if I start to see mistakes in yoga, I'm going to be on your case more. Before you were an idiot beginner, but now with a greater teaching of enlightenment, with the empowerment of all of the Krishna, with the yoga of compassion, you have a greater responsibility. You can't be sloppy, you have to be more impeccable. You can't be selfish, you can't come up with stupid, weird desires and follow them. You have to tighten up. And for those of you who just make stupid mistakes, you have a weak attention, you've got to strengthen your attention, strengthen your resolve. You can't make the same beginner mistakes anymore. Because compassion requires that you have a stronger personal power. Alright. Thank you all very much.

1:34:02
Welcome to the most excellent yoga.

1:34:06
Yoga compassion.

1:34:08
Tomorrow we will complete our

1:34:10
the 9x Dining Certificate. We had some people who had unsafe practices today. Tomorrow will be your opportunity to strengthen your intentions so that you are a stronger diver, more capable diver, so that you don't make beginner mistakes, so that you can become an advanced diver tomorrow. And then tomorrow, in the sunset time, we will reconvene on the beach in the posterior where we will have an evening sunset meditation. in the posterior where we will have an evening sunset meditation.

1:35:19
Excellent. Okay, thanks.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
