0:00:00
So let's get started. Thank you for coming. And welcome to the Working as a 1099 Contractor presentation. As the title slide says. So the reason we're doing this is because I really wanted Steven to talk to you about this kind of stuff. Steven talked about other stuff. And the stuff he talked about was very, you know what I'm talking about. You're just going to get... I'm recording. Okay, so sorry for the little uncomfortable set up. So he talked about if you're going to go out and work on your own, you should form a business. And he's not wrong. And he explained to you why for liability purposes and everything and then he talked about the differences between the different types of businesses that you could form as and why you would choose different ones and then he talked about tax deductions and that was really good and I know that you guys got an awful lot out of that and that was really good and some of you asked some really good questions like hell yeah! So that was really, really good. But he kept on pretty much ignoring what do you do if you don't want to form your own business. And that's what we're going to talk about now. So there are different ways that you can work as an employee that is not a formal, registered corporation or LLC, which he talked about. If you want, you could be a W-2 employee, like you are when you work for a company and they hire you full-time. But 1099 is the other way, and we did talk about that a little bit, but that's what we're going to talk about when you're 1099 as opposed to W-2. So this is something that most of you already know, but if you're a W-2 employee, you're making $100,000 annual salary, and they're taking payroll taxes out of your check every time they pay you, and you see it on the pay stub. They took this money out, it went to the government. When you do your taxes at the end of the year, you tell them all of your income, and then you tell them, but I've already paid this much in taxes. And you get that information off of the W-2 that you get sent at the end of the year. And most of you have done this already, at least once. because if you are a 1099 contractor, you're not their employee. They consider you an independent contractor. They consider you your own business. And so whatever it is that you're going to charge them for the work that you do, they pay you the whole amount. They pay you the whole amount. If you charge $50 an hour, however many hours you work, times 50, they're going to give that to you to know how to pay your taxes correctly on your income. So that's what it is. One thing that I do want to mention about one team, because this is one team, when you're a one team consultant, there's two types of payroll taxes if you're a full-time employee. One is the kind that the employee is responsible for, and you see those come out on your pay stub. But as those of you who are already a one team consultant know, whenever a company hires employees, they also have to pay payroll taxes for each one of those employees based on whatever the salary is. When you're a one team employee, you have to pay the employer's share of your payroll taxes. Because in essence, you are your own business. One team doesn't make any money off of you. Everything goes into your bucket, and then it gets allotted accordingly to whatever you have to pay for. We will talk about reasons why you would want to be a One Team consultant or not, but let's move on for a moment. Okay, so let's say you do want to go 1099. If you do want to go 1099, they came up with all of these rules and regulations about who can be 1099 and they kind of did this because basically what was happening was about 15 years ago in the software industry, companies figured out that they could really get away with a lot if they paid some contractors 1099, and so they had a lot of contract positions, which they still have today, but it's a little more complicated. Anyway, IRS didn't like that, so they started coming up with all kinds of stuff about, oh, this one can't be 1099, or that one can't be 1099. They came up with a lot of rules, but the rules really couldn't be applied, because they didn't really make any sense. It's a totally unique situation to every single person. So the test is vague. And what would happen is, if you file 1099, if you want to go 1099, the IRS isn't going to care. The only time that they're going to step in and try to make a determination over whether you should be 1099 or not is if you, the worker, complains to the IRS. If you, the worker, complains that the company should have paid you as a full-time employee, that's when things get ugly. That's when the IRS comes in and says, okay, we have to determine if this person should have been paid $10.99 or if they should have been paid as a full-time employee. And they usually lean towards the side of full-time employee. So if you want to work $10.99, don't complain to the IRS.

0:05:54
No, no, no.

0:05:57
We trust you. And also make sure that you do figure out how to pay your taxes and do pay your taxes because if you don't, one team could be responsible for them. We don't want to have that happen. That would be bad karma for you.

0:06:14
So benefits to working 1099.

0:06:16
If you're a one team consultant, you get a lot of benefits that you wouldn't get anywhere else. So what is the benefits to working 1099? Basically, the big difference is that you have control over how much you pay in taxes over the course of the year. Whereas if you're W-2, they're going to use a calculation to deduct your payroll taxes over the course of the year based on what your salary is. Now if you're a one team consultant, you know you're allowed to determine what you want your salary to be. You tell me, and I do it. And you can change it every month if you want to. You get paid once a month, and you can change it every month if you want to. But whatever that your choice is for that month, the way that they calculate is they times that month by 12, and they say, oh, you make this salary, so we're going to take out this much in payroll taxes. Of course, at the end of the year, when you file your tax return, that's when you even it out and you figure out what your real income was, how much you really owed in taxes, and either you pay too much or you pay too little. But with 1099, if you can decide for you, if you can figure out for yourself, I know what I'm going to make at the end of the year and I know what I need to deduct, I know what my deductions are going to be, then you can use that information to determine how much you're going to pay on taxes throughout the year, so that at the end of the year when we file your tax returns, you don't owe a whole lot and you don't have a huge refund. It's more accurate. But you do have to put in the effort. Basically, it's the difference between taking responsibility for your own career as your own business, or, as I said to Evan, relying on the man, is what it is. And that will come in later. So, One Team. If you work for One Team, all the money that you have coming in, we keep track of it, and it goes out to pay for certain things. Now, most companies are not going to let you use the money that you make for expense reimbursements the way One Team does. This is very different. If you've worked full-time for another company, it's very cut and dried. This is your salary. This is what you get. At the end of the year, when you file your tax return, there's very little that you can take as a deduction, as a business deduction. You can deduct if you got training for your job so that you could advance in your industry. You can deduct if you had to move more than 100 miles for a new job, you can deduct that. I think that's about it. There might be a few other small little things, but that's it when you're a W-2. If you're 1099, you can deduct things like your business, and that actually comes up later. But this is something to keep in mind because you get a lot of the benefits of being a 1099 employee already when you are a full-time employee with one team. And the reason why is because of this. And this is what we talked about last time, where you're going corp to corp, but you're a W2-4-1 team? You're a W2-4-1 team, but you're going corp to corp. So as far as your, either the client, if you're working direct for the client and they're paying us, or if your client is paying PCS and they're paying us, or enterprise, whatever. As far as enterprise is concerned, they're paying one team. They're not paying you. So they're just paying an outside vendor, which is pretty much the same as paying 1099. They're paying another business. They don't deduct anything. And then we pay you W-2. However, you can use your bucket for all kinds of tax-free things that normally you wouldn't be able to do if you were just working for any other company. So let's go over the list of things that you can. Oh no, come on. No, no. I can't get to it. Okay, I can't get to it. So when you become a 1C consultant, I send you this packet of information and part of that packet of information is a list of all the things that you can use your expense reimbursements for, like your tuition, travel for power trips, diving equipment, any time you buy furniture that could be considered business furniture like tables, chairs, desks, lamps, bookcases, stuff like that. Anytime you buy a computer, anytime you buy a printer, printer ink, office supplies, postage, 30% of your rent, 30% of your utilities, your cell phone bill, your internet connection, you can deduct a lot of stuff. If you don't need to deduct a lot of stuff, it might not make sense to be a one-team consultant because there are things that you pay for as a one-team consultant that you don't pay for when you're just a regular full-time employee. Like, you don't have to pay the employer payroll taxes, and you don't have to pay for the insurance thing that we charge you guys for. You don't have to pay the OT admin fee. You know, there's things you don't have to pay for. But if you are working for one team, you don't have to take all of your expenses at the end of the year like you would if you're 1099 on your own. And even if you're 1099 with one team, you don't have to take all of your expenses and take them off your personal income tax at the end of the year. Because you can expense it through one team, through your bucket, before you even get your money out. Before the IRS even considers that money to be yours. You've already spent it. So in some ways, you don't even need to go 1099 if you're a one team consultant. That's kind of what I took away from the presentation that I saw with Steven. And this is the reason why. So let's move on a little bit. Also, as a 1099 contractor, and you can still do that with one team, some of the expenses that you could deduct at the end of the year as a 1099 employee, you can actually get a better deal if you expense them through one team instead, through your bucket. And Home Office and Automobile comes to mind immediately because we give you 30% on your rent, and Stephen was talking about how you have to measure the area that could be considered the office and what percentage is that of your whole square footage of your home and then use that same percentage on your rent. And most of the time it is not going to come up to 30 percent. Unless, like he said, you live in a studio. He gave some examples. Automobiles, if you're 1099 and you want to expense your automobile payments or whatever at the end of the year, they will make you do a certain percentage and you can't do 100%. They'll say how often do you use the car for your business and then you have to use that percentage of everything that you've deducted. So you get a better deal on these particular things with one theme. Okay, so why would you go 1099? And this is kind of why you would. If you're not a 1T consultant, working 1099 gives you the ability to write off a whole lot of stuff that you would not be able to write off at all if you were a full-time employee for some other company other than 1T. and you spend money on things that one team doesn't reimburse you for, or you just know that you have other things that you spend money on that it's not coming out of your bucket, that you are going to do it at the end of the year, then you might want to do that. Because anything that would make sense to expense for one team for your bucket before you ever get it, you can do that. Then you're going to get your 1099. And then at the end of the year, you might have even more stuff that you can take off.

0:14:52
Yes?

0:14:53
What's an example of something like that?

0:14:55
An example of this is donations to Vajranathacharya, charitable donations. You can take a deduction of up to 50% of whatever you make of your income, off your personal income tax return. But you might want to Google this, because if you're a 1099 contractor, you are actually considered a business. It's called sole proprietor. So you might want to look that up and make sure. I have to disclaim this. I'm not a tax consultant. I can only tell you stuff that I know. But you really should confirm everything by Googling it or by, you can send questions to Stephen, or if you have a tax consultant already you can talk to somebody or somebody in your family is a tax consultant you can talk to them. So we would only be able to donate if we were a 1099 or W2, it doesn't matter, if you make contributions to charity, you can deduct those from your tax liability at the end of the year on your personal income tax return. It's just a question of how much did you donate to charity, and they'll say, okay, you can because this is this is using your own personal money once it gets to you. So after we pay you, then yeah, if you do that, yeah. So you would do that either as a W2 or 1099. Basically, we paid you the money went to you. And so now it's something that you did with it.

0:16:46
I'm just saying that on our expense reports we can put down the donation.

0:16:53
I really... No, no, we're not going to do that. When you pay for it from your salary, you wrote a check, it has nothing to do with your bucket. We paid you, you got money, it went into your bank account, you got a pay stub, you got a paycheck, or if you're 1099, you still got the stub, but it was 1099. It's now your money. It's now your money. And you decide to write a check to the Marine Mammal Center. Whatever money you gave to them, you can deduct that from your personal income tax at the end of the year, when you do your tax return.

0:17:33
Right.

0:17:34
But we also have a bucket called Donation of the expense report. That takes out from salary, even before the tax liability.

0:17:41
Yeah, we were doing that for a while,

0:17:43
but now that we're, we have to carefully monitor that because businesses, corporations, our business, can only take a deduction for 5% of their total income. So we are limiting that, but it used to be, yeah, sure, if you want to donate to a charity, we did that with Makes in Nepal. We had people donate through their buckets. The company donated a big chunk of money to this organization, and one team got the write-off, and everybody else used tax-free money anyway, so it didn't matter. And we did do that, and that's why donation is there, because we were doing that. But we're actually, that's closed off, at least for now. That might change, but for now that's closed off. So that's what's going on there. Yes?

0:18:33
So if you have a 1099 income, do you have to also have your own payroll, right? Do you also have to set up your own,

0:18:41
like how do you take,

0:18:43
do you have to somehow have personal money?

0:18:45
I think the payroll is the bigger expense.

0:18:47
The 1099 there.

0:18:53
Well, this is kind of what Stephen was talking about. If you set up a business, you keep your personal money separate from the business. And he made that very clear to everybody. When you pay yourself, that money's separate. And you have to keep track of that. But when you're 1099, you're considered a sole proprietor and you have not gone to the county or to the state or to the feds. You haven't gotten a federal tax ID number for yourself. You're using your own social security number. You don't have to set up a payroll for yourself. What will happen, at least this is what it was for me, at the end of the year when you go to do your taxes, you do your taxes, but there's going to be extra forms that you have to fill out because you got income 1099. And you know how much you got 1099 because you got those 1099 forms at the end of the year. And if you got W-2 income as well, and your accountant, your tax accountant, will figure it out for you. On the 1099 income, you will have to pay payroll taxes as though you were an employee because that's your income. That is your paycheck. You'll also have to pay self-employment tax, which is kind of the same thing as the employer's share of your payroll taxes when you're W-2. So if you're a one-team consultant, you're kind of paying it either way. You're paying that self-employment tax either way if you're a one-team consultant. If you're W-2 with another company, you don't pay the employer's share of the payroll taxes. If you're 1099 worker that you can't take as a W-2 worker. So you're lowering the amount that you're actually paying taxes on.

0:21:00
Yeah, you do. One right now.

0:21:02
Yes, and this brings up another thing that Tyra and I were talking about before I got up here. If you work 1099, save every freaking receipt you ever get for anything you buy. Everything. And to make it easy for yourself, have a folder for each month, and each month just put them in. This is a receipt from January. It goes in the January folder. Because you don't know. You don't know what you can take.

0:21:30
Yes.

0:21:30
Is there like a tax sort of problem that you don't,

0:21:35
or is it just that you...

0:21:36
If you don't what?

0:21:37
If you don't save all your receipts?

0:21:39
You won't be able to use them as tax deductions.

0:21:42
No, no, I know, but let's say that someone's clear about all the categories they can deduct. If they only save from those, it would be okay,

0:21:48
or is there...

0:21:49
Oh, I see what you're saying.

0:21:50
A liability that...

0:21:51
Yeah, if you only save the receipts

0:21:53
from the categories that you know you can deduct from, then those are the only receipts you're gonna be able to use. You could keep like a miscellaneous file because you might find out, really, I can deduct that? Holy crap, I didn't know, I got one.

0:22:13
I was trying to get out of,

0:22:14
even I was trying to get out of them what you could potentially deduct that we aren't already deducting as a one-time employee because we can deduct so much already.

0:22:23
Pretty much everything, that's why. I was asking some tricky questions to see

0:22:27
Yeah, that was good doing business as yourself. Which is what I was kind of asking. You don't have to set up a payroll, because you're basically following your tax return like a normal person. You just go on an extra form called the Schedule C, which allows you to put your 1099 income and then any expenses you can deduct,

0:22:49
like maybe you bought a car,

0:22:50
or obviously equipment or something like that. So I was trying to get it out of my head, like what else could I deduct? And it seemed like I can deduct everything as an employee

0:23:16
except that whole pension fund thing.

0:23:18
Yeah, there's that. And then there's also the charitable donations.

0:23:23
So I asked them also about the property question.

0:23:26
Yeah, that was good.

0:23:28
Let's say, as a one-team employee, I have, I don't know, $50,000 in my bucket at the end of the day. And I don't want to take it out of salary. If I wanted to purchase property, that wouldn't be acceptable to the one team employee, right?

0:23:45
It's kind of tricky. Yeah, that's the thing. See, when the money is still in your bucket and hasn't come out yet, as far as the IRS is concerned, it's not your money, it's one team's.

0:23:56
So it wouldn't have to be on the deed, basically, right?

0:23:59
would be purchasing it. But I don't know. I mean, yeah. That is something we can talk about later on. If you're 1099 with one team, we'll just give you the money and at that point it's yours and you can do the consultant,

0:24:27
the property does not fall into that category.

0:24:31
It's not a deduction, but she was asking questions about investing at the time, and that's when he was saying, oh yeah, you can borrow from your 401k and then invest that money, that was great.

0:24:44
When you become 1099 and then you set up your own business, like an LLC, you can be a conglomerate, right? Which means you do some consulting services as well as you have rental property. So I think that would qualify.

0:24:57
Yes, because if you're a business, you're in business to do business.

0:25:00
To make money, yeah.

0:25:01
So it doesn't matter.

0:25:02
Yeah, it doesn't matter, yeah.

0:25:03
As long as you don't move into the place, then I think it qualifies.

0:25:07
Oh, I'm sure you can get away with that too. Okay, so are we up to the slide?

0:25:19
Okay.

0:25:20
So I had mentioned already that you're a sole proprietor if you don't form a business. That's what they'll consider you. If you have 1099 income and you have not formed a business, you're a sole proprietor, and they'll base your taxes on that. And you need to understand that there are certain expectations. For one thing, you're expected to file estimated quarterly tax payments. Very important. Don't miss this. There's a form, there's a schedule, there's where you can get the information. I'm going to post this presentation somewhere, then I'll tell you. Probably at the Samba Wiki. So you can get to this, okay? You can get to this information.

0:26:04
Yes?

0:26:05
So you're saying you're at 1099?

0:26:07
Yes. If you're W-2, you do not have to make estimated quarterly tax payments, but we're already taking it out of your paycheck every time you get paid. But if you are 1099, you have to do this. And there are certain rules about how much you have to pay. Yes, Gabor?

0:26:23
Okay, no. All right.

0:26:25
So we talked about this because it came up in a question. And point number two is basically just me being a mother hen. I just really, really suggest that you go to a professional at least for the first year so that you can learn what it is you're doing. And also, they will help uncover stuff that you didn't think of. Like, really? I can expense that? I had no idea. I got one. You know, they'll help you with that kind of stuff. So I really do recommend it. Stephen's firm is Robert Hall Taxes. He only handles business stuff, which is why he was only talking about business stuff, and I had hoped that he would send somebody else but he didn't. He's a great guy by the way. And they do do individual tax returns. In fact, their firm does mostly individual tax returns. Stephen, I think, is the only one that handles business. They only got one person doing business and they have a huge building down in Glendale and now they have this new office up in San Jose. That's their website. So this is their history. Robert Hall is used by an awful lot of Rama students, and they probably don't know it. And if you told them that, they would not know what you're talking about, so don't worry about it. But they do. That's how I found them, through another Rama student. They're just inundated with Rama students going to them. Their history is that Stephen's dad, Robert Hall, and it's a whole family business, but they got so big they had to hire other people too. Robert Hall was a hippie. And like many hippies, after the war was over and there was nothing to really protest about anymore, they won! So at that point they pretty much went one of two ways. Some people were like, oh, what do we do now? But a lot of people were really sharp, really smart, and they went into business, a lot of them. And he's one of them. But he has a certain way of thinking. He really wants to screw the government. He wants to stick it to the man. So he figured, how can I do that?

0:28:49
How can I best do that?

0:28:51
Working from within the system, because now the war's over. I got what I wanted. So he decided that that was the best way to do it, was to learn the tax code and learn how to completely manipulate it and take advantage of it and help other people do the same thing. But they will never tell you to do anything illegal. That's why Stephen was as cagey as he was, didn't really feel comfortable. Even though he told me, yes, it's OK, go ahead and record me. But then once he was there, it was like, oh, crap, maybe this is not such a good idea. And so he was a little cagey, and he was very careful about how he phrased things.

0:29:28
I mean, he was still very, he was met different tax accountants.

0:29:33
Yeah.

0:29:33
And he's still very, I would say, non-conservative.

0:29:36
And I like that about him.

0:29:37
Oh, no.

0:29:37
There are some that are very conservative.

0:29:41
Yes.

0:29:42
Yeah, this firm really, really helps you uncover everything. They're not cheap, but I haven't done my individual through them for a while, but they used to have this, you know, they used to say to you, yeah, it's going to cost a lot, but you're going to get at least that much back on your return. So they're very good. And they do have the San Jose office now. If you don't already have a tax consultant that you feel comfortable with and like and want to go to, I definitely recommend them. You can ask even follow-up questions. You can call and make an appointment at the end of the year for your personal income taxes. They have a new office in San Jose. You can ask them who's gonna be up there. It won't be Steven, because he only does business. But that's okay. All of their people are great. And they love what they do. Steven was a lot of fun. He was a funny guy. He loves what he does, and he's good at it. They are all like that. You go in to get your taxes done, and you're laughing all the way through. It's wonderful. I mean, how often do you get that kind of experience, right? So, basically what I wanted to do here was give you an idea of what it means to work 1099 if you don't form a business, because Stephen already told you about that. But I do have to say, I'm not a tax consultant. I can only speak from the experience that I've gained from doing it myself, and that was a long time ago, and I know that the laws have changed significantly. And I do recommend that now that you have an idea of what this is all about, you have enough information that you could go and Google this. Even start at the beginning, you know, working as a 1099. You could start right at the beginning, and go through it, and follow it through, and you will know what questions you need to follow up on and look for. We have 10 minutes left. Oh, by the way, I almost forgot to mention. There you go. Whether you're 1099 or full-time, you're going to get those incredible expense reimbursements that you can't get anywhere else. And don't try to explain that to Steven if you have follow-up questions. I don't tell him everything that we do. Yeah, and yeah, it'll probably just confuse the issue. If you do have follow-up questions about anything, I think you all did a really good job at his presentation, the way that you asked the questions, and then you knew that, okay, I just have to apply that to my situation because we can just do so much. And basically I came away with pretty much the same thing you did. If you work for one team, W2 is fine.

0:32:37
It's fine.

0:32:38
It's way less work to do.

0:32:40
Absolutely. It's not an estimated quarterly thing.

0:32:43
No.

0:32:44
Yeah.

0:32:45
And that's why we have all of the BC collections even your books, your atlas, your personal,

0:32:50
what's not.

0:32:52
Right, right, exactly.

0:32:55
I would say the pension plan is the only thing, if we discuss the poverty purchasing thing.

0:33:00
Yeah, we have a plan for employees, simple IRA, it's not a 401k, but it went into your IRA. So we would do a direct. On top of that, I can't remember right now, but it's either 3 or 6%. The company can match it. Of course it's coming out of your bucket.

0:33:31
But I have additional.

0:33:32
Yes, you can actually put more money into an IRA as a one team employee than you could if you had your own IRA.

0:33:39
I guess we can talk about maybe

0:33:40
the property purchasing thing.

0:33:43
Yeah, well not now, but yes.

0:33:47
Sometime in the future.

0:33:49
Yes, yeah we can do that.

0:33:50
And I think that's it. So we do have a few minutes. Yes, please, questions. I was following you the whole time until you got to that last bit there where she said,

0:34:03
oh well, it's better to go W2 with one team. I was like, well, wait a minute. I thought you were going to go 1099 with one team. Wait. You can do one or the other. It's just that we had been talking about 1099

0:34:15
and we wanted to make sure that you guys understood what it means to go 1099. When we really took a look at it, it turned out that, you know, if you're a W2 employee through One Team, you pretty much get all the benefits of being a 1099. You don't have to do it yourself, and you do do your expense reports every month, but somebody else takes care of that, comes out of your bucket, it's not your money. The company, okay, when you're working as a one team. Enterprise does not have a contract with any of the one team employees. They have a contract with one team. They pay one team. The money belongs to one team as far as the IRS is concerned. And all of the consultants are employees of one team, and they make a salary. But what we do internally is we keep track of the money that's coming in and we know how much money you've brought in it doesn't have to match up with your salary you can choose whatever salary you want as long as it doesn't exceed the money you bring in but then you can use that money on other things like...

0:35:58
Yes, yes, exactly.

0:36:01
Yes. Now, if you can't work with one team, and one team isn't going to be around forever, I mean, it has been around for a long time, but it's not going to be around forever, and if you find yourself in a situation where you have a choice, 1099 requires that you take a lot more responsibility for your income and for your out... for whatever you're spending money on, your expenses. You have to take a lot more responsibility for it, but you also have a lot more control over it. And you'll have a lot more control over how much you're going to end up paying in taxes. But it just, it works out that if you're a W-2 employee at One Team, it's pretty much the same thing. There are things that you pay for as a one team consultant that you don't pay for when you're a W-2 with another company, so you want to take those things into consideration, but like I said, there's a lot of stuff that you can expense, and if somebody can't expense $1,000 a month, I would be really surprised. It means that they're just not keeping track of stuff, and they don't want to. They don't want to bother putting in the effort. And that's fine too. You don't have to. But if you're a one team consultant, there are some fees that you pay. And you won't have to pay them if you just go W2 to the other company. But you'll also be paying taxes on all of that income. Okay. Questions? Questions? Yes.

0:37:34
You talked a lot about forming an LLC and operating as an S-Corp. What's your recommendation on that?

0:37:41
An S-Corp is a corporation. There's two types of corporation, and an LLC is something entirely different. And I do recommend that you do some reading up on that. Just look up business entities. Look it up from several different websites. Look up and see how several different websites describe what they are, and then you will know, all right? But basically, there's two types of corporations. There's a C corporation and an S corporation. An S corporation, and both of these were in existence before an LLC was even the idea of an LLC entity didn't exist. You couldn't be an LLC. There was just a C corporation or S corporation. C corporation is owned by the shareholders, okay, and you issue stock. An S corporation is more like you are your own business. It's kind of like a personal business. In S corporation, all of the profit funnels through to your personal income taxes. This is the same thing with an LLC. It all funnels through to your own personal income taxes. The reason why you have those companies is because of liability issues. They can only sue the company. They can't sue you if something goes wrong. Okay. That's what Stephen was talking about, protecting yourself from liability. With the LLC, you can have several different partners that own the company. And depending on how much money they put in when the company was first formed, that determines the percentage of ownership they have in the company. And then that percentage of ownership is used as a formula at the end of the year. If the company made a profit or a loss, that profit or loss gets funneled through to the owners based on their percentage of ownership. And then they have to file extra forms similar to 1099.

0:39:45
That's if you don't apply for a separate tax ID number though, right?

0:39:50
Which one?

0:39:51
So if I formed an LLC...

0:39:53
You have to get a tax...you get a tax ID number.

0:39:56
Oh, okay.

0:39:57
Yeah. Anytime that you actually form a registered formal business, you're going to get a tax ID number, corporation or LLC.

0:40:03
I thought I would have to file a different tax return then?

0:40:08
You do.

0:40:09
Like, it's like the 11,000?

0:40:10
You do. Yes. If you have an LLC, the LLC has to file a tax return, and then you personally have to file a tax return. On your personal tax return, you, as an owner of an LLC, are going to have to file an extra form, so an A1. And you're gonna have to report either your profit or your loss, your percentage of the profit or loss. And if it's a loss, then hey, you get a tax deduction. But if it's profit, then you're responsible for paying the taxes on it. Okay, it's time. So we're gonna send everybody out of the room. But if you do have questions, does anybody still have questions? Because what we can do is after we set up for the seminar and we come back in, I can answer more questions. But if everybody's okay, you can also email them to me. They don't need to leave? Okay. They don't need to leave? Okay.

0:41:08
We said we walked you up to the chair.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
