0:00:00
Yeah, so, oh here's a good tantra. So we turn down the lights because they were fluorescent lights and I don't like fluorescent lights. They make me feel geeky. Okay, so turn the lights down so it's a little dimmer in here, but there's the inner light. We're turning up the inner light. There's a tantra. There you go. Yeah, so now we're gonna start kicking it. What else is good about meditation? Well, meditation makes you happy. Being happy is a good thing. I know I keep on having to convince my Eastern European students about that. I'm like, being happy is good, and they're like, happy. Who cares about happy? All I want is cabbages. Capustas. Or Capustine or something. So, happiness is good. It is. You know, when you're not you definitely tend to forget how good it is to be happy. And you know, not a crazy happiness, just a happy sense of being. A happy way of being alive. It's good. And what else does meditation do besides make you happy? One of the great things about meditation is that it opens your mind to seeing life with greater possibilities. Life having greater possibilities is always good. We often look at our lives in very small ways. Like, this is what I can see in front of me, a certain amount of difficulties, problems, people, places, things, and it all amounts to my possibilities for perceiving life, my possibilities for being happy, my possibilities for experience. And meditation brings you beyond limited awareness into a greater awareness. It brings you into a greater awareness of life, a deeper knowledge of your higher self. And that makes such a profound difference. You can go out there to like Walmart or Ikea and look at people, right? And people are walking around with a very, very closed way of looking at life. But then when you reflect, when you meditate, you can see beyond limitations. And then when you're walking around in Walmart, You have a lot more awareness of what it's all about. A lot more awareness of possibilities. There's just a greater brightness, a more subtle field of awareness that comes from meditation. You look at life in a new way, in a brighter way, in a way that's bigger. So meditation is fantastic. But then, you know, I hear the critics. I hear them say, meditation is not so fantastic for me. I can't meditate. I'm never going to be able to meditate. about how much I suck while I meditate. So, you know, there's, that's what people go through.

0:04:50
That's an important stage to go through

0:04:52
in meditation practice.

0:04:53
Definitely to go through. Because, it's not true. Your meditations are beautiful, powerful, luminous, and amazing. You're like, really?

0:05:18
Are they really?

0:05:19
Thank you.

0:05:20
Because I thought they were. But it's true.

0:05:25
I'm telling you, you guys, your meditations are bright. They're luminous. They're powerful and amazing. Even when you have a hard time, even when things are difficult, there's a bigger process going on. It's the process of enlightenment. It comes from meditation. A lot of times you'll have struggling moments in your meditation, but you end up coming out of it brighter. Think of it like physical exercise. You're sitting there running up a hill or something. Oh, it's so hard. It's not easy.

0:06:05
No, this is difficult.

0:06:06
It's painful.

0:06:07
But then when you finish your run, you're healthier and stronger and you feel better. So meditation is kind of like that for your spirit. And then at some point, you get so good at it that it's just all fantastic. So when you have those experiences of struggle, don't get down on yourself. You can never judge your meditation. You have to recognize that there's a bigger process that's going on. And you have to also recognize that from your own experience, you are making progress. You're making progress. There's a story of a yogi and he goes to a town because he wants to get more students. disciple. And he stands up in the town square and says, I will teach you an amazing siddha power. It's the siddha power of longevity. And he's like, I will teach you how to meditate. I'll teach you how to have a certain diet and certain mental exercises so that you can live for as long as you want. And he says, look at me myself. I've been alive for 500 years by practicing this. And the crowd is like, oh. And he looks like he's about 65. So they're like, wow, 500 years, amazing. And then after he's done, some people come over to him and they're like signing up for his meditation classes. And then this one guy goes over to the young disciple and says, So does this stuff really work? And then the young disciple says, Yeah, it works, sure. And then he's like, Really? And the young disciple's like, I guess. I mean, sure it works. He says it works, it works. And then the guy says, is he really 500 years old? And then the disciple winks at him and goes, I'm not really sure, you know, because I've only been with him for 300 years. So, you have experience in meditation and you can't discount your bright experiences. Even if you have some days that are really, really, really tough, you also have some days amazing, powerful, enlightened luminosity of light. So remember, have perspective. Even when you have a difficult time meditating, remember that this is a larger process and that even you have evidence that this works. If it's boring, if it's difficult, if it's really hard, then just come up to the challenge. Learn to meditate excellently. It will be even more fun. You gotta learn to meditate. That's what this is all about. That's what this is all about. Gotta learn to meditate. So just do it. Just practice. Give it your all. This is advanced meditation. I guess basic meditation would be this also. Which is why it's tantra. Because what did you learn in your first introduction class? To do what we do, meditate. And then if he comes also, oh, this is advanced meditation. Oh, thank you.

0:10:35
And meditation is hard.

0:10:40
And that's why it's so great. That's why it's so excellent, because it's so hard. I love the challenge of meditation. I love to sit there and stop my thoughts as quickly as possible. I challenge myself in different ways sometimes. I'm like, oh, I wonder how long I could, how quickly I can stop thought. Oh, I did it! I did it! I did it!

0:11:03
Sweet!

0:11:04
Sweet! Sweet!

0:11:05
Sweet!

0:11:06
Um, but you know, it's hard to stop thought. And it takes a long time to train yourself to be able to stop thought. And it's really excellent training. It's like you're sitting there, tormented with your thoughts, and then after a while you're like, I'm taking on my mind, I'm focusing, I'm going into the light. And then you have a nice experience. And it's just a wonderful exercise, a difficult and beautiful exercise. You know, in like martial arts and physical health, it's good to push yourself. It's good to take on a difficult class. It's good to go to a sensei or a physical trainer who's going to push you, challenge you in a constructive way so that you can become stronger and healthier, and meditation's like that. But with meditation, you're really challenging yourself, and this is why meditation is advanced. This is why it's advanced, because you are taking responsibility for your spiritual development and enlightenment. A lot of people are very comfortable going through a class, they go to the class, they meditate at the class, but then they don't really meditate by themselves. That's what monks do. Monks live in the ashram, they meditate at a certain time all together, but then they don't develop this kind of independence. If they didn't have that morning meditation with the whole Sangha, with their teacher or something, would they meditate? I don't know. It's kind of like the army. In the army, if you're in it, you just do whatever they make you do. You just follow what they say. And then you go off to some war and shoot somebody. And that's what it's all about. But you learn things, you develop yourself, you learn how to pull triggers. And it's really interesting. However, that's why a martial artist has so much more power. Because the martial artist is someone who doesn't just fall into a structure, they develop a discipline in their life. They don't just wake up in the morning and follow the sergeant around and learn to pull triggers. What they do is they balance their lives so that they can learn the discipline they want to learn. So there's a power involved in taking responsibility. And that's why learning meditation in the way that we're doing it is very, very powerful. Even for the people in Bodewoods who wake up every morning and meditate with me, they still have their personal meditation time, where they Often Bodhgads, I'm teaching meditation so that they have the responsibility to push it harder, which is very helpful.

0:14:38
So meditation is hard.

0:14:40
You take responsibility for your meditation. You take responsibility for organizing your life in a way where you can sit down and practice this most noble discipline. You really face your mind, you face your life, you face your thoughts, your fears. You face life in meditation. And when you take this as a discipline, where you take it on, you work really hard, earnestly meditating to stop thought, then you become very powerful. Your mind becomes strong, focused, your spirit becomes luminous. So, it's a hard workout, but you take the responsibility to do it. And it's very enlightening that way. Yeah, meditation is a bit boring if you look at it that way. But if you look at it that way, then you're as dumb as the day is long. So for someone who's having a long day, that means that they're not in the moment, right? Someone's having a long day. It's just a long day. I'm so bored. I'm watching the clock. Okay, let's just go. Let's go get some pizza. This is a long meditation seminar. When's it gonna be over? You know, when you're looking at life that way, you're missing the moment, right? And when you're bored in meditation, it's because you're not in the moment. You're not sitting there in that moment trying and practicing. You're sitting there going, why do we have to meditate for so long? Or you're just thinking about other things and you're like, boy, this sure is a lot of meditation. Except for the part where I'm not really meditating.

0:16:40
I'm just standing there wanting to go.

0:16:42
So when you get bored in meditation, you just have to say, oh wait, I just have to focus and be in this moment and really work on my concentration right here, right now, and not worry about anything else. And then you'll notice that you can spend enough time, your hour or whatever, meditating, and then you're like, ah, it wasn't so boring anymore. Pretty fantastic. So in every discipline, people start to get bored at some point. They're like, my Kung Fu just got boring. My Karate got boring. My... something else got boring. And in every discipline, you have to contend with you getting bored of it. But for everything in life. So being in the moment, focusing on the tasks at hand, is the way to pass the time without being bored. You should get to the end of your day where you say, oh, I'm so excited. Wait, the day went by like that. Then you know that you're awake When you meditate, you want to have... the primary focus is, of course, stocking thought, but you want to have an awareness of light. So we primarily meditate on light. So you're holding your mind, concentrating and focusing on a certain area where the chakra is, and at the same time, you are seeking light. You're looking for light. You're meditating on light. And that is an experience that becomes brighter and brighter and brighter. So your eyes might be closed and it might be dark. However, you're focusing on light. White light or gold light. And you want to, when you're listening to music and focusing on your chakra, you want to experience light. The experience of light is very enlightening. These are the causal dimensions. So when you are meditating, when you're focusing on the chakra, you want to experience light. Someone asked me, hey, when I meditate, I don't get what this light thing is. It seems like my eyes are closed, so it's dark. I'm getting a little confused with what this light is. And I said, okay, well, when you close your eyes and you're meditating, imagine a light bulb.

0:20:05
Then you go, oh, light bulb.

0:20:07
That's easy, that's the easy thing to imagine. That's an easy concept to hold. But if you're focusing on your chakra and you're like, whoa, light, oh, light bulb, then what's gonna happen is you're going to start connecting with light through that light bulb, through that concept. Because it's hard maybe in the beginning to just go into the causal dimensions and go bam, this is awesome.

0:20:34
Gold light, gold light, gold light, right?

0:20:38
That creates such a beautiful transformative experience. So how do you do that? You start to, you have to connect somehow. Imagine light. Your imagination can help you. If you can't even imagine light, then you start with the light bulb. White light bulb.

0:20:59
Gold light bulb.

0:21:01
And then what happens is, as you're focusing and you see that light bulb, you will connect with light through that light bulb. Eventually, the concept of light bulb will go away. You'll see that you just go into the light bulb. Then there's just greater and greater luminosity. If you sit there and focus on your chakra, you see that light bulb, and then just keep focusing on that light bulb, then eventually what will happen is you'll go into samadhi. That light will be, you'll join with that light. You'll do a tantra on that light. So it's important. It's important to focus on light. If you can't, if you're not good at focusing on the light, do the light bulb. Your imagination will serve you well. And the reason why is because you are in a structure of learning. You're in a structure of learning, a second attention structure. So the dimensions of light that we focus on are open to you. So they will be the things that come to mind. Very simple. If you're in a karate class and you're working on punching and you have no concept of what punching is, you're like, punching, punching. What you'll do is you'll actually fall into a structure quite naturally, the structure of the class. It's the structure of that internal powerful discipline. So where by yourself, you would just say, okay, I'm gonna work on punching. Punch a hole, right? Then you go to the class, and just from looking at people a little bit and being in that, having that direction, you'll start to just punch straight. And then you'll also pick, you'll do so many little subtle things where you learn to punch correctly, the teacher doesn't have to say anything. Or sometimes they say a couple things here and there, but there is a structure of power, there's a discipline that everybody does, and you pick up on it. So when you're in a discipline, you just start to learn how to do it right. Focus on the light bulb, see what I mean? So, not just a regular light bulb, these are enlightenment light bulbs. Focusing on light is very good. When you meditate, you have to really appreciate that moment, really, really appreciate that time because it's a wonderful time, really a wonderful time. If you are in a condition where you're warm and comfortable and awake, really take that time and say, I'm going to become as enlightened as possible right now. I'm going to meditate as hard as possible because all sorts of bad things can happen. Where it's cold. It is cold up there in the monasteries. They don't have heaters. They don't even put fires on. They just sit there on a stone floor. They don't even meditate, but they sit there. And so it's like, so uncomfortable sitting on those stone floors. And it's cold. It's hard to meditate when you're uncomfortable and cold. Or some other terrible thing could happen. That you could be born in India. What a horrible thing. In India they have bugs. It's virtually impossible to become enlightened with all those bugs. Yeah, I spent a lot of incarnations in India, and I would have been enlightened much earlier, except I did not learn the lesson of the bugs. That's all I... God damn it. So, I'm going to be honest, I'm not a big fan of the idea So when you have a chance to sit and meditate where you're comfortable, where you're not too cold, not too hot, where it's okay, right? You've got to take that time and push your meditation as strong as possible. And then you get to a point where you might even be able to deal with bugs. So take advantage of your meditation. Take advantage of it. We're going to talk about the altar, your meditation altar. The things on your meditation altar, they are things that matter. They have an energy that you sit before in your meditation. You want to make a nice meditation altar so that you have a nice meditating environment. And one thing that I'd like you to do is I'd like you to reboot your meditation. Take stuff off of it. And if you're gonna have something on it, have Nice and clean. Okay. Take off pictures of Buddhas or things like that, or people or something like that. Here's my friend Tom. You know, we do different things with altars at different times. And one thing that I'd like you to do now is reboot the altar, take stuff off. You can have an incense holder there, but not one that's got too much stuff going on. Simple, basic. If it's got too many painting things on it, or I had this one incense holder that had, it was like those flat ones, and then it had a Buddha head at the end, and then you stick the incense in the Buddha's mouth.

0:28:09
And then you just, just, uh. And then you just, just, uh. Things like that, get rid of it.

0:28:15
Get rid of it. Get rid of it.

0:28:17
You got silly little pictures on your incense holder,

0:28:20
get a simpler one. If you have candles, sometimes when you meditate at night it's nice to have a candle on your altar. If you have a candle holder that is too elaborate, get a more basic one. You could have really crazy candle holders. Or get normal candles. I really don't like to see these candles that are in the shape of a Buddha head. It's kind of cool in the beginning, you're all, look, it's like his crown chakra is on fire. Then after a while, his head is melting. Terrible. So, we don't want that kind of influence on your altar. Normal candles. White is nice. Don't get black candles. See? You're being weird again. White candles. White candles. And not smelly candles. If you want smelly, incense. And be careful of your incense. Japanese incense is the best. I don't know, but I think so. So, don't get that kind of incense, you go into a car wash, you know, and you're all like, oh, incense! This one smells like pizza!

0:29:50
This one smells like cheesecake!

0:29:52
I'll get the cheesecake, because then you'll be meditating and you'll be all, meditating you. So you get what I'm saying about reboot your altar and don't be too weird. Don't put weird stuff on there. Right? Okay. Yeah, a nice sandalwood incense is fine. Yeah, nice basic sandalwood. Very nice. Another thing that's nice to have on your altar is a flower or flowers. But it's nice to have a flower, at least a flower. And you know, flowers, they're cool, but what do you have to be careful of? The vase. Simple vase. Simple vase. Don't go crazy with vases. I've seen some crazy vases. There's some Chinese vases where they actually have paintings on them. face. So make a nice altar. Now we have a couple of additions to your altar that we will be giving you as a party favor for coming tonight. Really important for your altar because it creates an energy. That's what we're all talking about tonight, is creating this energy. Now, I've noticed that the people living in Bodhi Woods are making a positive shift in their meditation. And I've considered this and I've come up with an important way to shift you out of your stuckness, which is the secret tantra teaching for enlightenment, which is meditation. We're making a shift this evening so that you guys can get unstuck. Living in the Valley is a little challenging for meditation sometimes. When we moved here from Chicago, we were living in the Valley, and I noticed that my intermediate students, their progress was becoming stifled. So I used the same technique for them and then it works really well. So we're having a little bit of shift that we're doing in our meditative practice and clearing your altar is one way to promote this shift. Or for some of you, making an altar, you just need a place where you meditate, a corner of your room, you could just lay down a towel or something or a shoebox, you just start making it your altar. A shoebox is a good altar. I used to have a shoebox altar.

0:33:30
So, it works. I mean, not a crazy shoe box, just a simple.

0:33:35
Just a simple shoe box. Ferragamo, maybe not Gucci, it's too flashy.

0:33:42
Okay, so, yeah, so we're making a shift

0:33:46
because it's very necessary for the valley people to work on their meditation to be stronger in meditation. Very important. The valley has, just like the rest of the world and the country, it has a lot of heaviness. aura. And there's two reactions that you get to this aura. One is to get muggled out, right? One is to get filled with the energy that other people are thinking. And in the valley, there's a lot of strong desires and fears and attachments, strong ones. The valley is a magical place, so it has a little bit more magic in its desires and a little bit more in its attachments and a little bit less fear. Yeah, fear is always there. Those things are all over the valley. Heavy human mind, fear, desire, and attachment. So one thing that we have to do is we have to have a shift in meditation so that we can push beyond that heaviness. So that's becoming too physical. That's what happens when you're hanging around a large population. When you're in Bodie Woods, you don't feel even a Sunday or a Super Bowl Sunday. You don't feel a lot of the things because it's on an energy line with massive nature pushes away a lot of the human energy, the human attention. So there's something nice about it. But when you're stuck in the valley, which is a great place, it's a wonderful energy line, but there's more difficulty. That's why I've noticed that the Bodhi Woods meditators are getting stronger while the valley people, the valley girls are just kind of,

0:36:18
right there, da, da, da, da, da, da, da, da, da, da, da.

0:36:22
Yeah, so, so what we have to do is we have to learn a new way. And it's great, it's fantastic. What we're gonna have is we're gonna have a new meditation. A new meditation, it's so great. And all you do in your new meditation is stop thought. You're doing great. Focus on chakra, focus on light, stop thought. Bam, killer. on my stop-by. Bam! Killer! You guys are doing great. So the fear, the desire, the attachment that clouds up America and the world because of so much toxic aura of people having fears, desires, and attachments. This builds up a kind of heavy toxicness that weighs you down, physicals you down, muggles you out. So these energies If you just exist in them and you cannot clear your mind each day, then what happens is your aura gets clogged up with them, and then you end up just like that, like a regular human operating system. And what we want to do is we want to be able to have two times a day where you sit down and you can clear your mind, you can clear that stuff out so that you don't get toxic aura buildup. And then if you can clear your mind twice a day, then you'll be able to follow the teachings and learn your meditation just fine. But we have to do a new meditation technique because it's important. clear your mind properly of this heavy physicalness, then what happens is it stops you from learning meditation better. In San Francisco, in New York, in the Valley, you can learn beginning meditation. But as you become more psychic, as you start to progress in your meditation, then more subtle things start to matter to your practice. So this matters to your practice now. What matters now? This matters now. Okay, so what we're going to do is we're going to, in fact we're doing it right now, making a shift in your meditation because meditation frees you from this heaviness, from this way of always running into the same rut of desire, rut of fear, rut of attachment. So, let's see, how's this one go again? There was a young man seeking enlightenment, right? And he was just a little bit, let's say, base in his approach. He wasn't a talented seeker, but he was trying. So he was in a town where there was an old beggar, and he sees the old beggar on the hey, which way to the temple? And the beggar starts pointing out the way to the temple. Just then, someone else comes over and says, oh, I hate beggars. And he picks up his walking stick and he's gonna hit the beggar. So the young man who's just stopped by the beggar thinks that that's not a good thing. So what he does is he stops the guy from hitting the beggar. And then the guy who hates beggars just goes, okay, okay, walks away. And then the beggar says, that was very kind of you. And he said, so why were you going, why are you interested in going to the monastery? And he says, well, I want to become enlightened. And then the beggar says, well, actually, I am a spiritual master. I'm a sita master. And I can help you with your enlightenment. And the guy goes, really? Fantastic. How can you help me? I can help you overcome two desires and two fears. And he says, really, how do I overcome a desire? He says, well, this is the great thing. I'll give you the desire, the thing that you desire, and by having it, you'll overcome it. What about fears? Well, when you tell me what you're afraid of, What about fears? Well, when you tell me what you're afraid of, I'll make sure that it will never happen to you and you never have to be afraid of it. He's like, oh, this is great. This is great.

0:42:12
I've been looking for this for a long time.

0:42:15
So perfect. So the beggar says, so well actually I'm really thirsty. He's like, so and actually I haven't had a rice wine in a long time. I'm really thirsty so can I have a giant big old jug of rice wine? He's like, here you go. He says, this is small, I wanted a big one. He says, ah, I know. That's why I gave you a magical jug of rice wine. It will pour forever. It is an endless amount of rice wine. And then, and then while he's drinking it, just so happy with it, just, just completely fulfilled. The baker says, what do you want for your second desire? And then he stops drinking. He goes, well, I'll It doesn't make any sense. This is the way desire is. It doesn't make any sense. So poof, he gets another. Then the old beggar sage says, now, let's get to your fear, because the desire thing is not going to work. Let's get to your fear. I kind of missed the idea. But let's get to your fear. And he says, what is it that you're most afraid of? Most afraid of? And then he thinks back to a time when he was in the jungle and he has to go through the jungle very often because he lives there. And he's like, when I'm crossing through the jungle, I'm very afraid of a tiger coming over and killing me. So I'm afraid of tigers. And then the old sage says, okay, poof, nothing happened.

0:44:42
He's like, but nothing happened.

0:44:44
That's because there's no tiger here. He says, but you will never be attacked by a tiger. You can walk up to a tiger, pet it on its head, and keep walking. You will never be harmed by a tiger. And then he's like, wow, thanks. Drinks more of his rice wine. And then he says, the baker says, the baker sage says, what about your second greatest fear? He's like, what else are you afraid of? And he's like, let me think. Well, I'm walking through the jungle. I'm afraid of tigers. I'm in.

0:45:28
Again, hardly useful.

0:45:33
So this is just to say that people are afraid for no reason.

0:45:38
I mean, you gotta deal with tigers if they jump out at you, but you don't need to be afraid of them. And when people are afraid, they're just afraid for the sake of being afraid. They're afraid of being afraid. They're afraid of fear. They're afraid of fear, afraid of everything, and they just enumerate the same fears. People enumerate the same desires. And this creates a toxicity over and over and over. People have the same thoughts. I want this, I want this, I want this. I'm afraid of this, I'm afraid of this, I'm afraid of this. It creates a toxicity. And you have to be able to clear your mind so that toxicity doesn't sink in. So we will have a meditation to clear your mind. Also, attachment. Attachments are toxic. They even make people sick. Attachment being something separate from love. Love is not attachment. They're separate. Attachment is the reaction of limitation that tries to hold on to a concept of another person or something. So they say, oh, I love this person, but also they get these energy lines onto the person. My self has a connection, and that's attachment. Detached relationship is where there's no lines of energy. That's where there's no self that creates a connection of, I want to control this, I want to hold this in a certain way, in a certain concept. You don't have that, you're detached, which is kind of scary, because the other person might wander off, going, hey, they've run away. But that's detachment, and wandering off is a good thing. But that has nothing to do with love. Attachment is the self, limited self, trying to get some control or some connection. So attachment is also something that creates toxicity, locked toxicity. So we need a way to be able to cut through this toxic energy, because this makes you too physical, muggly, like the consciousness of everybody around. So our way is this new medication. There's also the second thing that people do in reaction to this kind of toxic heavy energy. You might not go into that physical heaviness. There's another way to go, which is also bad. And that is the astral way, spacing out. of you might notice while you're like driving, you're like, oh, what's going on? Daydreaming while you're at work. Daydreaming, disassociation of attention. This is spacing out. And spacing you sponge in a whole bunch of energy and you can't do anything with it and it just makes you kind of lacking attention, lacking power, lacking awareness. It makes it so that it's very, very difficult to be mindful, very difficult to develop yourself in meditation. So spacing out, going astral, seeing into the wrong astral dimensions, having the wrong astral experiences, you know, being a big spacer, or an astral traveler, right? Asshole traveler. It's not good. So, we definitely need tremendous focus on being in the physical world, being balanced, engaging the moment, being awake and aware right now while we're meditating, and cutting through all that fluffy heavy energy so that you don't space out. And this meditation will help you with that. Being astral, being a spacer, guaranteed. You think, of you who think you're spacers, I was way more astral than you were. I was definitely the biggest ass traveler. I really was. So I know it's possible to stop spacing out and stop being astral. And it's kind of funny. I learned meditation and the first thing I started doing was being astral. I'm like, sit down to meditate, and then I'm like off in La La Land. All these cool experiences, all these amazing, wonderful things. So I'm like, all right. So when I was meditating, I saw these bunnies bouncing around, and they were wearing overalls, and they had little hats, all sorts, you don't know how astral I was, and I thought that was meditation. I was just a really bad student. It's true. I was like, why did I do that? How retarded, but I did it. Because you know what, if you start to be astral or spacey, you get flattened. It flattens your attention, it pushes you down, you get stuck in astral dimensions and you can't get out. You can't stop going into those dimensions. You're stuck. It took me a long time to unstick myself. And it was perfectly normal to go into really weird dimensions and to go basically crazy. There's the movie Twelve Monkeys, and he's in the sane asylum. And this guy keeps on coming over to him and telling him the story of some planet X and intergalactic battle that's going on, and then Bruce Willis is just listening to this crazy guy talking about all this stuff going on.

0:53:44
But guess what?

0:53:45
It was going on in an astral dimension, and that guy was just telling people what he was aware of. And there's a great point in the movie where he says to Bruce Willis, he's like, when I stop going to Planet X, I will be better." Which is totally true. And I totally did that like mad. Like, I went to Planet X. Like, literally, I was completely aware of at times being in a complete different dimension, and not even aware of this dimension anymore. I was gone. It's weird. And it's dangerous stuff. It's like, scary, dangerousness. I thought I had multiple personality disorder or something. I was like, what's going on? Where am I? So being astral is really dangerous. It'll get you stuck and if you're lucky you'll get out of it. It took me a long time. So it's dangerous to space out. Just becoming dissociated in your attention means that you're going to start perceiving astral. And maybe, you know, hopefully you won't go into the lower occult, but you'll start going into weird dimensions. And if you continue to space out and continue to experience weird dimensions, guess what? You're going to get stuck in them. You're going to get to a point where you can't get out of them. And then someday you'll wake up and say, wow, I need to meditate. I need to be mindful. I need to cut through that, become solid in this world so that I'm not going to be trapped in those weird dimensions. So for me, it was quite an intense experience because it was so real. It was really real, really badly real. And it's important to really not space out ever. When you're a Buddhist, don't space out. It just leads to bad places and you get stuck. So these are the two things that happen. People either get too heavy, desire, fear, attachment, or with the same energy, totally spaced out. These are the two things. But we have a fix for both of them, which is called the next meditation. break. We're going to take a break for another 15 minutes and then we will come back and break. We're going to take a break for another 15 minutes and then we will come back and learn the new meditation. Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
