0:00:00
right so I would like you guys to I like everything one of you to do a reflection on me there's a whole bunch of people outside there's a lot of them

0:00:21
We'll call it the difficulty of excellency.

0:00:25
So snaps for... Actually, you know, y'all did good. Okay, now today was magical special diving day. Did you guys notice that today was extra special,

0:00:50
magical special day?

0:00:51
Yes.

0:00:52
Where no one had to get hurt or die. There is a special energy today of not death. And this gave you guys all an opportunity to have a normal life. Where the energies of the water, the energies of terrain, the energies of the celestial bodies were coming to a place of greater balance. And so today was a beginning of a time of greater balance. But a couple days ago, heading into this, we were in serious, serious stuff. We were in serious energy field of difficulty. And you all did very well with it because you're alive. Exactly. The energy fields that we're working with here are not beginner energy fields. They're serious things. It requires great attention. It requires great awareness for you to deal with it. You have to have a strong tone of mouth. Otherwise, you could die. And the deeper you go, the harder that you push it. But you guys handled... Yes. In terms of glory of the earth, you handled your stuff. So that means that you chose guys that you can deal with, you've dealt with them, and this was a really intense power dive trip that you guys all succeeded in. So every single one of us, including me, because I had hard times too. I faced times where there was a strong potential of death, strong potential of decompression sickness. Probably me and Colleen and Dave faced it harder than any of you because we went to the greatest depth. We had the greatest equipment. So, you know, we face, face hardship. So I'm out there with you. I'm in the field, I'm on the floor, I'm on the mat. And I'm doing what you guys are going through. And through impeccability, through dealing with the energy fields and going for it, you know, we face difficulty, we face stuff, but at the same time, we succeed. Our personal power pulls through. Everyone ends up okay. Me and Colleen, Dave, and all of that had to go to the hospital on this trip. But we are all okay. Nothing karmically sustaining. So we all made it through.

0:03:57
We all made it through.

0:03:58
Every single one of you. You all made it through. You all had the personal power to come through on this difficult, bad trip. And this is one of those trips that we don't have every time, right? Back in Hawaii, our last Hawaiian trip, totally not this intense. This trip was a really intense power drive trip with theme of death, which you probably all faced very clearly. Some of you faced it very directly with having to do funny breathing, with running low on air, with having a rapid ascent rate, with facing panic at depth. Everyone faced different aspects of death on this trip. And this was the primary aspect of this power trip. So, you know, it's like, this was not an easy trip, obviously, you know, four of us went to the emergency room. I think two thirds of us had emergency events, running out of air, body breathing, panic at death, or something. So if you had no problem, congratulations, you did really well. Even I had really strong intentions to bump up the numbers trip. And I've never had such difficulties before. At the same time, personal power is what brings you through it. Sometimes your personal power is not enough, you still get bent, you have to go to the chamber. But personal power makes you live. So, you guys have all made it through a really intense power trip. I would say Carlos Castaneda, his journey to Ixlil, he faces a cuphold two or three times where he almost dies, according to Don Juan. According to him, he doesn't know what the hell is going on. Don Juan thought, hey, you almost died there. This is like a new diver who doesn't know what's going on. Like, hey, you almost died there, Dave, when you took the regulator and you were ascending, holding your breath. Oh, really? I didn't know what was going on. I was just kind of going with the flow. Dr. Marty told me that when she was at 75, 80 feet, 580 feet and she had her regulator filled with water You know she was able to breathe, but she considered should I panic no I won't because that won't help my life So she maintained her calm now two or three days before that we were in the pool Where her life was not? at risk. And she was breathing, she was doing the snorkel regulator exchange at the surface. That means you're breathing on your snorkel, go to your regulator, you go back to your snorkel, right? And here's the thing about the snorkel. You might spit some water out, maybe 80%, 20% of the water stays in. And the whole exercise is you gotta get used to being able to have water in your mouth and still recognize that you can breathe. Something that's not normal on land, drinking water. Well, you're breathing air, right? But when you're under water, sometimes you get a mouthful of water, but you can still breathe You don't inhale it You put your tongue in the way, and you filter the air through the water so This is the key to me not dying on my good side And for Dr.. Marty she faced it exact same thing, where she had to inhale, filter the air through so she could breathe, get a mouthful of water, and at the same time, be able to recognize that I can stay alive and I can do this, instead of panicking. So when she was in the pool, just doing the regulator snorkel exchange, she would panic. This is just two or three days before. Panic, and go, I can't do this.

0:09:01
No, no, no.

0:09:01
You can.

0:09:02
You just have to get used to it. Half a dozen times, I can't do this. And eventually, she did it once or twice. OK. Now she's at 80 feet below coast and worse than having a regulator with you know 20% water in it Worse than having a little bit of water from your snorkel. She's got more than half of her mouth full From inhaling right? And it's like you either panic, freak out, drown, die, hold your breath, give an aerobalism, or you keep your mind calm and aware so that you can survive. So she said, even though I saw her a couple days before panicking at the surface, regulator, snorkel. She said when she was down there at 75, 80 feet that she didn't feel any fear. And that's the way it is in life. When you have awareness you don't have to have fear. When you have awareness all you have to do is do things right. So for me the time where the greatest shock for me was when I looked at Dave and he was floating up with no air, no regulator in his mouth, right? And I knew that we had stress and problems with the regulator. I put my regulator in his mouth, and then he was breathing. And I was like, phew, that's one. Two, I need air. Now, a lot of people would die right there. You know, if you make the choice to give air to someone else than yourself, a lot of people would just die. They would say, now I'm out of air and I need air and choke and die. But for me, I kept a level head. I went for the regulator that I knew would work. And guess what? Tangled up, I couldn't get in.

0:11:15
A lot of people would die right there.

0:11:16
And then I said, okay, I'm going to go back for the other regulator that I know is broken.

0:11:17
And I'm comfortable with that brokenness.

0:11:18
Comfortable with having 75, 80% of my mouth full of water.

0:11:19
I knew what it would be.

0:11:20
I had an awareness of it.

0:11:21
There's nothing to be afraid of.

0:11:22
There's something to be aware of. So I went back to the regulator. I was a little bit more nervous.

0:11:25
I was a little bit more nervous.

0:11:26
I was a little bit more nervous. I was a little bit more nervous. I was a little bit more nervous. I was a little bit more nervous. I was a little bit more nervous. I was a little bit more nervous. I was a little bit more nervous.

0:11:33
I was a little bit more nervous.

0:11:34
I was a little bit more nervous. I was a little bit more nervous. I was a little bit more nervous. I was a little bit more nervous. I was a little bit more nervous. I was a little bit more nervous. I was a little bit more nervous. awareness of it. It's nothing to be afraid of. It's something to be aware of. So I grabbed my other regulator, put it in my mouth, and I clear it and get a mouthful of water, but some air, enough air to live. So I was able to maintain a balance and understanding. Not for a moment was I afraid. I didn't feel fear. I felt the impending need to work the problem efficiently. And I did things as efficiently as possible. And I knew that if I followed the efficient pattern, that the best thing, if it didn't work out, it can move on to the next thing. And even if that didn't move out, I would have grabbed the regulator back from Dave's mouth, inhaled, and I would have given it back. I would have done something. I had enough presence of mind, personal power, and awareness to deal with the situation. Dave might have been confused and frustrated if I had ripped an air out of his mouth, but I would go back to working my problem. So I was not afraid I just didn't have any fear. If I had fear it would paralyze me. If I had fear it would make me operate poorly. If I had any bit of fear and that dive I would have died. Now, Dr. Marty, same similar situation. She was deeper than I was, 80 feet. And she's getting a mouthful of water on her inhalation. It's a problem that happens with regulators. When the diaphragm gets bent in, it lets water in. And she had that problem. And she dealt with it, not in terms of way of fear, two days before, total fear, panic and death. If she had had that at 80 feet. But she was able to say, there's no fear. Why, you know, even though Zen later told her, you were facing your death. She's like, really? Because I felt no fear. Why would I be afraid of that?

0:14:08
Accept it.

0:14:09
That's the way life is. There's no reason to be afraid. There's no reason to have panic. There's no reason to freak out. You freak out because of unawareness of life. But when you have awareness of life, if you say, oh, I understand the situation, I need to do this, this, and this to work the problem, there's no need for fear. A lot of people build up anxiety, build up fear, based on unknown things. I don't know how it's going to be. You know what? Let's talk about all this is karma. It could be this, it could be this, it could be this. Here's how you can handle it, here's how you can handle it, here's how you can handle it. You can handle it! You can, with power, with awareness, with a balanced mind, you can handle emergency situations, and instead of dying you can survive because of knowledge. So, you don't need to have so much fear about life. You don't need to have so much fear about death. If death comes, fine. You've done everything in your power, everything in your awareness to be able to fend off that circumstance. And so you can enter death knowing that you were impeccable. That's an impeccability of entering death. You don't need to have any fear. Like Dave, when Dave was going up, and he was like, I have no power to stop this, I'm trying everything I can, and he says, this might be the way I die. OK, I'm ready. I accept it. No fear, no doubt, no anger, no, I wish I could have done something else. Just acceptance. Is there worth this in life, teacher? What better way to go out? You should have that awareness in your life. If any time you get to a place of stress, or you're going to die, bring your mind to me. Bring your awareness to enlightenment. And you're going to end anyway. End your life in a bright state. So Dave was heading up, had no control, trying all he could, realized that this might be my death. And he's like, I'm okay with this.

0:17:05
Right?

0:17:06
That's a good job.

0:17:07
Versus, ahhh!

0:17:08
Confusion, fear. You know that most people die in confusion, fear, and weirdness, and selfness.

0:17:09
Your life flashes before you when you see your attachments. Your life flashes before you when you see your desires. Life doesn't have to flash like that, you know what I mean? Your life comes to an end in luminosity. So Dave hit this point where he went deep. He went into underwater Samadhi, and the perfect state of mind, blissful, bright state of consciousness. And then, yeah, we had some hardships, but coming right out of that coming up, came up into a state of mind of acceptance of death. Complete, bland, basic, simple. This might be it, and this is the end, and I'm OK with this. That's an advanced state of consciousness.

0:18:22
I personally didn't think we would die.

0:18:24
I thought we would just be in the face of being dead. I was like, let's go to her a bit. I was like, no, if we jolted up from 200 feet, then we'd be dead. But this is only from 60 feet. So I had a little bit more awareness. This is just going to be like, you can't walk. Broken arms, brains explode, you know, simple stuff.

0:18:54
You know.

0:18:55
I looked dead, and it was so bad. But I didn't think we were done. But Dave did, and that's a great thing. I wish I did think we were done. I thought we would be bent like hell. But fortunately, with awareness, consciousness, carefulness, we did not get bent. And according to him, that was the craziest batch. My computer keeps telling me, now if you think you're bent,

0:19:30
you bastard.

0:19:31
You're bent to the dimmles.

0:19:35
My computer keeps telling me, you must be bent.

0:19:39
And every time I jump in the water, I was like,

0:19:40
you idiot.

0:19:41
I don't know what happened.

0:19:42
I just played with it.

0:19:43
I was like, OK. I'm going to go back. I'm going to go back.

0:19:46
I'm going to go back.

0:19:47
I'm going to go back. I'm going to go back.

0:19:49
I'm going to go back. I'm going to go back.

0:19:51
I'm going to go back.

0:19:52
I'm going to go back.

0:19:53
I'm going to go back.

0:19:54
I'm going to go back.

0:19:55
I'm going to go back.

0:19:56
I'm going to go back. I'm going to go back.

0:19:58
I'm going to go back.

0:19:59
I'm going to go back. I'm going to go back.

0:20:01
I'm going to go back. I'm going to go back.

0:20:03
I'm going to go back.

0:20:04
I'm going to go back.

0:20:05
being friends. So, there's something I'd like you all to reflect on on this trip, and I'd like you to write it down. I'd like you to write your dive logs,

0:20:15
the depth, dive site,

0:20:17
the basic current, the basic things you saw. But I'd also like you to write down some magical awareness that you've had on your diaries. I'd also like you to write something very, very important. Any difficulties that you've had. Me, Dave, and Colleen had some crazy difficulties. Olga had some difficulties. A lot of people, I think two-thirds of you guys had emergencies. You know, deep, you know, to get down in the deep, you have to do buddy breathing, you ran out of air, you had a rapid ascent and you had to get pulled down. I want you to write about the difficulties that you had on your diets. Not the great, wonderful parts, write that too. First, write the amazing awareness. And then, write the hardships that you've had. Those are powerful times. And that was one of the main points of this whole trip. This powerful, intense time. And then I'd like you to reflect on the main, kind of, theme of the trip. Death. Going underwater, to a world where you cannot breathe, to a world with so many rules, so many difficulties, where so many of us, myself included, have had life-changing troubles, life-threatening difficulties. Think about the difficulties that you've had, where you've faced life

0:22:03
and death.

0:22:04
It might be, for a lot of us, just breathing underwater. That's a radical event. We can't breathe underwater. We would die underwater. And yet, when you have a regulator and a tank on your back, and you can go underwater and breathe, it's a miracle. That's a miracle of experience. Miracle of technology, miracle of experience, and you can have amazing awareness based on that. But I want you to just reflect on the fact that you went into a condition of death, and you had awareness, you had life, you thrived. You had the ability to really experience something beyond your regular physical attention is tremendous. Even simple things, even 10 foot dive. You got wavy later in the night, you get down in the water, you're breathing, you see fish. It's very powerful. I want you to reflect on your personal experiences of death. Death. Going into that dimension, underwater, beyond the place where a physical human being, body, can survive. And I want you to experience and be aware of what you see as being life and death. What was it for you? What was your life, what was your death? What was your awareness of life and death under water? So, a consideration of your regular dive, wonderful, magical experiences, a consideration of the difficulties that you've had, if it was a runaway set, if it was a buddy breathing, even if you were the buddy breather, or if you were the one who managed the air, you needed help from someone, someone needed help from you. Write about those emergency experiences. It's very, very important for you to do these recapitulations of awareness. write about what your awareness is of death through this recapitulation of a very, very strong power trip. What is your awareness of death? Some of us faced death very closely. Some of us faced it a little bit more mildly. But everybody went underwater. We all face death on this trip. So I'd like you to consider it. I'd like you all to really reflect and say, whoa, I went underwater.

0:25:01
Whoa, I survived.

0:25:03
Whoa, I gave my alternate air source to someone. Wow, someone gave their alternate air source to me. What does it mean to you? What do you think about that? I'd like you to really do a deep reflection tonight, tomorrow night on your flight home. Really think about what does this mean to you? What is this about? Because there's a lot of dimensions to what we've been experiencing here on this time. It's profoundly deep. It's enlighteningly deep. It's a deep thing. Some of you are very aware that you broke through fears, that you did amazing things. And some of you are just kind of like, oh, at one point, I needed someone to give me air. But I'd like you to consider this experience very deeply and think about it. Think about if you didn't give that air. Dave, think about if I didn't give you that air, you'd be dead. DeVore, think about if I gave Dave that air but I couldn't get my regulator back in time. I'd be dead. You know, you have to think about those tight times, those hard times, those tricky times. It might just be the first time or the second time you went underwater with a regulator in your arm. It's intense. It's an intense situation. So I want you to really, really, really consider those times. Consider the situation. Consider your life. Consider your death. And I'd like you to do a thorough, refined, this whole trip, every experience, your feelings, your awareness. This recapitulation really helps, because if you don't do this, if you don't rewrite it, if you don't think about it, then you just go, oh I got thrown into the water, I was all freaked out, oh someone put a razor blade in my mouth, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh,

0:27:35
oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh,

0:27:36
oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh,

0:27:37
oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh,

0:27:38
oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, And then they gave me air. Otherwise, I would have been dead. I wasn't paying attention. And I was doing this, and I couldn't tell. I was freaked out. But someone gave me air.

0:27:51
And I was at 50 feet.

0:27:53
I wasn't paying attention. If I didn't get that air from them, I would have held my breath and read for the surface

0:28:03
and my lungs would pop.

0:28:03
You have to really think about when someone saved you, when someone gave you air, what did that mean? It meant that they saved you from dying.

0:28:14
What does that mean?

0:28:15
If you didn't get that air, if you held your breath and ran to the surface, you'd die. Or are you smart enough, are you close enough to the surface where you can take your last breath, exhale, kick to the surface, glowing bubbles. You've got to think about the situations that you've been in. And two-thirds of you have been in I'm-getting-saved situations. So I want you to really, really think about that. Think about what it means. Think about if you didn't have a guide, master, or a buddy to save you. Think about what it means. What would have happened? What would you have done if you weren't aware and all of a sudden ran out of the air? Or something like that. If you're shooting up and no one caught you, think about it. And I want you to write down what your reflections of life and death are on this slide. That's just the physical aspect, but your mental processes, what you think, is really important to do. You do this exercise, it compresses and tightens awareness so that on our next dive trip, Hawaii, I think it will be, that you are tight and strong and powerful because you've gone through this experience. Hawaii will not be an exercise of death.

0:29:37
Like last time?

0:29:38
Not in that sort of way. Here, this is a crazy thing. The next time there will be a happy Friday in Hawaii. So I'd like you to work on this over the next day, in a couple days. And I would like to get this assignment from you. I would like your assignment. If you write it in Hungarian, I'll have it translated. So just write it in a way that makes sense to you. If you write it in Czech, it's OK. in a way that makes sense to you. If you're writing it into a ballad, it's OK. Obviously, I'll have to apply it. So thank you all very much.

0:30:28
This was a powerful trip.

0:30:31
You all did well. I think it was nice that you Americans follow stuff over here, but the Hungarians, you guys did awesome. It was great. So that happens to all of you guys here. We just felt a really strong pressure. And then we came up, I was like, wow, that's scary. But then the next day, I was like, wow, that's scary. But then the next day, we were at the dive shop, and there was a front page article that a fisherman had seen a great white shark right outside of the cove that we were diving in that night. So that morning, they had seen a great white and that made the front page, because the only time they had seen a great white before was about 25 years before that. And so great whites are very rare in Hawaii. They generally don't go there, but we came across one. And for us, I thought it was a tiger shark, but then she and I were aware of a great white. We were like, wow, it's like, that was a great white, not a tiger. And then the next day we saw on the front page that there was an actual great white. That was kind of neat. We didn't say that in the book. In the book we basically said, we went in there and it was a big shark. It was beautiful.

0:32:25
I'm not sure if I can get over it.

0:32:27
It's definitely not me.

0:32:29
Anyway, you actually have a great job.

0:32:31
And hopefully we'll continue with powerful and positive scuba diving. Sometimes, you know, in Mystic Scuba, you can get hurt. You can get bent. Hopefully we know where medical assistance is so that we can, if we get bent and go to the chamber we get healed. You know, we can go on. Sometimes if you get bent really bad, Dan says, don't die anymore. And you can't continue this practice. So, we want to work on this practice in the most constructive way. A very special practice. We just have to do it right. We just have to do it right.

0:33:22
Okay. Good. Thank you all very much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
