0:00:00
Alright, so being positive. So as a Buddhist, we have a, we take a positive outlook on life and a positive outlook on death. Even though we face challenges, we deal with difficulty, we deal with stress and opposition, even though bad things happen, even though we deal with unoptimal situations, we always keep kind of a positive outlook. No matter what, no matter what we do, we are always focused on the big picture. We're always looking at things in a can-do way. Everything is enlightenment. And every difficulty that you face is a way of understanding enlightenment more. You can think of it as a lesson of enlightenment. You can think of it as a thing that came up on your pathway to enlightenment that's difficult difficult and it gives you the opportunity to look into life deeper, to understand yourself more, to become stronger, more grounded. To be able to face opposition and succeed is a lesson. When we say in Buddhism that if somebody gives you a hard time, that they're like a teacher. And if a difficult situation occurs, it's a spiritual lesson. So when difficulties come up, when hardships arise, we don't get shut down by them. We don't say, oh, this is impossible, I feel terrible, I'm just going to quit and die.

0:02:26
Right?

0:02:26
We don't have that kind of outlook. In every little and big way, with little things and big things, whenever we hit that wall of self or that wall of opposition that comes in so many forms, whenever it comes up, we look at it in a positive light. We look at difficult things and we say, well, okay, this is difficult. However, I'm going to win. However, I'm going to succeed. However, I'm going to learn from it and be stronger. And this is the Buddhist way. You have to really observe it in the small ways, in your thoughts. So when you're sitting there driving in traffic and then you get angry, you have to say, I don't have to be angry. I could look at traffic in a much happier way. One of the Zazen albums, probably one that you guys don't have, it's called Ecstasy. And my teacher wrote or worked with Zazen on creating this Freeway. Do you know the 410? It's in LA. That's why it's the 410.

0:03:59
In LA they have the 101.

0:04:02
Here we just have 101.

0:04:03
So they have the 410, and the 410 is the most heinous

0:04:07
of freeways in the universe.

0:04:10
From this look on down. Hell and Hawaii are much better. You remember the traffic in Hawaii? Not the big island, but on Oahu, it's like everybody on the island is going into Honolulu at the same time. So, the 410. So, there was a time where a lot of my teacher's students lived in LA, and they would get, they'd have to sit there in the LA traffic. And so he wrote this album for them to listen to in traffic. And what it did is it gave them an opportunity to have a higher state of mind in a difficult situation, to look at the bright side of a hard and unhappy experience isn't necessarily hard and unhappy. It's only hard and unhappy when you judge it to be that way. It's only hard and unhappy when you accept it that way. And it's most common and easy for people to look at things in physical basic ways, where they say, ah, this sucks, this is terrible, and then they just get down. They get down in their mind. They get into a low state of mind, into a small perspective of looking at things. And then they just are unhappy, caught up in the most base karmas. So as Buddhists, we would go into traffic and instead of having road rage, we would And it was an okay album. But just the fact that our teacher, Ben Zogden, wrote it for us for traffic, made me happy in traffic. I was like, oh, I'm gonna leave right now,

0:06:59
I'm gonna miss traffic.

0:07:00
Give me an opportunity to go out there and get into some traffic and...

0:07:14
Wow.

0:07:15
It's awesome. It's awesome. Totally awesome.

0:07:19
So, you know, that's what you want to do. I mean, not go seek traffic. But you want to go out there and really find the brighter way to look at situations. The brighter way of looking at difficulties. You know, it's like that with stress. It's like that with, you know, facing hardships in your work. You know, there's always hardships. There's always difficulties. But there's two ways to look at it, right? You could say, this totally sucks. It's impossible. I'm not good. It's not good. Everything's not good, or you can look at it and say, I'm going to learn from this, I'm going to get more excited, I'm going to overcome it, I'm going to somehow win. And that's the Buddhist way. That's the Buddhist state of life. It's to deal with what you got to deal with, go out there, succeed, be excellent. And when you face opposition, you just say, I'm going to win. I'm going to succeed. I'm going to do my best. I'm going to look for the higher and brighter side of this. I understand if it's difficult that it's a lesson, that it's something I'm going to learn from. And you just go out there and look to be, I guess, enlightened in every situation. Really. In every situation you look for enlightenment. So with our music and the traffic, the music is something we meditate to, gives us a way of looking to higher and brighter dimensions in traffic. And that was kind of nice. But you've got to do that with everything. Difficulties are subjective to your state of mind. So let's say somebody's in a certain condition where they're at work, their boss is giving them a lot of work, their co-workers are arguing with them or giving them a hard time too, and they feel stress. So a certain person in a limited state of mind will feel stress and they'll get all upset. Another person who is in a different state of mind could have the same things coming at them, the same boss, the same situation, same difficulty, same amount of work, and instead of feeling stress, they just don't feel stress. They just go, okay, stuff to do. So what people have a problem with, what gives them stress, what makes them angry, what makes them sad, sad is subjective to their state of mind. So if you're always looking at expanding your state of mind, then you'll be able to deal with difficulties. You'll be able to deal with every difficulty if you look to expand your state of mind. So instead of just sitting there and going, following the karmas of the self, someone pushed me, I felt bad, I got angry. Instead of doing that, you say, okay, I'm going to look for the higher way here, a brighter way here, a way to succeed. I'm going to work the problem. I'm going to stay positive. I'm going to try my best." Whenever you follow these basic positive steps, basic positive mindfulness, seeking a higher, brighter, peaceful, harmless way, you'll always find that your consciousness expands. So the Buddhist way of positive outlook is expanding consciousness. We're looking for the noble way. We want to control our anger, control our reactions. We want to be harmless. We want to do our best, bring our best forth to succeed. This expands your awareness. And as your consciousness expands, then you start to see more opportunities to succeed. You say, oh, I could also do that. Oh, this is not so hard. This is what happens when you have the Buddhist attitude. You see that there's a lot of opportunities and that it's not as hard as you thought. The other way is self-reaction, self-karma, where you say, it's impossible and it sucks and I'm just going to stop. So the Buddhist way is an optimistic way. And life is optimistic. Life has plenty of opportunities for us. All you have to do is see them. For every situation, there's an enlightened way to deal with it. For every situation, there's a way to deal with the situation the same way a Buddha would. Deal with the situation in a way that is elevating to your spirit. So we always, in heading into difficulties, when we're seeking to succeed in our work, we always want to find that bright and beautiful way. Because that's what it's about. That's what that's what doing yoga is about. It's about succeeding, you know, being impeccable and succeeding. And also being selfless in that we don't just go, oh, it's impossible. It is impossible to the self, but it's not impossible to the selfless. The selfless expands beyond the karmic view, the karmic assemblage point of the self. And then you see more options. There is always more options. The universe is filled with opportunity. You just have to have a positive way to expand your consciousness beyond limitation to see what that means really is that you don't concern yourself so much with changing things outside of yourself, but you first change yourself. So if you sit there and say, oh, I don't like my work, it's hard, the people are mean, instead of dealing with that outer condition, you first deal with your inner condition. And you start with that Buddhist attitude of how do I win here? How can I take this as a lesson? How can I work the problem? How can I succeed? How can I be harmless? And when you proceed in this fashion, all of a sudden you start to see opportunities, ways. Oh, it's not so hard. Oh, it's not so bad. Oh, I see ways of finding balance with my boss. You find enlightened solutions when you work this way. When you start with centering yourself and moving yourself in a Buddhist way, with the Buddhist attitude of being positive, then you find solutions. Most people will just start to fight with the outside conditions. They'll accept the karmas of the self. Oh, my co-worker made me mad. Then what do they do? They don't change themselves, they just start fighting with their co-worker. They just go into the karma of, oh, that person did this to me, so I'm going to hold it against them forever. And I'm also going to bring that up in the week we need it. Jake forgot his password. So I had to help him get it back. You know, he forgot it.

0:16:50
I don't know why.

0:16:52
How hard is it to remember a past life?

0:16:54
Yeah. Got to forget about the past.

0:16:57
Let things go.

0:16:57
Don't cause harm, you know?

0:17:00
Because it always creates so much trouble. Reminds me of Ken in Ceiba. Azu and I were diving in Ceiba, and we met this New York lawyer named Ken. He was traveling alone, so we kind of hung out with him. And I really liked Ken. And Ken was pretty much like Woody Allen, like really close. Really, he looked like him, talked like him. Yeah, so maybe he was Woody Allen. But one time, Ken was on the boat with us, and Ken goes there every year, and this dive master was there, and he goes, oh, that dive master pisses me off. I said, why Ken? He said, well, a couple years ago, he made a Jewish joke.

0:18:12
And Ken's Jewish.

0:18:14
He's like, and it just leaves a bad taste in my mouth. So then Ken just is like, oh, you know, ah. And the dive master was like, what? Ken's all, yeah. So it just creates a bad thing. Ken was holding onto it. And then the other guys just all, what's this guy's problem? I forgot all about that Jewish joke. And then the funny thing is, a couple days later we're on the boat, and then Ken starts telling a Jewish joke. What you could do if you're Jewish. Yes, right. Yeah, so he starts telling a Jewish joke. And then Ajna and I were like, Hey, Ken, whoa, whoa, whoa. No, I'm just kidding. I guess. Yeah. So, you know, you want to you want to be positive because when when you're negative, people hold on to it. They, other people don't forgive, right? If you're harmful. And then if you don't forgive, then you create that reaction back to people. So you have to be positive towards people. When people give you a hard time, don't hang on to it. When people give you a hard time, just say, this is the lesson for me. I have to be able to deal with people doing things that aren't so cool. I have to be able to be okay with it and let it go. I have to be able to take this kind of stress and let it go. So it's very important to be able to be at balance with people, with dealing with people. Yeah, you know, at work, in the Sangha, with family, you have to be able to let go of negativity. You have to be able to forgive, and then work forward in a positive way. Look for positive things. And in your yoga, you're definitely working on something very, very specific, your yoga projects. And we succeed in our yoga projects as a team. In your day job and work, there's a different scope and a different etiquette. But at the same time, it's necessary to be positive. It's necessary for you to have a positive, constructive interaction with people, and to be able to deal with difficulty. The thing about work is sometimes people will get mad, and they have no etiquette, right? Like in Buddhism, we'll be all like, I got mad, and then, oh, but I shouldn't. And, oh, but I'm still. So we sit there and try to stop ourselves from getting mad, but at work sometimes people say,

0:21:21
nah, no, they're like, fuck it.

0:21:23
We'll talk, we'll talk, we'll talk, out. And we're like, oh, okay. It's funny.

0:21:30
Yeah, and it could be in a company. Some people get really mad for no reason, or for whatever reason, personal reasons. But you have to be able to deal with difficulty, to be able to work the problem, to be able to navigate a situation without causing harm. People will get mad sometimes for no reason, but you don't want to cause harm, and you don't want to react in a negative way. You have to be able to learn to deal with difficult people and be positive in your mind. Because there are definitely difficult people out there. It's not going to change, especially in the Kali Yuga. It's not going to change. There are difficult people and be happy yourself. Be happy yourself. I learned this after a while in New York. In the beginning, I was able to sit there on Wall Street and have Mr. Waturi yell at me and stuff, and I'm all like... And I didn't have any stress. And I was able to deal with him, work things out in the right way, and not be out of balance. So it's definitely possible, and you see that in some really excellent people. We're in California, which is a little different than New York. In New York, most people were pissed off. They're all, ah! But in California, there's still that dynamic. It's just a little more subtle. It's more inward and unspoken. It's a little more difficult to deal with. But observe that, you know, in your difficult interactions with people, you know, at work or in the Sangha, it's important for you to observe your ability to not be stressed out by it. For you to be able to say, okay, I can deal with this. It's not the worst thing in the world. You know, the stress comes from being stressed. It comes from weird thoughts and just, you know, clinging to a bad way of looking at things. Oh yeah, there's a... this guy walks into a bar, the shop. And, I don't know, something like that. Or this guy's like, ah, I'm losing my hair. Shaved it. And, this is a joke, by the way. I'm telling a joke. I'm in the process of telling a joke. So, this guy says, I'm losing my hair. The other guy says, why? He's like, because I worry. And then he says, what are you worried about? Losing my hair. That's what stress is about. Stress is thinking stressful things. I'm stressed out. About what? Stress.

0:25:16
I'm angry. What about? Anger. I'm depressed.

0:25:20
So, you know, what feeds your anger? What feeds your negativity? What feeds your depression? What feeds your stress? Our thoughts. Thoughts of anger, thoughts of depression, thoughts of darkness, thoughts of stress. So the way to change your perspective is to really observe your thoughts, change your thoughts. Really practice this Buddhist thing called mindfulness. And that changes your condition. It changes the way that you experience life. And then you go forth with the Buddhist attitude, that positive attitude of, I'm going to win, I'm going to succeed, I'm going to have a positive experience, I'm going to look at this as a teaching for enlightenment. So you've got to do this, it's so important. It's very important. Otherwise, everything sucks. You look at things in the way of karma, everything sucks. If you follow karma and self to the... If you keep following it, it just goes down to not being very happy. It just leads to limitation. But the Buddhist attitude of having a positive mind, the Buddhist attitude of seeking to be higher in any situation, is a way that brings you into greater opportunity, greater a condition where you're more free. So it's very, very important to foster this attitude, to discipline yourself to have this attitude. And when you find yourself following negativity, just getting down on yourself, feeling limited and just stuck, you have to say, okay, this is hard. I feel stuck. I feel angry. I feel depressed. I feel whatever. I feel stress. I feel this. And you have to say, but I'm going to kick in my Buddhist attitude now. And I'm going to, I'm going to do this somehow. Somehow, I don't know how, I'm going to win. I'm going to be able to do this, make this goal, do my yoga, move forward in a positive way and succeed. The Buddhist attitude is the way to succeed, the way to overcome difficulty, and the way to be happy. It's quite a powerful attitude. So I have the Buddhist attitude, and I have recently faced difficulty. And at first, I didn't really understand the difficulty too well. However, by reflecting on it, and having a Buddhist attitude, I've looked at it and understood it in a brighter way. So what happened was, yesterday, I passed out. Which means that I fell off a ladder and I hurt myself. Oh, just here a little bit, but it's better now. I thought that I actually broke my rib when I woke up but I didn't. It just hurt. But more importantly and worse than that is that when I passed out, it was not very good. And this happened to me before. I usually didn't, I wouldn't tell you guys about that, except for it happened to me in Paris. And Schaubert was there. So I figure, you know, I might as well tell you guys about this. The first time this happened to me was after, I think, an Anzabrego desert trip. After the solstice trip, I was going to Hawaii to relax, kind of off gas, because some of our early trips, desert trips and stuff, or meditation seminars, were very intense reactions to enlightenment. So they would be very selfish, oftentimes very angry, and oftentimes just kind of fighting with me. They're just fighting with me for their desires and then they'd be afraid of me so they'd fight with me about their fears.

0:31:09
So,

0:31:10
You know, when people are in a positive way, listening to the teachings of light, that's good. And you'll have things that you struggle through, but if you have that positive attitude, then you move forward beyond those things. And when I'm dealing with that, it's okay to me. It's still some hard work. It's still me kind of taking on some toxicity because we're breaking through some barriers together and I'm helping you break through them. So what happens is a kind of toxic energy from an ego, an ego kicks up toxic energy. And since I'm interfacing with you, I interface with that toxicity. So that kind of gets in my aura and eventually it starts to make me sick. This is what we talked about about six months ago. I was like, you guys make me sick. And it's true, it's actually very unhealthy and very toxic. Marfa would just plainly put it like in a karma statement. When I work with you guys, sometimes I pick up bad karma from you. And what I have to do is I have to burn that bad karma off. Or that bad karma affects me. I get your bad karma. So in the beginning, a lot of it was students fighting with me. A lot of people have a bad reaction to enlightenment. They're just all, ah, it's too intense. It's like when you enter into the third bardo and those intense lights come. And a lot of people will just react to it in an intense way. Want to run away, want to fight it, or sort of things. Because it's an intense, enlightened energy. So, you know, a while back, when we had our first seminars and desert trips and stuff, many of the students were going through a lot of basic difficulties and they kicked up a lot of bad energy. And I was able to take it for a while and then got to this point where I had to kind of work it off and burn it off. And that's what I had been doing for the past six months. So I had made a lot of progress. But at the same time, I am open. I'm open to my students so that the karma still affects me. The best thing that you can do is to have the Buddhist state of mind, because that's the most positive way. I'll still pick up karma from that. But if you have angers, mood swing, depressions, that creates a lot of toxicity. And this is a toxicity that is within my aura. And it's something that makes me more toxic. I pick up that karma of yours. So in the beginning, it was students who were just like, screw you, Sambara. And I'm all like, oh, okay. But now it's more just you guys are going through your own crazinesses, and I pick up karma from it. So after this one desert trip, I was on an airplane going to Hawaii, and I got up and I was walking to go to the restroom and I felt normal and fine. And then the next thing I know, my eyes open and there's a stewardess, a flight attendant, over me. And she told me that I had fallen down and passed out. And I was like, wow, that was weird. And during the period of time, I was out for a couple minutes, I was in kind of a deep sleep state. I was like, that's odd. And I understood what happened. I was very, very, very aware that what shut me down was really toxic energy from students who were angry. So I was like, wow, that was odd. And normally that wouldn't bother me at all, if people get angry at me. Like I could have a bunch of ST1s get angry at me, because I'm not as open to them. But when I have students who I'm open to helping you, and then when they get angry at me, it affects me more. So that was the first time it happened. And it was, you know, it was something. I went to the hospital and just wanted to check out to make sure if everything was okay. They did an MRI on me. They're all, eh, they're all, you probably just tripped and hit your head. And I'm like, okay. And that was interesting. And then the next time that happened, fast forward two or three years till Paris, I was in Paris and I was under a couple different stresses. So even though I had done a lot of work to I'm still in a mode where I need to purify my aura. So I definitely understand that I need to work on keeping certain toxicities out, and I need to do it more. But I was in Hungary, and I was teaching for 10 days in Hungary. When I go to Hungary, I kind of have day after day after day meetings and meditations because I'm just there twice a year now. So I try to get a lot of things in. But that means that I really work with the students. We do a lot of important spiritual transformations. And everybody there was in a very good way because they had just made their quota. I told them, you either make a sale or you're out of the study. So everyone who was there actually made a sale. And they were in a good mood. They had taken a step up. But we still needed to take the yoga to the next step. So there was a teaching. So I picked up a lot of toxicity from that. And it's normal. But at the same time, I was kind of tired. When I travel, travel is very tiring for me. And I am not good with jet lag, so I don't get a lot of sleep. So I was getting, on average, probably 3 and 1 1⁄2, 4 hours of sleep a night on average. Some nights just an hour, it's very strange. And so, by the time I was in Paris with Schaubert, it was about almost three weeks of that. And I was tired. I was kind of in a way really tired. So the travel, the fatigue, they made me kind of open to... They kind of made it more difficult for me to deal with the toxicities that I deal with, with teaching students. And so I succumbed to the toxicities. So we were having dinner, having a wonderful dinner, it was really fun, we're having a great time, it was fantastic, and then I went, splat. And so I was just sitting there eating and having a great time, totally happy. And then what they told me is that I kind of fell over onto Robert's arm. And then they were like, Are you okay? And then I said I was tired, which I don't remember saying. And then I totally like went limp. And then they brought me down to the ground, because I was totally passed out, and I was out for a few minutes. And then there was a Mexican guy who was a doctor sitting at the table behind us, so fortunately he comes over to take care of the situation. During that time, I was convulsing a little bit, and I stopped breathing, but then I woke up. When I woke up, there was this Mexican guy above me. So I'm sitting there having dinner, and then I open my eyes and there's this guy. I'm like, something wrong just happened. Because it's just, for me, there's no time. I just went into like a deep sleep state. And then, I'm putting my eyes, and then the guy's unbuttoning my shirt, and I'm like, is he gonna do CPR on me? And I'm like, don't do it. I'm awake. I'm okay. So I was telling him I was okay, but he didn't seem to be listening to me. And I'm like, am I not in my body? And I'm trying to tell him, okay. But finally, they got me back up and I felt totally fine after that. And then I said, wow, this was not a good thing. There were some environmental things that made me sensitive. We were in a very, very crowded, strange, weird restaurant. My fatigue, my travel, and my teaching, it just all got to a point where I couldn't take it anymore, and it would shut me down. Now if I hadn't done my six months of six hours a day meditation and exercises, then I probably would have died because that's the level. That's why I had to do those exercises. That's why I had to take that time. But fortunately, it was not that bad. When I came to, I knew that my personal power was strong enough for me to not die, which is good. And then I went to the hospital and they checked some things and they said, got dizzy and fell asleep. So again they couldn't figure out you know what was wrong but it was a very odd thing. It was very strange and not good. So that was the second time it happened. When I came back I actually got a full night of sleep. And that was very good, just very deep sleep. And that helped me to become less fatigued and more able to see the toxicities that were stressing my aura. And I was able to look at things in a different perspective and understand it more. I was like, oh, okay. I was like, this is not good. I understand what's going on. This is not good. So I started my meditation routine and I was going to start exercising. I was in my left side breakfall mode, and I was all, oh, I even did that unconscious, which was good because my head was resting on my arm. So I didn't hit my head against the ground, but my ribs, I hit my ribs. So I thought that my ribs were broken because it hurt so bad. I was like, whoa. And I said, I should check out this thing. And I heard that another reason why you could faint is something with the heart, not the brain. Because the first time they did an MRI on me. So I went to the hospital. And they kept me there overnight to check my heart rate to see if there was an aneurysm or something that would change. But it was steady and normal. And I met with a cardiologist and went over everything with them. But this time when I fell and went unconscious, it was different because I went from the deep sleep state into the Dharmakaya, which is the first of the bardos. I was like, wow, I'm conscious. I said, oh, this is not good. This is bardo. I had the choice. I was like, oh, totally go back into the living. So I did. Then that's when I woke up. I think that probably I stopped breathing at the same time there, too, and probably a little bit more seriously. So, it's kind of a serious situation, but at the same time, my personal power is strong enough, and one that I have to take very seriously. The doctors, you know, at the end they said, okay, you know, your heart is okay. So they figured it's a similar thing to when you stand up really fast. You know, if you stand up really fast, you can get lightheaded. They said, your brain might have just misfired and you might have just, you know, healed over. I'm like, my brain misfired? Okay, I can go with that. So really, they can't figure out why. Because it's really a subtle reason. Like one of the doctors was saying, you know, people can just pass out if they get scared, right? They could be like, oh I'm scared, and then they just faint. So this is more akin to that. I don't think there's a there's too much of a physical reason. It's really like my aura has a So I have a lot of stress, a lot of opposition. And I deal with it the best way I can, did some hard work, but I also deal with it in a very positive way. I deal with it in this Buddhist way. opportunity to understand that it's very, very serious and I have to do something about it, gives me a perspective to look deeper. And when I looked deeper, I thought about my teacher. And a lot of them were very powerful, right? The ST1s, very powerful. And they were a lot more reactive and powerful than you guys. So I was like, he was able to deal with it in a very, very powerful way. So it was very inspiring to me. I said, there's a way. There's a way to deal with this. I also remember he used to say, meditation makes you tough. I was like, yeah, meditation makes you tough. So I just meditated and reflecting on the fact that my teacher was able to deal with the situation, a more difficult situation. And that one statement, meditation makes you tough, and I was meditating. And I came to a higher understanding. I came to a higher awareness of my subtle physical body and how to deal with toxic energies. Now, before that, I was just kind of like, karma was happening to me. And I was dealing with it. I was meditating a lot and I was burning toxicities out of my body and stuff, but it still wasn't working. I mean, it definitely worked somewhat. Because if I didn't do it then I probably would have. Yeah, most likely I would have just... But since I was doing that, but I still was passing out, oh not a good situation. Going into the first Bardo, not a good situation. So I looked at it in a different way, and I looked at it in a way where I'm handling a kind of stress, a difficulty, a pretty intense hardship, but I'm dealing with it in a way where I am going to succeed. I'm going to win. I've seen an example of my teacher. I can do this. So I sought in my meditation to find a way, and I found it. I found a way to be stronger. I found a way for meditation to make me tougher so that I can deal with it more. I used to always say, man, I don't know how my teacher did it. It's so... And like my students, they're like, the yoga teachers or something, or when they were meditation teachers, you guys are all, oh, I'm doing basic meditation, or doing a yoga project, and you get to see, wow, it's such a pain in the ass to deal with these new students. I'm all, eh, all right.

0:51:29
Yeah.

0:51:29
And also, you know, the scope of being a yoga teacher still within the structure of my aura. So it's actually the real tough stuff comes this way. And I mean, literally, it's really intense. It's intense stuff. Teaching is no joke. It's real, and it really makes things happen. It's very powerful. It's good. And while it's good too, but you know, the esoteric teachings, mystical teachings, definitely, for me, it's really intense. For you, it's intense too. But you know, this is the work that I do. And there's a lot of things I have to deal with in order to do the work. Now having really pushed in my meditation to look for a way to succeed, I have found to be stronger and more capable, where I can balance my energy. So of course that's what I will engage in, that's what I will do. But it was me facing difficulty, it was me facing negativity, facing so much karma that it would just wipe me out. It's like that part of the Milarapa, you know the Milarapa story where Milarapa at the end he's like dying or something. Yeah, he was he was poisoned and one of his students says, oh let me take on your pain and he's all, no, no, no, you can't. He's like, if you took my pain, you'd just be dead like that. And he's all, look, I'm gonna put my pain onto this door over here. Then the door's all. And he's all, that would be you.

0:53:52
So it's like that.

0:53:53
It's an extreme amount of intensity that I take on. Because it's necessary and it works. A couple of my students asked me, is there a way for you to teach where you don't do that? And I'm like, sure. I wouldn't do esoteric teaching. I wouldn't do mysticism. And I would just sit there and say, meditation's cool.

0:54:19
Try it sometime.

0:54:21
You know, there's definitely ways to teach, but it's not what I do. So my dharma is to teach the teachings my teacher taught me to teach. And that's what I'm gonna do. And instead of being subjective to the limitations of that, I have found a way to be able to be stronger because I look for it, because I had the Buddhist attitude. So you can take any difficulty, a life-threatening difficulty, subtle physical dealing with a difficult person, dealing with the monotony of a day job, or everything, anything. You can take any difficult situation and you can bring the brightest intention you have and find an enlightened solution. You can find a way to live. You can find a way to be happy. There are options and opportunities out there. But you have to have that attitude. If I didn't have this attitude, I'd be totally screwed. It's true, I'd be in a mess. But of course I have this attitude, and so it enables me to do more and more and go further and further and to have a good time.

0:56:02
Like in Paris.

0:56:03
The Shawbert came with me. Do you guys know who the Shawbert is? The Shawbert is those two guys, Sean and Robert. But in Paris, I call them the Shawberg. Because that's one of our favorite restaurants. Well, it's not really the Shawberg. The Fowlberg is the restaurant. So I call them the Shawberg. On our last night, it was so fun there. It was so great. We had this powerful time. First First of all, I almost died in front of them. They were like, oh my god! They're like, what is happening? Oh, this happens all the time. You guys should see me on a Saturday night. Just kidding. So, yeah. That was a powerful and intense time. But other than that, we found a souffle restaurant. Which was crazy. I'm like, okay, I'm gonna have the pre-fixed menu. I'll have this appetizer souffle, this entree souffle, and this dessert souffle. I'm like, gotta be small souffles. And then they brought out these big souffles. So we ate our appetizer souffles, and then we were like, I'm pretty good. And then Ajna was with us, and then they bring out a souffle for Ajna, and they're like, we made a mistake on your order, so we just threw in an extra souffle.

0:57:50
Here's our mistake.

0:57:52
We thought you said mushroom, we made a confusion, but we'll just give you this extra one. And Ajna's all, he said in French, are you trying to kill me? And then they brought our next souffles over and we ate them. And then they brought our dessert souffles over. And we were like, that is awesome. And we ate them. Somehow we did it. It was amazing. Yeah, it was so fun. So now that souffle restaurant, big thumbs up. Savory souffles, think about it. Okay. But at the Faubourg, our last night was super, really, really, really nice. Patrice was there. Patrice is kind of the maitre d' and a very, very intense occultist. Really cool guy. The Foulberg is a really nice restaurant in one of Paris' top hotels. Very, very powerful place. Very special energy line. I like it very, very much. Patrice is making this power move there to make the Faubourg a very, I don't know, it's his work, that's where he gets power. And he's doing a great job, it's really exciting. And then there was one point at the end of our dining experience where Patrice came over and the head chef came over and we were toasting with champagne. So fun. We've been to the Foubert, to the Foubert, a number of times. And, and mostly because of Ajna. Ajna's been very entertaining to them. And he learned French and everything. The first time, we didn't speak, he didn't speak French. And then the second time, he spoke French and they were like, wow. So they've, so we're kind of friends with them, they're quite nice. Yeah, so we had a really good time, really good time. But it was a powerful time, very powerful time. Paris is probably the best city in the world. The energy is wonderful. But it's still a city, but it's a good city. Good energy lines to do certain things in. So we were there doing certain things. Yeah, so what an adventure. I'm like, what an adventure. It was like the time Dave and I were diving.

1:00:34
Remember that time we almost died?

1:00:36
Remember that other time we almost died?

1:00:38
Surviving is important. You guys will all have a I survived for Sambara story. I'm telling you. It's true. My teacher used to say that, you know, on the pathway to enlightenment, if you're a survivor, then that's great. You're going to be enlightened. You just have to keep surviving on the path. It's totally true. Yeah. So it's quite exciting. But the reason I bring this up, I probably wouldn't have brought it up unless if Shawbert didn't see me do it. But the reason I bring it up is because it's a good sample for you guys to understand how to be positive. So I figured something out because I had a positive mental attitude. I didn't let this thing shut me down. And I still have to, you know, I'm still working on it, but I know what it is. I know what I have to do. I figured it out. And, you know, difficulty with situations, difficulty with work, difficulty with people. And for me, this is that kind of difficulty. I deal with really, you know, you know when you have like really bad feelings and really, you know, you're just upset today. That has an energy that is within my aura. And that creates a kind of toxicity. But these are things that you work through. So the best thing is to say, okay, I don't feel really good. I'm dealing with a samskara, I'm dealing with karma, I'm dealing with difficulty. But have the Buddhist attitude, because then you will go through it and not just keep repeating it. Repeating it and repeating it and repeating it, that is just, come on, stop, let's skip beyond that. Let's practice Buddhism. Bring your best attention, do your best, have that winning Just as I will move beyond this condition of sickness Okey-dokey Very important

1:03:41
So why don't we take another little break? So why don't we take another little break?

1:03:44
Be a little break for 10 minutes or so and then we'll come back and meditate more and talk more.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
