0:00:00
Alright, there we go. So, we were supposed to have our meditation seminar today, but the room was being renovated or something. Unfortunate. So we couldn't get the whole function together.

0:00:21
You guys are the ones who get to be lucky.

0:00:23
You will get the teachings.

0:00:24
The guys in Bollywood, they miss them.

0:00:26
Too bad.

0:00:27
But there's an empowerment also that is necessary this month, which we will do at some point. Not right now. So there's different levels of teachings, different levels of transmission. Usually when we have our meditation seminar, they turn it up a little bit more focused, I would say, in terms of the dimensions. So, today we're going to talk about the hell of Buddhist monks. One of my favorite subjects. So Shantideva, who was a master of Bodhisitta, who really taught Bodhisitta and made... was kind of like one of the main forces in Mahayana Buddhism. Atisha came after Shantideva, and Atisha was sent to Tibet. So we're reading a Tibetan book, that's why they talk about Atisha. But usually in Mahayana Buddhism, they talk more about Shantideva, unless you're reading about the Tibetans. They're like, oh yeah, one guy came before we didn't have it. So Shantideva was a great teacher. He used to always yell at his monks, He'd be like, you better practice your bodhisitta, otherwise you're going to go to the hell of Buddhist monks! And I like that. It's actually true. The Hell of Buddhist Monks. So something happens when you're on the pathway to enlightenment. Something happens when you start to engage in self-reflection. you are able to see yourself in a very, very deep way. You stop that kind of flow of karma. You know, it's like if you're kind of flowing along in the stream, you're just like, hey, everything's just like, yeah, that's how it is. But as soon as you stand up and try to stop, you see that there's this whole force of water pushing you. That's your karma. And usually a normal person will just flow with their karma, let it lead them to where it will lead them. But in meditation we stop thought, we stop the stream. And in the pathway of enlightenment, when you stand up and stop the flow of your karma, just don't go with it. You go, well what is it? Look at the force. You start to look at yourself differently. You might say that you go under a magnifying glass. You start to notice that the currents are strong, the currents of karma are strong. And it gives you the ability to really learn and understand yourself, what's going on, what things just push you along in life, what things just push you from experience to experience, from dissatisfaction to suffering to pain. Because if you follow the karma of the stream, it runs you into the rocks. It knocks you into the beaver dam you get hit by a beaver. and what you learn when you are on the pathway to enlightenment is you learn how to stop how to move against the currents of karma and how to get out of the stream that would run you around and knock you into things. However, it seems a lot harder once you do that. You say, boy, it sure is harder now. I used to just go with the flow of whatever I was thinking and feeling. things that I think and feel seem to have a greater effect, a greater... problem. Like I remember for myself I used to be angry just randomly growing up, right? Like someone cuts me off in traffic and anything, you know, someone says something mean to me and I'm like, oh. I used to get angry and rude about things a lot. And then at one point in the study, I noticed that my anger really, really, really, really made me feel bad. The fact that I let myself be angry, I was experiencing the hell of Buddhist monks. That is, not going with the flow of the karma. Karma will always, you know, a karma will always lead you to a place. Anger, if you just let, if you flow with it, leads you somewhere. A place that's It's not as powerful. If you follow anger, it always leads to a less evolved place, a more spiritually dark place. So, as I was experiencing that anger and stopping the flow of karma, I noticed it was so hard and difficult and painful. so much worse than it used to be when I used to just go with the flow. So maybe I should just go with the flow? No, because it leads somewhere. But noticing how much more difficult it is, is, you know, it could be a hell, a hellish experience, or it could be a liberating experience. That's the third point of the seven points of mind training. Taking those difficulties, those terrible things that come up in your mind, and turning them into the pathway to enlightenment. But that experience of being a Buddhist monk, and having a clearer mind, a more focused mind, a more empowered mind, because of meditation, mindfulness and yoga, means that when negativity enters your mind, you notice it more than you used to. It seems worse. I was much happier before I became a Buddhist monk and everything started sucking. And that's true. So, that's why it's necessary to practice, actually really practice, the Dharma. Mindfulness, bodhicitta, yoga, meditation. These disciplines are extremely important. Otherwise, you end up worse off. Otherwise, you go to the hell of Buddhist monks. Which is true. So, it's important to practice the Dharma. The Dharma is the best way to deal with darkness and negativity of the mind. Following desire, following or being pushed by fear, these are the worst ways. They're the lowest ways to go. So if you face a fear and overcome it, you end up stronger, in a higher condition. If you follow desire and aversion, they will always lead you to a place where you're less happy. The problem is that karma is locked in. So this brings us back to the three objects. The three objects can also be the three seeds of virtue. But the three objects, when you have attachment to desire and aversion, you have a tremendous problem. You have really identified the ego's cherishing, the ego's clinging. And you find yourself pulled by desire, maybe personal history. You'll find what you see as a problem. And that's attachment to a self, attachment to a state of mind. That attachment to the objects of what's something you like, desirable, the attachment to something you don't like and you're repelled from. Seeing things in those opposites, being attached to, I like this, I don't like that, I really like this, I hate that, you are stuck in egotism. Your ego is clinging to a limited sense of self. As they would say in Taoism, the superior man, and then in California Taoism, the superior The superior person. The superior person would not cling to what they desire, wouldn't cling to personal history, a sense of self and goodness, and this whole story of, oh, this is what I like, and they wouldn't, and when something nasty and terrible happens, they wouldn't be running in fear, they wouldn't be reeling in aversion. They would be balanced. That's the secure way. Who decides what's good and what's bad? The ego. And the problem is that when these two objects are grasped by the ego, it creates imbalance, it creates suffering. It creates the hell of Buddhist monks. When you're following these ways, when you're grasping and attached to these two objects, it creates tremendous suffering. So, the way to be is to say, let's go, let's go, practice the Dharma, take incentive. Somebody else, maybe not you, might be in the same circumstance, doing the same thing, only they're not worried, they're not angry, they're not clinging to some other desire or an idea of something else that they want. They're able to go through the same difficulty, the same experience, and just not be bothered by it. But you, you got bothered by it. There's something special about you. And it's so special, you feel horrible. You find yourself suffering. So, this is why these are the living teachings. These teachings are about you. About your life, your mind, right now. When you're observing the teachings of the three objects, the three seeds of virtue, you have to say, how does this apply to what I'm experiencing? Oh my gosh, I find myself in this grasping to what I desire, fleeing from what I'm adverse to. I find that my spirit is caught. I'm suffering that experience. That's why we're practicing bodhicitta. That's why we're talking about this. Because it happens to you. It's a condition you're in right now. Not someone else. You. It's very easy sometimes to say, Samara must be talking to the other people. He must be talking to these guys, or those guys. This whole thing.

0:15:21
What does it have to do with me?

0:15:22
Yeah, sure, it's a neat idea. No, no.

0:15:26
This is real.

0:15:27
This is what's happening. So, you recognize it from time to time. You recognize the reality of it. And it's important to you. That what we're focusing these teachings are all about your experience, your mind, your condition of attention. So, it's so important to practice the Dharma. The Dharma is the way to deal with these things. Through bodhicitta you can transform suffering into a greater awareness, deeper wisdom. And not following the Dharma, following the self, it just leads to more misery. There's no escape. So, you must follow the teachings. You must really, really apply the Dharma at the most difficult time, when you're stuck the most, and things are the hardest. Otherwise, you experience Buddhist monk hell. Buddhist monk hell happens when you lack the practice of the Dharma. And sometimes it's hard, you know, the most difficult things happening to you. How can you be balanced? Your ego is clinging and reeling and running, right? So it's like, how can I do it? Well, you can. You have to practice, and eventually you'll figure it out. Eventually you'll never be bothered by the same thing again, because you will understand it. Bodhicitta is the way to understand it. It's the best way to understand it. Instead of fleeing from it, you accept it. You take it. You don't run from something that's difficult. You can say, alright, I'm willing and ready spiritually to take on this horrible difficulty. I don't have to fight it. I don't have to have self-preservation. I recognize that this is suffering and I'm taking it so that others may be free from it. And then you give light to those others. This is the way to really understand your mind, to stop that self-defense of egotism, and to transform these areas of ignorance, of attachment to self, into luminous gateways as specific means to have a higher connection with life. So if you don't practice the Dharma on the pathway to enlightenment, you tend to actually feel worse than a normal person. Normal person is just going with the flow. Once in a while, we get bitten by a deer. Everything is horrible and broken. But then they reincarnate and go with the flow again. But a Buddhist monk stands up in the current. And we're dealing with that pressure, understanding it, looking for a way out of this dream. And we find it. But we realize, you know, when you're under the microscope of light, when you're on the path, you practice mindfulness, when you're practicing yoga, meditation, your mind is clearer, you're looking, you know, the whole point of the path is to put you into directly pointing at your own mind. Seeing the truth of your own mind. And a lot of times there's... people try to just avoid the difficult places in their mind, the difficult places of their being, because it's not fun to deal with. But on the pathway to enlightenment, we deal with it. We don't run from it. We can't run from it. Because it comes up in yoga, comes up in our meditation, comes up in dealing with others in the Sangha. And so instead of trying to run from ourselves, whenever we have darkness of the mind, conflict, whenever we have a desire that we're chasing, this shows us our clinging to the objects of desires, the objects that we are averse to or fear. This is... those are the two poisons. If you cling to them, if you have attachment to them, they're poisonous. But if you react in a way of the self, you go to Buddhist monk hell. So, Buddhist monk hell is something that you will experience when your practice is poor. Not outside conditions that come and hurt you and do bad things to you. Not anything that anyone does to you. Not anything that's outside of you. It's not what happens at work. It's not what happens at home. It's not good news or bad news. You experience hell when you and your mind go into darkness. When you're upset, when you've got problems, when you go into just bad states of mind. You go into bad states of mind, maybe blame other people and all sorts of other things, but no, it's you. You're the one experiencing a bad state of mind. It is your responsibility to practice bodhicitta, so that you can take that poison and transform it into the pathway to enlightenment. So, when you experience darkness, when you grasp with your attachment those two poisons, then you experience suffering, you experience bad craziness. It's horrible. It is hell. But when you experience that, you have to practice taking and sending, and transform hell into heaven. You have to transform hell into heaven, again and again and again and again, until you just don't go into hell anymore. The ego leads you to hell. I say, if you follow anger, if you follow negativity, if you follow desire, these will lead you to lower states. And ultimately, if you follow the ego's desires, it leads to hell. It leads to hell. If you follow the angers, it leads to hell. So it's like, if you follow the self, if you just said, well, my self wanted to do this, this, this, this, you'll notice that even if you consider it and reflect on it, it leads down without a stop. That's the logic of the ego. But practicing bodhicitta is a way to that. To get rid of it. And the thing is, while you're with your spiritual teacher on the path to enlightenment, you have a chance to deal with these things, to learn about these things. But the path of enlightenment, if you take it wrong, you can go into really bad karmas. Unfortunately, I've seen students have problems, angry, and then in their mind, logically, you know, there's all this stuff. They have all these reasons, and then they leave the path. When they leave the path, they lock into that karma. And it's a sad way to go. And I would say, that's Buddhist monk hell. Now there's a story, one time, one of Buddhist monks who was an arhant, an enlightened monk, he was meditating up in a cave, and then he was walking down, and he was coming to see the Buddha and outside of the little ashram where the Buddha was he saw these five ghosts. They were dressed in monk's robes and then they were on fire. And he was like, oh, that's pretty weird. So he goes over to the Buddha and says, I I saw the funniest thing on my way. It's five Buddhist monks who are on fire. And then he says, what was that Buddha? And Buddha said, Oh, that's a really good thing. I mean, bad for them, but actually good for them. So he said, the story is this. In the previous age, they were students of an enlightened teacher. And they started fighting. They were fighting amongst each other. They were doing bad things to get over on the other monks. And they were just in bad states of mind. They were angry, they were always like having problems with everybody. And then they eventually, because they were so upset, their enlightened teacher said, you guys can't be here because you're always, you're just always being angry. You're just always causing fights. So, so their teacher kicked them out and yet they were still in all of this anger. So, in their next incarnation, they went to hell. And they went to hell for a long, long, long, long, long, long, long many incarnations. Then in the next age, because the Buddha was there teaching, there was a Dharma that they could exit hell and then they were kind of floating around as ghosts. But they were coming back to the teachings of enlightenment. Now, when you follow negativity and when it solidifies into karma, like for those monks who got kicked out and they were so negative, it takes a solid path. There's opportunity on the pathway to enlightenment. You can experience a really bad state, you can practice bodhicitta, master it and make it the pathway to enlightenment. But if you are in a really bad state, and then you're out of the scope of opportunity on the pathway to enlightenment, you lock in karmas, and you follow that path. And then that path leads... that's what we call the slow experience of learning, or the unusually unhappy experience of life. You follow that karma until you figure it out. And having an enlightened teacher is a very, very, very special opportunity for you to have that microscope, to see yourself, to look at your mind directly, and see the truth. And sometimes the truth that there's something to practice bodhicitta on. Difficulties. Grasping, attachment, desire, and aversion. So it's very, very, very important that you recognize within the pathway to enlightenment there is an opportunity for transformation. It's not an ordinary affair. However, I've seen students of mine who left in anger, follow that karma, very bad karma. It's unfortunate. I've seen students of my teacher leave angry. They follow that karma. I've seen them, you know, what, 20 years later, and I'm like, wow. When you're on the path to enlightenment, things can change very quickly. When you're off it and you're in your karmas, things lock in. You get a lot heavier, slower. You don't see opportunities. There aren't opportunities for liberation. You're locked into that state of mind that you have opportunities to experience on the path are vast. Sometimes you go to very, very, very high states and you go, wow, everything is bright and beautiful and amazing. And sometimes you react and you grasp your own attachments to self and you experience Buddhist monk health. You go up and down, up and down. Eventually, through practicing, especially bodhicitta, there's no more down. You are able to really understand and take and send. There's no down when you take and send. If you go, oh I'm so sad, the worst sadness ever, would normally bring you down to a low state of mind. But if that circumstance hits you, and you practice taking and sending for others, there's no down anymore. That is a high, bright, beautiful dimensions. It's true. I used to experience ups and downs, like crazy on the path. But finally, I was able to understand the darkness. And now I only experience tremendously bright, high dimensions. And I don't experience those gams and darknesses, personal suffering. It's not there anymore. I understand that and whenever I hit circumstances that are painful or difficult, I practice taking and sending. So those five Buddhist monks who went to hell, they started to come back to the teachings. The Buddha was there and they were and they're, they found a way out. But they went through many, many, many, many incarnations of hellish incarnation before they were able to get a way out. But there's always a way out. Even in the worst, dark state of mind, even if you're in hell, Buddhist monk hell, if you, if somewhere inside you hearken to enlightenment, you hearken to the teachings, you will find your way to the Buddha. And Very, very important. When you find yourself in the darkness of self, bothered, frustrated, feeling stuck, practice bodhicitta. what your circumstances, get your spirit to a place of balance and luminosity. Because then you can deal with life in a balanced way. You'll see a lot of opportunities in life. But if you're upset, depressed, angry, and confused, you'll just be not able to do the right thing, do the best thing, work the problem in a positive way. So always look to your personal balance, the luminosity of your mind. When you find that you have bad thoughts or dark thoughts, that you're clinging to the two poisons into the seeds of virtue. Another story of the Buddha. I like the stories of Buddha where he's dealing with his monks. It's crazy. He had a lot of enlightened ones. I was like, oh, is that going to happen? Maybe with Bodhisitta. There was a cousin of his who became a Buddhist monk. He was an older cousin. He always had problems with his cousins, huh? Right? Devadatta. Tried to kill him a bunch of times.

0:34:27
So what cousins?

0:34:28
Hey, cuz! I'm gonna kill you, okay? And, uh, yeah, anyway, so, I forgot the name of this guy, but he was an older cousin. And, um, he felt special, because he's like, oh, who is my cousin? And, um, and he was also older, so he was like, I'm older. So he had like personal pride, had some self importance about being older and being the cousin of the Buddha. So what he would do is he would like, act like a senior monk, even though he was just a beginner. And then he would, you know, have monks come over and do things like wash his feet and stuff. He's all, get out of there my feet, give me a massage. So the Buddhist monks they would relate to the senior ones or the arhats in a very, very nice way, with good etiquette. But he would just kind of jump in there with the senior monks and then he'd expect the younger ones to be nice to him. But once in a while a younger monk would be all, hey, we were in the same beginning class together, and you're just being a jerk. And then he would get into an argument with them, and he would feel horrible, and then he would go crying to the Buddha. He'd be all...

0:35:50
He'd go over to the Buddha, so upset,

0:35:52
so angry, he's crying. And then the Buddha would be like, Look, you shouldn't be angry about it. And it's just happening. And then there was one time where there were two arhants, two enlightened monks coming from another ashram who were coming to visit, and he was in the front and center of the meditation hall. usually what happens is when I when there's the Enlightened Monks they got to sit in the front and center so the two Enlightened Monks come over and and he sits there and I have to sit behind him and then after sitting meditation then one of the Enlightened basically both in like monks kind of give him a They're like, hey, you inferior man, you have bad etiquette, you should have greeted us and washed our feet and let us sit front and center. And then he gets totally pissed off. He's like, God, you stupid, anyway. And then he gets so upset, he goes crying to the Buddha like he does time and time again. And these two visiting enlightened monks say, we've got to see what's going on here. So they go over with him to the Buddha. And he's crying to the Buddha. look you know you think someone did something bad to you but you can't keep thinking about it you know the more you think about it the more you're upset you got you know when you when you're always thinking about how someone's done you wrong you're just always living in hate you're always upset you're always just this terrible experience so dark don't do it like you have to let go of those things and be positive and embrace the negativity and then live in love. And he told, now we're going Maha Bharata style, then he told the monk a story, a story in a story. And he said, there once in a previous age were two women who were the wives of someone special.

0:38:29
A movie star.

0:38:29
A rap singer.

0:38:30
Previously.

0:38:31
And one of them could bear children, the other could not. So the one that couldn't bear children, she was like, hey, I'm trying to get pregnant. It's not happening. I'm not happy about it. Oh, and look, then the other one, she gets pregnant. So the one who can't have a child is jealous. So what she does is she poisons some food. And she's like, hey, want some of this? I made it for you. So the poison makes her have a miscarriage. And then they go on. Both of them are trying to get pregnant again. And the one gets pregnant. The other one's sad and jealous. So she does the same thing. Poisons the food. Another miscarriage. And the second one, the second woman, she says, hmm, I don't know what's going on here. Every time I eat her lasagna, I have a miscarriage. So she says, this is not good. So the next time she gets pregnant, she doesn't tell her. She just starts wearing baggy clothes. And then she's, you know, so then what happens is, you know, she's like really, really pregnant and then a lady notices. So while she's sleeping, she poisons her somehow. And she has a miscarriage, but because it was not the little baby, she has a miscarriage and she realizes what's happened, she gets mad at the other lady. And the other lady is mad at her. So they're just pissed off at each other, back and forth. So they go into this terrible karmic cycle where they go through these lifetimes. One's down, one's up, and they're angry at each other, and they're always fighting with each other until one incarnation where one of them is a woman married to a hip hop artist and the other one is a ghost. And the ghost is haunting her and trying to steal her child. And it's kind of like the woman in black kind of thing going on. She's like, but why would a ghost disappear and try and steal my child? It's a grudge from a previous incarnation. She's happy. So then, what she does is she hears about this enlightened teacher and she says, here's my baby. I have this really scary you know, ghost coming and the ghost is gonna kill my baby. The ghost is just, you know, I don't know why. So then the Buddha explains their previous karmas, their previous interaction and where the karma started. And it's and because they were always upset with each other because of this drama they've spent incarnation after incarnation in these weird battles. Different playing different roles and you know one always trying to hurt the other and the other trying to get away and feeling bad about it and being angry. So it's aggressive and passive aggressive. Passive aggressive is really bad. Aggressive, it's really bad too. End up being the ghost. But then if you're passive aggressive, you're still there. So this is what the you're still in the movie. The bad. So still in that karma. So the Buddha says, you know, what you need to do is you need to not be angry at that ghost. Don't be angry at that ghost. But that ghost is trying to kill my baby! And then the Buddha said, well, you know, as long as you are afraid and angry and caught in this whole negativity thing, that ghost is going to be locked into this karma dealing with this there's no escape the only escape is to is to love that ghost and the woman like this is crazy so then we would have said here I'll help you out and he made the ghost Often what did my teachers do? And then he said, now, deal with it! She's all, ahhh! So she gets really scared. And he says, no, no, no. He said, you have to love this ghost. So, of course, eventually, after being scared, because of her confidence and trust in the Buddha she decides to do the opposite of her regular ego reaction which is running feeling bad noise having all these problems so what she does is she takes her little baby boy and she offers it to the woman in black but really with a tremendous purity and love. Now the woman in black, the ghost, was always jealous. I will never forgive. And always upset because she can have a baby, she couldn't. So when she was offered this thing, this object of their fight, of so many incarnations and she was offered it with complete love which was the opposite of the woman's feeling of fear and being a victim. It transformed her and she was able to accept the baby really with love as well. So the ghost takes the baby, cuddles the baby, kisses the baby, and really like all of a sudden it's like she acts like it's her own child. And then she's transformed because of that. And also the woman who was always the victim, who thought she had a baby, baby was also transformed because instead of going through the same reactions of what an ego does, she basically did something just like Bodhisitta. That is Bodhisitta. That's Bodhisitta in a physical action with a ghost. I'm a baby. Yeah, so that transformed them. And then the ghost immediately went up to a high heaven, and then the woman became enlightened. So Buddha tells this older cousin of his a story. And then the older cousin goes, and so then the Buddha says, so why don't you turn around and say I'm sorry to these two enlightened monks? And then the guy goes, No! I'm never going to say I'm sorry! So he stays mad and stays really upset. And then the monks say to the Buddha, what is the deal with this guy? we're enlightened and being normal and he's all upset and what's the problem? so then the Buddha tells the monks the story of his previous incarnations So it starts somewhere. Why do you have a disposition to getting sad? Why do you have a disposition to getting angry? It starts somewhere with some experience. For him it started again in a previous age. He was like a monk, but a wandering ascetic. And he was coming into a village and he asked someone, who gives a room to a wandering ascetic so they can sleep in the warmth and comfort of a home? And they said, oh, there's this potter's shop over there. So he goes to the potter's shop and he says, hey can I sleep here for a night? The potter says, yeah sure. And then a little while later another guy, another wandering ascetic comes over and he says, can I stay here? And then the potter says, hey is it okay with you if this other guy stays I said, yeah sure, this place is not big enough. Nice big room. So the other guy comes in. They're both spiritual Buddhist monks. They're all, hey what's up?

0:48:37
And then, they say, alright, let's go to sleep.

0:48:40
I'll sleep on this side of the room. And the other guy goes, yeah I'll sleep on the other side. So, Buddha's older cousin was sitting next to the door and the other monk was sitting there meditating but drinking a lot of tea and then when they fell asleep the guy woke up and he said I gotta go to the bathroom so you know it's dark he's like all right so I know the door and he steps on the Buddha's cousin's hair. So he steps on his hair, so I guess they had hair because they were... They had hair in that incarnation. And so he steps on his hair and then he kind of like goes, aww, and wakes up and tries to pull his head up and he rips some of his hair out.

0:49:37
And then he goes, what the... what are you doing?

0:49:40
And the guy goes, oh I'm sorry I just had to go, I have to go out to pee. He's like, why did you step on my hair? Ow! You stole my hair. He's like, I didn't use that, I couldn't see you, I didn't know you were right there. And then he's like, I'm sorry, but I gotta go pee. So he goes out. And then, one of his older cousins is like, God, that guy is so lame. I'm a jerk.

0:50:06
He stepped on my hair.

0:50:08
So he decides to turn around and sleep the other way. He goes, if that guy is going to get his foot on my hair, he's going to miss and step beyond my feet. So the guy is coming back. And the guy goes, okay, so I stepped on his hair.

0:50:25
I don't know where I was feet. So then this time, he steps on his feet.

0:50:33
I go, what? You jerk! How dare you step on my feet? On purpose. I didn't do it on purpose. I was just trying to get back in and I thought your feet. Of course not. I couldn't see you!

0:50:50
Ah!

0:50:52
Horrible, horrible, horrible.

0:50:54
He's like, what are you blind? Did you just all yell a little bit?

0:50:58
Of course not!

0:51:00
I didn't say anything like that.

0:51:02
What's going on? So, he goes over, lays down again, and then he drank a lot of tea earlier, so, an hour and a half later, wakes up and he's all,

0:51:12
oh my god, I can't get up.

0:51:14
Alright, so, Oh, yeah. All right, so as you can imagine, on his way out, he steps on him again. This time he steps on his neck. He doesn't like it. He gets mad at him, but he does it. He comes back, and the guy took another position, trying to get away from him.

0:51:37
He moves away from the door, and somehow the guy

0:51:39
wanders through the room and steps on him. And I'm way over the way to the door. Yeah, but I was trying to go around. I thought you were there, so I was going way out of the way. I'm trying to avoid you.

0:51:48
Stop coming.

0:51:51
So this happens many times. Because he drank a lot of tea. Over and over and over. Or he gets so beaten and stepped on, and he's just like this jerk, doing it on purpose. And that experience created for him a karma of always feeling that people are stepping on him. Literally. That people hurt him, that people are unfair to him. And even if someone's not unfair, if someone has a pure intent and makes an accident or whatever, he then went through many incarnations, experiencing things, and where before he would have been okay. He interprets certain things in a way that creates that same reaction. So he's like, oh yeah, so, hey, it happened once, right?

0:52:55
No big deal.

0:52:56
But since it happened to me so many times, it created a karma of negativity. So you could be walking down the street, and then someone offers you a banana.

0:53:06
And you go, I can't believe you offered me a banana. I want it in orange. It's like you're stepping on me.

0:53:11
That kind of thing. It's like, again and again and again and again, he went through his incarnations interpreting things in a way where he felt stepped on. Or he felt like people were being mean to him and negative to him. To the point where it kind of gets out of control. He's just bothered because the young monk says, I'm not going to wash your feet. You're a beginner just like me." Or he wants to sit in the important place and doesn't want to let the other enlightened senior monks sit in the important place. So Buddha tells the older monks the story of his karma. And then when they listen to stand and then they're like, you know, they say, hey, you know, don't be so upset, you know, we'll wash your feet, you can sit in the place of prominence. And then he upon hearing his story recapitulated, he starts to say, oh, wow. Even though that guy was kind of unlucky, because every time he walked in and out he stepped on me, he didn't mean anything by it. He didn't have negative intent. He just hurt me. And I had a bad negative reaction. and even this moment where he was mad at this and mad at that. So he was able to understand his reactions and his self-importance. Because there was self-importance tied up in there too. You shouldn't step on me, I'm a special person. How dare you step on me? So he had self-importance wrapped up with these reactions. And he became just bitterly upset. If a monk says, hey, you're in the same class as me, I shouldn't look up to you. He would go crying bitterly to the Buddha. But he finally saw that. And it also was helpful that he had these two enlightened monks there who were totally accepting. They probably practiced some bodhisattvas. They were totally accepting and then and they were they offered, no, you could be ahead. You can have your thing. We're not going to we understand that you're suffering and we don't want to be a cause of it. We give you the victory. That's bodhisattva. And then he was super super enlightened and he became an Arhat.

0:56:09
Ending of all good Buddhist stories.

0:56:15
Buddha had a lot of good stories. He had a lot of, you know, he had the 108 famous enlightened students. It's interesting. So, it's important to practice bodhicitta. Bodhicitta transforms your karma and also it helps another person. You can be brave. Now, being on the pathway to enlightenment is a special opportunity. My teacher used to say, it's like, oh, you want to learn to swim? Come over here to the deep end of my swimming pool. And then he pushes you in. The swimming pool is the dojo. Which means it's a safe place to struggle to learn how to swim. You gotta learn how to swim. And getting pushed in makes it a real experience. But it's not like you're dropped in the middle of the ocean during a storm. It's a safe place. So then the enlightened teacher sits there and watches you swimming. And if you really, really get into trouble, they have one of those little sticks, or maybe they throw you a lightsaber. Or those little sticks with the loops at the end. They've got a big net. They'll put you all out, you see. And remember I said go like this. And you're taping in some...

0:58:21
And then they throw you back in.

0:58:23
And you're all, oh!

0:58:26
So it's actually a safe environment, even though it's really difficult, you know, because you're like oh my gosh so difficult so scary but it's a safe place to work a safe place to learn and eventually you can do it eventually you learn and then you're able to jump out into the ocean and swim to the Philippines to Tahim. So it is a safe place to learn. And it is a good thing. Then there's the third object. Things that we are ignorant about. It's also a problem. It becomes a poison if you're ignorant. So the classic thing that's a poison is hearing the enlightened teachings, hearing the enlightened teachings, but not utilizing them. So you hear of the teachings that will make you enlightened. You hear these great wonderful powerful things and then you don't do them. Because you just don't get it. You're ignorant. You say, oh, that would be good if you did this, and then you do the opposite. You should, it's like at work, you should ask for more money. And then you say, oh, I went over to my boss and asked for less money. But that's what ignorance is. Ignorance is where you do things that don't promote your personal power, your enlightened evolution, expansion of consciousness, your enlightenment, right? You do the opposite, because you're ignorant. Because you don't get it. You don't get that following the teachings, focusing on things that are constructive and powerful are helpful. You're so wrapped up in your weird self-mental reflection that you don't even see that the teaching that is powerful is helpful. You just go, hmm, interesting, I heard it, sounds good, and then you don't do it. That is ignorance. And it's important to turn ignorance into virtue. And that is, when you find yourself suffering because of ignorance, you practice taking and sending. You say, wow. You know, you're like, wow, you know, I really wanted to go on a vacation this year, but then since I got my boss to pay me less, I can't afford it. You know, boy, now I'm suffering from that. So when you practice taking and sending, there's people who do that. And it must, I mean, somewhere in the universe, there's got to be at least one other person in the whole dimension, not even talking this dimension, other than the far flung dimension, that other person I practice taking and sending for your suffering. I know how it feels. The enlightened teachings are powerful. It's like I say to you, practice taking and sending if you have bad feelings, if you have bad thoughts. And then you go, oh that's interesting. God damn it, I'm pissed off at that guy. I'm so sad today. Everything's useless. Wait a minute, what about that whole thing about practice taking and sending now? That's a good idea. I forgot. It didn't encourage me. I was ignorant. Remember, taking and sending. While you're awake, and while you're not meditating, practice taking and sending. If you have a bad thought, if you have personal suffering, if you see another person suffering, practice taking and sending. Remember that one thing, Bodhicitta, and put it to practice. Don't be ignorant of the teachings. They are good. Ignorance is not bliss. Ignorance is not bliss. So, it's like, if you're ignorant and you do things that don't make sense. You think certain things are important that aren't important, and you do crazy stuff. You don't look at things in a balanced way. You might be caught up in some weird perception, some weird idea. you're driving somewhere. Oh yeah, there's a joke about that. So, there's this blonde. She's driving somewhere, and she gets there, and she says, Ooh, quite a difficult drive. And then her friend says, really? And she's all, yeah. She's like, I kept on having to dodge these trees. It's like, I'm driving, there's a tree right in front of me. I swing around it, get back on the road, and then another tree. And she's all, really? She's all, yeah, it's like I was driving through a forest or something. She's all, there's no forest around here. It's like the plains and straight roads. And then her friend says, You sure you just weren't looking at that tree hanging under your rearview mirror? I'm impressing her. She's all driving,

1:05:51
Oh look a tree!

1:05:54
And she puts herself through all this stress to just drive straight. That's what ignorant people do. They get caught up in weird personal perceptions that don't matter. That's ignorant. As Michael Jackson would say. Everyone say that? That was really funny. Yeah, so you know, if you're ignorant, then you're going to be a bad blonde joke.

1:06:19
Don't be that way. And if you're going to be that, at least wear a blonde wig.

1:06:24
So you know what's going on. Like, show up to work, put your blonde wig on, and you can joke. I was wondering if you could pay me less, or just fire me. Or, you know, I could do another job. Like I could, the janitor, I could do that. You know, that kind of thing. Doesn't make sense. But as long as you put that blonde wig on, you know what's going on. You can go, oh, I'm going to practice some taking and sending, because I'm about to do something really interesting. Alright, another blonde joke. So this blonde walks in and she finds her husband sleeping with his secretary or something like that. And then she gets mad, reaches under the desk, pulls out a gun, and she puts it to her head and she's all like, I'm gonna do it, I'm gonna do it. And her husband says, no. She says, shut up, you're next. So, the third object becomes a poison when you're blonde. You don't have to be blonde. But every time you hear a bad blonde joke, then think about it. That's ignorant. It's not the right way to do things, to process information. So, we're talking about what we talked about before, which is the three objects, the three poisons and the three seeds of virtue. A fundamental teaching. But it must become a practice. It must be something that you put into practice. Making the three objects become the seeds of virtue. In your life, in your mind, in your experience, practice bodhicitta. In fact, we're going to practice bodhicitta. So, I'd like you to think of a time where you were attached to desire or aversion, or you experienced suffering from ignorance. And I'd like you to become aware of that suffering, bring it to mind, practice taking and sending for yourself like imagine yourself sitting there and say, oh you poor ignorant jerk and then you imagine other maybe you knew someone else who had a similar experience and you say, oh taking and sending for them and then many others bring your taking and sending to as many people as you can but start with a very clear identification of suffering, of your suffering, a certain attachment or ignorance. And then practice, you take the darkness, you take that suffering, you don't run from it, you don't let that karma push you down the stream into an angry deeper you take it you can take it then you send the light of liberation to yourself and to others okay why don't we listen to we're gonna listen to one song and we'll practice recognized as one of the three poisons. Okay, one song.

1:10:56
so you so you you so you Oh, Steve, some of you generated a little bit of compassion, a little bodhicitta.

1:15:17
Bodhicitta is great.

1:15:19
It's very good. So...

1:15:21
It's necessary for you to practice bodhicitta in the intermediate study, then things start to go sideways. What happens is, there's this balance of goodness, and then you don't practice, and everything starts sliding. The Sangha is not in a good way. The practice of Bodhicitta is not strong enough. You have to practice Bodhicitta when you have negativity that arises in your mind. So I talk about I'd like you to look into your experience with the three objects more closely So I don't want this teaching to go by uninvestigated I really would like you to reflect on it in a deep way. Therefore I'm giving you a writing assignment which is is a paper about bodhicitta, your own experience of bodhicitta with the three objects. Maybe for you it's one object, because that's the main thing that you're suffering, or maybe you have experience with all three. But I'd like you to describe your awareness of your attachment to desire or something, or your tremendous difficulties with feelings of aversion or suffering and write a paper about your suffering, how you understand it and recognize it in the teaching of the three objects, and your consideration of taking and sending, of bodhisitta, bodhicitta, for that suffering. So this is identifying what your suffering is and writing it down in detail. Like, I am this, I experience that, I recognize that the object, this object that I see is pleasurable, that I desire it, and that drives me crazy, and I'm all upset. Yeah, so whatever it is, your personal experience, authentic, what creates suffering for you of the three objects. To detail what your experience is with it. How does it make you feel? What does it make you do? Specifically, what are your feelings? You put them down, you understand it, they become concrete when you write it. And then, your considerations of taking and sending. Maybe you've seen another person in the Sangha go through something similar. Maybe you've seen someone in work go through something similar. And you say, I really identify that this suffering I had, I've seen others experience. Or maybe you haven't seen someone experience it. I can imagine many other people go through the same thing and really describe your process of understanding and becoming aware of another person feeling the suffering that you experience from the three objects, the three poisons. This will be due next week. It's very, very, very important to make this concrete. That's why I want you to write it down. Because then it makes your bodhicitta practice more concrete for this. Excellent. Thank you all very much. But what he sees is a really good thing. It is something. It's not a wishy-washy thing. It's a solid, powerful thing that really transforms dark into light. You can transform light into dark, too. Just start getting pissed off about everything. I want it! Give me your jacket! There's no end to the insanity that a self can make up. The ego can just keep going with it. Indulge in your desires until they drive you crazy. become the woman in black. There's no end, and that's not even the end of it, that's just that part. But there's no end to bodhicitta, there's no end to the light of compassion. more noble view of every difficulty, every circumstance, and bringing light to it instead of darkness. There's no end to it. Oh, I like Bodhicitta so much. Bodhicitta, the act of taking and sending itself, is so bright. It's just, it is a, it's enlightenment. It's a light of enlightenment, but a very specific one, Bodhicitta. All right, everybody, thank you very much.

1:23:04
Water for me, thank you.

1:23:07
That's Bodhicitta.

1:23:10
Beautiful flowers. hours do well do well Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
