0:00:00
All right, we're going to meditate again for three songs. Some more songs from the City of Light album.

0:00:17
Okay, let's begin.

0:00:22
♪♪ ♪♪ the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the A. you So, Oh, yeah. So, you you So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. you you You You So, you you you So, Bodhicitta, the yoga of compassion, is a beautiful gift in Buddhism.

0:12:07
It's possible to be an impeccable yogi, be a warrior, have personal power, insight, strong meditation, strong mindfulness, and be enlightened. However, bodhicitta makes that process happier. It makes the time that you spend in difficulty and in toil, in dealing with the hardships of the self, more beautiful. So it adds a dimension to our practice that is really, really wonderful. And I wish I took the practice seriously when I first got it. My teacher, he taught all of his students when we were intermediate students, this practice. And we were extremely strong yogis and mystics and strong in meditation. We were spiritual warriors, that was our outlook. And then when we were getting the teachings of Bodhicitta, it's hard to want to do taking and sending. So therefore, I practiced Bodhicitta, of course, but I didn't practice it at a very, very, very, very deep level. For a while. It took me a while to catch on to it. But once I did, I realized, oh, it just makes the experience happier. I could still be a powerful spiritual warrior focusing on developing personal power and excelling in yoga, work on the martial arts, the martial zen aspects of the teachings. And at the same time, I could practice bodhicitta and have a beautiful and powerful experience. The first student of my teacher who became liberated, he became liberated by practicing bodhicitta. And that was quite amazing. While we were still in the intermediate lessons he had from his own practice, really taking them to the advanced level and to primary liberation. So Bodhicitta is an enlightened practice. It's an intermediate practice, but it is also a very profound practice. And in this intermediate practice you can experience Samadhi and you can experience enlightenment. So it's a very wonderful gift. And therefore in our school we make a commitment This is one of our primary disciplines as intermediate students. To take this lesson seriously, we put it into practice and say, it's a very, very big part of our school. So we actually do it. We don't just think about it and read a little bit about it and say, oh, what an interesting philosophy. We put it into action. We use it. We do it. It's very important for you to take that responsibility, that personal responsibility to enact bodhicitta in your life, in your practice, and in your mindfulness. In every moment, your mindfulness is the awareness of Bodhisattva. There's a story of a man who was down on his luck, having a really hard time. And he goes He goes into the local Japanese monastery, or I think it was Chinese, Chinese monastery. And in the monastery, they had the main kind of temple open to the public to come in. And so there was a few monks sitting there doing their regular monk chanting in the evening or something. And this man who's just down on his luck, having a hard time in life, comes in. And he comes over to the first little donation bucket in front of the Buddha statue. And he comes over, and one of the monks notices monk notices that he reaches into his pocket and turns his pocket inside out. He's got one little coin, you know, just worth like a nickel or whatever. And so that's all he has, but he throws it in the little bucket. And then he sits down and just does a full prostration in front of the Buddha. and notices it and goes, wow, that guy's really, really going through something. He's put his last coin into the bucket and he's doing a full prostration. So the man's just sitting there praying and praying and praying to the Buddha. And so the monk is interested. He sees that the guy's having a hard time and that he's at a high level of sincerity. So the monk says to him, Hey, what's going on? You know? And the guy says, Well, it's like, town on my luck, the things are happening. First of all, my wife has a terrible illness and there is medicine for it, however I don't have the money for the medicine. The last I had was that nickel and the medicine costs a couple gold pieces or something. There's no way I'm gonna get that. It's like, then, I've got four children. And I lost my job. And there's no way I'm gonna be able to work for a couple months because of this reason and that reason. And all these things are so horrible. I can't feed my family. My wife's sick. She's gonna die. It's just too much to bear. Therefore, I decided to just come into the temple and pray to Buddha for compassion. So the monk considers it nasal. And the monk says, I have an idea. I can help you. And the guy says, I don't think you can help me because you're a monk, you don't have any money. And then the monk says, how about this? The monk walks over to the altar where the man had been praying and he picks up the Buddha, good-sized Buddha. And it's actually an ancient kind of relic Buddha and it's kind of gold-plated on the face, and it's like, you know, really worth a lot, because it's a relic of the temple, and with fine artistry. So he brings the Buddha over to the guy, and the other monks are staring at him. And he says, here, and hands the guy the Buddha. And he says, take this and sell it. It's worth a lot. And he said, and if you can't find a buyer, then you can melt the gold off his face. You can use that to pay for the medicine and food. And then the man says, Are you sure? He says, Yeah, no problem. Like, thank you so much. Oh, my prayers are answered. He takes the Buddha and walks out. And the other monks kind of go over to the monk. Then the monk sits back down for his chanting. And the other monks kind of look at him and they go, What did you just do? You gave away the most important relic of our temple. It's terrible, right? It's like it's horrible. I can't believe you did that. You know, that was in the temple for a thousand years. It was made by some amazing artist and this and that, and you just gave it to that guy. And the monk said, he had proper insight, you know, what good is a statue of Buddha if we don't live up to his teachings of compassion? Then the monks understood, and then they were at peace. So this is really important. The monk was walking the walk, we would say, in terms of compassion. He really recognized that to be selfless and to understand someone's situation and to help them was really the Buddha's teachings, being those teachings, embodying those teachings. So when you learn about compassion, bodhicitta, it's kind of like having your own little Buddha. You have your little yellow-orange book, and you're like, oh, look, I've got these teachings. I read them, I understand them, sitting around on my altar or whatever, I bring it around with me. But you have to enact it. You have to live it. You have to be it. Otherwise it's just a useless symbol. The teachings represent something that you should do, not something that you should just place on your altar, place on the altar of the self. So this is not a teaching that we just go, oh, interesting. This is a teaching that we put everything on the line for. Really. You practice taking and sending at a very, very, very deep level. And there's a great deal of selflessness in enacting the teachings of Buddha. around, chasing desires, fleeing from fears, and really never finding peace. You know, we'll say, hey, this is a great idea. I'm going to go and do this thing and get this thing that I desire. When you do it, it just is running around. It's doing something that wastes time and attention and energy, following desire. Or we get caught up in fears and pushed away. We flee because we're afraid of things. And by running from the things that we're afraid of, it also doesn't make our life better. So bodhicitta is where we stop running. We stop all this self-action and we sit still. There's so much reaction that the self has. You know, when you're sitting there and somebody at work is bothering you, you know, your manager is giving you a hard time, or you have, these emotional reactions, disturbing thoughts that ruin your peace because you have the reactions. It's like someone looks at you mean, and you're like, oh, that person's looking at me mean, or that person said something mean to me. And then you have a reaction. And it goes back to that person. And then that person does something back. There's a back and forth. You have all of these quirky desires and ideas that draw you in certain ways. There's all these acts of enmity, where you're bothered by other people and conditions of life. And this is all the aspects of the limited self reacting to transient stimulus. When you are bothered The fact that you judge yourself as bothered creates a reaction back to the person. So a lot of times you think, I'm a victim, that person did something mean to me. But you are creating the conflict. When you say, that person did something to me. You're saying, you're pushing back an energy to them. There's a conflict. You say they're an enemy and you push back to them. I'm your enemy. And you think that you're a victim a lot of times. But you're doing the same thing. Even if you say no out of the blue. They did this action. The fact that you take it as their attack on you means that you go into defense mode. And offense and defense together are a conflict. So you enter a conflict by perceiving a conflict. You become an enemy by perceiving an enemy. And these are reactions, negative reactions of the ego that come from your outlook, your reactions from running from fear and desire and having problems with people. So bodhicitta is where you stop that running. You stop the running from desires and fears. You stop the problems with people. You grow up and change. You look at things in a different way. In Bodhicitta practice, they say, everyone was your mother in a past life. So you know, if your mom says something to you, does something mean to you, yeah it's a pain, but it's your mother. So you're not going to sit there and go, oh my mom, I can't believe she did that, get back at her. So generally, unless you've had some Generally, you don't create enmity with your mother or father. In a normal, natural situation, people have difficulties, there's hardships, but there's love and understanding instead of enmity. So when you're having a problem with another person and you start perceiving enmity, you should rather, like in Bodhicitta, say, this person was a mother to me in a previous incarnation. And then you should start to look at them in a way of that, more love and compassion. And then if you really look at it like that, you're able to say, okay, it's a difficulty, but there's actually love and compassion instead of enmity. That's something that you can foster, that outlook. However, you can just practice taking and sending when you perceive harm from someone, you take it and you send light. You take loss and give them victory. And that way you're able to really balance the difficulty. So instead of you reacting with negativity back and creating that cycle of, you're always going to react this way. You're always going to have those problems and always going to be dissatisfied and unhappy. Instead of following that karma, when it comes, you're able to have a different reaction, a reaction of compassion. And it's possible to do. It just takes practice. It takes mindfulness and awareness. And it takes looking at things in a really, really honest way. And a deeper way, instead of just your knee-jerk reaction. Your knee-jerk reaction is karma. And we want to be able to change that karma by practicing bodhicitta. Because the karmas that draw you, the karmas that repel you, the karmas that create reaction, emotional disturbances with other people, these karmas don't end unless you transform them through bodhicitta. They just keep coming over and over, and they get stronger, and then they lead to more heavy karmas. So the way to deal with these difficult situations, hardships with people, is to practice bodhicitta and to really look very, very deeply at the situation and to understand that there's a higher way. This was something that you can do even in the situation. Even in like, oh that person, you know, that person robbed me, you know, threw me down, spit on me, kicked me. You know, while that's going on, you can practice compassion. In fact, while that's going on, you should practice compassion. It's very, very, very, very important that you recognize that the practice of compassion is something that you do at the worst time, at the most difficult times. Not when everything's easy, not when you're detached and unaware of suffering. But when you're suffering, that's when you should push yourself into the place of compassion. There's a story of a village on the western side of Russia after World War II was over. The German troops had penetrated into Russia. Or maybe the war wasn't over, the Germans were on retreat. And the Germans pushed in, and then they got too cold, so they decided to leave. They got cold and beaten, so they were departing. But on one of these western Russian villages, there were a bunch of women who came out to the road watching the Germans go by on their way out. And I think when the Germans attacked Russia in World War II, I think they killed 20 million people. It's a number that we don't know very much in America, but it's true. They killed like 20 million people, massive amounts of people. Then, on their way out... So this village was kind of at the front of the German attack, and probably all the women in the village lost brothers, fathers, husbands, sons, probably because they were fighting against the Germans. And so there's not many men left, so a bunch of the adult women watching the Germans leave. They were like, just watching them. And they didn't like them very much, obviously, right? Those guys came in there and killed a whole bunch of their family. there was kind of towards the end of the German battalion walking out, there were these, a few, like really badly injured soldiers. And they had been marching for a long time, trying to get back home, and they were in the winter, and it was cold and unhappy and these guys were. You know injured very badly so it looked like you know they they were having a really hard time. Making their way along and. There was this one who was like kind of way at the back and kind of you know even falling behind and looked just, you know, kind of like he was starving and thirsty and really bad. And there was this one lady, she just, for some reason, comes and she helps him along. Isn't that awesome? Because that is compassion in the hardest time. Who knows why she did that? You know what? She had compassion. So in the most difficult In the worst case, when your whole village had been destroyed by these enemies, then this person could look at someone who did that and then help them. So when you look at enemies, you've got to look at enemies not as enemies. If you see someone as an enemy, then you suffer. Then you're trapped. You're unhappy. But when you see someone, even if they hurt you, even if they did something terrible and horrible to you, if you look at them with compassion, then you're free. you create a beautiful, powerful, spiritual experience from that, from whatever happens to you. So, compassion is something that you practice when the times are good, and you can have the easiest perspective of looking at things, But you must practice compassion when the times are hard, when they're very, very difficult. And that makes it real. And that means that you're really compassionate. You really transcend that reactive egotism, that self that just fights back and defends itself and tit for tat and all that stuff. That's how you transcend the limited, dark, disturbing, unhappy self. By being compassionate even to your enemies So it's important to really practice when it's hard. And if some Russian lady at the end of this war can just have that compassion, then you as a Buddhist monk can as well. You I remember another story of Russian compassion. So many stories of Russian compassion. And this one from a famous, amazing, compassionate being. His name was Lenin. So this is Lenin style confession. Maybe it's not really Buddhist, but it's Lenin confession. Lenin was walking down the street in his own grad, you know, Lenin grad. And he sees this little boy crying at the side of the road. He goes over to the boy and he says, well, what's wrong, little fella? And then the little boy says, I had one ruble, and I lost it. I was going to buy bread, and now I can't. And now I'm sad. And then Lenin says, oh, I understand how it is not to have your little bread. Very important for Russians. And then, Lenin goes into his pocket and pulls out a ruble and gives it to the little boy. And he says, there you go. And then the little boy takes it and goes, oh, wow. And then he starts crying even harder. And then Lenin says, and this is a true story by the way, and Lenin says, what's wrong now? And then he's like, if I didn't lose my other ruble, I could have got two loaves of bread.

0:42:12
So then Lenin hits him and takes the ruble back.

0:42:17
Russian compassion. Probably a lot of stories like that. Who does compassion feel different, right? So, yeah, but when you have enmity, you are an enemy. So when you perceive someone as an enemy, then you're entering into that problem. So I always say, even if someone's attacking me physically or whatever, or yelling doing something horrible to me, I don't see them as an enemy. I try to get out of the attack or whatever, but I never see them as an enemy. And I always have an awareness of compassion. Because somebody who's doing something really, really bad, they're out of balance. They're out of balance. They're out of balance with the Dharma. And therefore, they deserve compassion. And if you give them enmity right back, then for them, it still creates more problem. And for you, it creates more problem. So we always look for an enlightened way of dealing with these kinds of difficulties. There's a story of Buddha in one of his previous lives as a deer. And maybe this was in the purple world, but he explained it as being in India. So he was a deer, a golden deer, and he had a following of deers. A whole bunch of deers came and were hanging around him, praying to him because he was a golden deer. And then there was a king who took a liking to venison. And the king saw the Buddha deer, and he wanted to eat him. He's like, that is the best deer. The reaction to seeing an enlightened deer is that is the best deer, I'm gonna eat that. So the king and the king's men would chase the Buddha, but the Buddha being an enlightened deer was able to get away. But the king would then kill, try to hunt down one of the deers. And so he was terrorizing them. And then the king got really smart. And at night, he started building a fence around where all the deers were. So he fenced in all the deers. And it was a really big area because they had to do it so that they would capture all the deers within there. So the king was very happy now because it made it a lot easier to hunt. But at the same time, when he would go and hunt for the big golden deer, the big golden deer was just too fast and too magical, and he just couldn't get him. So he's like, wow, I thought fencing him in would have made it easier to capture this golden deer, but he's too elusive. But it made it much easier to capture the other deers. So the king was happy because he would always go home with a deer every hunt. Now, every time that the king did this, all the deers became very, very, very scared. They were totally freaked out. All thousands of the deers would run around and be totally afraid. So then the Buddha, Golden Deer, said, All right, look, the king's really given up on hunting me because he knows he can't get me. But instead of all of us being freaked out because of guy hunting, he's only capturing, he's going in to get his dinner, right? So he's only coming and getting one deer a day. So we're just gonna have a lottery. And whoever gets their hoof pulled, or yanked, or whatever, will just walk out and let the king capture him so that the rest of the deer don't have to worry. So all the deer agree, and then every day in the morning one deer would be chosen to be the volunteer to be taken by the king and then all the other deers were able to kind of relax and this was a system that You know worked out enough for the deer and Then one day, you know after this was just the way of life for the deer During the lottery. A female deer was chosen, but she was pregnant and she was going to give birth just in a few days. So she came over to the golden Buddha deer and she said, So my problem is, she's like, of course I'm afraid for myself. I don't want to die. But if I die, then my baby will die. And my baby hasn't done anything wrong, and my baby hasn't been chosen in the lottery. So that would be two lives spent. And then the Buddha says, well, this is our rule. I don't know how to get you out of it. It would be unfair to everybody else if we did the lottery again, and then somebody else goes and gets killed. And then she says, but if I don't have to die today, and if I can give birth and raise my dough to where it's old enough, then there will be two lives that are available to help out the tribe. And then the Buddha goes, hmm. So she says, this way, it would be a greater benefit to all. And then the Buddha, Golden Deer, considered it, considered it, and considered it. And he said, OK, you will not go to be killed today. And you will be given the time to raise your doe. And then the deer said, thank you very much. When the king came, the king came very accustomed to finding a deer just standing over by a rock, because they would all go to the same place, very close to the entry gate. And they would just stand there and let the king come over and chop them with an axe. So the king was like, wow, I'm so good at hunting.

0:50:28
And then the king comes in that day,

0:50:30
and he sees standing in the place where he always gets his deer, the golden deer. And the king's like, yes, this is great.

0:50:39
And he comes over, and he's like, aha, I got you,

0:50:42
golden deer. But then the king goes, so I've always been able to... I've never been able to catch you. And yet, today, you just show up and you just stand here and you're ready to let me kill you. Why is this? And the golden deer says they can talk. It's Disney. So the golden deer says to the king, we all have a lottery and we let, you know, we choose one person or one deer every day to come and be your dinner and they always come to this one place so that the others don't have to be afraid. And she asked me to get out of it for her own self, but not only for herself, but for her baby that was unborn, and also for the whole tribe. So I considered her situation and I couldn't help but put myself in her place and understand the suffering that she was in. And the only way I could solve it was to take her place. I couldn't ask another to go out of sequence to die for her or to die instead of her. So I chose to do it myself. And the king was very, very touched by this. And the king thought about it, considered it, and said, you know, this is amazing. I've never heard of a man doing this. And you're a deer, and you do something so selfless and compassionate." So the king was just stunned by this act. And then the king said, well, I will not kill you. Even though you're the one that I wanted and is hunting, I will not kill you. So I will just come back another time for another deer. And then the golden deer said, when you come back I will be here. And then he said, no, no, no, no. You did something so great that I will pardon you. And then the golden deer says, none of the other deer will come here.

0:54:01
I will come here."

0:54:02
And he says, No, no, I don't want you. I don't want to eat you. You're special. And then the golden deer says, All of the deer are special. And if you will, and I'm the next one. So if you're not going to kill me, you have to pardon all of the deer." So the king considers it, and he considers the suffering of the doe that went to the golden deer, and the great sacrifice of the golden deer. And then the king really recognizes the suffering of the deer and says, I will not hunt deer anymore. So the Buddha, Golden Deer, saved his tribe of deer from getting hunted and having all these difficulties. inspired the king, which was their terrible enemy, inspired the king to change, to be different, and then there was no longer any problem. And this is a act of compassion that transforms enmity. And it's something that you can see in subtle ways. This is a very, very profound story where somebody really changes their mind. And sometimes that doesn't happen. In little times, you could be bickering, or you can have someone that you normally bicker with or fight with, and then you could practice compassion. And they might just keep arguing and fighting. They might not go, oh, wow, you did something compassionate towards me with your inhaling and exhaling.

0:56:11
That was amazing.

0:56:15
People usually don't do that.

0:56:16
But after you practice for a long time, you notice things change. And sometimes those things do change when your compassion becomes strong These things do change so the golden deer the Buddha had very strong compassion and that's why it was such a profound experience. I saw a golden deer this morning actually. It reminded me of this story. So up in the Santa Cruz Mountains in Bodie Woods, we have this deer spirit. It's a deer. But from time to time, a kind of a high energy of an animal spirit is visible or comes to you, or you can see it or have a connection with

0:57:41
it.

0:57:42
So it could be, you might call it a totem or something like that, but you can see it from time to time in nature. You have a profound experience with an animal. which is really cool. Almost as cool as the golden turkey. So, you know, and there's different faces of compassion. Sometimes compassion takes the form of kind of an intensity. You know, instead of the soft side of it, there's a more wrathful aspect of compassion. And, you know, along the stories of being a deer in a past life, deers, there's a story of a famous Buddhist monk named Geshen. He lived in Japan. He was very early on, as a young boy, identified as a reincarnation of a Buddhist master. And he was just, you know, growing up and everyone loved him. He's just fantastic and bright. So he was granted from the local emperor a monastery and he built a big school there where he had monks come to learn and he also had lay people come to learn about Buddhism. And he was teaching. On compassion one day. And he had a giant group of people, like a thousand students sitting there listening to him talk about compassion. And he's saying all these beautiful things about how to, you know, yield the self and not be an enemy to others. And then these deer, he sees these deer walking down the hill, outside the window, and they come down right in front of the school, and they start nibbling on the blossoms of the trees. And then, you know, once he sees that there's six or seven deer, a whole family of deer there, he stops and looks at them, all the students look at him, looking at the deer. And then he goes and gets a stick. He jumps out the window. And all the students kind of look and, what's he doing? And then he goes berserk. And he starts screaming, get out of here, you stupid deer. And he's chasing these deer. He's like, get away from those trees. And he gets to one and he hits it as hard as he can with a stick. And then he's like screaming at them. And the deer start running. Then he throws a stick at them, picks up some rocks, screaming profanities. He's throwing the rocks at the deer. And his students are like, what? So then after the deer are long gone, and he's like burnt out from yelling and screaming. Horse is not very horse. He comes back, climbs in the window, and he says,

1:01:25
Compassion.

1:01:28
And he goes right along with his talk about how you don't have enmity towards others. And then the students start talking they're so upset and then he says hey what's going on and then one of them stands up one of the lay people the monks are off and the lay people are like hey wait a second you're sitting here saying all this and then you jump out the window go berserk and start chasing these deers away and you even hit one of them with a stick and hit one of them with a rock like and they're like this is outrageous this is you're like a hypocrite and then he says not at all he's like actually I was a deer in a past life like and I life. And I actually care deeply for the deer. So therefore, what I did was I saw that they were coming down because we built this new school here. The footprint of man comes closer to their habitat. And when the deer start to come closer to man because we've kind of gone closer to them, they might get comfortable being around humans or human structures. And if they do that, then it'll make them very easily hunted. So the hunters will go out there and say, oh look, they're coming close to my cabin. Whack, get them. Or if they become accustomed to being near us and around us, accustomed to our voices and everything, then it's easier for them to be hunted. So I was actually helping them compassionately by showing them, by teaching them that they better stay far away from humans. Stay away from human structures, stay away from human voices, stay away from humans because they are a problem. And the deer didn't know that that until just now. It's like, so this is my way of compassion. And, you know, it is a way of compassion. It's just a different way, a wrathful way. Which leads us into understanding that when you practice compassion, it doesn't mean that you're stupid. So there's grounded compassion or martial zen, which is similar to the beginning story, martial arts and compassion. So when you're practicing compassion, you don't just sit there and someone comes over to mug you and you're like, here's my purse. Oh, you want to hit me? Would you like my watch? Oh, by the way, let's just go back over to my car because I have something really valuable there.

1:04:50
Come on.

1:04:51
Or whatever.

1:04:51
Right.

1:04:52
When you're practicing compassion, you don't act like an idiot. You actually practice martial compassion. But actually, on the subject of the deer stories, with Geshen being a deer in his past life, and Buddha being the golden deer in that past life, I would like to have a consideration of compassion.

1:05:29
compassion before we get

1:05:31
into martial compassion will stay on the happy side. And martial compassion is something that is, you know, sophisticated, but the general awareness of someone else's suffering, having the desire to relieve them. That's general compassion. And usually that's just like a simple understanding, awareness, a consciousness that someone's having a hard time and that you can help and that you do help. So we're going to do a past life seeing as we tend to do around this time of year. The time where it works well for seeing past lives. We're going to look into our past lives. We're going to see a time where we were compassionate. So even though in this lifetime you may be a jerk, in one of your past lives, maybe just one, you had some genuine compassion. I promise, every single one of you. Yes, even you. But yeah, what we're going to be looking for in this seeing exercise is we're going to be looking for a past life where we had a very, very, very high moment of compassion. It might be a experience from a time of war, like with the story of the Russian woman. I mean, she did something pretty amazing. That's pretty compassionate. The state of consciousness that she must have been in to do that was pretty pure. And that's what we're going to be looking for, that pure selflessness. Whatever your situation, there was a time in whatever drama, transient experience that was going on, where you were able to look past yourself, look at another's suffering, and bring your energy and attention to help them. Now, I know most of you have done this many, many, many times over many incarnations, but we're going to be seeing the highest moment. We're going to be looking for the highest moment of the purest compassion of past lives. of you it might be in the practice of compassion, in a spiritual practice. For some of you it might be in a war. For some of you it might be playing with your pigs in a pig pen. Oh poor pig. I had a lot of compassion for a pig once. Good old pig. So we're going to practice a seeing exercise. And we're going to be looking into our past lives to see a time of compassion. Now I know that some of you are new to this practice and I will explain how it works. What we're going to do is we're going to sit in meditation. We'll listen to some music for a song and we will focus on the third eye. We'll focus on here, just hold our attention there with a sense, a feeling of looking through. So normally when we're meditating on the third eye, we just hold our attention in the chakra. We just focus on that spot, top, right in the middle of our eyebrows and slightly above. But with the seeing exercise, we have a feeling of seeing through, looking through. It's a feeling, it's a seeing, it's a kind of energy that you feel you're looking through the third eye. And the method to look to pass lives is to look to the left. So you're looking through and to the left. And you follow this doorway, this opening, to be able to see your past lives. Now if you don't believe in past lives, it doesn't matter. What you could say is,

1:11:00
you could look at it in a different way.

1:11:01
You could look at it as a way of looking into yourself right now. So the information that you get back from this seeing sometimes is a visualization. And you can say, oh, that was me in a past life. Or you can say, oh, this is a symbol of what's going on in my consciousness right now. So it doesn't matter. Don't get caught up in I believe it, or I don't believe it, or I don't know if I believe it. Just accept the experience that you have, because it informs you of something now. So when you look, you might see a vision. You might say, oh look, there's me as a deer, or something, right? Or you might just have a feeling, and then you accept that feeling. So don't try to judge what you see. Don't try to block what you see. Just accept what you see or what you feel. If it's very subtle, just observe what it is in a subtle way. If it's like a movie, watch the movie. But when you have this awareness through seeing, what it does is it draws the wisdom or the attention, the awareness that you had in that lifetime, what you figured out there. If you figured out how to be selfless, how to give compassion, in that one moment you came to a very high level of experience and purity and compassion. And that can inform you and teach you about compassion now. So you'll go into that experience, you'll go into that seeing and awareness of that. And just by seeing it or feeling it, just having some awareness of that experience, brings that knowledge back to you or connects you with that knowledge now. So that is the practice of seeing that what you will do now. It's very important for intermediate students because you have had very profound compassionate experiences and connecting with those experiences and what you figured out in that lifetime is very very helpful for your practice of compassion in this lifetime. So we're going to sit for just one song with this focus. Okay.

1:14:26
Let's see. Okay. All right, so we're going to focus on the third eye. Eyes closed, with a feeling of looking through and to the left. And just relax your mind, take in whatever vision or feeling that you get.

1:14:56
So,

1:16:31
So, the So, you All right, nice. So take a moment to reflect on what you've seen or what you've felt.

1:20:31
Say, oh yeah, that was this vision. To just look at it. And if it was just a feeling, if it was subtle, moment to concretely define what those subtle feelings were. It's important to be very clear in what you're seeing. It's best when you go home or at the break for you to write down what your feeling was, what your seeing was, or what your awareness was. It helps you to make it more concrete as a symbol. Now we are going to have a homework assignment associated to the seeing. So it's important to be very clear about what the seeing was, what the feeling was. So it's good to just take a moment to reflect on it, to identify clearly what you saw. Okay, and we will take another short break, 10 minutes or so, and we'll come back and Okay, and we will take another short break, 10 minutes or so, and we'll come back and talking about martial Zen and compassion.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
