0:00:00
Alright, very nice.

0:00:07
Very good.

0:00:09
Okay, so, let's talk about a couple healing techniques. A couple healing techniques that use the chakra in the center of the hand. So, you know, hands have power. Power to heal, power to hurt, you know, in martial arts. So, you know, there's a chakra right here in the center of the palm, and that chakra conducts energy. It could be energy from the navel, like in martial arts, and you can punch somebody and have a tremendous amount of power conducted through this chakra, which can give somebody a problem. Or, you can conduct healing energy through the palm, through the chakra here. So, we're going to go through a couple practices of healing with the chakra in the palm of the hands. So, it's really simple. First of all, I'd like you to find something that hurts. Maybe your knee. Maybe it's a crinck in your neck or something. Try to find something, let's try to find something physical. It makes it easier. What's that? Oh, bug bite. Yes, you can do it on a bug bite. Good. Glad you brought that up. Yeah. So you can find anything from a bug bite to a broken neck or something, you know, whatever, find something physical that hurts or bothers you. And I'd like you to take one of your hands, whichever one that you feel you want to use, and I want you to put it on the area that hurts. Okay? Alright. Now we're going to extend energy through the palm, with the breaths, and we're going to go through the five organ colors. So I want you to inhale white light and exhale white light through the hand. So you're going to inhale blue light, this awareness of inhaling blue light, and then exhale blue light to the area. This is the energy of the kidneys. Then you inhale green light. So you're inhaling green light, you're charging, you know, kind of like the chi of air, you're bringing in the energy of air, and you're focusing it to be green. Like you're bringing that chi in and you're creating this, you know, green light energy, which is the energy of the liver. And when you exhale, you have a focus on this chakra being that, conducting the green light for healing to the area that hurts. Then you inhale red light and exhale red light. Inhale, yellow light. Exhale, yellow light. Now we're going to go through the same practice just on your own. Breathe at a relaxed rate, but inhale with an awareness of charging that energy and when you exhale see and feel like that that energy is coming out of the chakra in the hand on the area that hurts. So we're just going to go through let's say you know ten breaths so we can go through the colors twice. Let's begin. I'm going to go ahead and get started. Okay, very good. Now we're going to do the second exercise, which is pretty much the same thing, only it's just white energy. So this is not the energy of the lungs that we're going to be using now. This is a different dimension of energy. It's not directly associated to the five major organs and meridians. It is a higher, more refined energy. It's a general chi, an overall chi of health. This is similar to the white light that you envisioned going up the spine, going into the head. It's similar to that white light. So we're going to just practice inhaling that white light, awareness of that white light comes from the palm, the chakra in the palm, over the area that's hurt. We envision the light of, the white light penetrating the aura and the physical body and creating healing in that place of pain. So let's go ahead and do about eight breath cycles, nice nice and relaxed, whatever is comfortable for you, with that inhalation, charging an awareness of the light, the white light, exhalation focusing on the feeling of the palm chakra, where you feel the light coming out over the area of pain. Let's begin.

0:07:56
I'm going to go ahead and get the camera out of the way. Okay, very good. So, that is a method of using the palm chakra to create healing. Now we

0:09:15
are going to go through the same exercise, only we are not going to do the five lights of the five major organs and meridians. During this exercise, you're going to just hold your hand above the area to a place where you feel an energy connection. So, it might be in the aura around here, it might be closer. Usually it's about 4 to 6, between 4 and 8 inches away, where you can feel a connection with the chakra in the palm and the area that you want to heal. Feel it in the aura. You'll probably feel that in your palm there's energy. You feel like there's a fullness of light and energy. That's how you can kind of tell where you make that connection in the aura. Now, as we go through the inhalation and exhalation, the focus of the energy of the different colors going from the palm to the place that hurts, I'd like you to, at the end, so I inhale white light, I exhale through the chakra affecting the knee or the area that hurts. So I want you to feel what's happening to the hurt area. How does it feel after you've done that inhalation, exhalation of light? Just take a moment of recognition of the feeling of that healing. So again, we're going to go and just do about ten inhalation and exhalations, go through the five major meridians, white, blue, green, red, yellow. We're going to go through those twice. And in between each color, I just want the healing sensation as well. Let's begin. So,

0:12:36
I'm going to go ahead and get started.

0:14:27
Okay, very good. continue with the same exercise using the bright white light. So we're going to inhale and charge with this white bright light of healing and we're going to exhale from the palm chakra focusing like beams of light coming down into the place that hurts. So we're just going to do about eight slow breathing cycles like this. Let's begin.

0:15:18
I'm going to go ahead and get the camera.

0:16:27
Alright, very good. Very, very, very nice. So, now we're going to talk about healing other people. Healing other people. So you can't be a Bodhisattva diver unless you're you know, also looking out for others, right? A rescue diver, you gotta look out for others as well. So these two techniques of healing with the hands are extremely helpful for other people as well. You might have noticed when you were doing this exercise that you have a lot of awareness and sensation of energy coming from the chakra. And you might have noticed that it actually does have an effect on your subtle physical body. So you actually feel a fullness and a brightness and a loosening and a relaxing, a healing energy in the area that's tight. So just like with a rescue diver, you know, you've got to be able to heal yourself and that's why we practice these on on yourself, on you. However, these are really ways that you can heal other people as well. So before you heal somebody, you have to know what's wrong with them. So if you start trying to heal someone in a place where they're not hurt, it actually hurts them. I'm going to heal you right here. And they're all, ow, stop. I'm going to put a band-aid where it doesn't need to be. Do surgery where you don't need a surgery. You know, that kind of thing. So if you start using energy, even healing energy, in a place where someone doesn't have a problem, it could create an imbalance. Or at least freak them out. So, the most important thing in healing is to know what you're going to heal first. So, in terms of energetic healing and awareness, we have to have an assessment so that we can have a kind of awareness of what there is to heal. So we're talking about awareness in the subtle physical. So if somebody comes over to you and says, I have a problem with my stomach, I feel sick to my stomach, and you want to heal them, you will begin by getting an overall awareness of their energy. So we do this energy awareness or chi awareness diagnosis. So when someone says, my toe hurts, or something like that, we'll begin healing them with an overall awareness of their energy field. So what we do is we look at them, and we just look at their subtle body, their aura. And the way that you do that is, you know, you just kind of look at the person, and you have a soft gaze, not on the physical, you're not looking so much at their physical body, you're looking at their energy body. What feeling do you get from them. What is the energy? Sometimes you'll see their aura, right? You'll see the light, you'll see kind of dark places that have congestion. The more you practice it, the more you will gain an awareness of the different aspects of the lightness or congested energy in someone's aura. You know, you could also look at physical things. Like acupuncturists are always looking for certain physical things. They're looking at, you know, like the paleness of the skin or the redness of the skin. They're looking for, you know, if someone's clammy and sweaty. You know, there's just different physical things where you say, there's something a little weird about you. It's the fangs. You turned into a werewolf. That's your problem. It's a full moon, you turned into a werewolf, and you got a stomachache. So, you know, you have to be able to do this energy analysis so that you get a subtle physical sense of what there is to heal. And then you're able to take your hand and place it over the stomach or the thing that they're complaining about and then you can practice these two exercises. You can put your hand on it and do it like we did the first time or hand away. Sometimes you notice that it seems like there's more energy, there's more chi when your hand is just a few inches away. So you can practice that and see how it works for you. But you begin, even if someone says I have a precise problem with my knee, you begin with an overall awareness of someone's aura. Very important. There's another thing that you can do to assess somebody's energy body. You get a assessment from feeling. So if you actually touch their palm chakra you can get an awareness of their overall subtle physical energy. The way that we do it is you take your thumb and you put it on their palm chakra, and then on the other side, you kind of go like this, on their palm. And you can do that to yourself too. You can say, how is my energy? And by putting your palm on that chakra, you can have an assessment, more of a feeling, you know, it's more of a feeling and understanding of how are things going, what's going on with my energy body. So this is a good self-diagnosis technique as well. You're like, something's weird with me, I don't know what it is. You can put your thumb on that chakra, and then you can just start getting information, be open to it, it's an intuitive process of understanding. But it's a good way. So those are two ways where you can assess somebody's energy before you try to heal them. So, I'd like you to understand these healing techniques to be similar to our rescue techniques. And that is, they should be done in an emergency. You shouldn't just do them for fun. So like, really, like the first exercise where you're projecting the different colored lights associated to the organs and the meridians, that is in a way very similar to just doing like rescue breaths, for example. So in rescue breaths, you're taking the energy from your lungs and you're putting it in somebody else's lungs. Now, if that person's breathing and they're okay, and you start doing rescue breaths on them, it's going to mess them up. They're going to be like, Stop it! Buy me a drink first! They'll be like, Stop it! You're messing up my thing. I'm already okay and now you're doing something that is, you know, it's going to make me actually worse. So I want you to think of these exercises similar to rescue breaths. So if someone's in a kind of energetic peril and you can see that things aren't working right, these uses of energy use that energy to help get their lungs, their kidneys, their internal energy going again. So you give someone rescue breaths because they're having trouble breathing, and then once you give them enough rescue breaths, they start breathing again, and you don't have to do it anymore. So, we can think of these... this in a rescue way, okay? Then that way you're just not, like, trying to do it on people all the time. So, um, that, you know, we're talking about subtle physical healing, and it's something that we don't do left and right. It's not something that we focus on going, oh, someone has a headache, I'm going to, you know, do my healing thing on them. If someone has a headache, you have a headache, take some Advil, right? So we don't do, we don't do healing for every little thing, this thing, that thing, for other people. Every little thing for yourself, yeah, do your healing. I have a headache. I've got a mosquito bite, you know. So you can do healing for yourself about everything, right? Just like you breathe for yourself. You're always maintaining your own energy field. So, all of these techniques for yourself, fantastic. But for other people, we're not just going to go, you know, trying to heal everybody for every little thing. Oh, someone's coughing. You know, we don't want to do that. We'll do it in situations of rescue. And then it will really, really work. It'll be very positive and constructive. And then you won't be wasting energy or incorrectly correctly going into people's auras. Okay, so this energy can also be used at a distance. So you might be in front of someone who's like, oh, I feel really sick, and you look at them, you understand their illness, and then you practice, you know, either the colors of lights or the white light, you have to just intuitively know which one you want to use because the colors associated to the organs and the meridians, they are, I would say, very similar to rescue breaths. They are kind of like using the energy of your body. You're like, I'm going to use the energy of me to project to you so that you can be healthy. Now, the white energy is, you could say, a higher dimension that comes, that you use, that comes through you. It is an overall healthy energy that is a little bit of a higher dimension. It's a little bit, it can be stronger than than you. So you might have, you know, like a weak liver or something like that, and when you're helping someone, maybe it's okay or something. However, when you do the white energy, it can be stronger, the white energy can be much stronger than your own physical organs. So you just have to figure out which one makes sense. And sometimes, you can always just do the white one, or whatever, you know, you can do whatever intuitively feels right to you. So you can be working with someone right in front of you, but you can also be working with someone anywhere else, anywhere else in the world, by bringing them to mind. So, you can simply bring them into your awareness and apply these techniques. First of all, you can try to look to see what's wrong with them. You bring them to mind. You do that energy chi assessment. And then you can apply these teachings. The healing from the hand. So, we're going to do that. We're going to practice healing from afar, and we're going to heal the little fish that you did bodhicitta on today. What a lucky fish! So I'd like you to just bring to mind, and if you forgot to do that exercise, bring to mind a fish you saw. So if you found a fish that you did Bodhi Sita on, or you remember a fish or something, bring to mind that fish. We're going to heal that fish. So you see that fish in your mind's eye, and I want you to do a chi assessment. Look at the overall feeling of the aura of that fish. Take a moment to get a sense of that fish's energy body. Now with that in mind, with that awareness, I'd like you to just go through the cycles of the white, blue, green, red, yellow light, and then a few cycles of the white light. So both exercises, the same way with the breathing, and you see that energy going from you to that fish. Let's begin. I'm going to actually practice these, our exercises tomorrow will be to practice these underwater and see what it's like underwater. So underwater we will do the laying on of hands on ourselves. We will do both the colored lights and the white light. And then we'll choose a fish. Do some bodhisitta for the fish. Then heal the fish. So you guys have permission to heal a fish. Heal a fish. Yeah. So, quite simple. But when you're going to the fish, of course, try to have an awareness of the fish's energy. What a lucky fish. So I saw something really, really cool today. I've never seen this before. It's very interesting. So Padma was laying down in the sand, doing one of the exercises, and we were there for like, I don't know, 15, 20 minutes or so. And there was a fish, little like five inch fish, that was hanging around her. And when she would exhale bubbles, the fish would go into the bubbles and ride them up and then come back down and kept doing it. And I was like, the fish was getting something out of that. I was like, wow, this is like a little magical thing. I've never seen a fish do that before. It's very interesting. So I think that the fish was, you know, sensing the energy of light in those bubbles and was going into the bubbles and enjoying it. So I actually filmed it so I got it on film. It was a very interesting thing. I've never seen that before. It was cool. Good. Very simple. Now did anybody do any rescue dives? Yeah? Who did it? Raise your hand if you rescued. All right. So, we are expanding our awareness as divers to not only be concerned about ourselves, but we expand our awareness to having a concern Bodhisattva Mystic Scuba. So, you know, this is what we learn. We learn techniques of healing or rescue for ourselves and an expansion of awareness for others. So, it's a good thing. And, yeah, it's really fun. I've seen that these exercises work because a number of you guys have been getting sick on the trip you know anything from you know seasick to just some other weird kind of sickness you know and the effects of these healing exercises help you so when you when you rest and do your stomach palpitations when you just breathe deeply when you're working on these exercises, they help you. They add a good positive and healing energy to help you. So today I had to do the healing thing on myself to keep myself balanced. So it was interesting. So Mucha did an astrological reading for me, and one of the things that he told me is, oh, something's coming up very soon where, you know, Mars is going into Neptune, and what that often means is that you're going to get physically hurt, you can have a health issue. And then he calculated it that it was yesterday and today where it could happen. So he said, on those days, be very, very, very, very careful. I was like, okay. So yesterday I actually, I felt in my physical body, my subtle physical body, that there was an imbalance, too much of an imbalance, so I didn't dive. I was like, no, I'm not going to dive because something could happen. enough balance from doing these exercises. I was like, okay, this is okay. But I actually really, really had to have a lot of healing awareness, a lot of practice of these healing techniques in my aura so that I could dive. And then underwater, it's even better because you know, there's the healing qualities of water, less toxicity, and then it was really nice. But I had to have a lot of awareness to keep my aura balanced, to work against the karmas of the energies of Mars. have an effect and that they're, you know, it's all, it's, you know, subtle physical. That's what we're focusing on. Mostly subtle physical influences on the physical. But if, if you are aware, you see that they do something. Yeah. So, good. So, I, I went with tropical today. I like the tropical dives. The dive sites up this way are better. I was like, wow, these are good, happy dives. It was really nice. So the tropical thing was really fun. And Subway is okay. You know, Subway is okay. And also the cool thing about tropical is it's just one boat, you know, one guy. It's not like, it's not like Ed's there.

0:40:26
Ha ha ha ha.

0:40:28
Yeah, it's a nice little operation there. It's really, um, it's really cute and happy and fun. So, you know, I got to check it out, and it's good. And it was fun. And it was really nice to see, uh, you know, the divers diving and having a good time. It was really good. It was happy. Yeah, so, I don't know. Things seem to be going pretty well. I'm having a good time with this trip. It's a fun trip. I'm having new, happy experiences. Real fun. So, you know, it's good. Things are good. Things are awesome. Alright, what shall we move on to now? Tomorrow. Yes? So you said that if you heal someone that doesn't need healing, or if you try to heal something that doesn't need to be healed, then you could actually harm them?

0:41:23
Yeah, you can. So what if you try to heal a fish that does not have an injury?

0:41:41
Um... The fish is going to be okay. Don't do it every day, but, you know, like, doing this exercise, directed by these teachings, the fish will be okay. So, yeah, so that's the thing, like, you know, if you try to heal somebody who doesn't need healing, you can cause pain or trouble or imbalance for them. So, if the person... if you're an excellent, perfect healer, then your energy won't hurt them at all. So, if someone's energy is balanced and you go, I'm going to heal you, that'll be all. Okay, whatever. But, if you're not a perfect healer, if your energy is not pristine, then you can be bothered. Like for me, for example, even when I go to healers, you know, like acupuncturists or chiropractors or whatever, even though they'll stick a needle in me or crack me or whatever, because they're imperfect healers, their energy body is not balanced. There's dimensions of healing that they're unaware of. It makes me feel horrible. So I'm like, okay, if I have a pain in the neck, you crack it, and then I'm like, okay, you've relieved some pain in my neck, but the rest of the things that you've done have clogged up my aura and make me feel yucky. So even if that's a healer who's effective at healing a thing, there's other dimensions. So, you know, if you're the perfect healer, and you know the dimensions of healing, you could influence someone very positively, and if they don't have a problem, no problem. So that's why I think that I think of this more like, you know, emergency. Emergency energetic healing. If someone's energy is really, really broken, then you could practice this healing, and it's like giving rescue breaths. It's like using some energy, doing something. Yes?

0:43:46
Does it work the same on emotional pain?

0:43:48
Yes, this actually does also work the same on emotional pain. Yes. So you can apply the same techniques to emotional pain. Yes? and you have like the worst aura yourself, it won't give them a heart attack. If they already have a diseased heart. Yeah, if they already have a diseased heart, I mean, it's not going to like make them die right then and there, but it's going to make their aura more clogged up and more weird leads, you know, lead to worse things. But it's not something that's going to make an immediately negative effect on their health.

0:45:02
You should do it when

0:45:06
when it seems like an emergency. Yeah, I mean if someone's got like a long pathology of heart disease, what you do is not really going to affect them. You know, it's like if you were a real master healer and you worked on them... If you were a master healer, of course you could fix them. Or if you work on them every day or something, you could influence their aura in a positive way. But if someone's got like a long history of some problem, you're not going to change that probably with this exercise. That's not within the scope of this healing exercise. This is a different dimension. Yes. Can you damage yourself? Yes, you can. Yes, you can. That's why I would say, you know, really focus on this in terms of an emergency. Like, you know, someone's all like, oh my God, I feel really weird. Stuff like that. And then you're all like, you look at their aura, and then you go. And you practice some, bringing some light to them. Um, and then they can go, okay, I feel a little bit better now. And for you it will be a usage of energy. But the dimension that we're talking about here is similar to rescue breath. So you will be using energy from the kidneys and the liver and the spleen, but you will be using it in a way that's similar to rescue breath, where you use the energy, but it doesn't suck you dry. In fact, it's a normal usage of energy, so it's not something that would deplete you. But if you did this wrong, you know, if you just work on healing too much or incorrectly, what you'll feel is you'll feel something's not good. You'll go into someone's aura and you'll be like, I'm doing all this weird stuff and it feels yucky. And that means that you're going in too deep. So, you know, when you're using the subtle physical body for healing, you know, the way that I'm talking about it, I'm talking about, you know, with a certain awareness and a certain way. It could help in certain situations, not others. You can do it when you intuitively feel that it's positive, and you should do it. But, I mean, there's so much more to this. We're just talking about it in a certain way. And if you're doing this healing and you feel that something doesn't feel good for me, then you have to stop. So when a rescuer is rescuing someone, and then the rescuer finds himself in peril, the rescuer has to back off. You can't rescue somebody if you get in worse shape trying to rescue them. Okay. Good!

0:48:25
Can this be used, should we use it in conjunction with bodhicitta, like alternate between doing the healing technique and then taking the ascending and the suffering part of it?

0:48:37
Absolutely. So you can alternate with bodhicitta. So bodhicitta is really the spiritual consideration. But then you could say, okay, but I'm going to now switch focuses, switch dimensions to the subtle physical consideration.

0:48:56
Yes?

0:48:57
If you have a minor pain on yourself and you do the healing, or maybe it's not a pain and

0:49:08
you think it is, could you hurt yourself? Okay, so if you have a minor pain on yourself, can you hurt yourself? No. So all of these exercises are excellent for yourself. You can't hurt yourself. You can only make yourself better. Just like breathing. So for you, you're like, I'm breathing. Oh, wait, let me focus on my breath. Okay, it's very healthy for me. But on somebody else, if you're messing with their breath, it could hurt them. I'm breathing already. Oh, sorry. I didn't know what I was doing. I was trying to give you rescue breaths when you were already breathing, so it could bother them or something. But they can breathe back at you. You're trying to rescue breath me, I'm going to rescue breath you. Yeah. So all these techniques, when you do them help. Good question. Yes.

0:50:00
I apologize.

0:50:01
You just put the lights on your forehead and then look at your tongue.

0:50:02
Mm-hmm.

0:50:03
Yep. And then you have your heart beat through your tongue and then stop and do whatever you want.

0:50:06
Yeah.

0:50:07
So, you know, any way that you envision that. Oh, okay. Yeah. I mean, there's a lot of people who are like, oh, I'm going to do this. I'm going to do that. I'm going to do that. I'm going to do that.

0:50:14
I'm going to do that.

0:50:15
I'm going to do that.

0:50:16
I'm going to do that.

0:50:17
I'm going to do that.

0:50:18
I'm going to do that.

0:50:19
I'm going to do that.

0:50:20
I'm going to do that.

0:50:21
I'm going to do that.

0:50:22
I'm going to do that.

0:50:23
I'm going to do that.

0:50:24
I'm going to do that. I'm going to do that. So, you know, any way that you envision that? Yeah. I mean, the thing is, like, you know, you're, you're, when you inhale, you're charging that white light or blue light. When you exhale, that colored light comes from your palm

0:50:46
and goes to the hurt thing.

0:50:49
Okie dokie. Good. Alright, so tomorrow is our last day of diving. Dun da da da. And, um, I can't believe it went by so quickly. It seems like we had so much time to dive, and I guess we did, and now we're getting to our last dive. So tomorrow on your last dive, practice these exercises, even if your last dive is with a shark. Because you'll just be sitting there, and you'll have time to focus on these awarenesses. Heal the shark. Yeah. So yeah, so practice these exercises. And then of course, you know, especially if you're dolphin diving or shark diving, have them, you know, you're going to do your dive log and have a really good awareness of the animal. So if you're going there to see that animal, look at that animal. Really look at their attention. Have an experience, a direct experience with that animal, that animal's assemblage point. And it should be interesting. Now, down over in the lagoon over that little hill there and I saw the little Sunfire, what's it called, seahorse. And you know, like, you just like look at those little guys and they're so neat. The seahorses have such a cool attention. So, you know, every fish and every one of those little animals underwater, they have a very different assemblage point. And some of them are quite magical. That's why we have the amakua kind of thing. Or I guess here we would call it the nahual delmar. Your nahual delmar is a boat. No, just kidding. Yeah, so it's neat, yeah. So if you're sitting there with that shark, understand the shark attention. Even though your amakua might be a certain animal, always look at, you know, you look at these, especially these big animals, like dolphins and sharks, and you can get a really cool awareness. Now if you're going to buy, we already have two dolphin videos, so if the group that's going tomorrow wants to buy a dolphin video, cool, we'll have more dolphin videos to look at. And if you want to get a shark one, then that's cool. But if you're going to do that, I would say ask the videographer to get some good footage of just the animals. So, they're doing the tourist thing with you guys. They're all, look, here's you and a shark. You and a shark. You know, in the same thing. But it's also nice to just, like, you know, like, hey, give me, you know, give me a third of this where it's just the animal with no divers in the picture. And they're all, what? Oh, you want that? You can see that on the National Geographic channel. You can see that on Discovery on Shark Week. Okay, but yeah, just ask for that to get a little bit more of that just the animal footage. It's really cool. Yes? The Dolphin is our next. Oh good. Thank you because we're not going to be able to really meet tomorrow. The dolphin dive is at... Departure at 7am.

0:55:11
What's that?

0:55:12
Departure at 7am.

0:55:13
Oh, departure at 7am for the dolphin dive. For both. Oh, sorry. For the dolphin dive and the shark dive, departure at 7am. And, um... Save bus. Save bus. And, probably be there at 6.50, because you need to get it at Subway's.

0:55:42
They don't have it at the shark dive.

0:55:44
Okay, so, tomorrow, let's get to the bus at 6.50 AM.

0:55:52
Oh my gosh.

0:55:53
And, um, you know, so if you are going to need to rent gear for the shark dive, you have to rent it at Subway. Yes. No, not tanks and weights. Just anything else. Yeah, and then if you have your own gear at Subway, you will take it from Subway tomorrow early in the morning, and you'll bring it over to the shark dive. That's going to be the last dive. Yes.

0:56:30
Will there be any food?

0:56:32
Is there going to be food in the morning?

0:56:35
I don't know. I don't know if it's 630 in the morning.

0:56:39
We don't know.

0:56:40
No, they're not.

0:56:41
No, they're not.

0:56:42
They often do. When they know that we're leaving early, they often make breakfast for us. They always have. So, hopefully there'll be some breakfast. Okay so if you're doing normal dives at subway, 12.30 pickup just like today. All right. Can I see a show of hands who's doing a regular dive at subway tomorrow? One, two, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12.

0:57:19
Okay.

0:57:20
What's that? Yeah.

0:57:22
I counted 12, so.

0:57:24
So, just do it again. Anyone that is diving at Subway tomorrow, hands up.

0:57:29
Subway, not tropical, Subway. What's this again? I couldn't hear what you said.

0:57:34
Wait, what was it? Was this...

0:57:36
Okay, listen up. Raise your hand if you're diving at Subway tomorrow. Okay, listen up. Raise your hand if you're diving at Subway tomorrow.

0:57:41
Even if you're a dive master.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
