0:00:00
Hello.

0:00:00
Okay, so.

0:00:01
So we have to, we'll have to go over the same exercise again tonight because it's important for all of you to have the proper instruction. So we will work on it. So essentially, what we're going to be working on is a lot of kind of healing Qigong. So it's like breathing exercises and movements that are associated with healing. So there's different exercises. Some are for healing, some is kind of martial, martial arts attention, some is meditative. So there's different types. We're going to, of course, do some meditative practices, but we'll also be really, really focusing on the healing aspects of breathing exercises. Because that's mostly what we do underwater. We have to get at least that part in, the breathing part. So we will be focusing on the healing aspect of breathing exercises. That noise annoys me. I'm all like, that annoys me. I was like, this is a really nice resort. This resort has very, very, very good energy. I like it. It's a nice energy line. The thing that I like about the energy line is that it is farther away from people than where we usually go. So in terms of the feeling of nature here, the feeling of nature is very pristine and beautiful, as beautiful as any resort I've been to, better than the Hawaiian resorts, right? So when you're in the Four Seasons in Hawaii, it's really nice, it's luxurious feeling, right? They have like a lot of amenities and pretty things. But in terms of the feeling of nature, it's not as good as here. Yes, there's an ocean there, you know, and they have a lot of manicured plants and things like that. However, it's not, the feeling of nature isn't as strong as here. So I actually, I really like this. And I've been considering this a little bit more recently. A few of us went to Ceiba, not Les Ceiba, but Ceiba. It's another little island up the Caribbean chain. And that island I think has like 2,000 people who live on it. And even when you're in the little town there, it's a very beautiful, peaceful feeling. And there's just not a lot of feeling of a lot of people around. So it's quite nice. So I'm interested in these kind of low population places now. So probably next time we go to Grand Cayman, we'll land there, get on a little airplane, and go over to Little Cayman. Because Little Cayman has a population of like 126 people.

0:04:04
Sounds interesting.

0:04:06
And have you ever seen pictures of the Little Cayman dives? Looks like some beautiful diving. So I think we'll have to check that out one of these days. So yeah, so I think we'll be starting to look into smaller places like this, where we're a little bit removed from where everybody is. We're on the way east end of this island, all the way on the south end, there's the West Bay area that has lots of tourists and it's kind of like a little party area. It's very, it's kind of weird. But I mean, if you're here to party, it's like a very festive kind of thing. So I wanted to get as far away from that as possible, and so we are. And it's quite nice here. It's a really nice energy line of nature, natural energy. However, there's something special about this energy line that I like, that's unique or different. It has a special quality. And it has a quality of diffuse energy. So the energy here separates. So it always moves away from itself. That's the way that it naturally is. The place has an energy that's diffuse. So diffuse energy, and some of you can see it, if you look, you can see it, it's a diffuse energy. But there's another factor that changes the way the energy see, that you'll see energy, which I'll talk about in a moment. But the diffuse nature of this energy field in this whole resort area is very, very, very good for relaxation. And it's good to recuperate in. So a consideration of health is very good in this kind of energy. So it's quite nice. It's also very nice for dreaming, this kind of energy. And obviously we're so close to the ocean. The ocean always adds a very nice buffer or energy for dreaming. But here, a little bit more than some places. So quite nice, quite interesting. But then the problem is, you got neighbors who play music. Yeah, so like when you're in the Four Seasons, you don't get that. They control the whole island. Yeah. Or barking dogs or something. Barking dogs are okay, but music, I start listening to it. sorry it's like when we're having dinner it's like everyone's from while the guy turns on music and you're like oh Lucy in the sky of diamonds really to watch that to listen to that along with our Dolphin or then he puts up that the first video he put up. What is that about? That was so funny. Like at first, you know, you're like, oh it's Ibiza, and a guy playing a trumpet. I was like, okay. And then there's this guy building a drum, this shirtless guy making a drum. And I'm all, he kind of looks like a girl. I'm all, oh, girl.

0:08:12
It was really funny. And then you get all these hippies. And I was like, oh my god.

0:08:15
That was really funny that they played that for dinner. Here, watch this.

0:08:26
We're all.

0:08:27
Ah!

0:08:28
I left San Francisco already. I'm not on Haight Street anymore.

0:08:36
Boy, anyway, so that was fascinating.

0:08:38
I just have to talk about interesting topics while I'm listening to this music. I get distracted. What? Oh, you guys are jokers.

0:08:51
Alright.

0:08:53
So, let's see. Yeah, so, it's quite nice. It's quite nice here. I like it a lot. I also like that we're the only ones here. Yeah, we kind of had to cram into the rooms, but then we're the only ones here. So that's really good. It is really good. Because, you know, when you're staying at a resort, even if it's a bunch of us, but it's like there's a hundred other people at the resort, it's always like, you know, you have to tiptoe around other people, being accessible, and when you're meditating or talking loud late at night, and they complain about you, but when we're all meditating and talking loud late at night, then we can only complain about ourselves, and it works out better yes indeed indeed yeah so easily distracted that's why I can't meditate without music like our music has to be be louder otherwise I'll be like... Just kidding. I'm just pointing out. So maybe next time we'll have to go to Little Cayman where they don't have enough people to have music. So, yeah, so it's a different kind of tonal. Overall, I really, really like it. Usually you don't feel any neighbors or anything. It's just, you know, something kind of funny. But, anyway. The dogs are singing and dancing to the music. All right, all right, all right. what we're here for, what we're about to do. So this is an intermediate mystic scuba adventure. And this intermediate mystic scuba adventure has some beginners. Beginner Buddhists and also beginner divers. I think in terms of diving, if you're a beginner, as long as you can be comfortable in the water, I think you're going to be okay. If you're a beginner Buddhist, then it might be a little, some of the exercises might be a little challenging, and they might be just fine. So hopefully you can be able to do it, no problem. But some of the concepts might be a little foreign to you, or they might be a little bit difficult for you to just practice, because some of the intermediate Buddhist students have trained in some of these things for a while, so they're more comfortable with these practices. Yeah, but actually, there's something I have to do, but it's gotta be quiet. I can't do it if it's noisy. In fact, if it's gonna be noisy, we're gonna leave. Yeah. We're gonna leave. Yeah, okay. That's where we're going. All right, let's see. And we can take the chairs.

0:13:13
Yeah.

0:13:14
There's some chairs there, but these ones sit up a little straighter, right?

0:13:17
Yeah.

0:13:18
Okay, so,

0:13:19
yeah, I can't party with the dogs over there.

0:13:22
Yeah, and like,

0:13:22
some of the things that I wanna talk about, it's better to not have dance music playing in the background for me. So, I think for you too. Okay, so we're going to It was a nice meditation Place go to the other location. It's right at the Place, you know the restaurant right out in front of there. It's a beautiful Deck, so we'll go and sit there. Okay Yeah, bring it bring your chair All right, so, you know, one of the reasons that we listen to music when we meditate is because it creates a good vibration, right? And the musicians who create the music really focus on creating a vibration in their music that's very positive to meditate to. So that's why we always will listen to some music. It's very nice. Now, when you have something else going on, if it's a natural sound like the ocean, okay, that's good. It's a natural sound. Sometimes you just meditate listening to the sound of the ocean. It's very good. Sometimes you're meditating and dogs bark, okay, it's not a problem. But when it starts to be the tonal of human beings, like music or motorcycles, then it starts to create a vibration because of the tonal of man that starts to interrupt the beautiful energy of meditation. So that's That's why we moved.

0:15:13
Okay

0:15:14
So as I said on this trip, we are working on an intermediate set of studies. A lot of the things that we're going to be doing are similar to the the other mystic scuba exercises that we've done. There were healing exercises as well in the mystic scuba that we've done before, but now we're going to be making a focus on it. So our theme for this Mystic Scuba diving adventure is Bodhisattva Divers. Bodhisattva is an awakened person in the Mahayana Buddhist tradition, but they especially are focused on helping others with their suffering. So, that is what we are going to work on in scuba adventures. Now, one of the most important things of Bodhisattva, I guess, if you look at mystic scuba or scuba diving and you think about what is the rescue diver, right? So the rescue diver is someone who helps somebody else when they need it. They help someone when they need to be rescued. And that's something, you know, like they're focused on, you know, having a good time while they're diving, but if something goes wrong, if someone's in suffering, if someone's got a problem, they go out and then they help, they rescue. So we're going to be focusing on rescue in terms of the tonal of our diving and in terms of the second attention, we're healing and I guess spiritual rescue attention and practices. Now what we were working on last night was something associated with healing, primarily healing the self. And this is important because, you know, the first thing that you learn in rescue is to rescue yourself. So it's important to have very strong self-healing and analysis awareness and skills. Because you have to be able to know when you're okay and what you can handle before you try to go out and assist somebody else. Very, very, very, very important. So we will tonight be focused primarily on self-healing techniques and the next things that we'll be doing throughout the week are also self-healing techniques. But they can also be applied to other people. We're going to keep a very, very strong focus on self-healing and then we're going to apply very specific exercises to other people. But if you can save yourself, then you become very... if you're strong at saving yourself, you'll be strong at saving another person. That's essentially what it comes down to. If you're a strong swimmer, that's great. You're safe. You're good. Big waves can come and you're okay. If you see someone else drowning and you're a strong swimmer, you don't really need to know a lot of techniques. You're just going to be able to help them because you're a strong swimmer. So the primary focus is going to be the focus on rescue techniques where you can rescue yourself. Healing techniques where you can heal yourself, but they can also be applied to other people. For example, last night we were working on a self-awareness practice. Self-awareness and self-healing practice. And as I mentioned, this abdominal palpitation exercise is something that, in Chinese medicine, the acupuncturist, the healer, will use this technique to diagnose the patient. So we're working on self-diagnosis. And it's best to practice on yourself so that you can figure out what's going on anyway. Otherwise, if you did it on other people, you'd be just poking them and tickling them a lot. You're like, wow, I tickled that guy. There's something wrong with him. He's ticklish. I don't know. So, that's why we have a real strong awareness throughout these practices on self-healing. As an interesting thing, some of my students in California were going to a healer and they're having really good positive healing experiences and I was like, wow, cool. And I asked them, what's it like? What do you do? And a lot of the exercises are, a lot of the things are just becoming aware of what's going on in your body and also a lot of breathing exercises. So I was like, wow, that sounds like a lot of the experiences I've had in Qigong since I was young. I've used to do lots of Qigong, Buddhist Qigong, Taoist Qigong, and sometimes I would spend four hours a day on Qigong. And I had a lot of awareness of breathing through those practices. I had a lot, and I gained a lot of awareness, you know, it was healing qigong, martial qigong, so I got a lot of awareness of healing energies. At the same time I was, you know, studying Chinese medicine, so it was like I came to an awareness myself through these breathing exercises of how to hold my body and understand the different tense areas or toxic areas so that I can deal with things. So I think that this self-awareness of your body and being able to learn to breathe deeply, to let go of toxicity, to understand where your tension is, and understand the subtle information that your body gives you. These things are very, very, very helpful for just dealing with regular life. Not just having amazing experiences underwater, but also being able to deal with the stress of your life and the difficulties that come up or have, you know, or places in the past. So my students are going to a healer. They, you know, they like come in and go, oh, my back hurts. And then the healer is like, it's already happened. And the healer helps them to understand their body, do breathing exercises so that their energy heals, it heals the body itself. So that is what we're going to be working on. Body, awareness, breath, so that we're able to have a healing process for ourselves. So I'm going to just go over briefly the exercise from yesterday, because it's a good kind of epitome exercise of what we'll be working on. So it is called stomach palpitations, and that means that you poke yourself in the stomach. This is an exercise that you do to find out your energy, to find out what your physical and your subtle physical state is. The way that you do it is you just examine your stomach by touching it. You just touch your stomach everywhere all around from bottom to top, from side to side, in the middle, any way that you can think of possibly. You just start feeling your stomach right and you have to do it lying down on your back. It's the best way to do it. If you're sitting up, you're using muscles to sit up. So it's best to do lying down on your back. This is the exercise that you do right before you go to sleep. We're going to do this exercise every night before we go to sleep. So you'll lie down and you'll just do this examination, seeing where you have tension, seeing where you have maybe a little bit of pain, or seeing where it feels a little funny, like it tickles a little bit, seeing where the tissue is soft. Finding tense tissue is an area, when you have it in your stomach, it relates to another area in the body. It relates to the internal organs. So we start to understand just by feeling tension, areas of tension in our stomach, we start to get an awareness and an understanding of our overall physical and subtle physical health. So we're gonna be doing this just for a while so that you start to get a sense. When you first do it, you might just be like, okay, this is tense and this is a little softer. What does that mean? I don't know, right? But as you start to practice day after day a little bit of understanding and awareness, then you start to gain an intuition about your body's balance. You'll probably notice as well as we go through the Mystic Scuba practices this week that you'll find the areas that are tight or hurt Become less painful and more relaxed. So this is a way where we're going to observe our body through this Transition of these lessons so similar. It's similar to the breath check, we use an awareness of our breath to see how we're progressing in relaxing our tension and understanding how calm we are. We're going to use on this trip the stomach palpitation on a nightly basis, or you can do it all the time. And we're going to just observe little by little, night by night, how our stomach palpitations change. And also, what information we gain from the stomach palpitation. At first, you might sit there and go, oh, I've got this thing. And then you might, a couple days later, say, oh, I know what this is related to. You might just start intuitively knowing this is related to this pain in my knee or this person who has a pain in my neck. So you start to realize things about pain or suffering that you have that are imbalances in the physical and subtle physical by touching these areas. Additionally, this whole practice is a practice of the Ida, the conception vessel, which is a very, very strong meridian associated with emotions. So it's very, very healing emotionally to gain this awareness. So this is going to be the nightly practice. There will be maybe some other nightly practices, but this one we're going to do every night. And it's very important that you can take a little while to do it before you pass out and go, okay, I understand, I see, I'm touching myself, and really, you know, do a thorough examination. Feel your stomach from the navel chakra to right under the ribs, from left to right, just go through that feeling as much as possible and just be open. Sometimes you touch with the fingers, sometimes with the palm, sometimes you grab it. I don't know. Explore your stomach. And then, after you've gotten an awareness of the tightness or looseness or feelings of your stomach, then we're going to work on relaxation. You want to relax your stomach. Very important. So after you know where you're at, try and loosen everything up. Try and let go. And, oops! Okay. Might want to be close to the bathroom. Sorry. Okay. So, you try to relax, you try to let go, you try to just exhale and let your muscles and let your stomach just relax. And then, after you're able to relax your stomach, then you're going to practice deep abdominal breathing while maintaining relaxed stomach. So you will say, okay, now I'm relaxed. I know what's going on. Now I'm relaxed. Now I'm going to breathe deeply. So you try to inhale to the navel chakra. Try to bring your air to the dantian. So focus down there. Bring the air there. But also feel your stomach. If you're starting to become tense while you're inhaling, then go back to focusing on relaxation. Try to be able to do deep breathing with a relaxed stomach. Now, the top and middle of your stomach when you're inhaling to the navel chakra should be relaxed. Now, when you feel the bottom, when you feel the navel chakra itself, you will feel that it's being filled with air. So there will be like, it feels like a balloon, you know, getting filled with air. So there is, there's something happening, but it shouldn't be tension on top of it. So there could be also tension that you get as you inhale. That's you having too much strength, too much reaction to breath. So you want to make sure that as you're inhaling deeply, that you don't have additional reactions. Your stomach muscles reacting. You try to relax them as you inhale deeply. you relax and then you breathe deeply to the navel chakra. Try to get as many repetitions, breath cycles as possible and you do that until you fall asleep. So that's what you're going to do. And if you like are reading a book to fall asleep or something, that's okay. But just, Just, you know, while you're reading, always be mindful of your deep breathing. Okay, so that is our nightly exercise. Very good. We're also going to do another relaxation exercise. Okay, this is an exercise that we're going to practice in the ocean tomorrow. This is a relaxation exercise called the three lines. Three lines. Okay, so the three lines are the Shishumna which goes from the very bottom of you to the very top of you, right up along the spine. So, that is the first line. It's called the Shishumna. And, you know, you all have one. You all have a middle of you. It's there. And, that's the first line. The second line is from the navel chakra, across the hips, and down the legs. And the line runs right through the center of you. So that one is right across the hips, right through the legs. That's the second line. The third line is right through the shoulders and chest down to the fingertips. Okay, so when we practice relaxing the three lines, what we do is we practice an awareness of bringing energy down the Shushumna. So we'll do it actually sitting up here, but this is something that you'll also do when you're laying down. So, let's go ahead and sit up nice and straight. Okay. And what we're going to do is we're going to feel it sinking or falling down. So straight down the Sushumna. You can practice this with multiple waves of that feeling. You can practice this with breathing, exhaling. Exhaling out and down. So these are primary energy lines in the body. And when we practice letting go and bringing down, then it's a way where we're clearing these major active meridians and a energetic relaxation. So we just focus on the top and we feel the energy come down. Very good. Now we're going to focus on the navel chakra. We're going to feel the energy go from the navel chakra out to the hips and straight down the legs all the way to the toes. So bring all of the energy from the navel out to the hips, down the legs, through the knees, down to the toes. And again, with this, we can just have this feeling of the energy moving, going down the legs to the toes. We can bring focus with air, so we can inhale to the navel, push down on the exhalation, exhaling down, down the legs to the toes, focusing on the navel, extending the energy to the hips, and we're just, this is a relaxation, we're pushing the energy down because when we push the energy down and out it's like letting go. So it's that energy of letting go, right? So we're not like tensing up, we're letting go. Okay, one more time, we're feeling the navel, bring the energy out to the hips and letting go down the legs to the toes. Now we're going to focus on the third line. And the third line, we're gonna start right I guess let's start at the throat chakra. Why not? We're gonna start at the throat chakra and we're going to bring that line out. It's really under the throat chakra but throat chakra right why not. We're gonna bring the energy out to the shoulders, down, down the arms, the elbows, through the forearms, through the wrists, through the hands, to the fingertips. Okay? And again, we can start this with breath. So we can inhale, and we can exhale the energy through the shoulders, through the arms, through the elbows, through the forearms, through the wrists, through the hands, to the fingers. And again, you hold that energy and let it go and let it out. When you do it with your hands, you can do it with a little bit of a motion too. So you can have your hands just sitting there, but as you exhale the energy down, you can open your arms a little bit and you feel the energy opening and moving out more. So this again is a letting go energy, right? So we hold our attention right in the center of the throat chakra and let the energy come out. You want to be aware when you're doing this practice that you're not holding tension, that you're becoming aware of where tension is and letting go of it. These are, yeah, these are like some of the, the weird lateral energy lines in the body. So most of the energetic meridians run up and down, but there are two that run sideways, right? And these are the sideways ones. They're really important for relaxation because we hold a lot of tension actually in these areas and when you're focusing on these divergent meridians and relaxing, spreading the energy out, then it's something that's very good. It gets to a level of relaxation in the subtle physical, letting the energy flow there that you don't get to very often in regular subtle physical or physical relaxation. So this is called the relaxation of the three lines. When you're going to do the relaxation exercise tonight before you go to sleep, you will lay down in bed and then you will, you can just do it a couple times, a few times, maybe a few breaths. Just exhale, exhale, exhale. Right? So just a few times on each one just to get the feeling of what it is. But when you're laying down, you can feel it even better. You could really be completely loose. You don't have any tension holding you up. You should just let your body be really relaxed and practice the relaxation. We're going to practice the relaxation first, stomach palpitations second, okay? And then fall asleep breathing. Okay, any questions on these exercises? No questions is too easy, I know. Yes? Yeah, I mean, I mean actually, yeah, from the navel chakra up to the bottom of the ribs, so it's actually your whole abdomen area, abdominal area, your small intestines, your spleen, your liver, gallbladder, those lovely things. Yeah, your belly. Yes?

0:41:02
I have a question related to the exercise you mentioned last time, the relaxation of the primary lunge. If you are in the water, how are you doing it? So should we be in a pivot or a pre-pivot or something?

0:41:16
Good question. So the question is, how do we do the three lines in the water? So it's good to get an experience of feeling the relaxation of the three lines, as we did sitting down here. And it's really good to get the relaxation of lying down, because lying down, you could focus on just total relaxation. But it's also good to do it in water. So when you're doing it in water, you're adding a level of buoyancy that lets you actually relax differently than lying down. When you're lying down, you have your full weight on you, which gives you an ability to relax in a way, but when you're in the ocean with your BCD on, properly weighted, and then you can go into neutral buoyancy, or somewhat neutral buoyancy, you're able to actually relax very, very deeply. One thing that we're gonna do on this trip is we're gonna have no wands, no dive wands, and no reef lines. So we're diving on other people's boats, you know, basically jumping on someone's boat like we're tourists and they're going to treat us like that. And if they see you reef hooking to something or using your wand, casting Harry Potter spells or something, Expelliarmus! Then they're going to think you're weird. They're going to think you're weird anyway. Yes, Dharma.

0:42:50
What about divemasters, do they need to bang the case of a de-cephalon?

0:42:56
Okay, the question is communication. Can you use the dive wand as a communication tool? Yes. So if you're going to carry a dive wand and you're only going to use it to bang your tank, that's okay. But otherwise, we're not going to use dive wands in any exercises, and we're not going to use reef lines in any exercises. So, for the exercise of the three lines, relaxing, we're going to do this in neutral buoyancy. So, you know, you're all extremely experienced divers now, and therefore, you have to have strong buoyancy skills and be able to do the exercises at the same time. So this is one of the things that's so awesome about Mystic Scuba is you have to have a strong physical attention, but you also have to have a strong psychic attention. So if we're down 130 feet meditating or something like that, you have to also watch your bottom time. You have to have a very strong physical attention, but at the same time you have to be able to let go completely. So you have to be able to understand your buoyancy perfectly, get your perfect buoyancy, and then you have to relax at the same time. And when you relax, it will affect your buoyancy. So you're going to start recognizing how to maintain buoyancy with relaxation. So before we were reef lining or negative buoyancy to practice sequential relaxation and those practices. And that is very good because you can do relaxation easily. But Usually when I'm practicing relaxation, I don't use a reef line. I just do neutral buoyancy So when I'm doing neutral buoyancy in any exercise, I'm able to do complete relaxation or complete meditation But at the same time maintaining perfect buoyancy, so we're taking your dive skills up a level for buoyancy Hooray! Three cheers for buoyancy. So you guys are going to become better at buoyancy because you're going to be relaxing and practicing the three lines. It'll be very interesting. You'll see that when you do the three lines in the water, neutral buoyancy, it gives you a different kind of relaxation. It's a little challenging to do. It'll take you a little while to get used to it. And then the dive masters are going to be like, what are you guys doing?

0:45:44
Ha ha ha.

0:45:46
Yes.

0:45:48
Any depth. You can do this at any depth. So, um, the exercises that we're going to do on the dives, you can do at any depth, or the ones that we're going to do tomorrow, you can do at any depth, and you can do at any time during the dive.

0:46:07
Okay?

0:46:08
So you don't, you don't, and you can do any one. So it's like, you can work on all of them right in a row, or you can work on one until you feel comfortable, then go on to the next one, and just go through them, and see what you experience. Question?

0:46:25
To confirm, when you said drop the energy, is it right through the middle, not along the surface of the back or along the surface of the chest?

0:46:33
That's correct. It's not along the surface. It's right through the middle. Thank you. Right through the middle. And really, the top line, it really goes right through here. Right through here. You know, you could focus on the heart chakra or the throat chakra, but really it's a little bit in between. Okay.

0:46:55
Question over here. Yes.

0:46:56
Why do you sometimes be focused on bringing energy down and other times be focused on bringing energy up? Okay. So, question was, why do we bring energy down sometimes and energy up sometimes. So usually when you're bringing energy down the shishumna, it's for grounding. It's grounding energy. So you want to be extra grounded and extra ready for something. So maybe a difficult energy is coming, that's when you ground yourself. But sometimes you work on ascending the energy where you will become ungrounded, but it's more spiritual. So that's what we do in meditation practice. We always work on bringing energy up because we're not worried about being grounded. We actually are in a safe place and we're trying to explore the higher states and dimensions of consciousness. Good question. Over here, yes. Oh yeah, that's right. It's an energy line that goes, it's a meridian that goes not on the surface of the front, not on the surface of the back, but it goes right through the center of your chest. And right through the center of your hip. Yep. Good. Alright. Very nice. So, there's another exercise that we're going to practice, that we can practice all week long that we're diving here. And it's a special thing because we're at the winter solstice. And in Taoism, during the solstice transits and the equinox transits, there's special energies that are available that you can make yourself aware of and that are actually there. And actually, this is probably an energy that you've been watching or seeing happening here, because since I have awareness of this energy, I have made this energy available. So, there's the energy of the place, the diffuse energy where things are separating. But there's another energy here, and that is the energy of the solstice in Taoist practice is an awareness of energy coming from the north towards you. So you can see here energy coming towards you. Now, that's invisible until you can see it, but it's always there during the solstice transit, everywhere. There's an energy, the magic energy of the North. It comes from the North, right towards you. Now, this is a strange energy. This is kind of a really shiny black color. Have you guys seen the really shiny black light? Yes! Everyone's nodding. Very good. We're going to see more shiny black lights. So, you might imagine a black diamond. Right? Right, Ajna? Black diamonds. Right? Yeah. So, black diamond, so it's kind of like a shiny black. That's a good way to put it. So this is something that in Taoist on the solstices and equinoxes, they always have an awareness of facing the right direction and seeing the energy. What we do, we're going to do this as an exercise together, is we face north, which in this case is really lovely, out to sea, horizon and you simply stand there with your hands at your side, hands are at your side, but the palms face north. Okay? Very simple. So you just let your arms be at your side, nice and relaxed, but then you face your palm towards the north. You have your palm face out towards where you're standing, which is that direction. Yeah, north is right over there. Good. So a very simple exercise where you stand. You could do it sitting too, but we're going to do it standing. You look straight out at the horizon, straight out that way, and you'll just have your hands pointing towards the sea, pointing the same way your nose is pointing. And then what we do is we inhale to the navel chakra and exhale. We'll do eight inhalations and exhalations, so eight breath cycles. Just nice, relaxed, deep abdominal breathing with your palms facing out and looking out at the horizon. Now, it's nice to envision the light. Hopefully you can see it. But in Taoist Qigong, even if you can't see it, you imagine it. And what you imagine is, you imagine seeing the light, and the light is moving from north to south, so the light, the black light is moving towards you, and then you imagine inhaling that light to the navel chakra. So it's breathing a black light. I know it sounds strange. It is strange, but it is a dimension. Black is fine, because it looks black to me. So sometimes in the Indian traditions, they substitute dark blue for black, but when I look at the light, it's black. So, I'm like, it is what it is. And this is the Taoist way of really using the energy of the solstice. So, you know, in our Buddhist practices, we have all sorts of various ways of understanding the solstice energy and using the solstice energy. This is a Taoist Qi Gong way of using the energy. And this would be the way that they would kick it off, understand the season, use the energy, and it's supposed to really get you charged up for being healthy and powerful through to the next equinox. So we're going to do that. I'd like all of you to stand up please. And if you're in a place where you cannot see the ocean, spread out and I'd like you to see the ocean. And we're going to stand with our palms facing the ocean. And then, by yourself, at your own time, I'd like you to just breathe, inhale and exhale, eight times, see the black light coming, breathe to the navel, and that's what we'll do. And then just, when you're done, relax and find your way back to your seat.

0:56:07
I'm going to go ahead and get my camera. So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. the I'm going to go ahead and get my camera. All right. This is a different dimension of energy than we usually look for. So I know some of you are seeing light, not black. So this is a different dimension. It's a good one to learn to see.

0:58:03
It's not one of the usual dimensions that we learn to see. It's a little bit more unusual. So let's practice this one, just so that we can take advantage of these Taoist teachings. It's harder to imagine diamonds, because diamonds are so solid, and the light is supposed to be.

0:59:33
Well, you know, you could see what you see yourself. Okay. Yeah.

0:59:40
Okay, so, that's a good thing.

0:59:42
Who saw the black light?

0:59:44
Okay, Lakshman, why don't you stand up and very loudly describe what it was like. Okay, pretty simple. Yeah, so I mean that's definitely correct. That's a correct seeing. And, you know, sometimes people see different things, which is okay. Did anyone see something different? A little bit different? Okay, can you stand up and speak loudly?

1:00:37
Hello!

1:00:40
Louder! I saw something similar that was like a black rolling light. And it had sparkles, but it was above it. The black itself wasn't shiny. But the sparkles were above it.

1:00:52
Yeah.

1:00:53
Okay. That's also valid. That's a good thing. So, you know, you might see it a little bit differently. It's totally fine. But it's, you know, that's what it is. I think that's pretty much, to me, that's what it looks like. It looks like a black aura coming in, but it's got shininess. It's like those black smooth rocks. Oh, like obsidian? Yeah, is it like obsidian? It's very obsidian-like. It's very good. It's very obsidian-like. Okay, so, for those of you who didn't see it, I mean, actually, it is rolling all over the area here. So, you might just be, you know, when you go in your room, look around and go, is there anything black here?

1:01:51
There is.

1:01:53
Okay. And also, we're going to be practicing this while diving, okay? So, at some point during your dive, you're going to want to face the north, which is where it gets deeper. Alright. And yes, and if you've got compasses, you can northiate yourself. But it's really easy. It gets deeper towards the north. Just look out into the deep, neutral buoyancy. We're going to work on neutral buoyancy. I mean you could you could do negative buoyancy, doesn't matter, but let's work on having a good neutral buoyancy where you can do these exercises without floating up to the surface like an idiot. That would be good. Your buoyancy will get very good. So be very aware, right? Good, you have to have very strong toenail, make sure that you do it correctly. Otherwise, you might be at 100 feet, and then you're doing some, like, oh, I'm going to hit nirvana, and then you go, oh, no, I just surfaced. I thought I was going to nirvana, but I was going to the surface.

1:03:01
Oops.

1:03:02
OK, so you don't want to do that. All right, so we're going to do this exercise at any depth, as long as you're maintaining proper buoyancy. At any depth is fine. And you're just going to turn out to where it gets deeper and turn your hands, do the deep breathing, eight breath cycles, and just look out to the depth. You're going to be looking for this black light. It's going to be different underwater than it is here on land. So, see what you see underwater. Very simple.

1:03:45
Yes?

1:03:47
You said you want to keep breaths underwater, but maintaining buoyancy, you want to keep some air in your lungs?

1:03:52
Good point. So, maintaining neutral buoyancy while doing deep abdominal breathing. So, while you're on a reef line or negatively buoyant, you're not in a lot of trouble if you're doing deep, long inhalation and exhalation, right? However, if you're neutrally buoyant at 50 Guaranteed, you'll be going like this. And then you will be, you know, a whole atmosphere higher before you start exhaling. And then when you exhale, you'll go down another atmosphere. But probably, the air in your BCD will expand and you'll shoot up to the surface completely. You have to learn to do deep abdominal breathing while maintaining buoyancy. So what I always do is I make sure that I'm a little bit on the negative buoyancy side. I know what my depth is and I'm floating down a little bit and then I start inhaling. Then I go up a little bit, but not too much. So I have a capacity to inhale so much that I will start skyrocketing to the top, but I never inhale that much. I'm doing deep breathing, but I'm keeping a volume of air. Inhale and exhale. Slowly inhaling and exhaling. So when I have achieved neutral buoyancy with this air volume, I do deep, slow inhalation and I come up. Deep, slow exhalation and I come down. Maintaining the same amount of air. And then that way, I might come up and down 10 feet and that's it. But usually, I usually just go up and down a few feet with deep, relaxed abdominal breathing. So, we're going to practice this tomorrow. Be very, very, very, very aware and careful of your buoyancy. Relaxation, deep abdominal breathing with buoyancy. Sound good?

1:06:19
What do we tell the dive masters when we're doing those things?

1:06:23
They're going to be like, what are you doing? We can just tell the dive masters the truth. We're like, what? Yeah, actually, let's give them mystic scuba books. We have a bunch of them. Let's give them mystic scuba books and say, if you see us spacing out and not doing anything, it's because we're practicing things from this book. And they'll be like, what is it? It's very important when you tell them about the book that you say, it's breathing exercises like yoga exercises and Qigong exercises that are useful and helpful in scuba. And then that way they'll go, okay. Because if you tell them, yeah, we go underwater and we see spirits and gods, then they'll be all like, you guys are Fruit Loops. You guys are cuckoo for Cocoa Puffs. Okay, so just tell them breathing exercises, relaxation exercises like yoga and tai chi, and they'll be like, oh, you guys are from California. But that's okay. And then that way, you know, you give them a book and you tell them that's what we're going to be doing, if you see us just sitting around, that's what we're going to do. It's probably good. I'll tell them too, I'm going to go down to the, there's going to be three of us down there, three boats down there, I guess, and I'll tell them what we're doing as well. And I'll also tell them that we don't cover a lot of distance on our dives. On our dives, we just kind of go down and we might move around a little bit, but sometimes divemasters are all like, follow me! And they're like swimming. They're like, so if they do that, we're not going to get lost. You know, it's like, even with these nighttime conditions, which is windier than during the day, it's really calm out there. If you come up a hundred feet from the boat somewhere, they're going to find you. So, don't worry. Very good. Alright, I think we'll go with those exercises for tonight and tomorrow and then from there we're going to continue on. So we have more to do. Yes, question? How many dives do we have tomorrow? Two dives tomorrow. What time is the first one? Oh, I'll tell you when we start planning. So we're not even planning yet. We're just talking about the exercises.

1:09:20
Yes, question.

1:09:22
Can you articulate the negative buoyancy thing? You actually have a little bit of air in your lungs, and then a little bit in your belly. You maintain a little bit of negative buoyancy, and then you inhale that all the way, and then exhale, you're filling up all the air out of your lungs.

1:09:38
That's exactly it. So the way that I maintain buoyancy is I hold a certain amount of air and I get to a point with my BCD where I'm just a teeny bit negatively buoyant, right when I start my exercise. Then I inhale up, I come up a few feet, and then I exhale, I go down a few feet. And I maintain that slowly inhaling and exhaling, but I only go up a little bit and down a little bit. The reason why is because, just to say it again, I hold a certain amount of air in my lungs. Not my BCD, in my lungs. And then I get myself buoyant, just a teeny bit negatively buoyant, or let's say buoyant, neutrally buoyant with that much air in my lungs. And then when I inhale slowly, increasing my air volume, I come up. But I don't increase it this much because I would come up too fast. So I just slowly bring it up to here. This is my capacity, but I bring it to here and I exhale and inhale and exhale Very good. I'm glad you said that never hold your breath Don't try to have neutral buoyancy by holding your breath because that will make you positively buoyant and kill you. Yes. Okay, good. Yeah, let's start with these exercises. So the Solstice Taoist exercise is really a special opportunity for us to take in the season, very special transit, so the energy of this time, you know, like this time, this is a time of power, the solstice, and there's a special energy, this is a Taoist method to access that energy. So, this is a very cool and fantastic thing. However, when we're down there, we're going to practice the three lines, relaxation, okay? It's very important. There's another exercise that I would like to do actually with you guys tonight and also tomorrow. So, remember our Sutra exercise? I am love, I am peace. Right? Really beautiful when you do it. Really silly when you talk about it. Anyway, so we're going to do another sutra exercise, but one that's focused on healing. So what I'd like you to do right now is identify in yourself something that is wrong. It could be something physical, like your knee hurts. My knee hurts. It could be something like your back hurts. It could be something like you have a cold or a headache. It could also be something else, like you're mentally frustrated. You're depressed, you're confused, you're deluded, you don't know who you are. It could be a mental problem.

1:13:14
You know?

1:13:15
Like, let's say you've been angry for the past few weeks. I don't know why! Just pissed off, right? Anything, right? It could be emotional, right? You have a sucky boyfriend. You know, I hate my boyfriend.

1:13:29
He's so sucky.

1:13:30
You could... What I want you to identify is, what is the worst thing in yourself going on? Maybe it's a physical pain, maybe it's a mental pain, maybe it's a sucky boyfriend pain. It's a sucky boyfriend! Or whatever, right? I want you to identify that thing. And in fact, if you have all three, a pain in the back, you're crazy, and your boyfriend's horrible, then you can identify all three. But identify, try to, hopefully you just have one problem. Hopefully. But if you have two or three, it's okay. But you want to identify that serious problem in your physical body, in your mind, or in your emotional makeup. So take a moment to reflect on yourself and your situation and see what comes to mind. Okay.

1:15:07
Okay, now, you're going to make a sutra for yourself. Okay? And this sutra is going to

1:15:24
be an antidote to your problem. So let's say you have a pain in your back. So you identify, my back hurts. So then you're going to create an antidote, a healing statement about your back. So you might say something like, my back feels great. Or my back is healing. healing you have to say something that makes sense to you you might be like, oh my back oh my back feels great wait, what am I, an idiot? so you have to say something that works with you instead of saying, my back feels great when it really doesn't you say my back is healing or you might say the opposite, like my back hurts, it feels great because that gives you the energy that that you like, right? So whatever energy you believe in, my back is healing, is very good to say. My back feels great, is very good to say. My knee is healing, okay? It's a good thing to say. If it's something about your mind, you You could say, I'm not crazy. Or let's say if you've been feeling sad and depressed or something bad happened in your life that you're down about, then you could say, I am happy. I'm feeling happy. you have to make a sutra for yourself that feels good, that is positive and healing against the antidote. It's an antidote against this problem. So, then, let's say that you have a bad boyfriend. I know a lot of you guys out there have a bad boyfriend. I don't mean to get personal, but... Dharma and Kanna. Ha ha ha. Just kidding.

1:18:09
It's out.

1:18:10
It's out. Sorry, guys.

1:18:12
Alright, just kidding. Alright, so anyway, you got a bad boyfriend, right? So, if you got a bad boyfriend, then you go... You go, my boyfriend is gone. That's a good one. I don't need him. That's a good one. Those are good ones. Sitting there going, my boyfriend's great. No he's not. No he's not. So we try to look at things in a very constructive way. And things like releasing those problems are good. You know, those kinds of things are good. Maybe it's a little bit more complex, like maybe it's your father. Like, your dad's just been a jerk to you for like ever, and you're like, oh, my dad's such a jerk. I talked to my dad last week and he's a jerk. And you can't just say, I don't have a father.

1:19:25
You were nothing to me. You're a dick to me.

1:19:32
You can't do stuff like that, right? So you have to say, you know, something like, my father really loves me. And get in touch with that, or I really love my father. Because, you know, when there's complicated, difficult relationships like that, you have to start looking at them positively and constructively. Now if it's just a bad boyfriend, it's probably better that you get rid of. So you got to make it better. So I'd like you to just take a moment and identify your antidote sutras for your problem or problems. And then I'd like you to just take a moment to bring to mind the problem and then say the sutra. Just in your head, just quietly in your head, you will say the sutra. Maybe a couple times, three or four times, and then that'll be it. So we're just going to do this exercise for just about a minute. Bring to mind the physical pain, the emotional pain, the bad boyfriend pain, the craziness, the sadness, whatever the problem is, the big problem in you, bring it to mind and then we're going to practice the Sutra and to dope. And everyone has a special secret, special Sutra for just themselves. Okay, so we're Okay.

1:21:14
Alright, very nice. So this is an exercise that we're also going to do tomorrow in the

1:21:34
water because when you add the healing nature of water and reduced kind of a deeper connection of understanding and the antidote or the sutra takes on a different dimension. So this is another practice that we're going to do tomorrow when we're in the water. Very good. We'll go over all of these again at breakfast before we go out on our dives. So, if you wake up in the morning and you go, I don't remember any of the exercises. That's okay. We'll go over them. As soon as you hear them again, you'll say, ah, that's right, I can do that, no problem. Now, I would the final thing of the evening which is going to be a Buddhist transmission. And this is going to be a transmission that is associated with the Bodhisattva Diver and self-healing. We'll do this tonight. So, what I'd like is, maybe I'll sit up here. I'd like everybody to look at me. Make sure you can see me. Look around if you can't see me. Now move around. And I'd like you to keep your eyes open. Look this way. Focus on the third eye. Okay? And we're just going to sit with a meditative focus for a minute or two. Okay?

1:25:20
Let's begin. Okay. So, Okay. So so so So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. So I'm going to go ahead and get started. so so I'm going to go ahead and get started. Ha ha ha. That was good. Very nice. So, in mysticism we do some very interesting things,

1:30:35
you know, using the energy of a place, the energy of time. There's a subtle physical structure of the teaching. There's a teaching in the second attention. So these all come together. In a transmission, there is an energy, not only an energy, but there is a transference of attention in the experience of the transmission, where it shows you something of your own mind, and then in your experience from these teachings, you really gain really amazing, wonderful, mystical insight. So as we go into our experiences in diving tomorrow, we will be practicing these exercises and we'll be looking very deeply into these magical dimensions that are out there. It's going to be very fun. Now, meeting adjourned, but I would like everyone to bring me their dive logs. I'd like to see your dive log journal from your dives today, if you were diving with the dolphin, and if all you did was the exercise, I'd like you to bring it to me. Now, if you have it on a computer, you can email it to me. That would be just fine. But if you've only written it down, you must bring it to me. Good. Thank you all very much. Yes, question?

1:32:18
Some of us have not received our bags with the dive gear.

1:32:22
Okay. Now, what I'd like to do is I'd like to go and fetch dive logs and bring them and then we're going to go into dive planning mode where we're going to actually figure out what we're going to do tomorrow. But I'd like to have either the email sent to me or the dive log here. me or the dive log here.

1:32:40
No.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
