0:00:00
All right, just gonna spend a little while together. I know you guys have been here for a while. It seems to be the way it goes where you learn about it, you have experiences in it, but ultimately you do it. Excellent. And you can't let fear stop you. You have to face your fears.

0:00:42
You have to face your fears.

0:00:44
Because when you let fears stop you, you're limited. You're diverted from following your Dharma, from following the truth. So you have to recognize when things are causing you aversion. You're like, oh no, I don't want to do that. It's going to be too hard. I don't know if I'm good enough. Things like that. That's when you're letting fear stop you. And the only thing that fear does is it serves to limit you. When you say, no, no, no, I'll just hang on to these things that I know. This enlightenment business is a little too scary. Don't recognize It's good So, you know if you let fear stop you you're going to be running around like crazy

0:02:00
There is a

0:02:02
Story of a monk who he's in a monastery. This is in China and There he's in a Buddhist monastery There's a war going on. It's a period of the warring states, our favorite period. And he sees this army, the neighboring army of the enemy, destroys the first one. They're watching it from the monastery walls. And they say, uh-oh, our army lost. There's no army defending our country anymore. And these guys from this other province are just going to come in and do all these crazy things are probably going to ransack our monastery, kill us, steal everything from us, beat us. So they say that the abbot of the monastery says it's okay we will stay here we will continue our practice and this one monk One monk says, no way. He's like, these are savage, evil people. They're gonna come and kill us. So he decides to leave. So in the middle of the night, jumps over the monastery wall, leaves. And he goes clear across to the next province over. And he says, I'm just gonna be a monk meditating in the woods. And then even though he had the teachings and the structure, he just left it. So he's sitting there in the woods. And what the evil army does is, after they finish the battle, they progress through, they take the whole state as theirs, but they leave the Buddhists alone. They say, just Buddhists. They're harmless. So we leave him alone, they go over to the next province where he is, and the way that they decide to start attacking, they set fire to the forest. So he becomes barbecued monk. Driven by his fear. It's like a story a German guy, just as World War II starts to break out, he's like, you know, World War I didn't go so well. And this Hitler guy is crazy. He's like, I'm going to go as far away from this war stuff as I can. I'm going to get out of here. And he goes, you know, the one, he's like, I'm getting that in Europe, you know where I'm gonna go? Japan.

0:04:56
A little town called Hiroshima. I just made that up. However, you know, that can happen.

0:05:09
What happened?

0:05:10
What happened?

0:05:11
What happened?

0:05:12
What happened? What happened? What happened? What happened?

0:05:16
What happened?

0:05:17
What happened?

0:05:18
What happened?

0:05:19
What happened? What happened?

0:05:21
What happened? What happened?

0:05:23
What happened? What happened?

0:05:25
What happened? What happened?

0:05:27
What happened?

0:05:28
What happened? What happened? What happened?

0:05:31
What happened?

0:05:32
What happened?

0:05:33
What happened? What happened? What happened?

0:05:36
What happened? What happened?

0:05:38
The monk of the monastery. Oh, you guys turned the heat up high,

0:05:41
because it was cold. Now it's getting warm,

0:05:44
so you guys can start taking a nap. Okay, it's getting warm here.

0:05:47
Okay.

0:05:48
Yes.

0:05:49
But it's important to do it right, to follow the pathway with earnestness, to follow it with purity, with humility, and then that way it really works. Because if you don't, if you don't do it right, then you run into a lot of struggle and strife and you kind of really miss the point. It's like husband and wife, they're having a real hard time together, so they're always bickering and fighting and having difficulty. And they're on vacation going to the Grand Canyon, and they're at the Grand Canyon, there's this beautiful view in front of them, and they're sitting there arguing, arguing about peanut butter sandwich. Arguing, arguing, arguing. And then they spend a couple hours arguing and then leave, go back to, you know,

0:06:57
wherever in the Midwest where they're from.

0:06:59
And then they're like, yeah, we went to the Grand Canyon. And then they show their pictures.

0:07:06
Everyone's bored looking at them.

0:07:07
And they had no experience, right? No experience. No, no, you can stand in front of the Grand Canyon and meditate and still your mind and have an amazing experience. They hardly even looked at it. They're just caught up in their own minds. So most people do. Vacations, they're caught up in their own mind. They're in, they're wrapped inside some kind of dramas, irritations, dissatisfactions. And they can't experience a greater truth, a greater reflection of the higher self. So it's important to deal with purity. There is one last story. It was a woman in India of a noble family. She was very powerful, very crafty. She was very good at getting ahead, getting over on people, kind of manipulating people. She didn't do anything really horrible, but she got her way. And she just knew how to manipulate everyone and get what she wanted. So she had a nice big mansion and lands and all sorts of stuff. Buddha was coming to town, so she's like, I'm gonna snag this guy. She's like, I'm gonna get over on him so that he says good things to me, he says good things about me. She just has her agenda. So she sends word that Buddha and his monks are invited to camp in her mango orchard. Whatever, right? And so Buddha and his monks come, and then she's like, okay, now I'm gonna get in there, and I'm gonna work my little manipulation on this guy. So she goes into the orchard, and she is looking for this Buddha guy and she sees him. And she sees like this light around him. And she immediately recognizes that her manipulations are just And so it's like a pivotal moment for her where she realizes she can abandon manipulation, which was a huge immediate act of humility. And then eventually, just a few days later, she becomes a Buddhist monk. She joins the Sangha. So she recognized, even though she had lots of power and capability, she recognized that enlightenment, doing it right, the truth, is so much more powerful than any way of the self. And then she became an Arhant, which is one of the enlightened students of the Buddha. So that is the path we seek. We seek this path to let go of all the desires and fears, and to really recognize the light, to see to the mirror of the Dharma, our higher self, our enlightened self. And then to follow that way and to experience and cultivate the greater vision until we do it yourself enlightenment. All right, so just a soft focus on

0:11:53
so so so so so Thank you all very much. All right, so now What I'm going to be doing is I'm going to be releasing you in small portions First I'm going to release the guests I'm going to speak with my students and then I need to subdivide students and meet with you for moments so for moments. So guests, I'd like to thank you for coming. And good job. Yeah, but really, thanks. It was a pleasure. And if you would, let's take a little break and then the guests can head on out. And then I'm just going to be a few minutes if you've got a ride here or if you want to hang out and talk to the person inside of you.

0:17:16
I'll just be a few minutes with my students. OK, thank you all. And for the rest of you students, hang around.

0:17:24
We will chat about a few things.

0:17:27
All right. You guys.

0:18:02
See, I made a nice, happy meditation because we had guests. Well, you know what it's like. You're in death ground. So, might as well have a fun time. And yeah, since Dalnajit was able to come here and give us this beautiful presentation, I was just like, you know those people who's been saying they wanna come? It would be good, it would be good if they can come. Because it's a perfect experience to have a, I saw that Dharma, it was sitting there.

0:18:49
Just looking for that one.

0:18:51
Alright, so, yeah. They were cool.

0:18:55
That's good.

0:18:56
They have karma.

0:18:59
But we all can overcome karma. Oh yeah, so, I want to tell you specific things, like who won the marketing competition.

0:19:17
Exciting, right?

0:19:17
Okay, first of all, I just wanna say some cool things that happened that I remember. All right, so, something What Matters Now did. So, Savitri got a retweet by the Huffington lady, Joanna Huffington, you guys know the Huffington Post? She's got like 1.5 million followers. So that is a huge thing. That was the big success that I've heard of in retweeting. Let's see, another one that I heard that's really good is Juniru, they did that Harlem video thingy, you know, on YouTube, and they got 35,000 views. 35,000. I was so impressed when Event Pearl got like 800 in like a day or something. I was like, wow, that's amazing. But they got 35,000, and I'll tell you how they did it. They did a little trick. I remember I was exercising one morning and Collie comes over and she says, we got 4,000 overnight, 4,000 views overnight. And I said, wow, that's amazing. We've never done anything like that before. And then Hanuman texts her, hey, I bought 5,000 views. It was $17.95. But you know what that did was it put them higher up in the YouTube search universe and then they got, they went higher. So we, so this is how we start to learn about how, you know, how to do things. If we really want to do that, pay 20 bucks and maybe it gets higher up and it takes off more. So that was really good job with our Harlem shaky thing. You guys all saw the Event Pearl stuff.

0:21:20
Hilarious.

0:21:21
And we have like, I don't know, like 100 videos out there. And a lot of them are about parties too. So, you know, I think over time that's going to get attention. So I think that was set up very nicely. And they just had so much fun. There's so much light in the video that we did. My teeth, my teeth. Let's see. Votable got users and conversions.

0:21:45
Like they stepped up their attention to their site

0:21:48
and they stepped up their conversion rate, huge. I love one of their campaigns. They went to like five universities and colleges on a postering mission and they had this one poster. I'm sure you guys all saw it. It's a blonde and a brunette and it says, blonde or brunette, you decide, or you choose, Photable.com. And I was like, yeah, that could go viral. And then Nav had a counter poll.

0:22:34
It was these two guys with their shirts off.

0:22:37
And it was just kind of mostly a focus on their body. And it's like, blonde or brunette. Only I couldn't tell which one was rippling pectorals. That would go good too. I think those are simple ways to get attention. So I really like that. That was a cool thing. I really like how verbal thinking really wanted to pick up. Let's see, what else do I like? Who else? Oh yeah, AppBuddy. So AppBuddy increased their sales. So actual sales is good. Sales goes a long, long, long way. Is there any other one that I'm forgetting? WedBuddy. Oh yeah. WedBuddy did something similar that's cool. So they bought Twitters, Twitter followers. How many? Like 4,000 or something? 2,000. They bought Twitter followers. And again, it's like, that just gives you, you know, when someone looks at you and you're tweeting and you have more followers, they start to believe.

0:24:13
They're like, Neo.

0:24:14
I believe, you know?

0:24:16
So this is a good thing, you know?

0:24:18
It's like, if you're like, I really need to have more of an impact on Twitter. Buy it, buy that impact. So I like that. Let's see, one other really cool thing that WebBuddy's doing is they have their partners going to a wedding convention and they ask for, they're all, hey, can you give us actually promotional pamphlets about you? We want to promote you as one of our services. So they're out, so their partners are promoting them. That's super, that's very cool.

0:24:58
Yeah, so let's see,

0:24:59
it's probably some other cool stuff going on.

0:25:01
Hobson, oh yeah, what did Hobson do again?

0:25:04
Oh, okay, there's a really cool thing about Twitter, which is Shen. You must know, right?

0:25:16
Shen tweets.

0:25:18
Shen tweets a lot. And he tweets funny things. They're funny, and he's working it in a neat way. So, he's always been that way. He's always been saying these weird little one-liners. But now he's found a place for it. So I had the, I had the marketing team go through everything, really understand everything. They created a whole model for judging and they came up with what they thought the scores were. And then I reviewed it and I actually have some things that are a little bit different. So I actually came up with a completely different order. There's some things that I think have a bigger impact. But the one thing we agreed on was who the top winner was. I definitely agreed with that as well. So the top winner, and I'm not gonna discuss the runner-ups, AppBuddy. AppBuddy. AppBuddy.

0:26:36
AppBuddy.

0:26:37
AppBuddy.

0:26:38
AppBuddy.

0:26:38
AppBuddy.

0:26:39
AppBuddy.

0:26:40
AppBuddy.

0:26:41
AppBuddy won. AppBuddy won. AppBuddy won. AppBuddy won. AppBuddy won.

0:26:45
And AppBuddy, yeah, seriously kicked ass. And they brought sales up. So the increase in sales in that period of time is a significant mark, shows me a significant marketing factor. Plus, they just, you know, did everything. So it's very good okay all right so we are going to have a party. So we're going to have a party. It will be a dance party. We'll probably come up with some strange costume theme. We might turn it all into a Harlem shake. I'll have to see. So that's something that's going to happen. We're gonna have a Bodhi Woods work day one of these days too. So we'll observe the weather and things like that and possibly it might be next weekend. And it's an optional one, of course. I know a lot of people doing things with yoga. But sometimes it's good to get out in the dirt. So that's coming up too. And I'll let you know when that exactly comes up. There's a book I'd like all of you to read by the Equinox and that book is called The Lean Startup and I listened to it I got it on Audible, so if you have a commute, you can also listen to it. But this is mandatory reading or listening. I would like everyone to have the experience of understanding this. It's a really great book, there's a lot of great examples, and they really tell you a very clean, lean, and agile way to actually get your company to succeed. So it's a way that we need to start having in our vocabulary. Very important. succeed. So it's a way that we need to start having in our vocabulary. Very important. So the lean startup.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
