0:00:00
All right, so after the solstice trips, they were very very very nice, wonderful trips, I started to do some seeing to see how we can succeed this year and I saw this really cool thing. It's called sales. So we're going to be making a big effort in the next six months to succeed in sales. And we're going to really use this as an opportunity to see if our products, if our products are working. They work if you sell them. First you have to have them, then you have to sell them. Then you have a business, then you have success. So we are going to have a very, very, very strong focus on sales until the summer solstice. If we get to the summer solstice and we don't have sales, then we will end whatever project that is. So we really have to prove our products, prove them through sales. So we have cool products and we did something cool. We built version 1 of the products usually in about six months and then the second six months we kind of built version two and we also started like marketing and sales we started that process but now coming out of the solstice we're going to be fully focused committed to selling our products and and this will be our opportunity to see if they're viable. If they're viable, we will sell. But we have to be we have to be serious about sales. So we're going into sales mode. You might do some development as well. You might have a feature that you have to complete because you know that if that feature is there, you're going to have greater greater sales. But everything that you do, even if it's QA or if it's coding something, everything that you do is going to be focused on sales. So for example, with AppBuddy, they are taking on a whole new feature because they have three big customers who say, if you had that, we would buy. So they're going to code it, which is a pretty significant feature, but they're good coders so it won't take them too long. But it is a big development round, so it takes a little bit of their resources away from the sales that they're doing, because they know that there's a bigger payoff when they have that feature. So everything you do is for sales. Everything that you do is for sales. This has to be your new mindset. Whatever you're doing is for sales. And hopefully you're also selling. So when you're selling, you are either marketing your product or you're directly contacting prospects and saying buy my software.

0:03:43
So,

0:03:44
we're moving into an important time to see if we can really sell our software. Of course, we mostly have training in computer programming and not sales as much. However, switching into sales mode means that you learn to be a salesman. My teacher used to say, I sold you on meditation.

0:04:25
It's kind of true.

0:04:27
I'm sitting around thinking a lot. Wasting my time, twiddling my thumbs.

0:04:32
And I do it, so yeah.

0:04:33
So, yeah, sales is always an important thing. I remember when I was learning, first I was pretty bad at learning to be a computer programmer, but then I went into sales and I was pretty bad at that. I was afraid because that I couldn't talk to large groups of people. I had never given a presentation or anything. I was just a nerd with a computer. A bad nerd. And so when I went into into doing sales yoga I was really afraid. Oh man, that was ridiculous. First I was afraid of computers, then I was afraid of sales, afraid of talking to people, and I was also very introverted. So you guys might not notice it now, but I used to be really introverted. So I had to overcome my fear and my, you know, being a quiet little person thing, which was my karma, I had to overcome that to do sales. So I remember the first actual sales meeting I had was in Boston, and there were these three guys in this some company, company and I was sitting there giving them a demo on my laptop. So they're sitting there watching and I'm like clicking and you know I memorized the first part of my demo so I said it. I said it and then I was like okay now I'll just click here and we'll really get into it and then I noticed that they were really listening and I was like whoa these three old white guys are listening to me. Oh my God. I was so nervous. And then I just did lots and lots and lots and lots and lots and lots and lots and lots of sales. Lots of cold calls. I don't know. Some days I was doing 50 cold calls a day. My boss day, my boss was like, what are you doing? I'm like, nothing. That was before cell phones. I would do calls from my cubicle when no one was around. I tried everything. I had to make my calls. So I just had to overcome all of my fear and overcome ideas of who I thought I was. And I did, by really just trying, by putting myself out there and saying, I'm going to do this one way or another. And even though it was very, very, very scary for me, I just did it. And actually, I have to say, for me, sales was easier than, it was easier for me to do sales than technology. Technology was much scarier. And I was like, sales? I guess I, I mean, what, you don't have to be smart to do sales, so. You don't have to be good at math to do sales. So I could do sales. That's what I figured when it came around to doing sales yoga. But eventually I got really good at computer programming. I did. But I was really scared of it and I had really big ideas I couldn't do it. And then in sales I was just all, oh, I'm just afraid of talking to to people. I've got to figure out how to talk to people. So yeah, sales is good. So I actually got good at sales for a while. I was the top salesperson in my yoga project. And yeah, it was really cool. It was very cool. And then I found myself, you know, able to be very good on the phone, talking to people, and giving presentations, very good at presentations. So I remember one time I was at Citibank, and I was giving a presentation to this big boardroom filled with like 20 people, and I was like, oh, and there was some other vendor. We were both giving demos, competitor. And I was like, this is really good. I was working the room. I was totally dissing my competitor's product and my competitor. I was all, look, you would never want a guy wearing a tie like that telling you, I want to build your systems. So it was great. Yeah, so I gained a lot of confidence. And then after that sales cycle ended, I was able to just, I guess, promote myself a lot better. So that's when my personal consulting rate went up really high, because I was selling software pretty successfully and when I didn't have to sell that anymore I was like, wow, selling myself is really easy. I already know this product. So I was really, really good and I really got to jump rates to things that are way above the market rates. So there's a way to do that. And the best way is sales. So we are at a time of sales where you gotta make sales. Who here is making sales?

0:10:41
Raise your hand.

0:10:42
Boy, hardly any of you, huh? Golly. Okay, so here's the thing. Let's think about things differently. Like I said, if you're coding now, coding something, you're not just coding it so that the product works. right? You are coding to make sales. So if you're coding something or doing QA, whatever you do is sales. Bodhidharma said that. In 1984, he said, whatever I do is sales. He said whatever I do is Zen. But it was in 1984. So it's really important that you recognize that your energies change now, your energy switch over to, I'm doing sales. Even in fact if you have to code you have to do sales. But if you're coding you need to you need to ask your yoga teacher how you can also focus on sales. Say what am I doing? Can I be promoting this somehow by doing some marketing or something? What can I do? Because if you code something and it's cute and it works and then your yoga team does not succeed in sales, then who cares if you made something cute that works? Because in the summer I'll say, okay that was nice, let's move on to something else. We have to move on to something that actually works that we can actually make sales with. So and we might see that a couple yoga projects make sales and then and some don't which means that we'll reallocate resources to the places where you where we make sales. So this means that if you care about your yoga project, it's time to make sales. So now I'm going to ask again, how many of you are doing sales?

0:12:58
Yes, okay, good.

0:13:01
Thank you.

0:13:03
Good.

0:13:04
Yeah, so sales, sales, sales. We have to focus on sales. I meet with the yoga teachers and I say, what are people doing? And I'll be getting more focused on what you're doing for sales. So you might be coding, you might be doing QA, you might be doing features or something, but you will be doing it for sales. And you might be taking on new activities as well. So sales is good. And in doing sales, you really have to make a shift. You can't be yourself. You've got to get focused on what you're supposed to do, which is sell. So a lot of times when you guys are doing sales, you're not using your intent, you're just like on the phone going, Hi, I'm here. Hey, I have something to say. I'm saying words at you. Can I get your email address so I can email words at you too? So, you know, really the idea is that when you're talking to someone, you are selling them. You have to, you are focused on getting the sale. And you have to be relentless. You have to be like, I'm not going to just let you off the phone. We need to move the sales process ahead. I need to have an understanding that we are going from here to here. So you have to know what your sales process is, what those milestones are, and you have to get every phone call to move ahead. So you have to be focused on your sales. So when you're doing sales your intent gets stronger. You get very focused on the end results and you have to push for them. You have to grab people's attention and you have to negotiate that you move ahead. You have to start using willpower. Did you see the movie Glen Gary Glen Ross? Yeah? See that movie ABC. ABCs always be closing. When we were in Chicago, we ran into this sales group called Samurai Selling and it's not the book. You know, it's not the guys who do the book. So I first asked them, are you the guys who do the book? They said, no, we're our own thing. You guys know Samurai Selling the Book, right? Yes, of course. Okay, so we ran into this company called Samurai Sales and these were interesting fellows. So the head guy he... it was it was Dharma and I and we were at some kind of business meeting mixer or something and he was trying to get us to buy sales coaching services from him and I think coaching is lame so I was like I'm like no way you know like I don't want sales coaching so but he was trying to sell us on it so I thought it was interesting I was like we'll see how well he does. It's like this is a product I'm totally not interested in, even though it's something I'm trying to do, trying to do sales. So he just sat there, he talked to us for four hours. Long sales pitch. And he said many, many, many interesting things. But the whole time, he was closing. His energy was closing. Darmo was very uncomfortable. And he's like, can we go? And I'm like, no, no. We're going to wait until he stops. So it was really interesting because I just got to observe his pitch. And this guy was a real awesome salesperson. So So, there's some salespeople who just go through the steps and they're not very good, but there's some salespeople who have power, and he was a salesperson with power. So there's something that they do with their navel, with their will, they will the sale. You will the sale. So this guy was willing the sale on us, made Dharma very uncomfortable. And for me, I was just like, how? I was just observing the things he's using, the techniques he's using. It's really cool. I learned a lot from him. Anyway, we ended up working together, not through hiring him as a coach, but working on some sails together. And so I got to hang around those guys more, and they're very, very, very cool. But this guy was always trying to sell us on something. He was ABCing. He was always B-closing. So Glen Gary Glen Ross is a long, painful movie to watch, but it's about sales, and there are some super strong sales moments. And it's about like, it's totally like New York sales. Not California sales. California sales is like a little more passive aggressive. In New York, it's just aggressive. So it's kind of interesting. But there's one moment where a character in the film, not a very good salesman, but a salesman played by Jack Lemmon. He's just talking about how he makes the offer and then he's just quiet and waiting for them to say yes. And he's like, sis, sis, he's like, so would you like to buy it? And he just waits. And he waits like five minutes and they're like quiet. He doesn't say anything, they don't say anything, and then finally the customer goes, okay. And what he did was he was just willing, willing, willing. That's one thing in sales too, like ask for something and then shut up. Because you're just like, so you think you can do this? And then the customer is all... Because you put it on them to figure out a solution. They're all, I want to say no, but how am I going to...

0:20:10
I guess, sure.

0:20:12
But a lot of salesmen are like, you want to do this? Here's how we can do it. Or what about this? They just talk too much and they keep on offering too many things. But if you just know where you want to go and give them enough information and ask for it, and then wait. It's a technique that works. There's all sorts of fun little techniques in sales that are just sales techniques that are fun. But the main thing in sales is know where you're going. Like when you're talking to someone, what do you want to get out of this? You know, like you have to be very clear what you want to get done when you're talking to a customer. And then the second part is, you will your sale. You will it. You're like, I'm going to make this happen. So for me, I was like, I got to do sales because it's yoga. So that means that I have to do it and then I worked like really hard but I was really using my willpower to succeed. When you're good at sales, you're good at interviewing, you're good at getting contracts, you're good at getting high rates. Yeah and that's that's a big part of succeeding in your career. It's a funny thing, but selling yourself is the difference between making $60,000 a year or $360,000 a year. It's not your skills, it's better to sell a product, because if you're just selling yourself, you only have, you know, eight or ten or twelve hours in a day to work on something. But if you're selling a product, then your product just keeps selling. It can sell at a higher scale. So I always like selling products over services. But services are good too, especially if they're with products. So sales, sales, sales. For you phone callers, how do you think you do in terms of intent? In terms of knowing where you're going on your phone call. And in terms of willing it. Like for the wed buddy phone callers, you should be closing half of your calls. For someone who answers, you should be closing them while you're talking to them on the phone. It's such an obvious sale. It's totally in their interest. So if you're just calling to give them information and then go away, I think you're being afraid. I think you need to say, the point of this is that I get the sale. I'm calling someone and telling them how they can make more money by working with me. Is that in their interest? Yeah. Like don't you want to make more money? Sure. You know, so let's do this now. And then whatever they come up with as objections, you need to learn to overcome the objections. Because the idea is so simple, it's so easy, it's so in a way that benefits the person that you're selling, that these should be sales that you can close on the phone. And then, you know, we have to go through the process of making sure that they, that they use the site properly and that they do use the site with all of their customers, that they are very aware of what their benefits are. And, and, you know, that, so that affiliate program that we have to go through, it's just an education program and a little bit of account executive management so that you know that you know they're doing things right but the idea you should be able to get them to say yes why would they say no some of them will say no because of weird reasons a lot of them will say yes so you guys need to have the intent to close the sale on the phone, then you have to know what your next bottom steps are. But you have to get them moving along. But if you can close the sale on the phone, then you've, you know, you didn't just make the cold call, you made a sale. And this is such an obvious sale that you have to have the intent to sell and to will it to make it happen make that sale happen sell them right then and there on the phone see see the difference in the way that you guys are doing things I think a lot of the phone callers on wedbuddy are getting on the phone and saying stuff and not really pushing for the end result. You have to have a stronger willpower. And you've got to get over yourself. You're clogging up success with your self in the way. So, intent, know what you're going for and will make it happen. So I want to see the wed buddy numbers go up because it's it's this is not very good this is kind of ridiculous it is the most obvious sale you just if you get off if you get you know people who say no for this reason or that reason you just have to break down their opposition. Someone says no because of this I'd be like, what? Really? No. Think about it. Or the boiler room. You guys see that? Another sales movie. And that one is where it's a good cold call movie. Because they're just all, just get on the phone with them and just say anything to keep them on the phone and keep going on them. So when you have your intent set for what you are going to accomplish in sales, then anyone brings up an objection and you just deal with it. You're like, what? Oh no, what about this? What about that? Let's get back to this benefit. Aren't you interested in that benefit? So if you have your intent set, even if they put up roadblocks you will you will overcome them because you want to. Because you know where you're going and you're gonna will that set. So that's a that's a good thing. You know the thing is in America we're marketed to like crazy. We don't want to get something we don't want someone to sell us. It's a pain. Even if it's something that's great. Like someone calls me and says, don't you want to make more money by doing this? I'd be like, yeah, no. I'm being marketed to and sold all the time. This comes on the radar as a pain in the ass. So the only way that you're going to overcome the pain of a sale, the pain of change, of them doing something different, is by giving them strong benefits. You have to have strong benefits. A big strong benefit is this is a way you can make more money doing what you do now you know, it's like you don't have to do anything different but you're gonna make more money they're like, hmm, who can argue with that? it's a strong benefit and you know, so you just spell out those benefits, spell out those benefits, why would they say no? why would they say no? They wouldn't. So this is an easy sale. I want to see these numbers go up. I think that you guys are stuck in your heads, don't have your intent, and you're not pushing your will. Are you guys all using the same call script? No? What's the best call script? Use it. So you know, this doesn't need a personalized call script. This needs a good call script. Simple, good call script. Unify your call scripts. Some of you will find that a general good call script to you seems weird or cold or not you, and I would say, excellent. You're like, I sound like a robot. Perfect! Be a sales robot. Hello, I am calling you to offer you a great product today. I am relentless. Linda never came back? Uh oh. Who knows what happened? She might have gotten lost. Okay, so we're making some changes in the thingy thing. We're making some changes in our teams. we are adding a new yoga project.

0:30:31
Now the reason we're adding a new yoga project when we're focused on sales

0:30:36
is because it's a Mandala project. So Mandala came to me in the middle of December and she said, I have a yoga project idea and I want to know if you and the Sangha want to work on it. And I said, yeah, because I think she has good ideas. And she's an impeccable professional yogi. So she had this idea to do an agile product. You know, you guys know agile. It's a cool popular framework. But she has had experiences with it where she's seen similar patterns at different places in different projects where people run into problems. And then she has, in her work experience, overcome those problems that people have in facilitating Agile. So her idea is basically to make a product that is kind of like an Agile coach. So it's maybe a little bit higher level than a lot of the Agile tools. It's not a project management tool, but it will be something that creates tasks that would then go into a project management tool. And it really will get the customers to think about the right things, ask the right questions, think things through well enough so that they can do Agile effectively. So it's a really cool opportunity. And the other cool thing I like about it is that, you know, you guys know Agile, right? So it's like lots of little iterations, little sprints. So this is going to be sprinting right into sales immediately. And there's a huge focus on sales right away. So Mandala doesn't want to waste time, which is great. She's like, I want this thing to make money and we should just, you know, start making money right out of the gate. I think that's fantastic and exciting and and so, you know, it's like we're gonna do the agile product and service offering in an agile way. So this is cool. Now, we're putting a good team on this one. We're putting Nav, Elizabeth, and Christy, Ahimsa, Sandra, and Wanda on as the developers. We're also putting Ajna on because Ajna failed. Ajna, to understand Ajna's failure, you have to understand that he was given a difficult thing for himself. So he's always been very good at having one project and doing it extremely well. And then a couple of years ago, I said, Ajna, you have to break out of that. I mean, it's good that you can do one project, but now it's time for you to grow. You need to be able to do multiple projects to be able to put your second attention into two or more yoga structures and to be effective in what you call multitasking. And then he did horribly on all of them. And he was really frustrated. Why is this? I suck all of a sudden. And I'm like, well, it's because you're trying to learn how to do things in a different way where you could be more effective if you can do this. And he just never did it. He just didn't do it. He's like, how do I do it? I don't have enough hours. I said, you have to use your second attention. Come on, wake up. But then he just never did it. He got swamped by it. So I was like, okay, we're gonna let you stop now. So now he's going on the Agile project. So the last time he was amazing in yoga was when he was working with Mandala, just focusing on the yoga project with her. So now he's going back into his comfort zone. So we should see Ajna have a great transformation back. But then he's going to have... so he can cure from this, but eventually he's got to learn. This is an important thing for certain people at certain times to learn not just to be able to do one thing but be able to do many things. So we'll get back to that Ajna, you're not off the hook. But now he's very very happy and excited about the Agile project. So he's a good fellow. Okay, we're going to just be just making one change to votable. We're adding Igor to votable. So we're taking Igor off of Edomoticon because Igor has not really learned to do yoga. He's very, very strong technologist. But he's like, no, my work style is different. He's like, I don't do anything for like five days. Then on the sixth day, I do a whole bunch of work. And I was like, yeah, well, that's lame.

0:36:37
You have to learn to be consistent.

0:36:40
You have to develop discipline. And he's like, oh. He's like, ooh. So I'm putting him on votable because he actually works at the votable house during the day. So he's actually there. He works with Ganesha on his day job. So they'll be together more. And I think since he's got the day job with Ganesha and then when it rolls into yoga, I think he'll do better. So we're moving Ajna and Igor from Enomoticon to the dead weight. We're taking on another project as well. So Kamala has a brother-in-law who's he's an MBA and he's also almost done getting his law degree in corporate law. He's a very business-oriented fellow. His family is very wealthy. They have lots of money. So what he wants to do is he has a software idea and he will sell it. So I'm like, oh, you will sell it? And you've got resources? Okay, I'm calling it at the moment. And what it is, is it's a place where a customer could say, hey, I want a service. So let's say there's 20 categories, and you say, I need someone to fix my fence. I need someone to help me mend my fences. And you'll describe, a customer will describe what they need, they'll take a picture, they'll put all the information there and say, you know, tell me how much. And then let's say there's the category, for the category of you know, fence fixers, there's ten businesses, you know, contractors who say oh someone's looking for something to, you know, some contract work, some carpentry work or whatever, and then they have a place to go and look for a customer. There's a customer saying, hey I want to spend some money and have you do something. And then they say, oh look there's a place. And then they basically say I'll provide this service for this cost. And then the customer gets you know five or ten of these guys and says oh this is the one I will choose. So has anyone heard of LoanTree? It's like LoanTree or the insurance companies do it as well but they do it for very fixed information. You know you put you fill in this information you can get a loan anywhere and that's why LoanTree works so cool. Same thing with the insurance companies. However this is a lot more loose. This is you know a lot more based on what someone says and a picture they give. And then the service providers, like the contractors would say, well, I will do this for you. And for this price, another person might say, um, I'm just gonna duct tape it, but it's gonna be cheaper. Someone will say, I'm gonna build you a home defense. You know, so they can offer different things at different prices. So it's cool, it's great for users because a user says, wow, you know, what do you normally have to do if you want to get your fence fixed? Call a few contractors, see if they're available, ask them how much it's going to cost, tell them the problem, they probably have to come out and look at it. This is a weird process, right? So if a customer could say, here's all my information, here's what I have to say, here's my pictures in one place and then 10 contractors come back with offers, then they say, wow, that's cool, time-saving, easier for me and I have guys who are kind of bidding against each other. And so it's cool for the customer and it's also cool for a business because business says I know where to look to get a customer if I want to give a good deal. So it's a neat idea. So that one we're going to put what we're going to do here is we're going to have a couple people working on two projects so Lachman, Hanuman, and Kali are going to additionally take on this project. So that's just a good team that could build this out, I think, fairly quickly. You guys are going to stay on Edomoticon because you have to see Iida Moticon through. But I think you guys are capable of doing both. I think Iida Moticon, you know, besides coupons, it seems to be there. Yes. What is Iida Moticon? You don't even know what Iida Moticon is? You guys don't know? Oh, top secret of the project. Let's see. Okay, so Inamodokan is, you got a little iPhone and you can send something funny to your friends. Now what we what we try to do is we try to take memes from the internet that are very very very popular and then we do something else to them to make them funnier and also product related. So and they're pretty funny. So we're working on funny. We're working on computer humor. And these things are pretty funny. They make me laugh. And that's a good sign. Yeah, so basically, you'll send your friend a little, like, we have a honey badger one. So you'll send your friend a little honey badger. But the honey badger in the little thing you send him, it's just this little clip, but he's like chasing a hamburger. And then it's just it's funny, but he's chasing a hamburger. Now at the end of the little clip, they also have little games, at the end of a little thing that you see, then there's a coupon, basically, a promotion for a hamburger. So you're like, I'm going to send my friend this funny thing, one, because it's funny, two, because I know my friend likes hamburgers. And then they go, oh, look, it's the Honey Badger. Oh, he's chasing a hamburger. That's funny. And it is kind of funny. So and then when it ends, you're like, oh look, you know, buy one cheeseburger, get one free at McDonald's. Okay, I guess I'll do that. So this is what we call social network marketing. So people are marketing to their friends based on their interest of memes that they think is funny, and products that they like. So you know like if you're in high school you might say I'm sending this one about potato chips to my friend because after school we're gonna go and buy potato chips or hamburgers and things like that. So we call it Eat-A-Modicon because it's something about food but it's not all but we're just calling it that at the moment. It's not only about food, it's about other things as well. They make money...exactly. So they get their coupons. I mean we have a problem with coupons right now, but the idea is that they're going to get their coupons by doing an affiliate program with Groupon or Living Social or something like that. And then if someone redeems, then you get money. That's a simple one. And it's really cool. I think it's a super, super, super fun thing and cool thing and could be really huge. Because in terms of marketing, it's a neat idea to have people basically marketing to their friends. And in terms of using the thing, it makes getting a coupon from your friend palatable when they're sending you something really funny. So you're just like, this is really funny. Oh, wait. I'm going to go buy that cheeseburger. Why not? The promo code is sitting on my phone and I'm right next to McDonald's, you know? So that's the Edamoticon. So the Edamoticon team, now that it doesn't have Ajna, is kicking ass. Ajna was dragging it down. It was actually Ajna had a dream. I think it was the time you were there, Karuna, right? Yeah. Ajna had a dream. We are having this magical, creative thing happening and then Ajna had the dream where where people were sending him hamburgers. Yeah, it's really funny. Okay, yeah, so, Inamodokan is coming along, looks really, really, really good. Now we have to get into the marketing, you know, now we have to get into how are we getting it really, really, really, really get it out there. Because getting it out there is the key to success. So it's a free app. That's the great thing. And it jumps on the memes. And memes are awesome because you could look at YouTube and say, Look, 50 million people like this.

0:47:54
Cool.

0:47:57
Maybe some people who use our app will also like this. And then we kind of mess with the memes, make them funny, product focused. And then they end up with a coupon, which they will say a coupon about hamburgers, coffee, french fries, potato chips, candy bars. So stuff that should be very accessible while someone's got a mobile device. So someone's all like, hey my friend sent me this, it's really funny, oh cheeseburgers! Yeah so I think it could be a super awesome thing. I can't believe you guys don't even know about it. Okay moving on. We're making some changes to what matters now. So we're adding some people to what matters now. It's going to be Victoria, Morgan, and Jackie. So I took everybody off of What Matters now for a while because I wanted Savitri to do something and she's done something. So she got the 1440 Foundation grant, so she's got some cash flow, and now the former CEO of Juniper, this guy who's a billionaire, is going to be working with her once a week to promote it. So he's the head of the foundation, and he's got connections, and he's got money, and he's got his own PR firm for his thing. So he's going to really really work together and do some great things so we need a little bit more support on what matters now. Yes okay now app buddy we're adding Tara because Tara is a Salesforce programmer and Dharma and Parvati are really really kind of fixed into their sales process or whatever they're doing. They're doing so much. They're doing development, they're doing everything they can at full capacity but we have this customers that say hey if you had this I would buy it therefore Tara comes in and builds it so Tara will come in and build it and then Fumito will QA it and then AppBuddy. We are adding a couple people officially who are probably already there right now. Katya and Blanca. So you two are the added bonuses to WedBuddy. And you will be doing sales and coding probably. So it's totally fine if you're doing coding as long as you're also doing sales and that you really really focus on your sales. So for WebBuddy what we're scaling back on is the is the extra stuff. So there's no more UI training classes, there's no more intro meditation classes, there's still martial arts because you gotta exercise any sometime. But the meditation and UI training, we're going to stop that. We're going to just focus on product sales. Yeah, because the Kini and Raja keep telling me that it's a lot, you know, that they're doing and I'm like, okay, let's take this extra stuff off. Focus on sales. If you're not a computer programmer yet, and all you do is focus on sales into the summer, that'll be good. That'll be good. It'll be good for your personal power. It'll be good for your yoga. And then we will come around to training you in technology more. But if you can do QA or if you can do some coding, even if it's on your own, do it. It will make you stronger. Okay, and what else are we doing? Oh yeah, we're adding one person to the Hobson US sales team, Julie. She's not here. Julie is from the Hungarian Sangha. She came for a visit, and she's going to be staying for three months to see if she can do sales. So she really wants to come to America, but the only way that she could be here is if we have a yoga project that supports her. So she's been doing European Hobson sales, and now she's going to be doing US Hobson sales. US is a more successful market for Hobson right now. So she's gonna be trying to increase Hobson sales by 25%, which she should be able to do. Like no one's done Hobson sales for a while. Like I think it was like 20 years ago when Connors father was doing Hobson sales. Like right now they just sit there and customers just find them and ask for stuff. People just call up and order. They don't do anything. But when when when Kana's father was actually cold calling and doing sales the company made ten times more money. So she's just going to try to bring it up a quarter of a percent. No, a quarter of a percent. 25% instead of a thousand percent. So I think that this is something positive for Hobson and would be really good for Julie. Do you guys know Julie? She's nice. Anyway, you will meet her. She'll be around. Okay, last we're creating a marketing team. So we're going to pull our resources of marketers from each team and create a go-to market Dharma, Renee, Ava, Sarah, and Vajra. So Dharma, Renee, and Ava were directors of marketing at some point. Sarah's got lots of marketing. She's working in marketing. And then Vajra is on the team too because he internetedly markets his own products, and that's his day job, is he has products that he successfully marketed and makes money from. So he did that with a computer. So we're going to take these people who should know something, we're crying out loud, should have a clue about marketing, sales and marketing and we're going to probably meet like once a week or something like that and we're going to look at all of the projects all the yoga projects probably going to come up with a template for things that all projects have to do and then we're going to get the best marketers together to really focus on how we can be more effective and successful. We're adding a couple new yoga projects. Agile and Upside Down eBay. I don't know why I called it that. I'm just gonna call it pineapple. Project Pineapple and the Agile Pathways. Yeah, cool thing about Agile Pathways is mandala. So you guys might notice like when we do work like on our yoga we have a really high degree of quality that we aim for. So we really push for high levels of quality. And I noticed this too when I was doing yoga, that my yoga was much more demanding. There was a higher degree of quality than at my day job. So sometimes I had day jobs where everyone was really sharp and together, but most of the time, the level of tonal in my yoga was stronger and higher than in my day job. The people, the whole situation, the whole structure was usually just not as cool. So we always strive to be impeccable and excellent in our yoga projects and after a while what happens is you become really a top superstar technologist. You become someone who demands the highest rates, who's most excellent. You demand the highest rates because you sell yourself for the highest rates. And then what happens is you really figure out how to do systems really well. So Mangala has been working on, as an architect and a project manager doing Agile, and she's really seen really cool ways of doing it, of executing it properly and really well, and gaining specific benefits, overcoming a lot of the problems that people have with Agile. So I think it will be a really really great product because she'll be using her Kaizen Vishnu mind on Agile. So it should be really really cool. Working with her is really excellent. She is demanding though, by the way. So she does not accept unimpeccable work and she also, you know, will recognize it. She'll be like, if you try to slack off, she'll be like, I know what you're doing and I'm gonna stop it. I'm not bringing in to this.

1:00:01
Tartar?

1:00:03
Should I do it?

1:00:05
Let's just see what happens.

1:00:07
Laughter

1:00:09
Who knows?

1:00:11
Alright.

1:00:13
Laughter Alright.

1:00:17
That's it. Any questions? Yes, you in the front. Laughter

1:00:23
Laughter

1:00:25
Laughter

1:00:27
Okay, cool. All right, good. So, sales. We're going to be focusing on sales. All right. Sales it is. Okay, you got me. I agree. We'll do it. We'll do the sales. Alright, so thank you all very much. It was a pleasure meditating with you today. And, um, do sales. And, hmm, yeah, I think we'll have a meditation seminar, I guess, later. Yeah. In a couple weeks. So, towards the end of the month.

1:01:15
That'd be good. Okay. Okay.

1:01:19
Have a wonderful day of yoga.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
