0:00:00
Okay. The way of compassion is most excellent.

0:00:19
It is through compassion that these most precious teachings. Without compassion we wouldn't have the opportunities of life, the opportunities of enlightenment, without knowledge of the Dharma, then you are lost in illusion. You are stuck in karma to follow a very, very, very slow path of evolution. The teachings of enlightenment are teachings that allow you very rapidly to know the truth, very rapidly to experience enlightened states of consciousness, and very This has all been given to us out of the compassion of previous enlightened teachers. The compassion is excellent. that the teachers have utilized skillful means. Skillful means is talking in terms of another person's interest and yet showing the way to enlightenment. So for example, with Don Juan, Carlos comes over and says, I wanna study like hallucinogenic drugs, dude. Don Juan says, oh, okay. And then, you know, gives him some drugs, but mostly, he has this experience of power.

0:03:41
Self discovery.

0:03:42
self-discovery. There's also a story of the Buddha doing something similar without drugs. He didn't need drugs. And then his cousin heard some of his Dharma talks and said wow this is amazing. When he heard the Dharma talks, he said, I want to follow this. I'm going to become a monk. But then he'd go home, or he'd go back to the other people who was around. And he was set since a young age. He was set to marry someone. And then he'd go back to her and talk to her. And she was so beautiful. She was like one of the most beautiful women he had ever seen. Actually, she was the most beautiful woman he had ever seen. And he was enamored by her. And so as soon as he would go back to her and the other people, you know, like the whole tradition and things like that, then he thought, oh, yeah, I don't want to be a Buddhist monk. I want to be married in several days or something. And as it got closer to the date of marriage, he got more and more torn, because he would go and sit with the Buddha, and the Buddha would give these beautiful discourses, and he'd be like, I'm gonna become a monk.

0:05:50
I'm gonna do it right now.

0:05:51
I'm just gonna go home and get my stuff. I'm gonna eat. I'm gonna stay. So then it was the night before his wedding, and he was very, very, very, very confused. The tremendous beauty of his wife is what tore him away. He would just look at that beautiful face and say,

0:06:23
I'm staying.

0:06:25
Screw him. Screw my life. And so, you know, he was just like, ah, my wife is beautiful, betrothed. Beautiful. So he was just, you know, and then he'd go look at the Buddha and go, ah, so you think about the Buddha, then you think about his wife, oh, I'd be drawn to that. And he was at this one point, totally, completely torn. Like, so he became very, very, very, very confused, frustrated, and very, very sad. So he went to the Buddha, and he's like, Buddha, you've got to help me with this situation. I really want to marry this woman, because she's so beautiful. That was it. So beautiful. But when I sit and hear your dharma talks, I want to become a monk. But I'm so torn. Enlightenment or that beautiful woman. And Buddha said, go for a walk. So they went for a walk and listened to all of his troubles and problems and concerns. And then eventually, because they are in India, they come across a monkey. Now this monkey was a wounded monkey. It fell out of a tree or something. Something bad happened to it. It had a broken monkey nose. It was all swollen and pusty and bleeding. So it made the monkey look hideously scary weird. So it was a poor monkey. And the Buddha gonna have compassion for this monkey or something? And then they just stood there for a while. And then the Buddha said, how does this monkey or your food as he proposed once.

0:08:49
And he said,

0:08:52
there's no comparison. This monkey is nothing compared to her great beauty. And then the Buddha said,

0:09:02
OK, OK, now close your eyes, OK?

0:09:04
And then he goes, think on his third eye. And then all of a sudden, Nanda sees this amazing beautiful realm with 500 angelic beautiful

0:09:11
nymphs.

0:09:12
And this is the highest, most beautiful dimension of beautiful women. So he's like, wow! And he's just looking at these 500 beautiful, espheric, gorgeous goddesses, and just amazed.

0:09:38
He's in awe.

0:09:40
And then the Buddha.

0:09:42
So, thank you, Buddha. And then he's like, wow, that was amazing, they were so beautiful, that was incredible. And then Buddha says, that is a real place, and they are really there. He's like, oh my goodness, they're real, that's incredible. says, how does your wife compare to those nymphs in that world? And he says, well, the difference is comparable to a monkey and my wife, because they are so beautiful in that dimension. And then he's like, if that's a real place, Buddha, that's where I want to go. How do I get there? Buddha says, oh, you're so... I thought you wanted to marry your wife. No, I don't want to marry my wife because she's pretty.

0:11:03
But she's big, she's really beautiful.

0:11:07
And then Buddha says, oh, okay, yeah, you can go there. And you can marry one of them. Or probably many of them.

0:11:14
And he's like, Oh, Buddha, I'm ready! What do I have to do, Buddha? What do I have to do?

0:11:24
And then the Buddha says, You must purify your mind so that you no longer will incarnate on this planet. And then you will naturally ascend to that higher dimension. And then he said, how do I do it Buddha, how do I do it? Take initiation of the monk. And the guy goes, okay. No longer was his tremendous desire for the beauty of his wife holding him back, because he knew what he wanted. He desired something far, far better. And so then he shaved his head, became a monk. And his fiancée was shocked, and so was everyone else, but they were used to it, because that's what Buddha does. And then he went off with the Buddha. Later, Nanda became one of the 108 Arhats, so he attained full liberation. So, he eventually got over that desire to even go to that high, esoteric realm for those women. But what it got him to do was it got him to start the path. It got him to take his discipline seriously. This is a great act of compassion of the Buddha. This is where he has skillful meaning. He is talking in terms of interest to this person to get him to the next step. So this is what I do with you guys actually. I say, wow, light is awesome. And I go, check this out. And I show you higher dimensions. I show you vast dimensions of life, beyond the limitations of your karmic experience. And I tell you it's great, and I show you that it's great. And then you say, that's pretty great. I think I'll meditate. I'll do my yoga. I might even do a little bodhisitta. That's why this is a very structured way that we proceed through yoga in the past, where there's the right dimensions at the right time. And they're constructive and helpful. They are dimensions that help you take the next step. And then you say, wow, that's awesome. Great.

0:14:19
Amazing.

0:14:20
Inspiring. Wonderful.

0:14:22
Perfect teaching.

0:14:23
Just the right thing and I mean so me yes just like compassion is so luminous so bright the Buddha in having the compassion to use his skillful means to help Nanda you know onto the path got him beyond beyond a very very difficult barrier to his enlightenment. He could have easily someone who became enlightened in that lifetime could have easily just fallen into relationships and then enlightenment you know that's a strong binding karma that's where you get stuck for most people get completely confused, they have a lot of suffering, they have a lot of attachment, and these things the ego, the ego becomes very strong, your awareness and consciousness becomes very fixed, it holds you in a tremendously limited state of consciousness. That's why Buddha was like, And this guy who could have got stuck in that, he was able to, through Buddha's compassion, Buddha's skillful means, was able to come onto the path and in that lifetime become enlightened, which is amazing. It's important to have compassion, to use skillful means, to be excited and see the benefits of the dimensions of life, the benefits of the pathway to enlightenment, the opportunities of brightness, liberation. This is something that's accessible to you and it's good to see. Now the Buddha had to do this special magic to show Nanda the perfect dimension to shoot for. But for you, it's an experience of light. When you're meditating, when we're meditating together in satsang, when you're meditating by yourself, those experiences of just amazing luminosity, where you go way beyond your normal experience, your karmic experience, way beyond the limits of your experience, of your consciousness, into tremendous oceans of luminosity. This is meditation. And you say, wow, there's something to do here that's inspiring. And then you practice bodhicitta. You practice bodhicitta and bodhicitta is a lot of work, but then there's these moments where you experience that unifying, bright, tremendous, powerful light of compassion. And in those moments of compassion, you say, wow, this is so amazing. The experiences of compassion, the experiences of light in meditation are exhilarating. They are ecstatic. And those even glimpses into those higher experiences, not even mastering, you don't even have to be an excellent student. You just have these things by working on it, working on it, you see these tremendous experiences of brightness. I'm interested in the nymphs of light, the nymphs of compassion. So these experiences are those visions into that which elevates you. Some of you, the 500 nymphs, would go well with it. You know who you are, we've already had the conversation. You're like, oh, it worked for that Nanda guy too. Yes it did. So, it all works out. The things that inspire you, the top words of enlightenment, it gets you higher, it gets you higher. Then when you're higher, you get the next set of teachings, the next dimension. Then you get even higher. And it just culminates in enlightenment. Which is tremendously exciting. But it's kind of a funny thing, you know, because... because for example, there's this enlightened woman named Amachi, she's this woman from India who does these hugging darshan. Sometimes she'll hug like, I don't know, 30,000 people, 40,000 people. So just people line up, they come over, she hugs them, they move on. and she has tremendous compassion. She's like a heart incarnation of loving kindness. She has tremendous compassion. That's why she hugs people. She has the holy mother caretaker personality. She's cool. She comes to the Bay Area sometimes, out in Castro Valley or something, and when she does her darshan, it's a darshan of the heart, of compassion. So she's kind of interesting, kind of fantastic. I mean, boy, that's pretty intense. She doesn't do the mysticism thing, so I suppose she can take it. When you are in different dimensions things affect you differently. If I was just in the physical, merely, and just said some spiritual words from a book or something like that to you, there wouldn't be that transference of energy, there wouldn't be that connection of the aura, and there wouldn't be the mystical dimensions appropriate to you. So that is our lineage's way of teaching. But it's very awesome, it's very powerful, it affords the student tremendous opportunities. But it's also kind of difficult. But other enlightened teachers would teach maybe a very different way, where they don't use the same dimensions and they teach in other ways. So they're maybe more physical, the dimensions that they use might not hurt the physical body, might not hurt the subtle physical body. Another enlightened lady is Gangaji. She's a Jnana yogi. She focuses on discrimination. I remember there was an ST2 who was attending her seminars and then she got into the inner circle pretty quickly because she was advanced. She told Gangaji about her practice and she was also asking Gangaji, you don't get hurt or anything like that? You do lots of public things and you talk to a lot of people and you travel around a lot. Gangaji said, no. She was like, no, it's not a pain at all. So there are different things. This was one. I like this one. This one is one where you have a really intense commitment. In this study everyone in the inner circle. There's no just people in the audience who just come around to hear something nice. Powerful. It's a powerful path because it gives you more powers, more connections, more opportunity. So, quite nice. But compassion, compassion is what these teachers, Amachi in her way of, who is it that suffers? The question, the questions of discrimination. But why do they sit there and go on tour? It's because of compassion. I heard a radio story about Amachi on NPR. It was in their business section of the show. And she travels all the time, all year round she travels. Every day she's traveling. And she goes lots of places, India, America, Europe. She sells t-shirts, she sells songs, posters, she has this giant merchandising thing. So, going to the Darchon is free. But on NPR they were talking about how much money she makes. I think it was like, oh, a lot. I think it was like $60 million a year. And I was like, hey, she's got something working. She's got this compassion, it's working.

0:26:55
Literally.

0:26:57
So, kind of cool.

0:27:01
And yet, you know, she uses all the money for, you know, she has a hospital. You know, she created a hospital and orphanages and, you know, feeding the poor and all that good stuff. Very, very compassionate. So, the compassion of enlightened teachers, they help you with what you need at the moment to move forward, to get ahead. And it's something that's really wonderful. It gets you on the path and it gets you to start meditating, to see that there's something to do, something to work dimension of yourself. And then once you see it, you want to get it. You want to experience that all the time. You want to be that. You want to be that. And it's very, very, very new and very powerful. Then there's another way. Another way of compassion. Another disposition. So Nanda's disposition was the disposition of being stuck because he wanted something, because he had desire. However, there's another disposition. of life. The awareness of the suffering of life. So sometimes you come to the path of enlightenment and you look at the teacher and the teachings and you experience light and power and you say, wow, I want that. I'm going to meditate, practice compassion, do my yoga and take the next step. But some people come to the path because they've had enough. They've had enough suffering. Like, okay, I get it. Life is pain. They figure out the first noble truth first hand, which is a powerful teaching. Lots of people experience the fact that life is pain, but not a lot of people are elevated from it. A lot of people are spiritually depressed from it. Some people are able to take the tremendous suffering of life and learn to follow the pathway to enlightenment. So another story of compassion is of a woman and her name is Patacara. Patacara was a noblewoman in a wealthy family. very very beautiful, fantastically wealthy and since she was betrothed to a wealthy boy in a nearby family so ever since she was a kid, here's who you're going to marry however, she fell in love with her servant with a man's service. And, you know, like before her wedding, her and the servant decided, we're going to get married, so let's get out of here. So, they snuck out in the middle of the night, they went out into the jungle, there's always a jungle around, they built a hovel, a shack in the jungle, and they got married. So they were like, yeah, this is great. We got away and we're married and living in a shack. And that was all good. They were having their honeymoon. And then she got pregnant. And as she was getting more and more pregnant, Like, I don't want to have my baby out here in this dirty place. And my husband has to go out and tend to the fields and forage for our food. He's got work to do. So what am I going to do?

0:31:53
I can't.

0:31:54
If I were at home, I would have people helping me. I would have servants. Everything would be clean and nice for the birth of my child, and then come back. So she just walks off one day, heading home. Her husband comes back for a break after penning the field.

0:32:16
Where did she go?

0:32:17
He sees that she packed things up, so he goes running down the trail, finds her. And he's like, what are you doing? She's like, I'll come back after the baby's born. He's like, no, you can't do that. Your parents will keep you there, and they'll probably find out where I'm staying and send guards to arrest me. And so she goes, all right, all right.

0:32:36
I'll have the baby in the middle.

0:32:39
So she has the baby, and it turns out, with a bucket of water, the jerk's not so bad.

0:32:46
And then what happens is, the baby grows up, about six years old, and then she's pregnant again.

0:32:49
So she's like, hmm, I'm getting to that time where I'm going to have to have my baby. Gosh, I don't want to have a baby in the dirt again. I'm going home. So she packs her stuff, takes her six-year-old son, starts to head out, and same thing happens. The husband comes running after her. He's like, no, no, no, no, no. She says, all right, I'll go back. So just as they decide to start turning back, a torrential rain comes pouring on them. So she says, let's take some cover because you know, this is a horrible Strong rain, but we're gonna have to sit here until the rain passes So the husband goes and he's like, oh, let's go over to this tree over here So he's pushing the brush out of the way. There's a tree with giant leaves And so, you know, if you stand up with the tree, you won't get wet. So just as he gets to the tree leading the way a snake on the tree jumps out and bites him. He instantly falls down dead. And she says, oh this is horrible, my husband is dead because of my falling. And then she lays around for a while. Then the rain stops. It rains for a long time, but the rain stops eventually. And then she takes her new baby and her son, says goodbye to the dead husband. And then she's like, okay, let's walk back to the hollow. So on walking back to the hollow, there was a little stream that, before it was dry, there was a little stream crossing the path, a little creek. But now that it had rained so much, it was a tremendous, it's like a river, it's like a fast, fast, fast moving river. And it's like, whoa, this is dying. Where did this come from? And what happens is, she's like, okay, I have to get across this river. It's not horrible, you know, it's bad, but I know I can do it. So she devises a plan. She makes a little raft out of reeds, and she says, okay, I can put my baby on this raft, hold it with two hands, and I can make it across the river. Okay. And then I'll leave my six-year-old son on the other side, put the baby on the other side, go back and get my six-year-old son, and then somehow I can get across with him. Why is the baby on the raft?

0:35:48
That was her plan.

0:35:49
So, she says, okay, six-year-old son, wait here. I'll call it, I'll come back for it. And then she puts the baby on the raft and she's halfway through the river. She's able to cross it just fine. She just has to be careful. But halfway through the river, a hawk swoops down from the sky and grabs her baby and takes it away to be eaten. And she goes, she sees it happen, and she yells at the hawk. Ahh! Ahh! And then her six year old son thinks that she's calling. Like, come, come!

0:36:37
So the six year old son goes, coming mom!

0:36:39
Goes in the water, gets swept away, smashed against the rocks and drowns. And she's like, this is horrible. She's like, and she goes, there's nothing for me here. I'm going home to be consoled. So then she goes home. And she's back in her original city. And she walks to her home, which is a big beautiful mansion except it is reduced to ashes And she asked someone what happened here. They say it was a fire. Well, where's the family who live here? They all burned She goes oh god This is horrible, I have nothing I got my husband killed by a snake. My baby was taken away by a hawk. My six year old son was drowned in a river. When I came home to be consoled, my family had burned in the fire. Oh, what am I to do? So she hears that, she's sitting there realizing she has nothing. So she hears that the Buddha is in town giving a discourse. So she goes over to the Buddha and tells him her story. And then he said, life is pain, life is suffering. The transient experience of life always leads you to suffering. But there is a way to transcend the suffering of the transient experience of life. There is a way to transcend life and death. And that is the Eightfold Path, the recognition of this teaching in her life was true. She had a deep awareness of the suffering of life and the transience of life. At one moment she had a family and the next moment she had no family. So she understood the suffering of the transient experience and she was determined in seeing the light of Buddhist teachings to seek the way out of the trap of transience, of suffering. And so she then and there became a Buddhist nun as they say. And then she followed the Buddha. And then she also eventually became So, in this case as well, she could have been stuck. She was happy to be stuck in a family in the jungle. She would have been stuck by anything. She had the husband, she would have been stuck. If she had one of the kids, she would have been stopped. But she had nothing. She had just a complete awareness of suffering and transient. And then she was able to follow the path. This could have been a place where someone who became enlightened didn't become enlightened. But the compassionate teachings of the Buddha showed her the truth of her own experience and showed her the way beyond her suffering. And then she was able to, in her lifetime, become liberated. The other way, the other thing, when you are entering the pathway to enlightenment, how the compassion of the Buddha, the compassion of the enlightened teacher, shows you how to get ahead, how to get out of a stuck condition. Now, some of you don't recognize when I'm teaching you. Some of you don't recognize. Sometimes I'm teaching things, I'm telling you things in the first attention. I'm going to tell you stories to keep you interested. But what I'm talking about has to do with you. And some of you don't recognize that. Some of you sit there and go, I'm kind of bored. Yes, Mara's talking about something, whatever. It's not interesting to me. It's not about me. It must be talking to someone else or just saying stuff. And this is a block of selfishness. You have a block of selfishness. You have limited ideas ideas and limited awareness. And when you see when you see the truth when I confront the truth when I'm telling you the truth you don't even recognize it. You just go. You know or just use like. But even though you don't recognize it it still has an effect. You hear it. My teacher used to say, if you want to get a job in a new technology, get a book on it, read the book cover to cover, and go get the job. And then we say, but I read the book, I don't understand anything. Go get the job, and then you're like, oh, I figured this out, oh, I read that in that book. It's true. So have a positive attitude all the time about the teaching. Recognize that a lot of your limitations come from selfishness. Pure selfishness. It's just a very limited view of yourself and what's what. You don't know everything. You don't know everything. You are in suffering. You should have a disposition Promoting your selfishness. Making definitions and separations. This is me, that's them. This is what, you know, your understandings are limited. Your second attention is not even clearly, blocked by limited ideas of the self. Therefore, be open minded. As my teacher used to say, come to Buddhism with your hands closed. So, be more positive about yourself. Be more positive about others. Don't create a separation. And recognize that sometimes, even though I'm talking about or why I'm saying it, I might be talking to you. It happens over a period of time when you become more selfless and then you can understand that. When I was a new student, I was listening to things and you know, and then my teacher would be like, some of you, meh meh meh meh meh meh meh. And I was like, that's not me. It's their problem. We did that a lot. I'm like, I spent years doing that. And then at some point, I remember him saying, some of you, meh meh meh meh meh. And I was being close minded and I was being selfish that I cherished myself and I didn't want to be humble. I didn't want to open up and admit fault. I had this wonderful I remember sometimes people would ask my teacher would give amazing answers about things that were incredibly interesting to me. So sometimes when something, when you have a concept, it'll hold you back from being able to ascertain the true Dharma. You have an idea, like I had an idea that those questions are stupid. I would never ask it. But how do I ask it. It was exposed all these amazing things. And luckily there was somebody else who would ask it. Someone else who was humble and open minded who wanted to know the truth. So when I had my six ideas. When I knew the answers. I thought, who cares? I already know that. Oh no, you don't know nothing.

0:48:33
It's true.

0:48:34
You really don't know nothing. You don't know nothing. That's how I should say it.

0:48:41
That's the new job.

0:48:46
You don't know nothing. So, yeah, be humble, be open. Sometimes I'm teaching in a deep way, in the second attention. Okay, let us take another break. Okay, let us take another break. Okay, 15 minutes.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
