0:00:00
So before you leave, I'd like Satori to get your name. I'd like Satori to take attendance. isn't following instructions, meaning if you're not coming, email me. It's important that So I've called us all here for this meditation and party because it's important. Both meditation and party is important. And with the... You have to understand, this is no ordinary affair. This is not a... Hey, be quiet. This is no ordinary affair. This is not a normal situation. This is not a thing that happens every day. actually kind of live in the moment and recognize the opportunities of the moment. Instead of, oh yeah, I've been to a party before, yeah, I've been to a meditation before. This is your enlightened teacher telling you there's a meditation and a party right now. If I invite you to something, there's a reason. It's not an ordinary reason. It's a spiritual reason. It's a reason that you need to learn something about. So, it's very important for you to kind of wake up, smell the coffee, remember the plot, the plot of the Pathway to Yeah, so I remember it was the 4th of July or something and somebody was inviting the Sangha to something. This is important. Yoga teachers don't invite the Sangha. No one should invite the whole Sangha to something. Because then what happens is people just think, oh, it's just another invitation. Oh, so someone invites, a yoga teacher invites me to a meditation with the whole sangha? Or Sambara does? They just don't see, they don't get it. They don't see the difference. So it just waters down my communication to the sangha. But, you know, also, when you guys get together in larger numbers, there's more power. So that's why things are structured the way they are. When we're meeting as a whole Sangha, I'm there. And if you're meeting with your yoga teachers, your yoga teachers are capable of dealing with that structure. So it's important to do things right. Listen to your teacher, communicate properly, follow instructions, recognize the opportunity. Recognizing the opportunity is very important for some of you. There's two types of you students. There's two things going on with the group. Some of you are pushing too hard and some of you are not pushing enough and that means that some of you are like just really really revved up doing your yoga and you're actually redlining. You know redlining? Redlining is when you're in a like a sports car, a non-forgiving sports car, and you bring the RPMs too high up and then what happens is eventually the engine breaks because you went, you brought the RPMs too high up into the red zone. So on our automatic cars, you know, we don't see it very often, they automatically go, you're too close to the red zone and they bring you back down. So for some of you, you need to engage the automatic transmission and let yourself fall out of that red zone automatically. Because if you go into that red zone, then you're going really fast, but then what might happen? You know, fatal engine, you know, everything Shiva will happen to you. So it's important to recognize that if you're pushing it too hard, you get unbalanced. And then if you get unbalanced, then you break. And you break. So, some of you are pushing too hard. And that's the minority. But it's important for that minority to understand these teachings. And for you, the rest of you, who are not pushing hard enough, then you have to learn to push harder. So there's a balance, right? There's a balance in yoga. You can't push too hard. If you push too hard, you break. But you must be impeccable. You must work with discipline. If you're impeccable and you work with discipline, then that's the proper balance for yoga. So you don't have to get crazy on it. You have to be impeccable, disciplined, diligent, earnest. And when you think you need to do more than that, doing more than that for a protracted campaign will lead you into imbalance. So it's really important for you to recognize that impeccability and discipline is the proper balance when you're pushing your yoga. If you think that you need to spend more time, more hours, and you have more physical tasks to do, you're actually wrong. If you had the perfect second attention, the perfect intuition, you would look at a situation and you would say, hmm, I better really spend energy here and not all over these other places. So that is what we call discrimination. call you know discrimination like for example with Kana you put something in front of him it's a $50,000 deal and he says oh this is important and he works on it and then you interrupt him with something like taping a stamp on a box and he brings the same level of importance to that just because oh you need me to do that whatever I'm working importance to that. Just because, oh, you need me to do that? Whatever I'm working on is the important thing. It's the priority. Or you take someone like Dharma. Dharma has 50 plus categories of things that he's doing on his list of to-do in a single day. And all of those things are important. Not the one thing he's working on, everything at the same time. So this is a lack of discrimination. And I know it seems impossible and hard, and it is impossible and hard. But I swear, you know, if you have the right discrimination, you look at everything and you say, well, I only have so many hours in a day, so I have to work on this, this, and this. And the rest are babies that get thrown in the water. People like Kana and Dharma will come with bunches of babies. Put me on that boat.

0:09:43
So, yeah.

0:09:51
So it's important to just recognize that, you know, when you're looking at what to do, you see everything is important or things come up and you think they're important but there's really a critical path to success. Let's say Steve Jobs was you know in your position and let's say he didn't he was the young 20 year old didn't start a computer company become a billionaire yet? So he would look at the same set of parameters that you have, the same problems, the same difficulties, and he would say, he would say, fuck it we're just going to work on this, right? He would know what he would know what to focus on to succeed and you know, I don't know, maybe he, like some people, can do everything. But definitely, you know, he knows where to put energy so that it goes ahead. I always like to bring up the Steve Jobs thing. What would Steve Jobs do? You know that Christian thing?

0:11:13
What would Jesus do?

0:11:14
laughter Jesus would turn the other cheek

0:11:18
and Steve Jobs would make your business a huge success. laughter So ask yourself, what would Steve Jobs do? So, when you

0:11:28
get

0:11:30
stressed

0:11:32
you know, to that, to that

0:11:34
when you're pushing your yoga so hard that you are pushing the limits You're getting stressed. You're getting burned out This shows you that you're you're redlining You're doing too much So for all of you who know that's the case you're pushing it so hard in your yoga That where you see that you're getting like way too much stress because you're doing so much and I have to say for all these individuals who are in this category they're accomplishing much it's not just that they're like oh I have a task to do that that shows that you're not being impeccable if you have a task to do that you're not completing. These people are completing multiples of tasks. But it's kind of like in the in the e-myth book, this guy comes up with the perfect diagnostic. He's like, the way he lays it out, he's like, I'm diagnosing someone who's, you know, stressed out, who's pushing it too hard, who's in a situation where there's just way too much to do, they can't possibly do it in their current state of mind. So he says, you know, there's an engine with 12 cylinders and you're all reading the Demith book. It's such an important book for the people who are pushing so hard that they're getting burnt out, that they're in the red zone. Because this, this just, you know I was reading it and I said wow this is exactly what I'm hearing from people this guy is laying out the karma for what happens in this situation so it's really awesome I didn't get to the solutions yet

0:13:56
I'm waiting, I'm like lay it on me!

0:13:59
and the thing is you know there's there's lots of solutions lots of ways to deal with these these kinds of things and it depends on individuals it depends on personal power depends on the physical situations so there's yeah lots of ways to deal with it probably the techniques in this book are going to be But I want you to understand the situation. The situation when you run into this stress and burnout, this is a wall of self-havoc.

0:14:50
And it might be, you know, this guy says it happens

0:14:53
to like all small businesses. And it might be a very, very, very common karma amongst people. Because it is something that has to do with some very primal aspects of the self. To address it today I'm going to talk to you about it and also most importantly I'm going to address this with an esoteric teaching, a field of energy. This field of energy really is a second chakra energy. This is such a fundamental and deep attachment that it's an oedipal kind of thing. It's like a problem with mommy. It is. For a lot of people, it's like a problem with mommy. And what happens is you're born male or female you know you're yin or you're yang energy and then you seek that balance of you know of yin and yang energy so the way that you seek it is generally through the parent of the opposite sex immediately that's what that's what you immediately go to so you go to mommy and you say, oh mommy Fix me Balance me and you don't find the balance that you really really really see Even if your mother was enlightened or your father was enlightened You probably wouldn't get the balance because you have your own karma Now if you're born when your spirit is in the baby body. And what happens is you start to get out of balance. You're seeking something and you go, oh, I don't get something I want from mommy. It turns into a fear. And then it turns into an attachment to fear. So it turns from just a natural, normal fear, which is fine to feel. It would be best if you just feel that, and be open and honest and accepting of that, and then practice bodhisattva. But then what happens is you get an attachment to that fear. self problem that holds on to something that you don't even remember what it is anymore. You're just attached to some problem and then that attachment goes over again and again and again and again. The way that it results in kind of being a control freak.

0:18:28
It's a simple way to say it.

0:18:30
Where you try, you're concerned about so much that you can't, you try to control things out of your control. And it's a similar thing you're trying to find balance in the whole of the enterprise let's say but you have that karma of you know being out of balance with yin and yang the seeking for the balance with the mother or father and that fear that comes from not finding them, then the attachment to them. So this is a, it's an important thing to understand, the origin of being a control freak. And to see, you know, how you're trying to make everything, too many things, everything, work. Now this is probably a common karma for everybody, but it's definitely a karma for the people in our group who are pushing it too hard, who are in the red zone. So it's important to have this recognition. This is something you can meditate on, you can come to reflect deeply on it, practice bodhicitta, you can understand it, transform it from a limitation, suffering, feeling of lacking to bodhicitta, compassion, taking and sending, sending light and comfort and liberation to others. Yeah. And also, you know, reading the E-Myth book and seeing that diagnosis. Wow, this guy nailed that problem I'm having. Nailed that other problem I'm having. Gosh darn it, that's going to be the next problem. So, this guy lays out the karmas that happen commonly. And so it's really good to see that. It's really good to see that. And that's why, after reading it, I want to talk to you guys about the origin. Because in understanding the path of karma, the origin of this karma, by having a feeling of where this comes from, then you're able to practice bodhicitta and transform it. Additionally, you observe it with your mindfulness in your work. You have to, you know, you have to run up against this, you have to sit in that red zone for a while to recognize that it is a karma, to recognize that it doesn't go away. The red on its own. It has to be transformed. This has to be transformed. It's going to be transformed of course to meditation and bodhicitta, but through awareness, through awareness of your work during the day, through the awareness of your suffering from it, and from awareness of the karmic pattern, awareness of the origin. So this gives you insight. It's not the solution. The solution comes from the application of dharmic method. But if you don't, if you're looking for the quick answers, oh no, it's not a quick answer. You're dealing with a very, very deep aspect of your being. And that's great. That's wonderful. That's the good news. It's good to get to the deep aspects of the self. Because that's where, when you learn from them, when you unlock the stuck, the stuck, limited, bound consciousness, power that just explodes in you, in freedom. And there's a way. There's a way. Absolutely. Yeah. Rama used to always say, stress is a state of mind with the same problems that create tremendous stress and not be stressed out. If you really looked at it in a different way, your energy changes. You could have a thousand times more energy from changing your state of mind. in one way like, oh, this work is monotonous, I just always have to do it, I have 10,000 things to do, then you're in a certain state of mind. But when you look at it in a different way, like, wow, this is my yoga, this is my opportunity for enlightenment, this is my tower of Nila Rapa. If you look at it in the right way, all of a sudden, you have way more energy, and you can do a lot more. You could, you know, you can be that one cylinder pushing that whole sponge forward. It's true, it's possible. These are these are really, really, you know, superior yoga feats but they can happen, they definitely happen. Shifting your state of mind with mindfulness and directing yourself through, you know, just looking at the opportunity of yoga. Or you could look at it like Bodhicitta. You get in touch with the compassion that is involved in this yoga and the compassion and the light that will come across to others when they use your software or products. products for threaded ones. That will be one bright shiny satellite or something you know. That will be one liberated satellite. Yeah so when you look at it in a different way, then all of a sudden you can have tons of energy. Where you were like down and tired and always so much and getting burned out and stressed out, shifting your state of mind can shift everything. Again, it's a very high lofty yoga feat. But, the awareness is what's important. The awareness of what you're going through, where it's coming from, what it's karmic path is. This is the regular way, just really seeing patterns after a while, understanding them, learning how to work with them, and then ascending, dealing with that karma. And then eventually, through the practice of meditation, mindfulness, bodhicitta, and through your work in yoga, you transcend the karma. Absolutely. Without a doubt. absolutely without it then there's the other kind of person which is the majority of you and that is the lack of impeccability the lack of discipline so I know you guys are getting tired or something you're like oh yeah I did this for years where what I do is get a task by yoga people y'all give me the push and then you get another task so what what what's happening is you're getting into the habituated mind and in the habituated there's no light and that ain't yoga. There's no light in it. So, when you start looking at yoga in its lowest forms of reciprocity, what happens is you just look at it like, I don't get anything out of this, this sucks. I'm tired, I don't even, I lost the plot, I don't see the point, I don't get it. And, you know, we all go through that from time to time. But it's important for you to remember something. That yoga develops you. So, the majority of you have developed yourselves through yoga to a degree of very strong personal power where you're capable of getting a very, very good job, a very, very good career. That's the first step. But you can't get stuck on the first step. You've got to go to the second step. And the second step is to continue to develop your personal power so that not only can you be a good programmer in someone else's company, but you can be successful in having your own company. You can be impeccable, you'll be strong in technology, strong in management, strong in business awareness, a strong entrepreneur, and you'll be able to succeed at a much higher level. The goal is for everyone to be at the level of impeccability of a yoga teacher, and even better than your yoga teachers. Mandala was the yoga teacher for the ST3s and she had a really really really high level impeccability and perfection. So we want to have, we want to be enlightened leaders. We want to be, we want to get to a point where everyone not only has a job, but we want to make our yogas succeed outrageously where we all have a job in our yoga and we all have and our yogas are making so much money that it makes us way more than a job and eventually it makes us so much Because, you know, cash flow equals energy flow. And energy flow is fun.

0:30:54
So, don't get complacent.

0:30:57
Don't get stuck on the first step. The first step is only the first step. The second step is much better. and then yeah there's only two steps there's only two steps in our organization. First step get a great job. Second step make a great company. So you have to remember that this is a fantastic opportunity. Working on the second step, or the first step if you're working on that. Working on getting ahead in yoga is extremely empowering, extremely enlightening. It is the way beyond your dissatisfaction. Right now what you do is you let dissatisfaction stop you. You're like, oh, I'm tired. I call that lazy. You say, oh, I'm tired. I went to work today, and now I just feel like coming home and not doing anything. Because it was hard at work. Yeah, that's, that's, don't live your life that way. That is a way to fail. You really have to understand that the first step, strong day job, it gives you a step up to the second step. Success in your yoga. Success in your own company. When software companies take off, they make millions of dollars. Millions and millions and millions of dollars. We need to take off. And it's totally possible. We've got wonderful projects, wonderful companies, wonderful products. We can succeed. Outrageously.

0:33:10
And you've got to see that.

0:33:13
You've got to see that opportunity. It's totally true. You know? Like, what, you know, WedBuddy could be a hundred million dollar company. You know, Votable could be a billion dollar company. More than that. We have just really great opportunity and if you only if we only make you know twelve million dollars a year or something in a company that's okay I think I want to get that to be like the minimum which is a nice nice it's a nice thing but you got to You gotta look at this opportunity. We have great products. And with the opportunity in the market that we're in, if we play our cards right, we do our work right, these things can take off. They can take off and be ultra successful. And then we'll be a little bit happy. But if you don't, if you get in your way, you don't do it right, if you let your dissatisfactions, your laziness, your bad attitude stop you from focusing on this opportunity, then you don't foster it properly. Your day job is a step up. So most people go to their day job, they job they work they get tired they come home have a chicken pot pie and a beer but we do something different we squeeze the structures differently we go to the day job we work like hell sometimes and then we come back and then we work on our yoga with greater personal power. So we consider work exercise, right? So if you go to the day job, you're not just sitting there wasting your energy, going, oh, they bought my energy for $100 an hour. And now I come back depleted. That is the structure created by the employer. But the way that we use the structure is we go there and for us it is a mental workout. We're making our minds stronger, we're gaining greater personal power. We're going there to lift weights, to get stronger. We get mentally fit, we gain personal power by doing an impeccable job on our day job. And then we come out of there stronger. Yes, if you exercise, you get tired, right? But you also become stronger. So, yes, it is an expenditure of energy, but when you do it right, when you follow the spirit of what I'm talking about, then you come out of it more powerful. Then you come out and you focus on the second step. Your company making $100 million. if you just look at it, you know, gosh I'm in boot camp here, you know, making, you know, $250,000 a year, which totally sucks, because I have to spend eight hours a day doing it, and I have to spend so much energy doing it. Now, when I get to this opportunity, this opportunity can make $250 million a year. This opportunity can you know take the whole sangha up to the next level and this opportunity can be great and you know I could be a architect, a manager, I could start my own yoga project after this. There's just so many options. I can retire in the Hawaii retreat that we're going to build. You know, it just gives you, obviously, so much more opportunity. But it doesn't happen if you have the attitude that you've been having for far too long. And that's the attitude of, hmm, routine, habitual mind of, oh I got stuff to do, I'm doing tasks, blah blah blah. You have to, man, when you do yoga you gotta have a spark. You have to be like, you have to and you guys your burning desire has gone down to maybe a little thicker but it can come back to be a raging fire of yoga So it's important really to reset and to say, I know what's in this. I see the light in this. I'm in this for the light. And all the physical stuff is great too. All the physical things that you can get out of, you know, the first step and the second step of yoga, they're great and are really helpful. But the wonderful thing about yoga is something happens to your spirit when you do it. It just happens. Yoga is an enlightened structure and when you engage in it, as you see the physical things happening, you'll notice spiritual things happening. You'll be like, that thing they like something spiritual happened to me yeah so you know this is yoga 101 right but you guys lost the plot and you have to remember that this is the pathway to enlightenment yoga is is the turbo boost to get you to enlightenment. You could just meditate, and then eventually someday you'll become enlightened. But for the fast path to enlightenment, yoga. Yoga makes things really, really move along. So, the Sangha did not do a good job in the Anza-Borrego Desert. And it's probably because we came off of death ground without completing death ground. Not winning, not dying. But But the fungi did not do a good job in the Anza-Borrego. And this, you know, what we're starting is we're starting in not a very good pattern. So not succeeding in death ground and not doing a very good job in the Anza-Borrego. And, you know, hopefully we turn things around now. This is not good. This informs your next power trip. The way that you work in a place of power, setting up for the next place of power, dimensions, scenes, mysticism. You should be progressing more instead of falling back. So, yeah, you know, I think I was telling Bodhi Woods, I took the Hungarian Sangha to a place of power. Teeny little place of power. Three dimensions. Three dimensions. But there but they did a very good job they they were like they were they were coming they're still on their on their way up there on the upswing they did not make the mistake that this song doesn't this song that has made like you know you guys used to be like pushing and stronger and stronger but you know it's not happening right now. It was just so interesting to see because I was in the ends of Rago and then I come back and then I was and wait sorry I was man's break I go to the Hungarian trip in Italian Alps and I was like wow if only the US Sangha had this attitude when we were in the hands of It's an attitude of gratitude and being happy for the opportunity. For a lot of you guys going to the Andes of Borrego, it was like a chore for you. There was no excitement, there was improper preparation, you didn't enter the desert like a warrior, lack of impeccable attention, and pretty sloppy. And for the Hungarian Sangha, they appreciated it, they showed up, they were like frosty, they just did it the way you're supposed to do it. So you can't get into a routine, a routine way of looking at things, because the routine way you're looking at things is totally not right. you know, you're Agent Smithing everything. Remember in the Matrix, Agent Smith? He goes around making everybody into Agent Smith. That's what you're doing. You're making, you're going, you're coming to the pathway to enlightenment. You're coming to yoga and you're painting yourself all over the place. And you go, oh, but this is just me everywhere. I'm gonna make more me. That's what you guys are doing. And I'm telling you that's not the way it is. You're not seeing the truth. You're totally fucking in the dark. Speaking of totally fucking in the dark. Sex. As you know from the beginning teachings, engaging in sexual relations can result in pregnancy. It can make things difficult for you. It, you know, it does something to your aura, so it gets other person, another person's energy in your aura which means that you'll start doing stupid things like you don't see things clearly you get out of balance more easily and if you can't handle that then you really got to think about it because it has a tremendous effect if you're dissatisfied with your balance, you have to consider, maybe I shouldn't have sex. Maybe I need to clear my aura out and experience just my own energy field. So that you don't have someone else's lines, energy lines, pulling you out of balance. That's what happens. You guys, some of you guys have gotten ridiculously out of balance with sexuality. And you need to remember that this is a spiritual path and that you should have a regard towards sex of peace, balance, empowerment, success, harmlessness. And if you're not finding that in your experience, then you're doing something wrong. You don't have the right attitude or you can't handle it or something. If you engage in sex and you do it wrong, it fucks everything up. You'll get way out of balance. You'll be crazy, you'll be stupid, you'll end your path or you will end somebody else's path. So this is a time for you to say, okay, let me be balanced and start to observe peace, harmlessness, balance, and empowerment. And if you don't observe those things happening in your sex life, then you out of balance and you need to address it. I'd also like you all to have a STD screen because that helps with your tone out. It helps with your tone out. I remember Rama said, you know that you're that you're clean and clear maybe you won't be freaky or maybe you'll be more careful but if you don't know. It's a weird thing. But it's true. I remember he told everyone to get an HIV test and then there was one girl who had HIV. worry yeah but yeah whoa that kind of shit happens so get tested but get a full screen for all that other shit too you to look at things differently. Not be sloppy.

0:50:52
So

0:50:55
this is a that our party that will have after this this is a tribal ceremony Here's what we're going to do. This is really, really a tribal ceremony.

0:51:22
We're going to dance.

0:51:24
All of us.

0:51:25
Not one person is going to be sitting there not dancing. Just for an hour. I mean, you can dance longer, but every single one of us is going to be dancing at the same time. It's very important. Yeah, no, it's really important. And in dancing together, we can shake some stuff off. We can get rid of some bad habits. We can get out of the habitual states of mind that are limiting us. We can get out of the red zone. So we're going to do a little dance, a Bodhiwood dance ceremony and and it's important so if you can if you don't need it then you don't need it. But if you can, stay and dance. But everyone who's in the jujitsu classes. Raja doesn't go through the through the walls. He tried. Oh yeah, so oh yeah and one of the great things is I was teaching the Boney Woodsians on Thursday that we're going to be positive and mindful in August. August is really you know a really horrible month. It's hot and muggy throughout the whole country and everyone gets into a low state of mind so this is going to be a time where we really focus on not being angry we're going to have a strong mindfulness practice focusing on not falling into anger and you know as intermediate students you know you follow anger you should really really really get on top of it but this is the hardest month of the year so this is the month where we're really going to focus on really going to focus on no anger in the mind very important yeah so this is our you know against this is this is the Sangha the Buddhist Sangha what are we called a Vajrananda Charya against an angry August. We are the movement, the people, against an angry August.

0:55:32
Alright, good.

0:55:35
Alright, thank you all very much. Alright, thank you all very much. Kamsahamnida.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
