0:00:00
While I'm gone, I'd like you to really, really, really, really, really work on balance. So, a lot of times when I go away, you go into a bad pattern. You say, oh, Sambara is not here, so things don't matter so much. I can be more sloppy. I can be more depressed. I don't have to practice etiquette as much. And then what happens is it makes your practice work and it also creates a bad vibration in general. Other people pick up on it and then people are in general having a hard time. So while I'm going to really focus on a positive state of mind. This will counteract one of the usual habits of, oh, seminar is done, what a bonus. So you have to recognize that in spirit we're all together. In spirit there's no separation. So when you say, oh, I'm bummed out, or I'm not here, then it makes your spirit go down. You're not looking deep enough to the spiritual connection that we have. And so you should say, ah, that's right. At all times, whether an ocean of heart. We are connected. So it's important for you to honor that with mindfulness and not let yourself go into tired old broken states of mind for not you know going into bad habits it's important can we turn off the music the light box Ah, even better. So on the pathway to enlightenment we face the self, we face the darkness of the self, the limitation of the self. And what that is, is it's pretty difficult. It's a hard thing. The pathway to enlightenment is not an easy thing in any way. It's a very, very difficult thing. You've got to work hard, you've got to deal with the dark difficulties that lurk in your mind, and when you're facing that which is limiting your spirit, it's extremely difficult. It's really, really, really, really hard. And so, you know, that's why it's important to have a positive mental attitude, to know that this is something that happens to everyone. Some of you guys come over to me and you're telling me your worst problem. Oh my God, I've got the worst problem in the universe. My problem is this. And then you say, everybody else obviously doesn't have as hard a time as me. And I've seen that happen a number of times. So the thing is like lots and lots of you say no this is bad and everyone else has it easier. They don't have it as bad as me. Well on the pathway to enlightenment when you face the ego, you definitely, for sure, absolutely face something that is the same for everyone. That critical point where the ego is clinging for its dear life. And it's extremely painful. There's suffering, there's darkness, there's anger, there's depression, there's all sorts of... whatever it is, it's the ego clinging, the suffering of the self, clinging to limitation, clinging to its idea of who it is. And that pain hurts the same for everyone. And on the pathway to enlightenment everyone comes across that. Everyone comes across that pain of the ego clinging. Some people it's depression, some people it's anger, some people it's desire, whatever. Everyone's got whatever their thing is. experiences that tremendous intense difficulty, that hardship, that thing that throws you so out of balance and makes you so frustrated and unhappy. So everybody on the pathway to enlightenment faces that. So when you come across your very, very, very special suffering that you think is so unique and wonderful. It's not. What you're experiencing is spiritual suffering. You're experiencing spiritual suffering that's connected to thoughts and emotions and all this stuff. But the crux of it is that your spirit isn't free and that your thoughts, emotions, your past, your ideas, all these things are, you know, that whole aggregate is the self that is squashing the spirit so that the spirit isn't free. So on the pathway to enlightenment we face the self. We face at that very, very, very core level an awareness of my spirit wants to be free, but it's facing that undeniable, difficult hardship. And that's the case for all of us. Everyone wants to be free. Everyone wants to be unlimited in spirit and in mind. But we find ourselves with dissatisfaction, find ourselves with our anger, our depression, our personal history, just the stuff that's always been there and it goes in cycles, sometimes it's gone, sometimes it's back, right? But it is there and that's what's squishing us and that's what's causing causing this spiritual pain. So we need to recognize that when you are sitting there thinking thoughts, feeling feelings, and saying, oh, only me suffering and my suffering is so bad, that what you are experiencing, what you are grappling with, at its essence, is your spirit wants to be free and it's stuck in the limitations of the ego, of the self. So, we have to recognize, you're not so special with your suffering, everyone suffers. This is the doorway to bodhisattva. When you have the recognition in your suffering that others experience this same type of suffering. The same thing, wow. For whatever, for them it might be because they don't get an orange popsicle before going to bed. Who knows? Everyone's got different things that triggers it. this tremendous suffering. Everybody, everybody on the path, off the path. It's just that when you're on the path, you're focusing on your mind and your spirit. So when you don't, you know, when you see that pain, then you're saying, oh, okay, I'm looking at the crux of the matter. Other people out there in the world, they're not looking at the microscope, into the microscope itself. They're just doing whatever. So they do whatever, they don't get what they want, oh they're angry, they're depressed, and they're just rolling through that karma. It's not pleasant, it's very stuck, but that's why when you're on the spiritual path you tend to actually have more suffering, spiritual suffering, because you're looking in at what's going on. You're looking at the crux of the issue, which is the spirit's limitation from the self. So this is why spiritual practitioners become very sensitive and they're more sensitive than if they've ever you know if you've never meditated less sensitive so things don't hurt they become more sensitive on the spiritual path but you have to equally use your mind and dharmic methods so that when your sensitivity goes up, then you're able to apply the dharma so that you don't feel out of balance. And then what happens is your sensitivity and your application of the dharma work together and then you rapidly rapidly become liberated through that method. But when you just have high sensitivity, all your practice is doing is giving you that sensitivity and you don't practice the Dharma like mindfulness and bodhicitta, then what happens is you're looking at that microscope, looking into the microscope of the Self, seeing the crux of the matter, really experiencing the Spirit and the Spirit's limitation, so that you can, you know, break through it and be free. Limitless. Then what happens is your sensitivity is going up. On a spiritual path your sensitivity is very, very, very high. And then you've got to practice bodhicitta. You've got to practice mindfulness. You've got to take refuge in your yoga. You've got to meditate very strongly, so that you can be bright and clear. When you practice the Dharma, especially Bodhicitta, because this is where we're lacking mindfulness, so when you're practicing the Dharma, which means that there is a balance. That greater sensitivity that causes you suffering, along with your discipline of bodhicitta, brings you to a higher state of consciousness. It brings you to a higher condition of mind, a higher awareness, a higher attention, a higher state of mind. So what's necessary is that you practice bodhicitta. When it's really, really, really hard, when it's really, really, really difficult, you have to practice those two things. You have to take the pain and send light. I remember Rama always used to say And, you know, like, for years, it was just so difficult, so painful, so hard in the study. For me, and I could tell for like 99% of the students, they looked pretty miserable. We're Not really 99%, probably 98%. But like everyone is going through hardship.

0:14:52
Everyone is working really hard.

0:14:54
Everyone is going through the same spiritual consideration. Everyone's got, you know, everyone's going into the microscope of the self. Everyone's got sensitivity that's going up. and we have our discipline, our mindfulness, our bodhicitta. Now the thing about me and probably a lot of people, a lot of ST1s and ST2s, was it didn't seem like they would practice the discipline of mindfulness extremely well. They would do it to a point, but almost in like a defensive way, like in a martial arts way. That's why when I when I talked to Ishwara once and and he told me like there was some really intense stuff going on and he was like, okay, there's no problem. Like, well, how did you do that? He's like, you know, practice and go to sleep. That's all. That sounds like a good idea. Like if you actually did Bodhicitta, that would work. You know, and like I practiced Bodhicitta, you know, a little bit back then. I just didn't practice it all the way. I was all like, oh, let me practice that Bodhicitta thing. Oh, it's a nice idea. It's a nice sitting meditation, but I didn't use it very effectively as mindfulness. And that's what Ishvara did. He used it as mindfulness. I did it as mindfulness. When you're actually bodhicitta. That way when your suffering kicks up, what do you just do? Sit there and whine about yourself? No, you practice taking and sending. And you practice it really hard. Because you go in through so much difficult that it requires that you do, you know, you push past yourself. You do a hundred and ten percent of bodhicitta. So if your, if your personal pain and suffering is so much, and confusion and delusion in your life and it's so hard, then use bodhicitta. Use it with as much power as you can, because it has to match the level of suffering you're experiencing. If you're like suffering and you're all, oh, I'm really angry, but I'm going to do a little bodhicitta, then you're like, okay, people like me get angry, I give them light, and then then you think about the person that makes you mad again, and then you get mad. Then that means that you're not focusing enough. You're not using enough energy. In order to succeed in bodhicitta,

0:18:13
you have to get beyond yourself,

0:18:15
which you will eventually. But the level of energy and power that you put into your bodhicitta has to equal your level of suffering, anger, depression. You've got to push so hard that you balance that out. It's not like it goes away, right? You're sensitive, you feel suffering. It's not going to like... bodhicitta is not going to make it go away. What Bodhicitta does is it brings your spirit up to the same level as your suffering. Because when your spirit is at the same level as your suffering, then you are not suffering. So that means that you get to the point where, oh I feel really bad, but let me consider enlightenment bodhicitta, and then you say, ah, I have a perspective now. I'm looking at this situation. I understand it. It's okay. I get it. I can handle it. I can deal with it. I have options. I've got ways and means. It doesn't just trap me and make me feel like the universe is over. So it's really important for you to, when you feel suffering, I don't know how many times I've told you this, but when you feel suffering, that should engage your mindfulness, not your ego cleaning, not your indulging. Oh, I found a new thing to get mad at, so I'm going to indulge in that and be angry. That's not the idea. That's not what we're doing. The idea is, whoa, I just got hit with a new thing that made me totally depressed. You know what I'm going to do? Practice bodhicitta really, really, really hard, so that I can transcend this karma and experience a way out in my heart, a way out in my mind, a way out of that suffering. That suffering is caused by your reaction, you, your state of mind, your thoughts, your feelings, your reactions, right? When you don't react that way, and you react in the way of bodhicitta, then the karma changes. When you do bodhicitta for real, then the karma can't continue. Even mindfulness practice of bodhicitta, like, okay, let me just go through the steps, it starts to interrupt the karma. And then the karma loses its power. It'll come back and hit you again, but if you practice it again, then the karma loses its power. You've got to do that over and over and over, maybe many times. But when you get to the point of looking at the crux of your suffering, and you summon the personal power to do bodhicitta. When you can practice real bodhicitta, it stops the karma of the thing altogether. It is liberation from that suffering. But the suffering doesn't go away. But it's not like the conditions go away. The stuff is still there. But when you are experiencing the light of bodhicitta, the light of compassion, your ego doesn't get hit, it doesn't get hurt. Still the same circumstances are going on, but you're looking at it in a completely different way, instead of the way of your karma. So it's very important for you to practice even stronger. Not fall into like lower, more mediocre state of practice. You actually have to take it up a notch so that it's better, stronger. And on a path, you know, you just go through this stuff. But it's hard, but this is facing the self, this is taking on the self. And not saying, oh, it's just, this is the way it is, you know. I have this depression and I'm never going to let go of it. That's just the way it is. You can't do that. You're giving up right then and there. You can't say, oh, this makes me angry, and when this makes me angry, that's it, I'm angry. I have a desire, and that's it, I'm going to have it. I'm just going to have that desire, you know. So it's like, if that's your attitude, you've already given up. You have to say, this is my anger, this is my depression, this is my desire, this is my attachment, whatever it is that makes you suffer, you have to say, I've got It's a karma, something affecting me for sure, because I feel suffering from it. However I'm going to apply the Dharma, because when you apply the Dharma, that suffering is transformed into wisdom. And that's the truth. So you can't just sit there and believe that your limitations are forever, because they're not. They are not forever. They will change just on a karmic level over a lifetime. But they will always lead to more practice of the Dharma, it changes it. It changes it. It doesn't change it, it changes you. So the thing that is a locked in, iron clad suffering thing for you, you can't believe it. You can't believe that it's just that way. I mean there's the third noble truth that suffering eventually ends. It does. Just like there is suffering, there is pain in life. That pain at some point comes to an end. It runs a course, it's a course, even through karma. So you have to know that even though you think that certain things are concretely suffering for you, it's not true. That's an illusion. It's transient. So you've got to be able to say, okay, this is an illusion, this is transient, and so I'm going to practice bodhicitta. Bodhicitta shows you that it's an illusion. In one bodhicitta session, you can take that thing that is ruining your whole life, killing the universe forever, and you can just apply bodhicitta for real, you know, like push yourself beyond your mind, push your bodhicitta practice to a point where you feel the life of bodhicitta. And then what happens is you experience a transformation from that horrible suffering that was so real to an experience of understanding and balance and freedom and brightness. And you see that thing that's so dark and horrible, it just disappears. disappears. You see it in a totally different way. It's not bad anymore. It's something that you understand. And everything in life, even the things that we think are horrible and terrible, once we understand them, then we understand. Life. And life is powerful, beautiful, perfect. You know, it's like we could look at life in all sorts of ways, but life ultimately is perfection. So when we see our difficulties through the light of compassion, through the light of knowing. Then we come into an awareness of perfection. But a lot of times when you're going through it, through the really hard stuff, you just want nasty, I have a hard time, and bad things, thump on the ground. That's, you know, that's what the self wants to do.

0:27:46
But you shouldn't do that.

0:27:48
You should do what Rama always said, smile. You're like, the worst things happening to you, and you just go... you so at least you have positive body language it really matters because if you if you make yourself look and act the way that you feel inside you'll be like

0:28:29
Looking really scary and doing

0:28:32
bad horrible things

0:28:34
terrible things

0:28:35
But you have to be able to go through the really hard stuff and smile be positive Act positive. Isn't it funny how you could be going through the worst shit be afflicted by demons just have like no meditation no mindfulness and just be like everything is the hardest this is the worst and then the worst things happen to you get yelled at by some bar and friends think you're ugly everything's terrible so you're just going through the worst thing. But then you can like walk into your job, and they think you're doing great. You're like, you're top rate in the valley. And they're just, and they're like, oh good. So everything's going well here.

0:29:32
And you're like, oh! Oh, I do this.

0:29:40
probably do yeah and yoga too it's like yoga the level work that we have to do is much higher than the work that we have to do at a company because it was that there's so many more dimensions to it you know like getting your your status report turned in you know having that tone out to do the things that you have to do. It's all these little things, but doing it right is very, very important.

0:30:10
Very, very important.

0:30:13
So, when I go away on Thursday, for three weeks, I want you guys to practice a more positive state of mind. I don't want everyone in the sangha going down while I'm gone and then coming back up. It's like, come on, you have to start taking responsibility for your mind a little bit more. And push yourself into a positive outlook. And when you feel suffering, practice Bodhicitta. Practice it for you.

0:30:47
Okay.

0:30:50
OK. OK.

0:30:52
Thank you very much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
