0:00:00
Alright, so...

0:00:03
So another consideration... Another consideration...

0:00:08
of the Dragon's Pearl. This ancient... Where did it come from? It's popular in the East. The symbol of enlightenment and the union with the enlightened Dharma. It shows an active connection with enlightenment and the Dharma. For example, Buddha was enlightened and he also pursued the Dharma. And he accomplished things. So the Dragon's Pearl is a way of accomplishing something from an enlightened perspective, following the enlightened Dharma. So it's not a passive awareness. It is the way to make this quantum leap to move beyond the trappings of the self into an experience of spiritual balance. And also, according to our yoga, when we see the spiritual balance, we have the balance of our physical balance. What we project and experience in the world ends up being something that falls into place where we see the conditions get better and brighter. So we're going to do a practice. This is the second consideration. This is the consideration Freedom from limitation. So I'd like you to imagine, picture if you will, ponder, reflect, on a condition of freedom. What does freedom feel like?

0:02:41
Now what we're talking about here,

0:02:43
even though we're just talking, and you might call it your imagination, but we're following an esoteric teaching. Hey! A device is speaking to me.

0:03:02
Hi.

0:03:02
Okay.

0:03:04
That device.

0:03:05
Okay. So when we're considering this, this consideration actually has a feeling, we could say. It's a feeling that is a spiritual feeling, a spiritual guidance. And you can follow this feeling when you imagine it in your thoughts, when you see what it feels like in your heart. Or it brings you into the awareness of the teaching. So that's why we're just having a reflection. A reflection within the parameters of attention that make this teaching work. So we reflect on a feeling of luminous freedom. It's the simplest way to say it. But you want to feel it. You want to feel this brightness, with this feeling, this free feeling, we're going to direct our attention and this feeling to at least one area in our lives where we feel spiritual imbalance. We take that feeling, and we bring it into our work, into our yoga. If it's a relationship, you bring it into the relationship. The luminous feeling is a feeling that really moves you beyond yourself and it's a feeling that brings enlightened attention to the place where you're stuck, you might consider them to be kind of dark entanglements of karma and thought. And this luminous freedom liberates them. It irons out the kinks and it illuminates It's very important to first and foremost set your intention and your attention on the luminous feeling of free. You can even use that mantra, free, free, it's so bright. And then once you've established this awareness, we bring it to this area of stuckness, an area of self, an area of spiritual imbalance. This is a critical consideration and this is yet one of the preliminary practices. This is yet one of the preliminary practices. We're going to do this while listening to some music. During this consideration, it's a good idea to focus on the heart as a chakra area of focus. And while we're listening to the music, take a minute or two to establish this freeing luminosity. And then turn your attention to the place where you feel spiritual imbalance and the spiritual luminosity illuminates that place, liberates that place. Let's see.

0:07:25
Let's begin. So, I'm going to play a little bit of the music. so so the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, You're my hero So in this monastery in Tibet, there was this one monk who was a little slow, a little slow. Everybody

0:13:49
knew it and it was tolerated, but he was slow. He wasn't as smart as the other kids. This This is a young monk. They start off at 10 years old, so he's around 12. And just trying to keep up with all the other kids were doing, he just was falling behind. Always had trouble with everything. Couldn't keep up with his chanting, couldn't keep up with anything. But he was a nice enough fellow. One day, one of the senior monks brought the little boy who was slow to the most difficult intellectual course or practice, which was the practice of Buddhist debate. So this is where, you know, this is the debating team of Buddhist monks. And what they would do is they would sit there and they would argue the Dharma with each other. And the boys who were very good at the Buddhist debate, they were really sharp, really smart, really intelligent. But at the same time, the Buddhist master, the older monk, knew that they lacked humility. So he brought this kid over. He says, all right, you're going to do this. And then the other boys look at him and say, what is this? We know this guy's slow. And we're like, whoa, going really fast. And we're really challenging each other. And we're really smart and stuff. So what's this guy doing here? And so he falls into the debate cycle that they go through. And the first little boy monk who has to debate the slow guy, he just, you know, lays into waste. He just says all these things and the kids all, I don't know what to say, you know. And then he's all, what about this? What about that? Well, I think this, I think that. And then the slow kid is just like overwhelmed, right? And then the next kid who gets up, and this is like devastatingly horrible, right? So then the next kid who gets up, he sees that this kid just has no chance. So he decides But he still makes points and even basic things that I can't keep up. Then we come to the third kid. And the third kid says, all right, I know what to do here. So he starts debating him. And in debating him, he starts guiding him. So he's like, well, I say this. And the kid's all, huh? He's like, well, if that's your point of view, that this is the case, then I would say this. And isn't that right? And the kid would go, uh, uh-huh. And then he'd go, what? So he started to guide him. And then the next kid up continued this. So all the boys would go round robin on debating the kid who was slow, but they would practice guiding him to participate, to understand, and just really to succeed. And this was, for them, just a big transformation from being smart badasses to compassionate smart badasses. In fact, you've got to be smarter to guide someone. So this was a beautiful experience because it was not only more challenging for them but it elevated one of the people in the sangha. So that was a really beautiful way of compassion. So it's really important to observe compassion in our practice, that we have this attitude towards each other. Not like, you know, you're a retard. You're slow. But just, I mean, even if you're dealing with someone really smart if someone if you see someone's having a hard time Have a supportive attitude An attitude that helps them. This is a this is a very important discipline and this this feeling is very important for the recognition of the Dragon's Pearl. The Dragon's Pearl is an awareness. It's an awareness of life. And when you have this awareness of life, you're in a condition of spiritual There was another story of Buddhist monks, little boys in Tibet, where the little boys were sitting in their room and there were a lot of little bugs flying around. So the little boys started swatting the little flies, the little mats. So they were like, oh, there's right. And one of the monks, older monk, more enlightened bunk comes by and sees them swatting the gnats. And then, you know, in Buddhism, one of the rules is don't kill anything, unless you're really hungry. And, and so, you know, the monk wants to teach them about that. And he wants to teach to them in a way that's positive. He doesn't want to just go over and say, hey, don't do that. So he goes over to the boys and he says, one of the little boys tries to get a nap, but the nap gets in the way. And he says, hey, what are you doing to Jim? And then the little boy says, huh? I was just trying to swat a gnat. And he goes, no, that's my friend Jim. There's Edgar and Gina. And then they're all, huh? And then he starts talking to them. He starts saying, hey, guys, how are you doing? Oh, it's so nice to see you. Oh, how's your brother? So the monk goes on with this conversation with these gnats that are flying around. And the little boys are all, oh, they're all killing his friends. And then they said, oh, we're not going to kill your friends anymore. And that's just a really compassionate way to teach them compassion, so that they have an understanding of harmlessness in life. And then, like a week later, one of the kids comes over to the monk and he says, Hey, your friends are in my room again. I saw Jim the other day. Conversation about his family. of compassion that are very, very, very, very important. Now here's an important story. So a monk is going through town and he sees this weird Like, very, very, very expensive vase. There is a goose. The goose's head is sticking up, but the goose's body is too big to fit through the vase. So the vase goes like this. And the monk says, what's going on? And then the men say, well, we put this goose in here when it was younger, and we've been feeding it and cleaning it, and now it's grown to the size where its body's too big, and it can't get out. So we're taking bets on how to get the goose out without breaking the expensive vase. We can't break this vase. We would rather let the goose die than break the vase. And then the monk's all, oh! So they say, you want to bet? And the monk's all, oh, I can't. But then the monk is just wondering about this. This is such a strange thing. How would you get that goose out of there if its body's too big? So the monk's wondering and wondering. I don't know. I don't know. And then finally, he goes to the Zen master. Zen master, I thought, the strangest thing. How are you going to get that goose out of there? And then the Zen master, you know, here's the story. And he says, Oh, I see. He said, Let's have some tea. Then the monk says, Okay, so they have some tea, quiet. Then he says, Let's go on a walk in the garden. Go on a walk in the garden, come back to the Zen master's quarters. Let's meditate together. They meditate. And then they bow. And then the young monk takes his leave. And just as he's getting to the door, the Zen master says, that's how you let the gooks out. Pretty clever, huh? What does that even mean, though, right? Is that a story of enlightenment. Stories... Notice I'm telling stories. Stories are interesting. Stories are ways to engage in teachings. And stories have an effect the same way jokes have an effect. So if I tell you a joke and you go, ha ha ha, that's funny, what happens is the joke caused laughter, caused you to go into a certain experience that makes you laugh. That's positive in a way. And a story, these stories have an effect when you pay attention to them, when you're listening to them, and especially because I'm using these stories as aspects of these esoteric teachings. When you're paying attention, you learn something more deeply than the story. The story is just a story. The majority of what's going on here is much, much, much deeper than the words. But when you can pay attention and follow, it creates an effect. It creates a spiritual effect. It makes your spirit enlightened. Let me tell you a joke then. There was a butterfly, no, a caterpillar, adolescent caterpillar. And the caterpillar was saying, I don't want to change. I don't want transformation. This is like what the ego does, right? I don't want transformation. I want what I have right now. And then the parents are like, but one day you're gonna grow up, you're gonna have wings, and you're gonna need to do what other butterflies do. And then the young caterpillar says, maybe I don't wanna follow in your path. And the butterfly parents are shocked. And then the father says, you are dead to me. And then the young caterpillar decides to abandon the path of There. You can quit and become an artist any time. So that's a joke. There's a story. You see how these jokes and stories go? They hold your attention, they bring you on a way and then you end up laughing one way or another. So when we're working on yoga, our yoga is very different than anything that it looks like. Right? You know, Milarepa, the great enlightened yogi of Tibet, he was sitting there, his yoga was building towers. Building with stones. However, outwardly it looked like this difficult, boring, masonry work that had nothing to do with spirituality, but it is what brought him to enlightenment. Inwardly, it was a whole different ballpark. So when we are doing yoga, even though we're working on computers, lots of other people have succeeded tremendously at big computer companies. We're doing it in a way that creates enlightenment. It actually is different inwardly, the spirit of it. The spirit of companies usually is ego, power, self, going out and taking the rule. It's very power-oriented. However, it's not very enlightening, even with great success. But yoga is very enlightening. It's the higher chakras that brings you to an actual spiritual transformation. So when you're doing yoga, it's a totally different dimension. It's like that one Zen koan, one of the most famous ones. So someone goes over to the Zen master, I think it was the sixth patriarch of Zen in China, and the monk says, everything has Buddha nature. That's the teaching of the Buddha. A blade of grass, a tree, every person, even a rock, and how about that dog right there? And then the patriarch says, move. And move means no, in Chinese apparently. Or did did for them back then. So became this famous famous thing. Oh, wait, but that's the conflict in the mind. How could every Buddha said everything has Buddha nature except for the enlightened master says no about the dog. So then what happens is the student ponders this and says, move, move, move, move, and just ponders, move, move, move, move, move, move, move, move, Moo, moo, moo, moo, moo, moo, moo, moo, moo,

0:31:15
until moo doesn't even mean moo anymore.

0:31:17
And that's where the magic happens. Concept of no, no, that doesn't have enlightenment. It's like, yes, no, yin, yang, right? Just thinking about moo, moo, moo, moo, over and over again, what happens is eventually you're contemplating enlightenment, you're contemplating something not just Mu, not just dog not having Buddha nature, you're contemplating really enlightenment. So this again pondering and pondering and pondering, you ponder Mu until Mu isn't Mu, and then that's where you enter into this magical attention. You enter into this profound awareness beyond Mu. It is the same with work. When you're working with yoga, in yoga, you're working, working, working, working. At first, it's just like normal work. Miller-Alpha, building a tower, you on a computer or whatever. At first it's just work, just work, work, work, work. But then you keep going. You go beyond regular work and you just keep going. But what's happening in your awareness, what's happening in your attention And then work becomes magical. Yoga is magic. And then it leads to, you know, that old famous saying, before enlightenment, cut wood, carry water. After enlightenment, cut wood, carry water. Yoga is that path, this yoga, right? It's work. And then what are you going to do after you're enlightened?

0:33:14
Work.

0:33:16
But guess what?

0:33:17
It's so different. It goes from the moo to moo.

0:33:25
Moo!

0:33:27
By moo, I've got it.

0:33:29
So stories and jokes I have more stories and jokes

0:33:35
however, I think you guys are in a place where we can have the final consideration of the teaching of the Dragon's Pearl. Having a recognition of selflessness, a recognition of compassion, and an understanding of how to take the difficulties that you're facing and go beyond them. It's that feeling of luminous freedom. You know the Zen way, or the enlightened way, to win the game? Of course they would say in Zen, be the game, or something like that, right? Which is true. You can even think of it from an art of war perspective. You know, let's take basketball. You guys are playing basketball, two teams against each other, you want your team to win. And when the opposing team scores a three-pointer,

0:34:59
a lot of times people say,

0:35:00
oh, we're losing. But that's looking at it in win, loss, me, them. But when you're the game, then you're on a different level. This is where you fall into that thing. You win when you're the game. You win when you're the game. That's going into, you know, in the baskets we'll get there, you know. But when you're the game, you win. The art of war, you set up the whole battle. You control the battle. Sure the enemy is going to do what he wants. He's going to do this, he's going to do that. But you set up the whole battle in your strategic assessments. You are the battle. An enemy does something, but you're going to win because you are the battle. It's the same with your yoga. This is the selfless discernment. This is where you're not a victim. You are the battle. So it is it's it's kind of a paradox but it's something that you feel you have a recognition of this selflessness of this discrimination of seeing how you are not yourself and seeing energy that transports you out of those ruts of karma. And finally, we come to direct seeing of the dragon's pearl. This is simple to do. We're going to meditate together with an open eye meditation. And what I'd like you to do is I'd like you to just focus on your third eye this time We'll meditate for one song and I just like you to look up towards me Now in this final aspect of the dragon's pearl There's nothing to say at all There's only the direct awareness of this Dharma and it is something very specific And all night have been talking around it. It has to do with understanding of the Spiritual imbalance in your life and how it manifests physically It has to do with seeing yourself in a selfless way, seeing the ways to move beyond the self. And it has to do with compassion. put my attention completely, let's say, in the center of the dragon's pearl. I know this inner destination so well and so clearly that I become it. So just by looking at me, if all you see is my physical form, you see it. However, when I put myself into this condition condition directly, there is a profound energy that you can be psychically aware of, that you can connect with. You can follow with your attention into this luminous profound Bring the focus to your third eye. And let's begin. so

0:39:08
so

0:39:16
so so

0:39:30
so so so so so so so so so you Okay. All right. So, this is a very, very, very special and helpful and maybe a bit challenging teaching. the conditions of karmic and samskaric attention. It is the pathway to the third attainment

0:41:31
that Buddha talked about, the non-returner. How to be able to move beyond the karmas. Once and for all, and not to return, to set a new course. And in the spiritual path, we change time and time again, but we change into a higher higher self. It's more fun. Even though you might cherish your dissatisfactions, you might cherish the things that are unhealthy and wholesome, that make you suffer, you might according to the Buddha. And for those of you who suffer, it is important to adhere to this experience. This experience has touched, we could say, your heart, your spirit, even if you're thinking thoughts and all confused and frustrated. Why are we sitting here so long? Even if you're going through all sorts of thoughts and stuff. This is an esoteric teaching, being in the room, paying attention even somewhat, gives you your spirit and inner view to this path. This path is real. This path is something in the spirit, solid, real. In the inner world, it's an ancient structure of Dharma. And inwardly you see So this when you're challenged with the things that create you spirit create spiritual imbalance for you I'd like you to reflect on the three considerations of this teaching The how are you not yourself, you know the what if I'm not me reflection You know something starts bothering you but what if I'm not me to be bothered by this? Or you find yourself, I can't do this. What if I'm not me so that I can do this? And then the reflection of the luminous dimension of freedom. When you feel that, you're nothing. If you're in struggle with something, you're struggling with it, and then you're nothing, you're not there to struggle with it. And the struggle doesn't exist. The struggle comes from you. The struggle comes from you. And then, finally, the vision, the seeing, the direct seeing of this enlightened teaching. A nice thing for the equinox, I think. All right, thank you all very much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
