0:00:00
All right. Hopefully you're sitting in a place where you can see me. Because. I'm going to open the mirror mirror and this is a very simple thing as simple as the teaching because I know the truth of the Dharma and the truth of enlightenment. So I didn't used to, but I do now. When I didn't know it before, I was still on a journey to find out, to have that reflection of higher self. But now that I It's as simple as Buddha's teachings. So when we're going to do this meditation, I'm going to show you the mirror. And this is where you will see enlightenment. the great doctrine in its essential truth of the Dharma and enlightened mind directly being the mirror it is a Reflection of your own enlightenment, so it's a very very profound Esoteric experience, so I'd like you to see.

0:02:01
In fact, if you can't see,

0:02:03
you might want to stand up from your seat, walk to the back of the room so that you can see. Don't just stand up in front of someone.

0:02:10
Yeah.

0:02:11
It's important.

0:02:12
Yes.

0:02:13
All right.

0:02:14
Good. It's so nice.

0:02:16
Okay. Alright, here's how we're going to do it. We're going to sit for three songs.

0:02:36
On the first song, focus on the navel. On the second song, focus on the heart. On the third song, you're gonna focus on... I don't even have to tell you, and you're new at this, aren't you? Okay. So, on the third song, while you're focused on the third eye, I would just like you to open your eyes, keep a soft focus on the third eye, and look up towards me. Blink when you need to blink. Relax. And then you will experience the mirror of Dharma. Alright, let's begin.

0:03:54
so so so so so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, you so I'm a fool so so You're not alone. the the the Oh the the the the the the the so so I'm going to go ahead and get started. the the the Oh So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. You the the the the the the Oh, the the the so So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. so So so the Okay, very nice. There's a wonderful aspect to the teachings, the direct teachings of enlightenment, and that is that they are direct. It's a direct experience. So in Zen Buddhism, they talk about meditation or the journey to enlightenment as polishing an obscured mirror. It's like there's a mirror, you look into it, you're trying to see your higher self, yourself, your enlightened self, but there's all this stuff that obscures your vision. So every meditation is scrubbing off layers of things. But having

0:20:58
an opportunity to look into the mirror of enlightenment, it has an effect that it destroys that you see on your mirror. So that direct experience, directly seeing Samadhi, directly seeing the light, shows you something about truth and about the truth within you. Without

0:21:32
a spiritual path, kind of like a wild goose chase.

0:21:37
And you're the wild goose. You're running around, running around, running around.

0:21:43
And I come over and say, hey, what are you doing?

0:21:45
I'm looking for a wild goose.

0:21:46
I'm trying to chase it down.

0:21:47
You're the wild goose.

0:21:49
Oh, what am I writing about? Meaning there's a lot of confusion in the way of the self. The way of the self, even if it conceptualizes enlightenment, is just totally off. I mean, it's nice to do anything good. It's nice to try anything, but it's much harder. You find yourself really thinking thoughts and spending energy in ways that are not necessary, that draw you off, and basically make you tired. Feeling the ego, the reactions of the ego, the personal history, keeping your attachments and hanging on to your desires. Keeping the ego going takes a lot of energy. It takes a lot of energy. And really what you need to learn to do is let go of all those things that waste time and energy, and really see truth and find the way for you to experience that truth. It's kind of like if you were running and you're running, running, running, you run past me and say, hey, can you help? I say, sure, and I run over and I go, what's wrong? What can I help you with that. Just stop running. And you're like, running, running. What do you mean? Stop running. Everyone's running. People got places to go. And then I say, okay, look, I'll show you here. And then I sit down and still, and then you go, whoa, they start running circles around me. And you say, that's a great idea. And then after a while, you sit down, they get back up and keep running. That's what the mind does. I mean, even in meditation, we sit down, but still the mind. I have that experience of peace. What's the mind do? Runs. It's running.

0:24:29
But

0:24:30
when you have more experiences of meditation there are these moments that you start with moments, timeless moments, where you have stillness and luminosity. And then you say, wow, those moments that I can be still are wonderful, and then maybe get back up and running, running, running. Jogging around, which reminds me of a joke

0:24:55
that I'm just gonna tell to entertain you with

0:24:58
because it reminded me of this joke. So this guy flies into Westchester County, New York for a business meeting. He takes the red eye and he, that's a suburb, a nice suburb of New York, of Manhattan. And he gets there, takes the red eye, gets there at like six in the morning and he says, gosh, I'd like to get a nap before my 9.30 a.m., let's call it a sales meeting. Sales and marketing meeting right? So he pulls over in his rental car to a nice little lake that's in Armonk, New York. He pulls over and he's like okay this is great I'm gonna just you know kick back in my seat catch a few Z's and then off to that And then, after that meeting, make those sails. So he just leans back, and he starts to go to sleep. And then there's a knocking on his window. So he rolls down the window. It's a jogger. Jogger says, hey, can you tell me what time it is? He says, sure. Yeah, it's 7.30. And the jogger says, thanks. Runs away. He starts to fall asleep again. Another knock on his window. Rolls it down. It's a different jogger. Hey, you know what time it is? Yeah, it's 745. And then the jogger says, great, thanks. And then he runs off. So the guy looks around and he sees there's people jogging around this lake. So he says, oh boy, I'm not going to get any rest. He's like, oh, I have an idea. Takes out a piece of paper, writes on it, clock broken. I don't know what time it is, period, exclamation mark. And he closes his window without hanging out. He starts to fall asleep, knock on the window, and he's like, rolls down the window, and he's like, didn't you see my nose and then the guy goes yeah it's 805 So in meditation, rather than running and running and keeping your mind filled with all the things and concerns, desires and fears of your day, it's important to really foster let go, to fall into the pattern of nature. It's kind of like breathing. Breathing, you don't have to think about it, see here's the mind, you say, okay, so here's what makes sense to me. I'm going to inhale for six seconds and then I'm going to exhale for six seconds and then inhale for six seconds. You know, this is a plan, right? This makes sense, right? And then you realize six seconds was way too long this is what happens when you think your life you are out of nature, right? You make a plan, you think all these things, and then when you execute them, they fall into a disjointed experience. But this is very, very common for people to do. In meditation, when we fall into that natural experience, natural, just like the breath without thinking about it, our mind becomes still. Our mind reflects nature, reflects our higher self. And we experience a balance, a clarity, and a luminosity of life that is satisfying, that is something that brings us peace. And really, you know, it's so different than the desires, attachments, and crazy experiences of our world, the workplace, our families, our friends. It's a place of peace, a place of enlightenment, when you just sit and let go and stop the mind from running and running and running. There's a place for running. So we're a school of Vajrayana. We also have a very, very strong focus on being successful in career, but not just for the sake of being successful in career, but as a spiritual practice. We call it karma yoga. It's something that is a practice whereby you do an action. It's a consecrated action to be spiritual instead of mindfulness, and a lot of attention. And through this impeccable and selfless practice of career, attain a strong personal power and spiritual consciousness from work. Now, when we do our work, we're very successful in it, you know, in terms of getting to the top of our career, making a very good salary, making a lot of money. Yes, that's great. But we see as our work gets better, our meditation gets better, our personal power and luminosity gets better.

0:32:06
It gets stronger.

0:32:07
There's a balance between our mindfulness practice, which is work, and our meditation practice. So we take on, you know, this is where spiritual practice goes into turbo with our work. We, you know, it's great because it works with our society very nicely. It benefits us in very nice, positive ways. And at the same time, it's tremendously enlightening. But if you consider the runner who thinks, the yogi who practices this mindfulness of work is sprinting. So we've become very, very strong in this way of thinking, but very effective and unusual, not like most people who kind of run just because it's the regular speed of the mind. We learn to sprint. And it's a good thing, too, because, you know, eventually, if you sprint enough, you're gonna get tired. And then it's easy to sit down. That's one aspect of Vajrayana.

0:33:21
And then there's the mystical aspect.

0:33:23
So just like the breath, you're like, okay, just have super easy, don't even think about it, and just try to have calm, deep breathing. But then in the mystical aspect, we kind of put ourselves in a hurricane

0:33:43
to get blown away.

0:33:44
We put ourselves in extremely powerful experiences. Sometimes these experiences are experiences of meditation in Hawaii, on our Mystic Scuba adventures. There are powerful experiences in certain places in nature. So, Dolma Jeet was talking about energy lines. She said, the energy here was amazing. And what else can you say about it unless you experience it? But if you go to places that have strong energy lines, as we do on our solstices and equinoxes, when we go to these places of power, these spiritual, sacred places, there are energies that when and they're very, very powerful. And they blow away certain ideas, they blow away certain limitations when you meditate there, when you follow the teachings in a place like that. And you experience amazing, amazing consciousness when attachments get blown away, when ideas that weigh you down about who you are and what you can do, and they get blown away in the hurricane of mysticism, then you experience a really transcendent consciousness. So that's what we do things with, you know, we have our daily meditation, trying to sit down, but then we get up and we sprint. And then once in a while we go to these places of power, right into the eye of the storm, or just on the outside of the eye, but it wipes you out. And then it's a fun experience. Now, one of the difficulties that people have on the spiritual path Is those ideas? right ideas of the self And the ideas of the self are very very problematic. They ruin everything. That's what they do. They ruin everything so You know you start off with you know concepts and ideas. You know just like if you're going to start a karate class, you're like, okay, I saw the Karate Kid twice. I know what's gonna happen when I go there. I know what it's gonna be like. You have ideas. You're like, I'm gonna be like the Karate Kid, and I'm gonna find Mr. Miyagi to teach me. And you just have all these ideas. And then you go to a karate class. And then you learn what it's really like.

0:36:52
Then you go, oh, okay.

0:36:54
And then you get your yellow belt and quit. That's the American way. Yeah, you know, they go and they say, oh, okay, I have an idea. Now I know kind of what it's really like, and yeah, I don't want to try that hard. Yeah, I guess I wasn't that serious. You know, you meet reality. But the question is, do you get a black belt? If you get a black belt, you've gotten power. And a useful power. Power to save your own life or save the life of another person. That's a useful power in this world that we live in. So, you know, are you a person who can hack it? Do you have what it takes? You know, or are you just mediocre in everything that you do and just kind of, yeah, I got my yellow belt and then I kind of moved on. Didn't think that was for me, so I decided to take up, you know, bongo playing. I figured, you know, or the didgeridoo. You know, that kind of stuff. Leaf in the wind, right? That's your mind. So, this is a place of discipline, just like a dojo, like a martial arts dojo. It's a place of discipline, and it's for real. It's not a place where you mess around, try stuff, eh, you know, the American way,

0:38:20
the way of mediocrity, right?

0:38:22
This is the way of mastery. And that's why it's good to practice, see if these teachings are real in your experience, and if they are, then great, then follow reality. So the self misinterprets, it has ideas, right? It just sees things in a different way. There's a story of a Zen master. He's sitting there right in front of the Zen garden and he's just looking or he's meditating with his eyes open. And then a monk is down next to the Zen master and he's happy, just hanging out. And the Zen master says, the garden is perfect. And then the monk nods his head, looks around the garden more. Then he starts to go, hey, there's a bunch of leaves that fell. It's getting close to fall, and some leaves are falling from the trees. So he says, in order to make my master happy, I will make the garden more perfect. So he goes out and gets a rake, rakes up the leaves, cleans everything up, gets rid of it, throws it away. Then he comes back and sits next to the master. And he's like, didn't I make it better? He's like, now, the student's like, now it's perfect. And then the master gets up, walks out into the garden, goes over to a couple of the trees that are growing there,

0:40:02
he shakes them.

0:40:02
And the leaves fall down. And then the master comes back down, sits down and says, garden is perfect. So, you know, sometimes the beginner is overzealous, doesn't look to see what the true perfection is, and just hold concepts and ideas about what perfection is. Just like the ideas of enlightenment. What is enlightenment? It's a concept, until you have more deeper experiences with it, right? It's a concept that people have. And that's fine, as long as you're flexible with your concept. So, you know, people have ideas that enlightenment is this amazing, exalted experience, and then when you're enlightened, you know, you just sit upon silk pillows, people patting you, which might happen. And that everything's gonna be just perfect, and people will be giving massages,

0:41:17
and there'll be some great...

0:41:20
Right, oh.

0:41:21
It might happen, right? I mean, just look at the lives of Jesus, Milarepa, you know. I mean, even Buddha, right? Buddha was, you know, he was, there were three assassination attempts on his life when he was alive. Being a Buddhist monk was dangerous back then.

0:41:43
Those Hindus really wanted it.

0:41:44
They were like, oh!

0:41:45
I think that's interesting, just on a side note, that Buddhism started in India and then it got pushed out pretty quickly. After Buddha died, the Hindus were like, no, okay, finally that guy's gone, let's just push him out. There was a little bit of Buddhism there, but Buddhism really moved. It became very, very, very, very popular in the Far East. So it moved on. So with your ideas, you have to look at what's the reality of them, or just be flexible with them. Because for someone very, very highly spiritual, the Son of God, Jesus Christ, who some see as an enlightened being and was this amazing, exalted teacher, his life was pretty tough. He didn't just sit around on silk pillows. He walked around, taught, went through difficult times, and then in the end, he was not on silk pillows. So, we have ideas that when we become enlightened, that it's gonna be just bliss all the time and our problems will go away. You know, we have like, we're like, well, when I get enlightened, I'm gonna have this

0:43:27
and I won't have that, you know,

0:43:29
you can have all these great ideas. However, that's not true. These are ideas. When you're enlightened, it doesn't solve your problems. Enlightenment doesn't solve your problems. It solves you, but not your problems. I have many more problems now than I had before liberation. And, you know, the fact that I was able to solve myself makes it all bearable. But, you know, when you come to enlightenment, these ideas, these concepts, they're just not true. So you have to be flexible, be flexible with your experience. Don't hang on to ideas, because ideas are attached viewpoints that are not lucid, they're fixed. Means that there's a limitation to these fixed ideas. So, it's always good to really follow the teachings of enlightenment, otherwise you'll run into trouble. So the enlightened teacher says, oh, be careful of your desire for this certain thing. And then you say, oh, okay, I'm gonna go get that certain thing. It's like, oh, be careful of this desire. Oh, I'm gonna go do that.

0:45:15
I had recently heard

0:45:17
about one of my old students who I remember my last conversation with her was about her desire for a certain thing. And I said be careful of this

0:45:27
desire.

0:45:28
Then as soon as I brought it up

0:45:29
to it I want that thing. And I said yes but this will bring you a really, you know, you can't follow this desire, it brings you a lot of suffering. She said, this is my enlightenment, my path. And she went off and followed that thing. And I recently heard, she got that thing. That's the problem, right? Then it blew up and became the most horrible situation for her life. And that's a good experience for spiritual understanding to really recognize that desire brings trouble. That was a big point with my students for a while. I kept telling them, be careful of your desires. If you follow the path of desire, it is not the path of enlightenment. It creates a lot of trouble. It creates a lot of suffering. So, you know, the good thing is, you know, every student that I ever come across and teach, once I help them. I help them with their path on the Dharma. Some of the lessons are maybe hard lessons and they're unfortunate lessons. They're hard. There's an easy way to do it and a hard way to do it and they choose the hard way. It's like you can listen to, don't follow that because that will create suffering for you. And you go, oh, okay, I will be careful. All right, when you see it happening, you say, okay, I really have to respect the teachings and not follow my desire. That would be smart, right? It would be good to listen to the teachings. But sometimes you say, no, I'm going to do what I want.

0:47:34
Right?

0:47:35
And then you go out there and do it. And then when you experience the suffering from it, this is also a great thing. When it's been given to you as an enlightened perspective, because then you can take it as a lesson. So a lot of people just experience suffering, and then they're just like, oh. But my previous student, yes, she's experiencing a lot of difficulty, a lot of suffering, but fortunately it's been given to her. She's in the context of enlightenment, so it's a lesson. So now she's able to go through the hardship and figure something out. Her spirit figures something out. in the transient moment, but her spirit, her eternal spirit, figures that thing out, which is good. But yeah, going that route, takes you through such a difficulty. So much suffering that's needless. If you listen, if you pay attention. So it's important to recognize the teachings of enlightenment save you from trouble. I remember a story of the Buddha, where the Buddha, before he had Ananda, his servant, his cousin, my cousin, as they say in Hawaii, he's a cousin. So he had these few guys who would hang around him and kind of take care of him, and they were nice Buddhist monks. So he's walking down the road, they're going to a certain place, and they get to a crossroads. And the Buddha says, we're going to go to the right. And then one of the monks says, what, dude, we're gonna have to walk like 20 miles longer to go to the right. If we go to the left, it's a shortcut. And the Buddha says, no, do not go to the left. Follow me to the right. And then the Buddha starts walking. And then the student, the Buddhist monk, he's like, I don't want to walk 20 miles, I know what, I'm just gonna take the shortcut and I will meet them there. So the Buddha finally gets to the place and they're like, hey, where's, what's his name? And then the next day the guy comes in, so he actually got there late, and he was beaten up. He went to take the shortcut, and he was walking by himself, and these Hindus saw him. They got jealous. They're like, oh, it's one of those Buddhist monks, huh? Let's go get him. So they went over and beat him up, and then they robbed him so they robbed him of his robe and his bowl because well he comes in wearing a little loincloth all beaten up and bruised when the Buddha says you should have listened to me and then he's like oh I learned many he learned his lesson there but then there was another one of the guys who was Buddha's entourage where this guy Buddha says we're gonna go to vulture peak to this other place for meditation and then the other then the guy says you know what I think I'm going to go into the forest over here to meditate by myself I think that sounds like a good idea for me. And then Buddha says, don't do that. And he says, no, we'll go sit the Sangha at the right place. And he's like, I'm really drawn, I think my path is to go over to these trees and meditate over here. So Buddha walks away and he's like, okay, to the trees. So he goes to the trees, he sits there. And then after three days, he goes to Vulture Peak, and he's in a horrible state of consciousness. He's all angry, he's totally pissed off, he's so frustrated, he's like, Buddha, I'm so upset. So he's like crying and miserable, and Buddha says, what happened? He says, I went and meditated there, and I thought that I was following the thing that I should do, and then I started having all these bad thoughts and I got angry and I went through this misery and then now I can't get rid of it. And then Buddha said, yeah, I know, I told you not to do that. I mean, there would be no use for you to do that. To follow the Sangha, to meditate with the Buddha, would be the thing to enlighten you. What you did was useless, the opposite thing. You followed your ideas. And then the guy was able to recognize that he did something not productive, and then he started following the Buddhist teachings again, and it became productive. So following the Buddha's teachings, it's really good. It's very important, you know. It's important for all of us to follow the Buddhist teachings. We learn the Buddhist teachings and we put them into practice in our lives. And that's where we see it work. That's where we see the positive constructive things. So if you find yourself saying, no, I think I'll follow my desire. My desire to go off to this path over there or to go do my own thing over there, and not listen to the Buddhist teachings, you're like, hmm, Buddha says, he's got this whole chapter on desire in his little book, in the Dhammapada, and it says, desire is really not very good. Don't follow the path of desire. You have to start to recognize, hmm, I'm really not desire, versus letting go of desire. And you start observing those things in your life, and you see that it creates for you a brighter, stronger, healthier, wholesome, balanced situation, where your heart feels open and at ease, where your mind is clear, where you see that you're gaining greater personal power. When you follow the Buddha's teachings, this is what starts to occur. It becomes wonderful and magnificent. So the self, following the way of the Dharma, if you practice it, you start to see great things, beautiful things. But then you might wonder, how? It's like if a purple aardvark with a green knapsack walks over and asks you, how do I find my aardvarkness? There is a way. There is a is following the instructions, of course, but it's kind of like, I don't know, it's kind of like riding a bicycle, right? There's a bicycle there, and I say,

0:55:21
so what you're gonna wanna do is get on that bike

0:55:23
and balance yourself, and I tell you what to do, and things like that, yeah. But you gotta get on the bike, and you have to go through those trials of learning to ride and finding that balance. You know, I can give you the instructional video and you can know everything from understanding, you know, okay, I know every part, you know, every piece of the bike. If you give me a wrench, I could disassemble it, put it back together. I know the name of everything. I know everything about bikes. I know manufacturers. I know everything about that bike magazine. I know who the pro bikers are.

0:56:12
Lance Armstrong, right? He was wrong. Okay.

0:56:17
So, you can know everything about it, but eventually you gotta get on it and find that experience.

0:56:28
Right?

0:56:29
That experience is what really brings you balance. The experience of riding a bike. Which reminds me of a Buddhist story. There's a Zen master, no not a Zen master, just a Zen priest. And he's sitting at the side of the road. And this is not too long ago, a hundred years ago or so. And then these three Buddhist monks come riding by on bicycles. And you don't see that every day. So the Zen priest tells him, he weighs them down. So the three of them, you know, there are three young monks with bicycles and they're going somewhere and he says, wow, why are you guys riding bicycles? That's strange. And the first monk says, well, I'm bringing this big sack of rice back to our monastery and riding the bicycle makes a lot of sense. I don't have to carry it on my back. And then the priest says, Oh, I see. This is very good. You will have a strong and healthy body. And then he says, What about you? to the second monk. The second monk, he says, Well, when I ride on my bicycle, I feel beauty and harmony with nature. And then the priest says, that's beautiful. You shall live a life of harmony. And then he goes to the third monk and says, why do you ride the bicycle? He says, because I ride the bicycle. And then the priest recognizes that enlightened truth and says, you are my master. So he goes over and bows to the young monk, who happened to be an enlightened monk.

0:58:34
So,

0:58:35
the experience of enlightenment is something that you experience in different, people can go through the same experience of riding a bike, but there's a different expression. And this priest had true seeing. Riding the, just riding the bicycle, that means no extraneous material laid on top of his mind, on his experience. No modifications of his consciousness, just direct experience. And the old math, the old priest was able to see the perfection of his mind. So some people ride a bike for rice, some people find, you know, a nice experience with it, and that some people, some people experience the bicycle as enlightenment. So the pathway to enlightenment is we got to get some schwinds, we got to get some BMX. The pathway to enlightenment is the experience. It's the experience of doing it. It's the experience of the pure awareness. Pure awareness of life. But not just knowing about it and reading a book about it, but it's the experience of doing it.

1:00:06
Let's see what's going on.

1:00:08
All right, we're gonna take another short break,

1:00:11
just 10 minutes. We're gonna come back, meditate together again,

1:00:16
just a little bit. We won't go too far past 10 o'clock. Just a little bit of a break, freshen up, and we'll come back and meditate a little Just a little bit of a break, freshen up, and we'll come back and meditate a little more, talk a little more, and then that'll be it.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
