0:00:00
I'm Peter.

0:00:10
All right.

0:00:19
Wonderful. So I just want to say thank you to go. That was really fantastic. So some very, very, very interesting things there. A little bit, some subtle things, but very, very interesting. Okay, but we're going to begin with meditation. Fortunately, our projector failed in the beginning, so I had a chance to talk to you about it But now we will meditate together. We're going to meditate for three songs So we're going to listen to music when we when we do meditation you listen to music It's music that is written by monks from our school, so one of the things that we do in our Buddhism is we do music and And we use music for meditation. So the first song, we will focus on the navel chakra, the second song on the heart, and the third song, third eye. So, let's see. Meditate.

0:01:26
And let's begin.

0:01:29
I'm

0:01:31
the the the the the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so so you you the the the the the the the the the the the the the the I'm going to be doing a lot of work on this. Oh so Oh, the the the So the the the the so so so the the the I'm the the the so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, All right, very nice. So ha ha. So some of you guys watch that kind of like how you might watch, you know, look at a co-worker or a cousin's pictures when they go on vacation. Here's me with Mickey and Goofy. Yes, yes, yes. The common way of seeing things, I understand. But this is all about magic and enlightenment. And there's

0:16:34
a there's a Dharma to this that you might not be aware of. That was fascinating. And there is victory, as they say, in India. So this was a powerful demonstration to all of you. It You know, yeah, it wasn't just you know, like some thing. There is physical stuff that you saw there, mountains, trees, dirt. However, overall, this was a demonstration of spiritual reflection. This was an experience that Dolma G had. And she, through showing us these pictures, through her mind touching these places and the she showed us an attention, an experience of consciousness. It was an experience of This is the journey that she went on, the journey that we all go on as spiritual seekers. It's the journey to the higher self, the journey to seeing the higher self as a spiritual reflection. She went to places, she looked at the same things tourists look at, same things that Buddhist monks look at. She hung around stupas, saw all these things, went through, traveled, you know, as a society that had their own societal ways and structures and conditions, energies. And yet, in that experience, she experienced something very different than anyone else there. Everyone is on their own spiritual journey. But particularly, Dalmaji had a very, very, very interesting experience on this journey. Because it's not just a regular affair of going to a place, snapping photos, like all the tourists do. Has a different attention than all of the Buddhist monks Just because she has a awareness From our lineage our school that is different a little bit unique We tend to have

0:20:13
practices

0:20:14
awarenesses and observations That are different So let's just say. So she was able to go to this place in India, Bodh Gaya, and have an experience there that was quite unique. Most people do not look beneath the surface. Their experience is experiences, you know, definitely not that deep, let's say. However, this journey that she went on, this spiritual pilgrimage, was a process of showing her a higher self. Now, on this process, when you go to all these let's say common places that so many people visit To see where Buddha was and where Buddhism came from Her connection To spirit was very strong So, you know you're taking pictures of the stupas, you know, this is where this happened. There's a Buddha, you know, there's a tree, the Bodhi tree, right? However, the experience of going through this is not the same for everyone. And for her, it was a powerful experience. It was an experience that showed a higher self. Let me give you an example. So I used to know this guy who in high school he would go and feed the homeless on the weekends. So he would go down to this horrible neighborhood, what is it like 6th and Mission, horrible, dirty, you know, drug-infested, dangerous neighborhood. And he would go down there on the weekends and feed the homeless. He just liked to. He just came to mind that that would be a good thing for him to do. So he did this time and time and time again. And once I bumped into him there, I was hungry. Just kidding. I was in it for some reason there, but I bumped into him on the street. And then he was so bright and happy.

0:22:55
Now, I was walking through there going,

0:22:57
oh, this place is dirty, oh, it's dangerous, oh, I felt tired, down for it. But he was bright and shiny. He was happy, and even though he was going around this terrible place, he was really, really bright about it because of his inner experience. So the place where he was, yeah, maybe it wasn't the most amazing place, but his inner experience, because of his selfless giving, he was having a really bright experience doing

0:23:33
that.

0:23:34
I would say it's very similar for Dholmajit in India. I'll tell you from looking at the energy lines there, I can see through the picture. So when Buddha was there, couple more than 2500 years ago, I'm sure there was a beautiful energy there. But it's changed times change Energy lines change the energy of the land the aura of the land changes population people attitudes they change So, you know, it doesn't feel the same and even when you you look at it, it's like oh wow. So the Buddha was there, she was able to connect to the origination of energy there. She was able to connect to Buddha, Buddha's experience. And she did that because she's psychic. She has a second attention, right? She has a deep awareness field. So she didn't experience the place like everybody else. She experienced the place in, really what I would say is its original energy, its original aspect. She was able to connect with the real powerful enlightening expression of Buddha, the person who kicked off this ism that we're involved with. Saw deeper dimensions the actual truth in the dimensions and not all of the extraneous material and stuff and Covered over and everyone's thoughts and stuff Now this happens a lot in the world in society The truth gets covered up You know gets covered up with a whole bunch of extra stuff. So this journey that she went on is not a normal affair. It's not a tourist experience like everybody else goes through. And it's not a clueless experience of India. It's like, oh, I went there, took some pictures, saw the statues. It wasn't just that. It was actually a spiritual journey which exposed a higher, a view of the higher self. So this is a significant experience. Why it's significant for her to show us, why I wanted her to show it to my students is because it's powerful. I know, I know. You guys are like, oh, gosh, can I see it again? So you have to look at things differently. You can't just look at everything in life in the most boring, basic ways. There's some magic here. So, for example, someone can express something, someone could show something. And it's not just the thing they're expressing. They're not just showing you the flat basic dimensions. There's something more than that. There is the person's awareness. I remember when I followed my Buddhist school to New York, because that's where I was told to go, go meditate over there. It's like New York. And in New York, I'd been doing martial arts for a long time, but in New York I started studying SKA with a really, really fantastic sensei, Errol Bennett. And I had had some good martial arts teachers before, you know, Black Belt, done a lot of martial arts. However, I was very, very, very impressed with this sensei's teaching. I thought it was amazing. So you know we had the downward block and I was at you know probably my fourth class there and I was just doing this downward block or otsukis or something like that you're just going through the stuff and I'm like mm-hmm you know I'm already a belt, so I know this stuff." And then he said, no, no, no, that's wrong. Okay, so he said, watch me. And he just demonstrated downward block. Now, when he demonstrated the downward block, I saw something I had never seen before. I saw a profound awareness of technique that not only was something that he experienced and could do, but it was as if it filled the room and it hit me it gave my body a feeling. It gave my awareness. It helped me form my attention. And then I was like, oh I know something more about this. And then in my next technique I did it and I was able to take that information and that feeling and use it to make myself stronger in my technique stronger in my power so this is how the subtle teachings are you know the these are the esoteric teachings and they are things you might not be able to see with your eyes unless you have psychic seeing But it is a real experience It's a profound experience that actually affects you. That's why Meditating with an esoteric teacher is so powerful Because it creates something real now Tomoji showed us something real. She's very, very humble. Very, very pure. But her attention, her experience, that was a powerful trip for her. It was a very powerful lesson in her life. And she shares it. And when she's sharing it, she's sharing attention. And it is something that you know, it's very interesting in many pictures. There's that energy, that connection in her mind and it's actually a very powerful thing. You know how she said, you know, in a lot of places she went to, she got to go into special places, got to That is very, very special, actually. Very, very special. So, I went trekking in the Himalayas as well, and they're serious about keeping their special places clean. You can't come in here unless you're a llama. You can't come here unless you're a rinpoche. Oh, but, you, come on in. There's something very, very special about it. And for her to have that opportunity to meditate in those places is powerful. You know, why did she go to those places? There was a reason. She had been to those places in previous incarnations. She had been to those places before. So that's another aspect of her experience, is that she had stored power, which means, you know, if you go back to the college that you've been to, or let's say your old hometown that you moved away from a long time ago or something, you know, maybe you moved away from a place when you're 12 years old, but you can go back to that place and then you remember things. There's awareness and consciousness. You're like, hey, I remember playing baseball here. I remember going down by the stream. And not only is it a memory, but it's a feeling. It's an awareness of attention. Now, for most people, all they experience is karma. Like, oh, I went to my old university, I remember sitting down and studying in the library. I went to my old hometown and I remember, you know, kissing Susie under the maple tree. Right. So that's what most people are aware of. Now, some people, people who have been spiritual practitioners in their past lives, people like yourselves, often, store power. And that means that in a place, they have a powerful experience. Not just something that happened, not just a happy feeling, because whatever, they got married, or they, I don't know what they do. They remembered the name of that strange animal. So that's just karma, but some people have profound experiences. Dholmajee in her experience, she's like, I had an amazing meditation there. That's all she can say in words, right? But she had powerful, bright, enlightening experiences. And she had them in past lives there too. Now when you go to a place where you have stored power, where you have had powerful, magical meditation in a past life, when you go back to that place, you can access that. It's like a little pot of gold that you find. You're like, hey, there's my personal pot of gold. I put it there. And now I can come by and take it back. Bring it over to America. Start spending. You find a gold card, credit card.

0:35:01
So it's true, you can go to places

0:35:05
where you've stored power, where you've had these amazing experiences, and then you go there, and maybe you have a past life memory, maybe not, but definitely what happens, if you're a meditator, what happens is you access that power. It comes back to you. It is like a little personal pot of gold. And when you go there, you're able to get that treasure. And it makes you higher, more powerful, more conscious. So this is something that she experienced. She went to places she had been to before, stored power she was able to You know access that power access that energy and that's why it was extra extra bright for her So quite a amazing experience There's a lot more to it But Principally, what I'd like you to consider is that the spiritual path is a personal experience. It's a personal experience of finding your enlightened self, your higher nature. And this experience that she showed us is not just pictures. It's the experience that she had. And that is powerful. You know, a lot of times when you're looking at the pictures of Buddhist stuff, you get really lost. You know, you get lost in culture, you get lost in so many different weird things that you don't understand. And then what happens is, you know, Buddhism seems like something far and weird and strange. So many, you know, tankas, so many paintings, so many statues, so many places, you know, all these things. And this is true. There's all that stuff out there. And you start to look at it, you know, in its societal context and, you know, all these things. But I want you to look at the heart of the experience that Dalmajit showed us. What she presented was a personal experience. And that is the thing that is very, very powerful. One of my favorite things about the presentation also is so many powerful, beautiful images of Buddhist art. It's just amazing. It's incredible stuff. It has an energy. Every Buddhist symbol has a story, has a dharma, it has a teaching. So these are really good. So as we are looking at those together, you know, these things just make a nice imprint on your consciousness. And you know, it has a good energy. So this is something that I want you to understand is a personal experience. Just like you doing a kata, you know doing a martial arts form. This was a demonstration of the reflection of the higher self. So it's like a technique and this demonstration had an effect, it had an energy that changes your consciousness. And therefore, when you're doing your technique, it helps you to see your higher self as well. It's so fantastic. It reminds me of a teaching of the Buddha. So the Buddha taught something called the mirror of Dharma. And he taught this to his monks because his monks kept on coming to him and asking all of these themselves? How can I get higher? How can I be more enlightened? Is this true? How can I have proper discrimination to see what's true and what's false? And so the Buddha said, all right, all right. He's like, I can't just have one on ones with everybody. So I'm going to spin the Dharma and come up with this powerful tool called the mirror of Dharma so that his monks could use this tool to see their enlightenment. is about seeing and apprehending your higher self. Seeing that which you are. Because enlightenment is within you right now. That perfection is there. However, seeing that, connecting to that, being that, having that unity, that connection, right? That takes some practice, that takes some ability to connect to. So the teaching that the Buddha had is that teaching. that connection of seeing the way from the self to the higher self, the enlightened aspect of your being. And this was something that was very, very powerfully enlightening for many of Buddha's students. Many of his students attained enlightenment through this practice. And many, many, many of them attained the third attainment of the non-returner through this practice. So the mirror of Dharma is a very, very profound teaching of the Buddhas. But it is, as Buddha taught, it is the pathway to enlightenment itself. Buddha called it, it's a form, a spiritual form. It's a concrete spiritual structure. It is a doctrine that exists in the second attention. It has a reality. You can interface with this teaching by following just Buddha's ways of considering. But Buddha called this experience itself a journey. And this pathway to enlightenment is the experience of going on a pilgrimage, seeing the reflection of a higher self. It is a journey. It's a good way to think of it. It's a journey. And, you know, for some of us, it's a journey into a movie theater. Sometimes this journey takes you out to dinner. I don't know. Anything. Where the Dharma leads you. Where the truth is. We go where the Dharma leads us. We go to a place where there is truth. enlightenment is actualized in our consciousness, where it's real. It's not just your desire. It's not just your concept. There's a complete and true connection with a higher truth, a higher awareness. Wherever that is, if you seek enlightenment, you go. There's a guy in India in the time of the Buddha and he's like Mumbai or something and he decides he's a regular kind of merchant class fellow. He decides I heard of this Buddha teaching over over there and I'm going to go visit him. So he has some nice clothes prepared, some nice, beautiful, clean, happy clothes. And then he goes to his barber, and he's like, I'd like you to give me, he had kind of long, matted hair, because he's been working so hard. He goes to his barber, and he's like, okay, I want you to give me a nice, short, good haircut, because I'm going to Bodh Gaya. And then his barber says, ah you're going to that place? That's such a pit, it's horrible, so dirty and yucky. I've been there before, it's terrible. What the heck are you going to be doing over there? And he said, well you know the Buddha's over there, he's got like 10,000 monks He's got like a hundred other hundred thousand other people. They're going to visit him there Number one, you're not even gonna Walking over there, right? It's gonna take you like a week. You're gonna get all dirty. It's gonna be horrible You know getting all the way over there, you know, you don't have a horse It's gonna be terrible and then second of all once you get there, there's so many people, there's gonna be no inns available, it'll be full, you'll be sleeping on the street, it's horrible. And then you won't even be able to see the Buddha. There's gonna be so many thousands of people, he'll be like far off, so far off that you won't even see him. You won't even hear him. And you know, I'm gonna go anyway. And this barber's like, well, when you get back, I'll tell you, I told you so. So he gives him a nice short haircut. So he starts walking down the road one day in his new clothes and then this carriage is coming by and the carriage says, excuse me, can you pass the,

0:46:53
no, no, no.

0:46:53
Yeah, it's that kind of thing. Okay, so he says, do you know which way I go to get to Bodh Gaya? And then he says, yeah, just down the road, this way. He's like, actually, I'm going there too to see the Buddha. And then the guy in the carriage says, so am I. Why don't you come with me? Okay, great. So he goes into the carriage, beautiful luxurious carriage, and he gets a ride there. And they make it there in three days, and it's just a luxurious experience. And this guy, they make friends, and it's like, hey, really nice positive experience. Then they get to Bodhgaya, and there are, there's 10,000 monks There's hundreds of thousands of other people who are milling around in the the Buddha's there. So yeah, it's very very crowded So the the person he met, you know had to go his own way. So he gets dropped off in front of an inn So he goes to the inn and he says hey, I'd like a room or a bed. They're like, oh, sorry, we're full. So he says, OK, I'll check another. So he's checking another, checking another. And then he comes out and is like, oh, boy, I guess my barber friend was right. There's no in. And then he bumps into this lady wearing a beautiful sari. And she sees him come out, kind of shaking his head from the inn. She says, what's the matter, sir? And he says, well, I've come here to see the Buddha, and there's no room at the inn, so I guess I'll just have to sleep out on the street. And she says, not at all. My palace is right down the street. Come to my palace." So he goes over to this palace. It's this family that, you know, they love the Buddha. And so since she saw this person seeking the Buddha, who was so upset, you know, there's plenty of extra room. So he got to stay in this fine palace. Then the next today the Buddha was teaching so he went to go see the Buddha so he gets into this huge crowd you know all the monks are up front there's hundreds thousands of people and somewhere you know he's like yeah I know the Buddha's here somewhere so he's waiting and then a couple of the older monks they cut a little walkway in between the other monks, and then they grab a bunch of the common people, and they say, Buddha would like a lot of the common people to come up to the front for this talk. So they grab like 100 common people, and he's one of them. So he's got a front row seat for the Buddha. Buddha talks about enlightenment, and he has this amazing, wonderful time. He's like, ah, this is great. This is fantastic. So afterwards, when the Buddha's done, the Buddha says, hey, some of you fellows, I'd like you to come and meet me personally. So he says, so one at a time, I'll have a private meeting with you. So the Buddha retires back into his grove of oranges or something and then and then this traveler He's invited to come to have private audience with Buddha So he comes to see the Buddha and he has this enlightening experience So a couple weeks later, he shows back up at the barber's place. And then he relates to the barber. The barber's like, yeah, it was terrible, right? He's like, no, no, actually, I got to ride in a beautiful carriage the whole way. And I get, you know, tells me the story about the palace. And he says, yeah, and I got to have a one-on-one with the Buddha. I got to have a private with the Buddha. And then the barber said, really? Wow, you know, what did the Buddha tell you? What did he say to you? And he says, he said, where'd you get the terrible haircut? just one thing but you know it's it's it's part of the journey now the real on the mirror of Dharma is a teaching that in words is very, very, very simple. Very simple. But it is a real and profound teaching. There's a second attention aspect. There's a magical or mystical aspect, an esoteric aspect, which we'll be experiencing tonight. So Buddha said that the mirror of Dharma is having confidence in the Buddha. So this is a he explained it as a journey, a journey to the awareness that what he's teaching is real, is enlightening. And that and the journey that he is awake, that he is enlightened. Pretty simple, right? So this understanding, this confidence, this knowledge that the Dharma is true, this knowledge that the Buddha is enlightenment, is profound. It is a spiritual knowing because it's not a common thing. Sure, you know, you could say, oh, there's the Buddha and he's saying these good things, but you don't know it until you have a Buddha taught his monks how to go through this journey, this experience of learning about his teaching and trying that. So he always wanted his students, he said, don't take my word for it. I want you to put these teachings to the test. In your own experience, is this real? There's a story of a there's a Brahmin who was he only had a teacher in a very different school, different lineage. The teacher wasn't enlightened, but you know, he was, you know, like, yeah, I'm really into this. And he had heard about the Buddha, but one day he came across the Buddha. And he decided, he was like the top student in his school and he was very good at like, you know, complaining, arguing, right?

0:55:02
So he went over to the Buddha and he said,

0:55:03
hey, Buddha, so, you know, enlightenment's like this. And Buddha says, oh, no, it's not. And then he, you know, he used all of his good debate techniques, but the Buddha always showed him a higher truth besides his ideas. And then after a little talking with him, he realized that the Buddha is way, way, way up there, way different than anything he had experienced in terms of spiritual awareness. So he went, wow, this is real. This is the real deal that I've always kind of thought about, but now I'm facing it. So once he realized that, he said, OK, I want to be your disciple. And the Buddha said, no, why don't you go back to your other teacher? It's important. You're a very famous person. You're the top person in that school. It would look bad and not be a good situation if you did that. And he's like, no. He's like, I have to have true enlightenment. He's like, and I see that it is here and it is not there. So the Buddha said, First, I want you to put my teachings into practice. You're just in awe because you know, whatever reason, like, you know, you just starry eyed at the moment. He said, But I want you to see if these teachings work for you. It's not about me, it's about you. If it works for you, then sure, you can come back. But you can't just sit here and go, wow, this is cool. I want to do it. So the guy says, okay. So he goes and learns with Buddha's other monks, and very quickly, learns the lesson. And then he puts it into practice, knows that it's true. Then he comes back to the Buddha, and the Buddha says, okay, you could be a monk. He said, but one thing, you have to maintain a good relationship with your teacher. And you have to give him money.

0:57:01
He came from a wealthy family.

0:57:02
So he said, you have to keep directing the same amount of money to him. So then that way, we don't make him mad. Because we want to be friendly with other spiritual people. So this guy, like all of Buddha's students, found out that the teachings are real, not just from hearing them and going, oh wow, that's kind of neat, but from putting them into practice. So when you put the teachings. Yes, they're real. Yes, they work Yes, they're powerful. Yes, they're enlightening and Then you have that Knowledge, it's knowing you don't have faith Faith is just it's not so important In Buddhism what's important is knowing. You're not guessing anymore. You're not wondering. There's a solid knowing of reality. I have faith in reality. I don't know. But you have to have knowing of reality. And then, with the knowing that, wow, these teachings work and you see yourself progressively getting stronger and brighter. Then you look at the Buddha and you say, wow, if I mastered this, you know, and then you look at Buddha and you go, wow, enlightenment must be real. And then you come to a knowing that enlightenment is real. That the way out of your small views of life, your troubled views of life, the way out of your suffering, the way out of limitation, the way out of any kind of attachment or spiritual snags is enlightenment. And you say, this is real, enlightenment is real. The enlightened one, the enlightened Is and which is a big, you know That's a very important thing for people to realize a lot of people take it on faith and concept enlightenment. Okay, sure but when you have true recognition of the enlightened one then there's a power to that so the teaching very simple of the mirror of Dharma is to follow the journey, the journey to putting the Dharma into practice and seeing that it is real. And then having through the journey And that then is the attainment of the mirror of Dharma. And that is a powerful attainment. Through that method, enlightenment is possible. Buddha's monks became enlightened through this. But I think for Buddha, it was very important because now he's like, okay, now these, they ask a lot less questions. He's like, you, here's your way, stare at the mirror. And then finally, people go, aha, aha. So it's a very powerful teaching. It's a very powerful and enlightening teaching. But just hearing about it, that's the thing. You could read a book, read lots of books, hear people talk, you can hear all sorts of interesting things that sound enlightening. Oh, okay, there. And conceptually, you can understand all sorts of stuff. Yeah, okay. So yeah, that's that sounds like a teaching. So I guess I don't need anymore. So but the thing the thing about it, just like with Domenici's presentation, this is not just a bunch of concepts. There's, you know, there's 1000 books out there that say 1000, you know, 10 million different things. But it's about your personal experience. It's about your personal experience. And your personal experience determines whether you have that knowledge of the Dharma or the knowledge of enlightenment. That you have the attainment of the mirror of Dharma and enlightenment is

1:02:07
tremendously profound and

1:02:09
life-changing for you. Maybe not someone else who's reading books or going on bus tours or something like that through life. But when you're following the pathway to enlightenment with your spirit and you're making, you're learning, you're making new discoveries, then your life is going in a profoundly bright and strong direction. And the experience of the Dharma itself is the reward itself. The experience of greater enlightened awareness greater recognition of enlightenment That is in itself the reward so it's very very powerful very very bright very very very beautiful and It's your personal experience Which is so profound I'm going to let us take another break just ten minutes this time So that you know we can get ready when we come back. We're going to experience the mirror of Dharma the mirror of Dharma

1:03:21
Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
