0:00:00
So Krishna said to Arjuna on the battlefield, they were in the middle of this dynastic war. Arjuna was very troubled. He was trying to kill people, a little worried about, should I kill my cousin? So he's having a difficult time, fighting a battle, concerned about winning, dying, family, all sorts of stuff. And Krishna said to him, if you were enlightened, even now, in the midst of this huge drama, I'm paraphrasing, you would see endless life, endless bliss. And this is true for you. Sometimes you get caught up in all of your frustrations, all of your depression, all of your attachments, all these ideas of what you can do, what you can't do, definitions of who you are, personal history, relationships, you know, the daily grind. You But this is transient awareness of life. If you still your mind in meditation, in compassion, you experience endless life. So even though there's ups and downs, happiness and sorrow in the transient experience, frustration in the transient experience, beyond all this is enlightenment. You're practicing bodhicitta because you're having some suffering yourself or you see another suffering. But especially for yourself, when you find yourself in a dark state of mind, frustrated, angry, depressed. You practice bodhicitta and then you say it doesn't help. I tried bodhicitta but it didn't work. That's okay. You know meditation is like that in the beginning. I tried meditation but it didn't work. I couldn't stop thought completely. However, bodhicitta like meditation meditation is a discipline. You hone your mind, you hone your spirit to be able to connect to those dimensions of life, to have that stillness, or to have that compassion. So it's something that takes practicing of course, but when you do practice Bodhicitta, it does meditation does work. In the beginning you might say, how did it work? I was still feeling bad. Yes, you were. However, if you follow the karma of bad thoughts without interruption, they always lead in the same pattern and there is a greater sadness. But when you interrupt the pattern with your willpower, with your mindfulness and you use bodhicitta, it interrupts that pattern and eventually instead of following that same pattern, your interruptions will break that karma. And then you'll actually be able to take that pattern higher. Additionally, not only are you breaking down, you're breaking down these patterns of karma that create so much suffering, but you're also getting stronger in bodhicitta. So, breaking the karmas that break you down so that you can more easily go up. And then you're also getting stronger in bodhicitta is bright and that it helps you to ascend. So bodhicitta does work. Maybe you don't see it in the first little while, but you see it after a while, that it does work. Just like meditation. In meditation, at first you might have lots of experiences of thought. But you do have moments of light. You all have moments of light in your meditation. And that tells you that this can happen. You just have to master it. You have to get to the point where you can always get to that light. That you can experience that light for a long period of time. That you have experiences of still mind from time to time. Your discipline is to make that experience as still as possible and for as long as possible. It happens over time. So, the practices do work. When you see in your current state of bodhicitta practice that your bodhicitta is not enough, it doesn't stop your suffering, just recognize that you're still developing, you don't walk into a dojo and expect to learn how to be a black belt in a short period of time. Or to learn to play the violin in a short period of time. These things take time. It takes practice and discipline. However, it does. It does happen. When your bodhicitta is strong, it's like meditation. When your meditation is strong, when you sit down to meditate, it's tremendously luminous. It's life changingly bright. When you practice Bodhicitta, for real, not just thoughts, but you actually access those dimensions, it happens for real. What happens is your personal suffering that you're dealing with really is gone. You go into a complete awareness of compassion. And compassion is a tremendously luminous experience. You transcend your self. You transcend the transient experience of your traumas and your problems, and you go into a state of mind, a state of being, a state of awareness, where everything is bright. And then you can look at your problems and they're not so bad. There might be pain, there might be work, there might be difficulty, but it's not bad. You don't get stuck. You don't get that snag of suffering. Where the self gets snagged and is unhappy. So, it's important to recognize what Bodhicitta really is. Sometimes you experience it. Maybe in your sitting practice of relative Bodhicitta. Maybe sometimes in your mindfulness practice of bodhicitta, you are practicing bodhicitta to the point where it becomes tremendously bright. And all of the dark states of mind, all the suffering of the self, is not even there. It doesn't exist anymore. You've been transported to of transcendental life, compassion. You know, when you look at anything in life, when you look at anything, what happens is, it becomes bright. You could look at an ant, a chair, a war, anything. If you see the essence of what's going on, you will see beyond the transient and then you will see this unifying luminosity. You will see light. So if Krishna, this great this war was fighting very crappy and he was killing people telling people how to kill people and yet at the same time he saw in the whole conflict that Dharma life and that is the nature of everything that is the truth of life that beyond the transient, you take a look at even the darkest things, like demons or something. I mean, I don't think you should focus on them. But even beyond the surface, when you get to the core of being an evil person or some terrible dementia or something like that. There's nirvana at the core of everything, even dark things. There's light, because everything comes from enlightenment. Enlightenment is the essence of all things. And therefore, our experiences of ups and downs in the transient world are tempered by our meditation and practice of compassion. Because we constantly go into the source, into the eternal aspect of life, into the awareness of enlightenment. And that means, and we can do that, that you're able to deal with things better. You're able to deal with difficulties better. It's from the transient side of life, oh, this difficulty comes up, it's the most horrible thing in the universe. End of story. But when you have an enlightened connection, you have that connection to the eternal, then the transient thing that's difficult and painful and problematic isn't the end of the world. There's a way to deal with it. When you're strong in light, then you can do even better. So there was a story of the Buddha. He was came to a new kingdom with his monks and the king says you know Oh Buddha there's this terrible thing happening in my kingdom, city-state area. This demon lives up in that cave this is a demon king right and he's got you know his own little cave palace. And he's got little sub-demons around him. So the demon king came to me and said, I'm going to eat you. And the king said, no, no, no, please. I'll give you anything. So the demon king said, all right, you put a person out by this little row of trees outside of town, once a month, and I will eat them. But if there's never a person there, then everyone can come and eat you. So the king says, okay, sure. So the demon king goes away, and then the king goes to the prison, and he starts putting prisoners out there once a month. And the demon king comes to Nisbeth. And then he ran out of prisoners. So then what he did was he started a ploy. He would have his soldiers put a bag of gold out in the middle of the street and then they would hide. And then the first person to come pick it up, they would yell, Thief! And then they would imprison him and throw him out to eat. Then the villagers, the people in the town, they got savvy with what the king was doing. They said, no way, we're not gonna pick up that gold anymore. So then the king got really, really worried. The month was almost up, he's, oh my God, I don't have any prisoners, what am I gonna do? The demons are gonna come and eat me. And then he said, oh, I know what I'll do. I'll start taking the kids from the orphanage. And then, and then after that, he just started having his soldiers kidnap people. Just anyone could be like, get somebody. So then, then the villagers knew what was going on. So then they started moving out of the city. They were like, let's get out of here. Our king is crazy. So then, just for the story's sake, all the people move away. And then the king is just sitting there going, oh my gosh, He said, except my son. So he, he was, so that's when the Buddha got there. And he's like, I was just going to take my son out to give him to the demon. And the Buddha says, this is bad. So let me deal with the demon. And then you don't have to kill your son. So the Buddha goes to the demon cave and then the demon was gone.

0:15:20
But he had attendants,

0:15:22
so there was a gatekeeper of demons. And the Buddha thought, get out of my way. And the gatekeeper said, sure, let me in. So he goes and he sits down on the demon king's throne and he starts and the demon king has a court you know with wives and stuff like that so he sits down and he preaches the Dharma and then all the demons just think they're like oh the Dharma is fantastic, it's the best thing and then the demon king comes back and he sees Buddha sitting on the throne. And he says, what are you doing? This is horrible. You can't just come into my demon kingdom cave and start sitting on my throne and saying whatever you want to my court. And then he says, you know, get out of here and Buddha says no nothing can make me leave and then the demon says I'll eat you and stuff like that and then Buddha says no you can't and the demon gets really frustrated because you know usually he scares people and people are ready to get eaten but he couldn't get any power over Buddha because Buddha was so bright and powerful. So then he just decided to really try to attack Buddha. And Buddha's all crap. So when he finally came into it, just decided to take out his weapons and claws and attack, then Buddha projected light. He gave his loving kindness and compassion to the demon. And the demon had never experienced anything like that. So immediately he stopped and he recognized a positive light. and then he said, what have you been telling my court? They all look happy. Buddha started preaching the Dharma. And then the demon king and all of the demons in the court ended up becoming demon Buddhists. And then that meant that they started to kind of transform from just an evil bad person to a really, you know, when a demon becomes a demon Buddhist, they become like a wrathful protector. So after the Buddha, you know, taught them the Dharma and initiated them, then the Buddha came back to the kingdom and said, then, you know, everything's okay, you'll not have any problems with the demon again, you can tell your villagers, your villagers to come out from hiding and move back into their houses. And then he said, Oh, but you made some bad karma, Mr. King. And then the king said, Oh, please, Buddha, you know, teach me what you can. So the king was so amazed by what Buddha did he learned the Dharma he also became an initiate but Buddha let him get stuck with some bad karma so you need to learn a lesson. So when your compassion is strong, powerful, you can even deal with demon kings with compassion. You know, Buddha was good at that. He's always like, oh, it's a demon or an elephant or something. And he's going, bing! And I'll hit them with the compassion. And then what happens is, then the demon becomes friendly and the crazy elephant becomes friendly. It's a good thing. So that's a Buddha. I advocate killing demons. Because let's be real, we can't do what Buddha did. Therefore, we have to do so. Skillful means. That's why we practice martial arts. And also, you know, when you fight them, it's just like two guys fighting. They usually figure something out. Not how girls usually fight, but how guys usually fight. Because, you know, guys are kind of silly and simple in that way. Girls are smart. They hold grudges.

0:20:50
Cross-dimensionally.

0:20:52
This is a problem. But guys are, you know, guys are silly. You gotta be more like, gals gotta be more like guys when it comes to fighting. You get into a fight, you figure something out, and you let it go. So, you know, guys will sit there and they'll go, and then they'll get into a fight. You set her up, you know, someone will win, someone won't win. Maybe no one wins, but they kind of hurt each other. And then they're like, oh. You know, a lot of guys get in a fight, they meet, they get in a fight and become friends. And you're gonna have to get in a fight. This is an excellent way to end it. So it's a silly thing. But I've seen it happen a lot. And, you know, and, and so, you know, it's, it's, it's a good thing to do. You know, so when you get, when you have to get into a fight with a demon or something like that, you just, you fight, because you got to fight. And then that helps sort things out, you know, that helps You guys figure things out You know after you smack each other around for a while then both of you Have a little bit more respect and say okay, maybe I don't want to do this so much anymore

0:22:14
Okay, figure this out

0:22:16
Cool, right? We'll go have a beer That kind of thing. Next time I'm in town, hey demon, next time I'm in town, we'll go out for a beer. Yes. So, you know, fighting. Fighting demons. But, the way of compassion is best. The way of sorcery, the way of personal power is like the concept in the Don Juan books of where you are beyond pity, that point beyond pity. So if you are beyond pity, then you have tremendous power. when you're not bound by any of your personal history and constraints, when you're beyond pity, that means beyond self, you have tremendous power. I never saw a wild thing sorry for itself, from the G.I. Jane movie. That was what it was about. It's like, be selfless. Go to the point beyond pity and you draw tremendous power. A good example of that is the Buster Douglas fight. You all know Buster Douglas. Okay. So, back in the, I think it was in the 90s, right? There was a boxer, Mike Tyson, and he was undefeatable. He would knock people out in the first minute and a half. And so he had this, and we hadn't seen a fighter like that ever, I don't think. So he came on the scene, and he just started knocking people out in the first round. And then he became the champ. And there was like, you know, everyone was talking about Mike Tyson. When I was a kid, Mike Tyson, Mike Tyson, Mike Tyson. And he seemed undefeatable because he beat everybody so quickly. He had these amazing knockout punches. And then there was a fight coming up with him and Buster Douglas. So Buster Douglas, he was a pro boxer, but he didn't have a perfect record. He had lost several fights and he was just going to fight Mike Tyson because his managers said he would try to give him a shot. And it was supposed to be an easy fight for Mike Tyson, just another knockout, you know, to go on his record. And Mike Tyson goes, yeah, I'll knock that guy out, sure, I'll fight him. You know, and Buster Douglas, you know, professional, you know, definitely a competitor. But he was very, very, very close to his mother. And he went to her, was in the hospital with her after she died. He just sat there all night. And then he went into the fight the next day. Very little sleep, totally the underdog. Everyone expects Mike Tyson to knock him out in less than a minute or something. And he was really at a place beyond pity. He was like, you know, it kind of hit to him, he's like, you know, this person who's so important to me, my world is gone forever change. And he got from that experience of his mother's death to push himself beyond himself. But if you look at him, that is a person beyond the paper. And it's powerful. And what did he do? He beat Mike Tyson. And everybody was like, wow, how did that happen? So mysticism, the way of personal power, it works. I mean it's very very very good. However, I would say Buddhism is better. Compassion is better. There's another story of the Buddha where The Buddha this is how Buddhism went viral so Buddha had 60 students

0:28:04
So after he became enlightened he went around from village to village

0:28:08
You know begging alms and then people be some skinny bald guy And then he'd eat, and then he would give a dharmic lecture to anyone who was around who fed him food. And then, you know, the son of the family might join him, and then he would walk around. And he just went village to village, slowly meeting a few people, and he started taking on sannyasis. In English it's called dukshus, something like that. Biku, ah whatever.

0:28:54
Seams.

0:28:58
So he started taking on these monks with him. And you know, little by little,

0:29:03
little by little,

0:29:05
he got, you know, taking a long time, he picked up these 60 students. And then they came to this place where there were these three famous Brahmin brothers and they had hundreds of students each and Buddha just went by himself to the eldest brother who had the most students and he said, can I have some food? And the Brahmin, you know, the Brahmin didn't, he wasn't like a monk, he like had a big household and lots of wealth and stuff. But he's like, sure, you know, come on in, you can eat. And then, and then the Buddha said, Wow, no, now it's late. Can I sleep here? And then the Brahmin said, Oh, you know, we just have a whole bunch of people visiting here, there's like almost nowhere to sleep. And then the Buddha says, what about, you know, in the kitchen? I'm happy to sleep in the kitchen. And then the Brahman says, well, there's a problem with the kitchen. There's a Naga that comes out at night. So, you know, after we have our dinner, we always run out of kitchen.

0:30:26
Because the naga comes out of that.

0:30:28
And you're in there, but people, in fact, the naga is in the form of an actual physical snake and I actually lost a student, someone went in there and was bitten by the naga and died. So the Buddha said, well, if you let me sleep there, I can take care of your little Naga problem. So the guy goes, all right, it's your funeral. So the Buddha goes in there. And it is said that the Buddha only slept one hour a night. So he's sitting there. And then the Naga comes out. And the Naga comes right over to the Buddha and then the Buddha projects his light, his compassion, his loving kindness to the Naga. And then he transforms the Naga through that. So Nagas sometimes are bad, bad Naga. Sometimes Nagas are good. Good Naga. So he transforms the Naga through this experience and the Naga becomes good Naga. And then he takes a nap and then he comes out the next day. And the Brahmin is there early in the morning, oh you survived! How did you do it? And then the Buddha brings the Brahmin in and shows him the Naga and he says, look, good Naga! And then the Brahmin is like, that is truly a miracle because I have a lot of spiritual power and I couldn't the middle path

0:32:27
so the Buddha sits down with the Brahman and shares the Dharma

0:32:34
and the Brahman says, oh this is the path, this is beyond me and then he says, I would like to become your disciple so the Buddha initiates him as a monk. And then he says, Now you have to teach all my students. So, so he gets hundreds of students together. And then the Buddha says, for double truth, a full path, middle way, and then they go, Oh, sign me up. So and of course, the endorsement of their teacher, who's all of a sudden wearing a different color robe and shaved his head and stuff. So then they're like, wow, this is amazing. So all of his students become Buddha's students. And then you say, you have to meet my brothers. So you go to the brothers. He's Buddha's cousin, he's Buddha's brother. They become Buddha's monks. So that's where the Buddhism started to hockey stick. Because all of a sudden there's hundreds and hundreds of Buddhist monks. And then from these three famous bloggers, I mean... So then the word gets around and then this is where Buddha became famous and popular and that's where people started coming to him to find out more. So compassion is even stronger than personal power. Personal power is good. Very good. Got to have that too. We do both. But compassion is stronger. Why don't we take a break?

0:34:40
Because since I don't eat, I drink. OK, thank you very much. OK, thank you very much.

0:34:51
And just about 10 minutes.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
