0:00:00
So, what is this self that creates so much trouble? This self that creates limitation, that creates repeated karmic experiences that are to us painful, that create for us this spiritual imbalance. What is this self? It's a routine. It's a of being and a routine that is fixed. You find yourself just naturally from your karma, experiencing life, thinking things a certain way, doing certain things and not other things, taking advantage of some opportunities and not others. And ultimately, by following this routine, you find yourself in spiritual imbalance. The outgrowth of following the routine of your karmic consciousness is limitation. It's suffering. Yeah, there's all interesting things that you like and things where you see yourself doing good ideas Concepts, you know, there's all sorts of stuff good and bad And you're you are ingrained in that routine It's like a rut of consciousness You know all the energy of the universe comes down into this very defined rut of consciousness. Enlightenment is clearing away the rut. It's filling in the universe doesn't go in one specific area. Then it goes everywhere. It is everywhere. It's like a thought. When you're sitting there thinking, you're taking everything in the universe and experiencing one little piece of it, which is the thought in your head. In this moment, you could be sitting there thinking a thought. You might be thinking about your mortgage payment, wait a minute, your rent payment, your landlord, or your job, people, places, and things, all sorts of nouns. But when you're thinking about something, you're bringing everything in the universe into that thought that is a limited experience of life Meditation we stop thinking in meditation. We slow down the thought and eventually stop thought When you stop thought you experience all of the energy of the universe, life and everything, life unbound. And you experience it without any limitation, because you're not bringing it into one area, you're not bringing it into a tightly bound point of consciousness. It's not as like grabbing something something in your hand. So, you're like, my awareness is of what's in my hand. But actually, there's so much other stuff that's not in my hand. So meditation is opening your hand, right? And now everything is what's in your awareness. That's what stopping thought is. routines of self, the routines that keep us in so much spiritual imbalance, are grabbing onto little thoughts, thought after thought after thought. Thought, feeling, identity, all these things. It's just this very small, narrow way of looking at you. So it's a routine because it keeps happening over and over. You know, it's a cycle that you go through. Buddha called it, you know, this suffering, this dissatisfaction. He called it this word, dukkhu. It's like, didn't they have like a bad guy in Star Wars like the Count Dooku? It's like Dracula. Anyway, um, so, Darth Sidious. So, you know, this is a pattern that we find ourselves going into again and again, that

0:05:33
cycles around.

0:05:34
Buddha likened it to, you know, the wheel on a cart, where one of the, just a part of it is like flat. So the wheel goes around and you, you know, it's like kind of smooth, does whatever it does, but it hits that one spot, boom! Unsettles you. You're like having a peaceful ride through the countryside, a glass of wine, And then eventually, eventually, this helps the spirit to wake up and say, hey, there's a problem. I got to do something about this. I got to change the tire here. So these things happen in cycles. And you can just look, be honest about the thoughts in your mind. You go through the same cycles of pain, same cycles of suffering, same cycles of spiritual imbalance, the recognition of what's wrong. And it goes around, it's kind of crazy because you just keep doing it again and again. It's a simple, it seems like a simple thing to figure out. But it is. It is a simple thing to figure The routines of life the routines of self don't make sense You could look at it, and you could find the logical flaw and say it doesn't make any sense. It just doesn't make any sense You and and this is important to do you have to be mindful Understand your cycles of dissatisfaction You have to understand it and know it completely to be able to say, okay, I've had enough of it, eventually. But it's really funny. I always say the ego is the stupidest person I ever met. Because even really smart, evolved people with good jobs and fancy cars or whatever, people who put out that they're fantastic or whatever, they have these little silly stupid dissatisfactions that keep playing in their head and ruin their peace. So everybody's got those stupid things if you have this routine called the ego. It reminds me of a joke. There were these two with shovels. They were going around in a nice New England neighborhood, and they were going through this park, and one of them would dig a hole, and then the other one would take his shovel after the first one dug the hole, and he would come in and he would put the dirt back in, pat it down. And so there's this guy sitting across the street in a cafe watching them do this, just going through the park, finding certain places, digging a hole. One would dig the hole, the next one would take the dirt, put it back in, pat it down. So when the guy finished his lunch, he went across and said, what are you guys doing? This doesn't make any sense, right? Like you're digging a hole, you're filling it back up. And then they said, oh yeah, we do this. We do this every Sunday. We go around to the park to make the park more beautiful. And then he says, how is this making the park more beautiful? It looks a mess. And it doesn't help anything. And they said, well, I guess maybe at the moment it doesn't make much sense, but usually there's three of us. Guy number one digs a hole, guy number two puts the seeds for a tree in, guy number three closes the hole up and packs it down. And they said, but guy number two, he's sick today. We didn't think that we should stop because we always do this on Sunday. So, you know, once they looked at it, they said, that could be a problem. But the self becomes extremely fixed in these ridiculous routines. And the routines are sad and they're ridiculous, but they're also really sad. Like you might have this real emotional routine going on where you're just torturing yourself with these really stupid ideas and you're just like, oh my god, why am I doing that to myself? do it and then you throw yourself into mental purgatory and emotional Taco Bell. These things are, I say the ego is the stupidest person I ever met because you hurt yourself so much with these routines. That's why it's really important to be mindful, to recognize that you really do have spiritual imbalance, and to do something about it. Doing something about it is what we call the pathway to enlightenment. Almost no one does anything about it. They just go, oh, they hear about an idea about doing something about it and then they go, ah, well, okay, I'm going to meditate. Then they sit there and think the same thoughts. You know, they just go through the same experience internally in their spiritual practice. And that's not really spiritual practice. Spiritual practice is is applying the Dharma. Very simple, right? You guys all know what mindfulness is. But it's doing it. It's really, really waking up your spirit to the point where you say, I'm going to deal with this in my experience. I'm not just going to sit there and meditate and think the same thoughts over and over. I'm going to wake up and engage. I'm going to engage with my greatest, earnest effort to be still, to not go through the same cycles of thought and experience. This is the way out of this routine are so fixed in karmas that almost nobody does anything about it. Yeah, no one does. And spiritual seekers usually put on a robe. I'm going to put on a nice robe, get a new haircut, and then do the same thing. Only in a new context. So, really doing something about it is different. Now, a lot of times you need a teacher to shake things up. Otherwise, you're not going to do it. Let's be honest. You're going to sit there and think thoughts and have concepts, and then your true experience is going to be the same thing. The same thing. So, when you get down to reality, you have to ask yourself free of your suffering. Because you yourself are stuck in yourself. There is a story of And he loved sword. It was his past, and it's what he was trying to perfect. And one day, he'd been studying for years, over ten years. One day his sword master said, He says, but in every competition I'm able to win. I win every opponent. How am I bad? And the master says, you are stuck in routine. You're so linear. You keep on doing things in the same way. You're so easy to beat. The student struggled with this for a long time. He didn't understand, how am I routine? I've been practicing forever, I win everything,

0:15:09
except for against the master.

0:15:11
Of course the master says, okay, let me show you. Draw on me, and then he wins, right? I said, ah, I can beat you. Well, of course, you're the master. But how do you become a master? How do I become a master? Master, I want to become a master. What do I do? So the master says, a very Mr. Miyagi thing to do. He says, come over and clean my house. So the student goes over to clean the house. Now he has him come over in his martial arts clothes with his sword. And they practice with a wooden sword. So he's sitting there, his martial arts clothes and his sword, and the master says, OK, so first vacuum the cockpit, then go put the dirty dishes in the dishwasher. We're talking ancient Japan. After that, you can play some Nintendo. Thank you, Master. So he's going around cleaning his master's house. And then the master pulls out his wooden sword, sneaks up behind him, and whacks him in the head. And he goes, oh, Master, why'd you do that? And then the master says, you should defend yourself. And then he says, oh, OK. So master goes away, he keeps cleaning. Master sneaks up behind him again, hits him in the head. Ow, master! What are you doing? And then master says, defend yourself! And then the student says, aha, I understand. Master's brought me here, not just to clean, but it is a lesson for me. Number one, excellent. So he's happy about that. Then he's like, okay, cleaning, looking around. And then the master sneaks up on him again, even though he's looking for him, and he hits him. Bam! Oh, master, but he doesn't have enough time to react. And the master beats him. And so the master catches him everywhere, you know, in the kitchen, in the hallway, in the toilet, out by the koi pond, you know, everywhere. And even though he sees the master pop up from behind the toilet or the bush or something he He says wow I you know I can't Just I just cannot do anything functional he recognizes that he has a great inability to react and It's not it's not like in the dojo for him for him in the dojo He was always had the distance, and knowing right where the opponent was, and even in competitions it was always that way. But having the same technique in the corner of the kitchen, in the attic, the same technique for him, he felt like it was totally, totally off. It was gone. And then he tried and tried and tried, got hit a lot of times by the master. And finally, he broke his routine. So instead of doing things the same way, and he was an expert at doing things the same way, and was successful in his competitions. But instead of doing things the same way, he changed. He broke his routine so that he was able to defend in close quarters. He did things in a different way, in a way that was more efficient, in a way that worked for the situation. So finally, after cleaning up a lot and getting hit a lot He finally found himself Defending properly against the master Master pops up behind him. He pulls the sword just differently, you know more efficiently in a way Not in the routine, but in a way that works for the situation. He blocks and then strikes the master, or doesn't actually strike, stops before hitting the master. And then the master says, now you have broken your routine. So after that experience, the student was more flexible, more capable, was the way. And it made him more capable. More fluid. Not just, you know, an expert of style, but an expert of a way. So this is what we seek to do with our spiritual practice. We seek not to use practice as a routine. We seek to use practice as a means means of mastery and liberation. You can't take meditation practice and make it a routine. Then it is no longer meditation practice. I talk about this a lot in Bodhi Woods when I'm sitting with people in meditation in the morning. This cannot be a routine. You have to do it every day. But you know then it gets to this, you know, Zen mind beginners mind every every meditation should be new My way of solving that problem is just by being really excited about meditation. I Get up and I'm like, oh meditation

0:21:54
And with my excitement I don't have any

0:21:58
Like I don't have any routines in it. I just have a new and genuine excitement for it every time I sit to meditate. See, excitement gets you places. It gets you We have to eradicate the routines of the self. And when the ego starts to put the routine of the self into spiritual practice, especially there, otherwise the thing that should make a liberating experience for you ends up being the worst thing. It ends up being something that seems like it's going to help you, but it actually captures you. You end up being a big ego, just a spiritual ego, which I think is pretty bad, actually, because then you're really fooling yourself. A lot of people do saying, yeah, no, yeah. Oh boy, I remember reading this one guy used to be a Buddhist monk, and he's all, I meant this empowerment, that empowerment, this empowerment, and then I did this and that, went to India twice, ate rice and dal, and then I just gave up being a Buddhist monk, because it wasn't working. And he was going around climbing his way up in a bureaucratic monastery, and then he found out it didn't work, because he was doing it completely in a way of self. So that is the trap, the trap you must avoid in creating a routine within your spiritual practice. Now fortunately, you have this great opportunity with yoga. You can't make a routine of your spiritual practice. If you do, you won't succeed. The great thing about yoga is yoga is an honest reflection. It is a true reflection of your spirit. So that's how it helps you to see where things are happening in the right way inwardly because you see how things are going outwardly. It's quite exciting. But what do you do when you have this routine? When you have this routine, you're stuck. You're stuck in the routine. What do you do about being To find spiritual balance, to end a routine of limitation, is to make a quantum leap. It's to have a spiritual transformation, a significant one, so that you can change these routines, change these habits and ways of self. see as bad, that they see as broken, they just start wrestling with it. You start arm wrestling your difficulties. You start saying, ah, okay, so this thing's off in my life. What I'm gonna do is I'm gonna do this, and this, and this to deal with the problem. So you look at a problem, and you start coming up with all these thoughts and ways of trying to find balance. Now, of course that's what the mind does, that's what thinking does, that's what a self wants to do. But that way is, let's say, the long path. And for most people, it's not a path that works. People will experience the same thing over and over and they will come up with all these ideas of how to deal with the thing that they're facing, the difficulty. If it's a relationship, if it's succeeding in yoga, any place where you recognize that imbalance. If you apply your thinking mind and you're like, okay, here's how I'm going to do it, and then I'm going to do this, and then I'm going to do that and then you're just sitting there thinking about, oh, how can I balance this? So, as I said, that's a way, but it's the long way and a lot of times you don't see it work for people, really. People fall back into patterns. So the quantum leap, the way of spiritual transformation, is different. This is a way that launches you out of karma into a new destiny, into a path that leads higher, step by step, out of that routine experience So, when you look at the routine, the way to do this is you don't think about it, but in your still mind, in your intent, you look for a way out. This makes a transition. So this is a very different way. It's not a way of solving the problem the way that we normally look to solve the problem. This is a way of solving a problem in silence, in emptiness, in letting go of the self so that the self can make a transition. When guided esoterically, when following the structure of yoga, there are definitive inner directions. There are specific places inwardly where you can learn to navigate and go. Doing it requires a still mind. This is all done in the inner world. This is all done in actual spirit, not in thought. It's done in the most difficult way to understand. It's hard to talk about where this is done, because it's done at a spiritual level. It's about what you can say. You can say it's done in the second intention, it's done in the unseen world, it's done not by you. But it can be done. All enlightened teachers, all bodhisattvas have done this. It's something that one can do, but one doesn't do it. So, you know, one doesn't do it. You can't do it. So what do you do? The whole thing of not doing is like meditation, stopping thought. It's a way of the self relinquishing its ideas of, here's how I'm going to solve this problem. Relinquishing all that, that way, that thinking, that using the karmic attention, intention, and power to make something happen, and to connect with your bigger, greater, enlightened self. And in that connection, there's an automatic and immediate transformation out of routine. So what I'm pointing to is a significant transformation, not an aha interesting epiphany moment, but an integrated awareness of selflessness. This is why selflessness is important in yoga. So that the self that grasps again and again You let go of your ideas of life, your ideas of what's possible. It reminds me of a time there were these Buddhist monks from Thailand, from a very rural area in Chiang Mai. And I don't know, the poor country monks, the country bumpkin monks, you know, the kind that like, eat, they're like, huh, what's our meal for today? So in certain parts of Thailand, you know, it's like, isn't a lot of poor people around? So sometimes the monks don't go over and say, hey, can we have some of your food? Because I know that, you know, you want to feed your kids. So the monks, sometimes they just find their own food. They say, all right, we know it's good karma, but people are kind of stuck, having enough trouble getting by, so we're gonna get our own food. So when they do that, they will, the monks, they're not trained in foraging or anything like that, and they will get stuff like, oh, here's some bugs. I can eat the bugs, right? Buddha said don't kill anything, but I can eat if I'm hungry. So they eat bugs, frogs, and all sorts of nasty stuff. And then, you know, they live a rough life. They live in these shacks, Buddhist shacks. You guys know what that's like. Buddhist shacks. And they have no heat, I understand. And, wait, I guess it's Thailand. It's always hot. They have no air conditioning. And they just have a rough time. They don't have windows, so mosquitos come in and feast on them every night. And they're just like, huh? And they have one robe and they're all dirty all the time. That is the way of these monks. Anyway, so these monks, through some association, get brought to America and you know that it's their first time going to Bangkok. And they're like, whoa, this is crazy. And then they get to America and they're, you know, they're in the airport and they're waiting for a bus to come or something. And there's a couple monks who are watching these two metal sliding doors. lighting doors, they open and close from time to time, and they see this old lady walk over to these metal doors, pushes a button, waits for a while, then the metal doors open, and she walks in, closes, and they're like, huh, she went in there. And then, a couple minutes later, the doors open again, and this young, beautiful blonde woman walks out. And they're like, oh! Did you see what I just saw? And for them it was this huge liberating experience to see something magical happen. They've never seen an elevator before. And then they see this transformation and they're like wow this is an amazing place but you know like when you when you when you see different things that you had no description of before it gets you to look at life in a more magical way wait till they see Nintendo

0:35:10
So she's sitting around playing with...

0:35:13
Yeah, we'll get to meditation later. Let's see. Nintendo in the monastery. Yeah, I haven't seen that before. I think it would be elevating for most Buddhist monks. You need to relax sometimes. So, yeah, so, you know, these routines, the way that you see life, when you break it up, when you see it in different, you know, see life in different ways, it gets you to be more flexible. in our transition from self is an inner seeing. And an inner seeing is very important. Let's do an exercise. So the first thing that I'd like you just to for a moment Ponder this concept How am I not myself What if you were not yourself What if you weren't you know all those things that bother you what if that was not you What if it wasn't? That thing that, you know, that pattern, that dissatisfaction that comes up over and over and over again. What if it's not you? What if you're not that? I'd like you to consider your awareness, your mind, yourself, as it exists in this moment is a pretty high experience of self. But you know your personal history. What if you weren't that? What if you're not even this? What if this of who you are. We're going to sit with a meditative focus on the heart. We'll play one song. We will meditate for one song. And on this meditation, have a soft focus on the heart. But I'd like you to consider, how am I not myself? I'd like you to consider what if I am not this? What if I am not this? We will ponder this in meditation. Because what it brings is it brings awareness beyond self.

0:38:18
Okay, let's begin. so You're not alone so so I'm not afraid to be afraid Very nice. Now that's a very different feeling. A very different feeling than for you sitting there struggling against your thoughts having an arm-wrestling match with your thoughts

0:43:18
Like oh, I'm thinking

0:43:20
Right this this reflection

0:43:23
is the reflection of selflessness and Isn't that a point of spiritual practice practice. It's to attain to nirvana. And nirvana, you know, it actually means cessation. It means ending of some scar some scaric phenomena, ending of illusion, ending of the limited self. It doesn't say, you know, the attainment of something bright and shiny, fantastic and happiness and clowns and dolphins. It doesn't say that. It says just the ending. It's like meditation stopping thought, it's the spiritual path stopping the limited aspects of the self. So this approach to meditation is a soft and open approach and teaches you a new dimension getting beyond the limitations of the self. I'm specifically talking about how to solve the problems of your spiritual imbalance, places in your life, especially your yoga, with this technique. So there was a monk, or actually he wasn't a monk, he was a spiritual fella, right? He wanted to get into spirituality, but his father didn't want him to. He was in North India, and his father's all, no, you're gonna tend to the farm. He's like, okay, but I wanna go to the monastery. No, tend to the farm. But he was really spiritual, enlightened in past lives. And so even though he was 16, he was going to Samadhi randomly here and there. And he, one time his father made him go and take the goats out. So tend to the goats. So he took his goats out, and then he sat down by a tree and spontaneously went into nirvana. And while he was in nirvana, the goats walked over to the neighbor's rice field and ate it. And the neighbor comes over and sees the goats there, he chases them away, but they've already ruined the rice field. And then he goes, he sees the boy who's supposed to be tending him, and he runs over and shakes him, wakes him up out of his nirvana, which by the way, it's a very bothersome experience. And then the The neighbor says, your goat ate my rice yield. And then the young man says, it wasn't me. And then he says, it was your goats, but you were in charge of them. It's your fault. And then the boy says, it wasn't me. But he wasn't saying it in a defensive way. He's just saying, it wasn't me. And then the neighbor grabs him and walks him down to like city hall to the pundit in charge of what goes right and wrong around there. And then he says, this boy was supposed to watch his goats and he led his goats over onto my land, ate my rice fields, and now I'm out all this money and he's got to pay for it. pundit says oh yeah that sounds right but and and the voice is it wasn't me and then you're out the way are those your goats yeah those are my goats were you supposed to watch him yeah I was supposed to watch him guys rice got eaten yes we got eaten then it's your fault it wasn't me and then they they say okay well you're gonna have to pay for it because that's our ruling. So you're going to have to come up with this much money. And the boy just says, it wasn't me. But they don't listen to him. Then the neighbor and the boy and the goats walking back to the field. And then when they get back to the field, all of a sudden, we see that there is twice as much rice there. It grew up and it just popped up there. And the farmer neighbor, he says, what? I saw that your goat ate all of my whole rice patty. And my rice had only grown to here, but now there's twice as much and it's better. And then the boy says it wasn't me He's like how did it happen and the boy says wasn't me So What this is is a way of harmlessness, but also a way of Constructively dealing with life so the boy didn't do anything. It wasn't him. However, something very, very dharmic occurred. So he experienced nirvana. His goats did something in the transient world. And in his spiritual silence, he created a miracle, which was to make up for something that other people thought was his fault. So in selflessness, not you can do miracles, miracles, like yoga, right? You can make your yoga happen in your self is there, it doesn't happen. If your self is there, then it's a place where you're stuck. So it's really what we would call a quantum leap. It's not a karmic change. It's following this profound spiritual teaching. Just like it wasn't me. Because it isn't you. You are a pattern of cyclical karmas and limitations. But what isn't you is everything else, is the universe, is the lack of any limitation, what we'd call your enlightened nature, the Atman, the enlightened aspect of the Spirit. And that is something you don't think about. You allow. It requires that you're working on it, that you're focused on it. It requires that that is what you're working on completely, totally, to the utmost experience, of course. However, it also requires the complete abandon of self, stopping thought, pondering So, this is selflessness, and this is the selfless step that is tremendously enlightening, that really brings you into spiritual balance. the boy, it wasn't me, something impossible can happen. And for yoga to succeed, to create these balances in your spirit, something impossible has to happen. Because if you continue with your dissatisfactions and your imbalances, with the same karma, you try to work on it. I'm going to try to do this, I'm going to try to do that. With your thinking mind, with your karma, you're going to get the same results. Most likely. You can push karma this way a little bit, that way. You could put lipstick on a dog. You can do all sorts of things, but will it work? Usually it doesn't. The quantum leap, that huge transformation in following the path of selflessness, launches you into a significantly higher karmic trajectory. You still find yourself falling into a karma. It's just one that's very, very, very detached from who you used to be, from your personal history, from those areas of imbalance that you've experienced for lifetimes and lifetimes and lifetimes. can teaching. When I'm describing this over and over and over, it's because it's important. And when I talk about it in the physical words, I'm also expressing it in an esoteric means. So it gives you many imprints of this attention, many imprints of this awareness. And when you have the imprint of it, then what you're doing is you're feeling what that is, that freedom. You're feeling the way of making that jump. There's no way to tell you how to make that jump. You can't say it in words. It's impossible. But the experience of this imprint of attention shows you how to do it in a spiritual way. Because it's not a physical thing. It has nothing to do it. That's the funny part. This is where you get into those paradoxes. I try not to talk about those paradoxes and just give you constructive things to focus on. But obviously you reach these paradoxes. And this is one of those times. Because it's required for you to succeed in your yoga by a certain time that you are able to make this shift, this quantum leap out of your karma, out of your personal history, into a whole new way. And that would be great. So the music that we're listening to, right, the Buddhist monks in our school who were working on this, they got a deadline, right? The deadline for them when they were gonna start, when they were sitting down to talk about the album, was nine weeks. And I think it usually took them, boy, maybe on average six months to make an album. And then they were given the yogic task of doing this album in nine weeks. And they succeeded. They got it done. And in order for them to do that, they had to make a shift, obviously. And it was a shift definitely out of the structures and patterns that they normally experience in creating an album. And, you know, it's just a beautiful and powerful energy in this music because they were selfless in a way that you need to be. So it's similar.

0:58:16
Similar.

0:58:17
That's right. Nine weeks. Four.

0:58:19
So it's...

0:58:20
This is what we... this is what we do. We take these challenges and we work with the inner structure of these esoteric teachings and then we succeed. We succeed in the physical world and we succeed inwardly. Now succeed inwardly. Now, the principle teaching, the way to make this transformation that creates Pearl. So you know how this is what I'm getting at with all of this? You know how sometimes you see a little picture of a Chinese dragon or Japanese dragon, Tibetan dragon, sometimes. Or you might be even at like a Chinese restaurant and on the menu they have little dragons and you'll notice something, they're chasing this, there's like this ball in front of them, the dragon's chasing a ball. So very often when you see one of the far Eastern dragons, they're chasing a ball, or sometimes it shows them holding a ball in one of their hands. So this is a powerful symbol of ancient spiritual teaching. So the dragon, in general, is a symbol of enlightenment. And the ball that they're chasing, or holding, is called the pearl of dharma, or it sometimes depicts the enlightenment unified with enlightened dharma. So, you know, this is, you know, it's an ancient thing. It was very powerful, and now it's just always depicted that way, right next to your sweet and sour chicken. Oh, sweet and sour chicken, honey walnut prawns, or dragon and enlightenment. I'll order a number 13, number 18, and an enlightenment. One of the Dragon's Pearls. So the Dragon's Pearl is this expression of enlightened Dharma. Enlightenment unified with or following enlightened Dharma. And in order to experience this, there's two important components. It's the discrimination of the self. So this is where we find ourselves in these paradoxes and seeing beyond the self, which you're all getting an inner awareness of, which is good. And the other important component is compassion. These are the two primary components. Without compassion, even the discrimination, the discernment of self is not self, is too fixed. The self ends up being too fixed. So compassion is necessary. So this is an inner teaching. It has everything to do with what I'm talking about. You are experiencing the teaching since we began. But the second component is compassion. Compassion

1:02:51
compassion compassion

1:02:55
It rounds out your higher awareness So, you know sometimes there's someone who can meditate really well or has certain spiritual epiphanies, but they still have meanness They might be able to go up at a time, but then they still have harmfulness. So in order to experience the dragon's pearl, it's necessary to be more balanced, more rounded. High experiences are necessary. Beautiful. But at the same time. There must be a baseline of compassion. You can't be harmful. That in that that creates an imbalance in your experience. So there has to be the high insight into the self. And there also has to be that baseline of harmlessness that comes from compassion. Having an awareness of the suffering And this is something that all of you should make definite in your intent. It should be something that you have as a way of thinking. It's your mindfulness. Compassion is your mindfulness exercise. And you know, it's not like Hallmark card or like that movie, The Fox and the Hound. So sad. Right? It's not like all gushy compassion. It's just a recognition of the suffering of others and the intent to help. There was a Buddhist monk who would walk back and forth from the monastery to town, you know, for whatever reasons. And from time to time, he would see this young boy, around eight or 10 years old, who was working on the outskirts of town, chopping wood. He was working with his father and his two brothers. And he was like the youngest brother. And so they're sitting there chopping wood. And he's chopping, you know, they're chopping the big one, the big tree down, and he's getting smaller pieces and chopping it to firewood. And he's, you know, every time the monk walks by, the little boy looks and he shows some interest. And then one day, the little boy comes over to the monk and he says, hey, do you think that I could be a Buddhist monk someday? And as soon as he does that, his father says, get back over here. And then he says, you can never be a Buddhist monk. You're a woodcutter. And that's how you're going to grow up. You're too stupid.

1:06:37
You're too ugly.

1:06:38
You're too small.

1:06:39
You're too dirty. You're too poor.

1:06:41
Poorer than a monk. And that's just not what's going to happen for you. You're not like one of those spiritual guys. You're a woodcutter. Then his brothers get him in a headlock and give him a hard time too. So he totally gets to yell at them. And then the Buddhist monk just watches it. And then the Buddhist monk walks over to him and he says, yes, you can be a Buddhist monk if you want to. So he just addresses the question. He sees that the boy is in some difficulty and turmoil, and then he gives him this encouragement. Then he walks away. So the Buddhist monk later travels from the monastery that he's in to China, from Japan to China, to study with some teachers over there. And then he comes back maybe 20 years later to the same village. And he comes back to the monastery that he had been in before. And they all know that he's coming. And he gets there. And they say, yeah, we have this new Zen master. This new enlightened teacher who's totally amazing. And then he's like, oh, good. This is awesome. So then he's like, oh, can't wait until I meet the master. And then at one point, he goes in to meet the master. Now, when he sits there and looks at the master, he says, wait a minute. You look really familiar. And the master is just sitting there going, ho, ho, ho. I know something you don't know. And then so they have a little conversation, but eventually he recognizes that the Zen master is the little boy was stuck in a situation, stuck in karma, stuck in a difficult path. And so the Zen master says, yeah, you know, your encouragement got me to know that I could do that. Of course, he probably was going to do it anyway, being a Zen master. But, you know, that was an aid. So I would say that's compassion. It's simple, but it's powerful. Compassion is something that you should all practice. So it's not like this big like, oh I have to be a bleeding heart liberal. I like that. It's really just a recognition of someone's suffering, their stuck condition, and an intention to help. And when you're a meditator, when you're on the pathway to enlightenment, it's powerful. It is a powerful thing. It's a spiritual thing for them, and it's a powerful thing. on the pathway to enlightenment, it's powerful. It is a powerful thing. It's a spiritual thing for them, and it's a powerful thing.

1:10:03
All righty.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
