0:00:00
August Heading into August we're already astrologically As most of you know Maybe some of the Hungarians don't know But August is the low vibe month you get to August difficult and so it's important to have certain considerations so in our progress along the spiritual path, it's necessary to remain balanced so that you don't spin off. And we're coming out of a time where we kind of fell out of sync. For a while we were doing things, everyone was doing well, things were going nicely. And then we ended our death ground. So it changed things and you know it made a lot of people you know, really kind of threw some things out of bounds. And now that we're in August, we have the added Augustness of everything, including our yoga. So dealing with difficulties, the path was supposed to go a certain way, we had to have that interruption in that ground. We have August, and we have all the pressures of our yoga and our business class. So we have a lot of things that we're working on, right, strengthening that, strengthening tonal, but also pushing yoga forward.

0:02:56
These are difficult things.

0:02:58
There's a lot of different, let's say, kind of intensity that we're all engaged in here. But when it happens, you know, when things are difficult, when they're tough, when there's August, then it's really important to maintain balance because it's kind of like, let's say, like intense winds that are coming from different directions. The wind is blowing, pushing different ways. So if you're not steady, then the wind blows you one way, you're tripping off that way. The wind blows you another way, you're tripping off that way. But when you have balance, you're steady. The wind pushes, and you can take it. When it pushes in the other direction, you can take it, because you have balance you have a solidity you know it's like like a rock in the wind so there's a rock and the winds may burst push and blow but the rock remains unbothered it's still and solid maybe the bush next to it it's blown away you know all the leaves get blown off you can look at the tree or the bush and it's like totally all the winds affected every little thing affects it but the rock is just there solid unmovable unchangeable. You want your mind to be like a rock. You want to have that weight. And you just want to be able to, you know, difficult things come up. August, you know, hardships, yoga, day job. When things come up, instead of your mind reacting to every little thing you want to be solid and just right there and that way you're not just you know being blown out of balance you're or blown away completely you're just able to sit there and even though things are difficult even things even though things are hard it's important to be able to be balanced to be able to sit there we not so affected by every little thing and this is you This is what we try to do in meditation. In meditation we sit to meditate and stop our thoughts. And what happens is there's all these things, there's all these winds, winds of your thoughts, your internal dialogue, your personal history. And in meditation we're like that rock. We just become still and unaffected by all those things. Those ones below and instead of you reacting to every single thing, you're just solid, right there, balanced, unperturbed. This is what Buddha went through, right? In his enlightenment he said that he's sitting there in meditation and then the armies of Mara come, right? Like these really intense things. Mara's daughters come, his army comes, all this stuff comes. People are like shooting arrows at him. And so there's like all this intensity that's happening. Everything, everything intense happened to Buddha in that moment. But Buddha was able to just sit there. And the things did not pull him away. And in being able to sit there through that intensity without his mind deferring So with your meditation and your life it's important for you to look at difficulties, look at August, look at everything in the right perspective to let go of the reactions to things. When you let go of reactions to difficult things, hardships, then you're not... you let go of being that leafy bush or whatever and you become more like a rock. Because if every little thing bothers you then that means that your surface mind activity starts to get moving and bother but when you can let go of things that could bother you and say okay you know it's like it's August and things feel bad and let go of the attachment to that bothering you. And then when you let go of that, you're not affected. We're attached to what bothers us. We are bothered by certain things and we keep, when those things happen, we say, ah, that bothers me again. And you start building these patterns of what bothers you. Because there are some things that bother you that don't bother the person next to you. And vice versa. So it's important for you to say, let me let go of being bothered then you become more balanced, more strong, like a rock. And when you get unbalanced, you know, when you have so much of so many things affect you and you're not, you know, focusing on letting go of things that bother you your attachment to them you'll fall into like reactions

0:10:08
like even angry or something

0:10:11
and that doesn't help right? when you get pushed out of balance then you get angry because of it then it makes what you need to do harder. So, you know, if you're trying to do your yoga or your day job, and you're angry because it's August, you're angry because of whatever,

0:10:34
then what happens is

0:10:36
it's much harder for you to do, to be successful at what you're working on. So, you know, that's where you should go back and say, well, I shouldn't be angry. I shouldn't be bothered. Because being angry, being bothered by something, doesn't help. You being angry, you being bothered, is a choice that you make. You could, you could, it's a choice that you've probably made over and over and over and that's why it's a pattern. But it's important for you to recognize this doesn't help me. At some point you figure that out that you know a negative a negative outlook being irritated, being angry, having negative reactions to things, at some point you figure out that it doesn't help you. And when you figure that out, then you decide, oh, I'm going to stop doing it. So you do it, I guess, until you figure it out. But it doesn't make sense. You should reflect on it and say, Hmm, why am I doing this?

0:12:07
You know, with anger,

0:12:10
it's such a destructive energy. It's destructive to you when you're experiencing it, and it's destructive to other people that you direct it towards. And anger is something that you've got to just grow up and deal with. There's way too much anger in this group. And you're not dealing with things in a positive way. You're dealing with things when you get angry in a negative way. It doesn't help anyone. And you have to realize that when you get angry. You have to say, this is just causing harm and problems. You can deal with things, difficult things, hard things, and even people who are angry at you or malicious towards you, you can deal with those things without getting angry. And you can deal with them much more successfully by not getting angry. When you're going into I think that we should try to have an August, an anger-free August. Where we say, alright, this August I'm just not going to get angry. I'm going to be mindful, I'm going to recognize that, you know, getting angry doesn't help anything. It just makes everything worse. Having a positive mental attitude helps everything. But when you get out of balance, blown out into the anger reaction, then it's terrible. It creates terribleness. And really, you should be practicing mindfulness and bodhicitta so that when anger comes up, that you do something about it. You don't just sit there and stay angry, right? But when anger comes up, that you're mindful and that you recognize that it's not good for you, it's not good for anyone, and that you start practicing bodhicitta and then you can understand the anger, transform the anger into compassion.

0:15:21
But you've got to realize

0:15:27
anger is so important. You've got to realize it just hurts you to be angry. So it doesn't do you a favor. It's not the way to deal with things that will resolve things and make things good. It actually just causes you personally harm. I remember when I used to be all pissed off all the time. I finally figured that out. I was just like, wow, this is like, I'm too angry. And it just doesn't help anything. And then I realized, wait, there's no point in being angry. There's no point. It doesn't do anything good for me. And probably not for the other person either. And then at that point, I just, it was easy to be mindful I was just like oh why would I do something stupid to hurt myself it'd be like you know if something happens your reactions put your hand in a fire like someone called me someone called me a name so yeah it's like certain things get you to just put your hand in the fire and what's the good of that all it does is cause pain right so what you what you would have to do is you have to say what are these certain things that get me to do this reaction and then you start to say okay when that thing happens I'm not going to put my hand in you're like oh oh but you guys are kind of like dog so I was a heading magic once and like I first magic like looked at me and bark was like like who are you and then I gave magic a treat and then magic was happily eating treats then I finished and then like a like 20 seconds later magic looks at me and goes so it's like but then also I could see in magic's eyes magic was like are you gonna give me a treat oh wait I gotta go back to my protection mode so magic just himself to growl like this is my spot and I have to protect it and so it's like just hardwired to do that I'm not getting a treat right now at this moment oh no the growling kicks in so you know so you are like kind of like wired to do silly things put your hand in the fire you're just like oh something happens then I do it and that is something that is really important to look at to understand to actually you know, change. This kind of behavior is unbecoming of a Buddhist and this kind of behavior only causes trouble and suffering and you guys have been here long enough to start practicing mindfulness around anger because anger It has such bad energy, it's so violent, it's so harmful that it's bad to do. You get yourself into a lot of trouble, you create bad karma for yourself. So, it would be a good thing to have an anger-free August. anger starts to arise the things that would cause anger for you arise in your mind to say whoa let me stop this we redirect myself so I don't go into so anger free August okay that's that's our 2013 August goal anger free August. Instead have a positive mind. If you have the company of a positive mind then everything that you do is happier and brighter and you're more Because it is positive. Things are positive. The other thing that happens when you get pushed out of balance, that's affecting this group, is that you get in a way. You get stuck in a rut, stuck in a quagmire. And so that means like, you notice that you're like stuck in, let's say dissatisfaction for a long period of time, or you're stuck in being lazy. You're stuck in just, you're in a funk. You're just like, I'm not operating at a hundred percent I'm not feeling good you get into you get you fall off the tracks and you get into a way so and this happens in August to August lends itself to funkiness so when you're experiencing a funk, like I'm not working hard, I have a buzz all around my head, or something like that, and you're in a funk, then you have to start using your energy, your power, to break out of it. So you have to like get going. And getting going in yoga is always a really good thing. I remember one August in New York, it was hot, it was humid and horrible. We have one of the best locations for August in America. The Northwest is good, because if you go South, it's hotter, and if you go East, it's humid, hot and humid so it's this is a better place to be but you know since the whole country is going through this and having the American August reaction then we feel it even though conditions are better but it's still bad but New York in August, much worse than here. Horrible. So I remember one August in New York I was just like walking around going, oh. I was all pissed off. I was totally wasted. Like I was just annihilated because of the heat and being psychic. And then I I just said I'm gonna do something about this this is horrible so I did yoga so I you know like I just cleared my mind cleared everything out I'm just like everything sucks and there's all these horrible problems you know it's like all these wings coming from everywhere and I'm like oh and then forget about sit at my computer and do yoga. And when you focus on yoga with a positive mind, right? Then what happens is you enter into this inner magical world of light and power. So if you're all funky, if you can clear your mind and just say, I'm just going to focus on this. And I'm going to focus on this just positively and just work on it. And when you do that, you connect out of August when the inner worlds of light that are inherent in the structure of the yoga projects that we have. And then what happens is everything all of a sudden becomes powerful and bright, even in August. And I know that you guys know this to some degree but you have to affect it. You have to do it. You have to like say, well I have this problem, I'm suffering this or it's August and when I'm going to work on my yoga I'm going to clear everything out and I'm going to focus completely on on succeeding in this yoga and then you get to connect with the light and it ends up you know bringing you away from the Augustness of everything and it it makes you it see you know well if you have all the like branches and leaves in the wind they're all affected but when you focus on your yoga that's when you come back. That rock. So let yoga be that place that you can go to where you can focus with your positive mind and when you work on it, it brings you into a tremendous amount of light. And it gets you out of the August funk. It gets you out of the funk that you get in sometimes. So these are the August lessons.

0:25:46
Don't be angry.

0:25:47
Can the anger be positive? And when you find that you're in a funk, do yoga.

0:26:00
Okay. Okay.

0:26:01
Thank you all very much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
