0:00:00
Tonight we are here in Bodhi because our usual hotel was unavailable. They're having weddings. I hope they're having weddings through WedBuddy. That's our market. You can't have weddings here unless they're through WedBuddy. Especially if it's going to take up the time slot for our meditation. But I'm very particular about where we meet and where we have these considerations. The energy line, the attention of the places where we meditate are very specific. They have specific qualities that are helpful for the lessons that we're learning. So, Bodhi Woods is acceptable. Tonight, I am

0:00:59
addressing you in a different way.

0:01:01
I'm talking to the the multi-incarnational being, not your current karma. I'm talking to the deeper side of yourself, your higher self. I'm pleading to the wise, deep, ancient aspect of yourself so that we can have some balance. Right now, as I mentioned before, in the Sangha, we have a lot of turbulence, which is quite normal on the pathway to enlightenment. If you look at the life of Buddha, it started off with him being very, very, very out of balance. He was very, very, very frustrated. He had to make all these crazy drastic changes in his life because he was so unhappy with his life. So he was, you know, and he had to go through this whole period of time of asceticism and just trying to figure out how to get out of the trap of the self So it was a lot of time of dissatisfaction, of struggle, of hardship struggling with the mind And you know we also look at Nilarapa Definitely a bit of struggle there. Or even Rama. I don't know if the book, the Ramayana one that we read goes into depth. I mean, the Ramayana is actually a number of books. But there's one book where it talks about his childhood growing up in Ayodhya. And he has an enlightened teacher, the Siddha, and his teacher, you know, first of all, you know, his parents are kind of getting upset, they're like, what's wrong with him? He's so unhappy, just like Buddha, right? It's like, I don't like the court life, you know, the life in the royal court. I don't like what's going on here. It's just people are music and dancing and eating food, good food. And this just was all, you know, but he was just going into all these dissatisfactions. And he didn't know why. He didn't know he was a Vishnu. And then, you know, eventually his teacher started to show him the way through the path out of that dissatisfaction. And he struggled. He struggled. So a lot of times when you're reading the biographies of the enlightened, you see that on their pathway to enlightenment, when they're starting out, that they're facing a lot of hardship. It's not fun, it's not easy. It's not like, you know, wow, this is so wondrous and amazing all the time. It is like that a little bit for a while and then it gets into some hard work. You start really dealing with the habits of the self, the ingrained condition of awareness that you experience for tens and thousands of thousands of thoughts. You can say tens of thousands of lives, or tens of thousands of thoughts. You think the same thing over and over and over and over and over and over, and then that becomes the way you think. It becomes your ingrained route of consciousness. So, if you're having a hard time, then you're in good company. The enlightened have faced the self as well. They've dealt with these similar hardships. The same suffering from desire and attachment. The same challenges with life and work that you guys have. We've read the biographies of the Enlightened. And they've dealt with those things, followed the teachings of the Dharma. And then they were able to overcome them and attained enlightenment. Right now, the only thing you guys are attaining is the great symbol. You know the great symbol? Great symbol. You guys have attained the great symbol.

0:06:50
Nothing?

0:06:51
No! Big Apple! Big Apple! That's what you guys have successfully been. And this means that you are experiencing life and your own difficulties and things like that, but you're reacting

0:07:18
poorly

0:07:19
you're reacting in ways that are dark and harmful ways that have enmity ways that are unproductive and It creates a problem. It creates a problem for you, it creates a problem for everyone else. That's what an asshole is. Every asshole that you meet anywhere, at a gas station, in Las Vegas, at work, wherever. Wherever you meet an asshole, it's someone who's just struggling with life. No different than you. It's just that they are reacting poorly. They're reacting in a way that's problematic and harmful. So this is the condition of our Sangha right now. It's a condition where people are up and down. Some people have really high ups, but they also have really bad dark low downs. So it's a little bit crazy. It is a little bit crazy. And I remember facing you know similar lessons in the intermediate study and a couple of times I was like, I think I might be going crazy. It's kind of normal. It is it is normal. But the reason that we have so much difficulty here is because of such drastic shifts. You might meditate, you might come to a meditation seminar and go into a really high, bright, beautiful state of mind. But then the second thing that happens is you go into, you know, you go home, you go to work, start doing yoga, whatever, something triggers it. And then you go into very low states of mind. Very, very, very strong self-reactions.

0:09:46
And these become

0:09:48
problematic. They become toxic. We are in a lesson we call death ground. In death ground there is more momentum in the second attention. It gives you an opportunity to push yourself beyond yourself. But at the same time, it's very difficult. It's very difficult. It's something where you push harder. So you can consider the Death Ground a special kind of training where you're able to to confront some of the major aspects of the self. You're put against some of your very, very strong karma. And there's two ways to experience that ground. There's like the happy, fun, bright way where you're facing a huge challenge and you have a positive mental attitude and you say, wow, I see that if I could learn about this, to overcome this, to deal with this, that my life will be happier, brighter and stronger. And then you deal with the hardships of the self, you deal with your your past life tendencies, your habitual thoughts, and you do so with a positive mind. It's really a beautiful experience. It's not an easy experience, but it's a beautiful experience. is the way of freaking out all the time. Like you're dealing with a stress,

0:12:10
dealing with the hardships of the self

0:12:11
that's kind of stressful and difficult. And then if you stress out about it, are very reactive, you don't practice mindfulness or bodhicitta, then what happens is you feel horrible. You go into really bad reactions. Really bad states of mind. This is what's been happening. Because of you know the in the second intention spiritual structure, nature of energy in this lesson of death ground there's momentum. It's pushing you into the opponent. If you have the positive attitude, then you can muster your strongest attention and energy to defeat the opponent. But if you run into fear and self and all this other stuff, then going into that opponent, you're trying to run away from them while at the same time Death's Ground is getting you to confront the opponent. And then you're just, you're not using, you're unbalanced. You're not using your attention the best way you can. And then when you start to suffer, you start to react, you go into all sorts of harmful swings of attention. So you guys go up, and you go down. You go up, good states of mind. Sometimes you guys do beautiful states of mind. I was telling the Cody Woodkins this last week. I said, wow, you know, they were in very bad states of mind, very harmful, causing a lot of trouble. And then we did this exercise, a writing exercise, just for 45 minutes. And when they focused on this writing exercise, where they're focusing on a positive, powerful, spiritual experience, then all of a sudden, as soon as they're working on that, the attention shifts into a very bright, beautiful attention. So you guys are capable of doing that, which is a very good thing. To be able to put your focus into something where all of a sudden you connect with light, and your aura is filled with light, just because of your own focus, that's a very, very... well, that's an intermediate level kind of thing to do. However, you don't have a consistent focus. If you were like that, if you focused like that all the time, death ground would be beautiful. And there would be a lot more success happening. But when you go from that state of mind into all these, you know, these really difficult feelings about yourself, I'm stuck because of this. Oh, this keeps happening to me and it never stops. I'm never going to be like, I don't know, whatever, oh my desires are doing this to me, my attachments are doing this to me. That's being stuck in itself and it has been very, very toxic. So the up moments are beautiful, the down moments are more horrendous than ever. So you guys are like yo-yos and I'm not stringing you along. You're stringing yourself along. What does a yellow yo-yo say to the blue yo-yo means like stupid person this is yo-yo comes over the Brooklyn Bridge and boy did I got a good price okay When you have a lot of life, you are granted in life and connection. And in this connection, there's a lot of life. When we go into the practice of death ground, the lesson of death ground, there's a lot of life, a lot of opportunity there. But when you go into the habits of self, you see that the habits of self have more momentum. You go, oh, I'm just going to get pissed off at someone. There's a lot of momentum there, because there's a lot of life. When you experience those low, dark self states, when there's so much light around it creates a very strong contrast of darkness and that when you hit those low states and go into that dark state of mind when there's so much momentum of light that shadow, that self that blocks the light, creates a toxicity and that toxicity is something that creates a bad vibration amongst the whole sangha.

0:17:56
From that comes

0:17:58
You know the lower occult when you hit those those really low states of mind Where you're in a lot of suffering You are hitting Low dimensions not dimensions of light not bright happy beautiful dimensions. You're hitting low dimension the lower occult. It's not your normal like, oh yeah, I'm just angry like I have been before. We're in a lesson where there's more momentum, so when you go into that, oh yeah, I'm angry like I was before, but I'm really angry. There's more energy in it. You're taking the light of enlightenment, where there's a lot of momentum and light, and you're changing it into self-reaction. And that's not just, you know, your normal human experience of angers and happinesses. Your high moments are very bright. Your low moments are very low. And when you hit those low moments you enter into the lower occult dimension. And the toxicity that you create from taking the light and bringing it into darkness, when you bring that darkness down to the lower occult, then it gathers attention. It gathers attention from lower occult beings and it opens the doorways to you know to the evil malicious spirits and demons. So this is currently the most important problem that we're facing right now. We're facing demons. So yes, your normal personal cycles and experiences are challenging and difficult. So, you know, faced with this kind of self you can feel like you're going crazy. You know, faced with this kind of self you can just feel miserable that the self will never end you know and that's that's a bad thing and that's kind of normal but also something else that happens is you can experience demons and that's also kind of normal it is it's very normal on the When we go through these lessons of mysticism to experience a demon once in a while, for a while, you have some trouble, so you run into them sometimes. But it's also equally possible to experience the divine, like a god or something, or an angel or something, a dakini or something. So it's like sometimes you're like, I had a meditation and then there was this God that came over to me and it was really really amazing. I'm like, mm-hmm. And then sometimes you come over to me and say, there was a demon in my house. I'm like, mm-hmm. Both of those things happen. you know, gods are better than demons. Just to get it straight, such as things happen. And right now, the demons that are abundant are caused because of your mood swings into the self that hit lower cult dimensions, create toxicity, and that toxicity is like demon food. Demon food, we sell it in a can here in Bury Ridge. So, yeah, it's kind of important to recognize that this is a problem, it's a problem, it's a difficulty. And I know that, you know, everyone in the Sangha is aware of this. This is something that's been around for a while, but now it's gotten to a point where it is intolerable for me. And the reason that it's intolerable It's basically because of daughters. So when you're close to a child, you have one, you have a strong connection with it. And what happens in your mind affects your aura, affects your kid. And the sangha connection is a very close connection too. and you go into your raging ego reactions, that toxicity is something that you share with all of us. Thank you. And then when you go into a low state

0:23:45
and a demon comes up,

0:23:47
then that means that that's something that can network through the close connection that we all have in working as a team

0:24:04
So

0:24:05
We had an egregious

0:24:07
Problem where we were in the yoga dojo there so that there's concentrations of people going into crazy Moonslings about their yoga and their life and their lives and then that punched the first hole into demon territory and then what came out was a pretty strong demon and then it started creating trouble but since then with the whole Sanda going down into these states of mind these doorways every time you go into these low reactions, these doorways open. It became a Sangha pandemic. So it started off in one place, but then it started networking, right? It started to be able to make the connection. And now the demon can go Basically anywhere within the Sangha So, you know if you were living in the yoga dojo You started to experience the demons and then some people who visited and then went home started to experience the demons And I invited the demons to Bodhi Woods And then Bodhi Woods had had demons so yes, we have a pestilence in Bodhiwood. The pestilence is a number of demonic presences and it's mostly because of you students who go into bad states of mind and every time you go down the doors are opening. You go down, toxic, make demon food, demons come through. So that's what's going on. I've mentioned this to you guys before. However, I want to give you guys more information because I've asked you to turn it around, but you didn't give a shit. Anyway, what's it to me? I go into my personal bad mood and other people get bothered by demons. So do I. It's perfectly normal for you guys to experience demons. But then, if you have a kid and you have that close connection, then the kid starts experiencing the demons.

0:26:45
Did the kids sign up for that?

0:26:48
You guys signed up for it! And you can handle it! So it's like, you go, oh a demon came to me! I'm like, oh good!

0:26:58
Good learning experience.

0:27:00
Because you guys are Buddhist monks, intermediate practice, and very dedicated. So that's this is These things happen good thing to learn from but you know kids can't they don't have discrimination you know a demon comes and they're just like Something happened to me something bad And you know kids don't really have mindfulness You know or develop in that personal power, so they just get run over So so the reason that we're changing things right now is because it's not tolerable for the kids for you great if it was just you guys I'd say devil demons and then that would be an experience but but for the kids it doesn't work and for that reason we have to make a change so like in a kung-fu when I was doing kung-fu like I was also a guardian angel and I was getting into fights. And I was like, hey, fight! And my teacher was like, oh, okay, let me show you this technique. Since you're getting into fights, I need to show you this technique. Because it's really good for fighting. And while he wouldn't show another person that technique. He was like, for what you have to do, since you're fighting, you know, sometimes, you have to know this. So we have to change things a little bit because of the situation of our reality. And this change may be a very significant change. Might not be a very fun change, unless you practice the Dharma. That's the recommended way. But I want to tell you what's been going on with the kids so that hopefully you decide to change yourself. Because Because you know how I said before, what you do has an effect, right? What you think, the way you react, if you get angry, you're sad, it has an effect on the whole team. Just take a football team, a basketball team, a baseball team, right? One person that really bombed out, depressed mood, and they're a pro team they work together real closely it their mood affects the whole team what more in Sangha where we practice spiritual sports so so your what you your mindfulness matters your your Yes. I'm really sorry, but I'm gonna actually take

0:30:23
and go to the bathroom.

0:30:25
Go. You don't even have to raise your hand.

0:30:27
Okay.

0:30:28
Yes, probably I'm gonna take a break, but we're gonna, we're not gonna be here too long.

0:30:34
I don't think.

0:30:35
I'm trying to be short.

0:30:36
So, what you think, how you practice mindfulness, how you hold your attention, matters for the whole team. And when you look at this experience of death round, when we're going for these very, very, very particular goals when we have a very, very strong momentum. It matters. It matters. So because of the degradation of consciousness and dharma practice, We have as a group dropped to the lower cult opened up doorways to the demonic realm and then the demonic realms have worked their way through and gotten the kids and Therefore we have to make a change We have to stop going into those low states of mind If we stop going into the low states of mind we will be in higher states of mind where those doorways don't exist they can't reach up anymore. So that means that if you give a shit, you know, then you'll stop indulging in your self-reactions, in that darkness of the self, that is harmful. Harmful to you, it's not fun for you, it makes everything crappy for the whole team, but most importantly and why we're making this change is because the effect that's happening on the kids. So I want to tell you what's going on with the kids so that you have an awareness of

0:32:59
white matter.

0:33:00
So the first thing that happened was Kashaya started having like dark messed up problems. First thing was she was just like I'm getting a voice that's talking to me when I'm awake, when I'm asleep. And the voice says bad things. Sometimes I can't understand what it says, but sometimes I hear it very clearly, and it's saying, kill yourself. This is a very classic symptom of Venus. So what happens is, they tell you all of these bad things, and when you don't have any mindfulness, what happens is, you're like, wow, it's weird, I'm hearing something. But then what it says actually becomes your thoughts. It moves from you hearing it to you thinking it. And then you think, I should kill myself, I should kill myself, I should kill myself. You hear it too, but you think it. There was this one ST1 who went out to the Anza Borrego by herself during the day, and Brahma said, never go there by yourself. This is an extremely occult, powerful place. You know, this is not a place for no Karam. So she, seeking power, went there by herself. And then she sat there and meditated. And then she started hearing a little voice, some voice, and she thought, oh, what? And then the voice was like saying, the sun is where the power is. And then it just kept on like, she heard a voice for a while, but then she just started thinking, the sun, I should meditate on the sun, that's where the power is. So she sat there in the desert looking at the sun and meditated for like two hours. Then after that, she didn't see anything. She burned her corneas out and so demons they get energy from getting people to do harmful negative things that's why they do that they get energy from it they get that's what they're that's why they try to get you That's just the way they are. So That's a classic symptom of the demonic influence. Not a malicious spirit, a demon. Malicious spirit might be some guy who died, who was a ghost, and he was a jerk while he was alive. They don't do that. They're just ghosts. This is a demon technique. The other thing that Kashaya experienced was horrific visions. Once we had a class here at Bodhi Woods where we talked about all of these things, to tell her that half the people here experience the same exact symptoms, or have experienced the same exact things, because she kind of thinks that she's just a weirdo and something bad's happening to her. But it's something that people experience. So horrific visions. So it's visions of just seeing horrifically horrible dead bodies or visions of, a lot of times it's like pick up a knife and cut yourself. So then when these things become your... When you see these visions over and over and over and over, it really affects the way that you see life. And then what happens is she... You'll be in your kitchen, you'll look at a knife, and you'll be like, you just have this urge to pick it up and cut yourself. That you just have this urge. I just want to do that. Because this is the impression from these visions. So this is a very very disturbing and unhappy thing. Especially if you have no mindfulness. You have no way of just saying, wait this is bad let me try to focus on something else. You just go The other thing that happens is the demons have changed a little bit because you guys have a little bit more mindful attention and they're mostly affecting people at night. So they stop affecting you guys during the day as much and they're mostly affecting you when you sleep because it's you're less mindful in your sleep. So that's when the demons come in and for a lot of you it's your own negative thought or a demonic influence or somebody who means you and does something nasty you guys should practice mindfulness and bodhicitta. If you find yourself in a bad state because of a demon a person or yourself you should be like whoa this is not good. I need to practice bodhicitta. I need to shift my attention to something right. And you need to do it. And you guys have some mindfulness practice. Some of you don't practice mindfulness at all. You just go into your giant mood swing, right into your karma. Great. That doesn't help you, does it? Exert some energy and practice mindfulness and bodhicitta. So, with a kid, they get run over on the dream plane, and then they're through. They have no mindfulness, no real way to bounce out of it. They're just stuck in their own karma. So because of these connections to the kids who aren't prepared for this kind of thing to happen, we have to change. We have to make a change. Both for Kashaya and Leah is not only oppression through these kinds of negative things, but also possession. And I know that a lot of you guys have seen it. When you see Kashaya, you're like, oh, there's Kshaya, you know. But then when you see possessed Kshaya, you're just like, whoa, what is that? Right? The eyes totally change. When there's possession, that means that the demonic influences take over, and you're no longer seeing the spirit of the person in their eyes, you're seeing demon so that's the problem. So you know for Kashaya she's had repeated possessions which is not very good. Leia has been more resilient but then you know they got her too. And also in the past couple weeks, they've, at night, you know, since it's switched over to the nighttime thing, they started going after Koloch too. They usually don't like kids that are too small. They just thought, well, what am I gonna do usually got to be around a more interested but you know they've just started to there's so many demons running around they just started happy thing. It's a very unhappy thing. It's not an influence for a child. When you're a kid you want to have like rainbows and butterflies, birthday parties, and pizza. You want like good happy constructive stuff. You don't want to have to vision and night terrors and stuff like that so kind of gotten to the point where unacceptable and then I think the worst one was with Kashaya was Padma So, Kshadma woke up one day in the morning, and Kshaya had gotten up and left the cabin. She was just like, hey, where's Kshaya? And then she goes to the house to look for her, and she goes to the bathroom, and she hears Kshaya like mumbling in the bathroom. And then she like knocks on the door, calls for her, keeps knocking, calls for her louder and then finally Kashaya opens the door and she's all like oh my god I don't even know what's going on like I don't know how I got in the house oh she had a knife in her hand she's like I don't know how I got the knife she cut herself on the arm

0:43:32
Yeah, no memory That's what we call

0:43:36
possession Like got possessed at night We saw that in that one movie Paranormal activity But it possessed we go out and do something crazy Problem so Yeah, so it's a problem It's a problem. It's a serious, serious problem. And like I said, the reason that these kinds of things happen is because you guys go into bad states of mind where you access the lower occult and let it in to our little team. But when we have kids who can't deal with it, it becomes problematic. Now, killing demons is not that hard. So it's like, if there's a demon possessing someone, you can destroy the demon, or just come on strong and the demon will run away. right? But the problem is if you destroy that demon and then someone else in the sangha goes into a low state of mind another demon comes right back. They go for the easy targets. So if we're a pack of wildebeest, right? We're a pack of wildebeest and the lions go for the young and the sick. So that's why they go for the easiest target. So the kids are easy targets. And therefore I say, okay, this vermin, have to be stopped in a very simple way. By holding our conscious up to a respectable level. a place of utter self-nasty darkness. You got to cut that out. It doesn't make you happy. Why don't you practice the Dharma? If you look at the stories of the Buddhas, enlightened people, who've had their hardships, they even read about all the difficult things that they went through. They practiced the Dharma. They didn't sit there and dwell in the self and go through the self pattern Cling to them and go. Oh, I'm mad at people all the time Oh, I'm angry about this all the time and just let that happen over and over and over and over and over like you do They practice the Dharma. The Dharma is mindfulness and Bodhicitta Mindfulness alone will solve this problem. But if you have really serious issues with yourself, you need to practice Bodhicitta really hard. You need to actually learn something about compassion and selflessness because that transforms your difficult samskara, your difficult tendency into awareness and knowledge. When you understand your habit of negativity and anger and self-doubt and depression and fear or whatever, when you understand it, when you really, really examine it and when you accept it, when you're selfless and you others to take that same suffering from them and give them light, you stop being the great symbol. And you go, if you want, into the worst state of mind of self-reaction and practice bodhicitta, it becomes luminous like that. The moment you start practicing bodhicitta, it turns around your darkness and makes it bright. You take your suffering and make it a catalyst for liberation. But that's if you do it. And you're not by far, you're not exerting enough energy to do it. You're just all, oh I feel horrible. And you just sit there and go on shitty dates of mine Demons come up and get kids. There's like demons crawling around eating our children and so If you practice Bodhisitta or just mindfulness Focus focus on something nice Don't let negative thoughts and feelings run throughout your mind and attention. Then that means that we'll lift up the bottom consciousness. You'll have high experiences and normal experiences. Instead of high and deathly low evil experiences. And then that's better.

0:49:04
Much better.

0:49:05
And then there will be then we will not go down to those doorways where the demons can access the Sangha. So that's the goal. All we have to grow up and there's a reason to because you know the kids here are actually very much a lot of danger. So I've been just like you know dealing with it but now I'm seeing a bad pattern. I don't like seeing Kolosh or Leah. It's grown from just Tishaya, now it's going on to other kids. And it's just gonna, the pattern is just gonna grow. You know, once it gets to them, it's not going to get better. Kolish isn't going to be able to develop mindfulness in the next month. He's just going to get run over. And it'll be like this bad thing.

0:50:48
I was like, dude, I used to grow up,

0:50:50
oh, something's really bad in life, instead of something's really good in life. So, there's a reason for us to practice mindfulness.

0:51:00
If you don't practice mindfulness,

0:51:02
you can get a t-shirt with a great symbol painted on it, and wear it proudly. But you're all very capable of practicing mindfulness. You're all very capable. Yeah. Whenever you guys focus on being positive, you can do it. It takes sometimes a lot of focus. Sometimes it takes a meditation seminar where we work together and then your focus becomes bright. However, you have, when you're on your own, when you're doing your life and your work, you have to make a change so that you're focusing on being positive instead of allowing yourself to be negative. This is a very basic thing, but when you do it your life becomes a little bit happier, wait a lot a bit happier. So it's good for you, but more importantly it's extremely necessary for the children. So I've been observing this going on and now I see that it's creating karmas that are undoable for the kid. So, you know, so it's like, okay, Kishaya's got a demon. Kill the demon. Someone else in the sangha goes into a bad state of mind, another demon comes through and gets her again. Kill the demon. Someone goes into a bad state of mind the next day, a new demon comes. So demon after demon after demon after demon. Usually when somebody gets possessed, it's just like one or one too many demons go in at once. Deal with them, they're gone. But we have an open door policy because of our low states of consciousness. And therefore, multiple possessions are happening. And that has created a problem. And it's turned into an undoable karma. So we're already past the point of being able to make it even. Back when I told you guys, stop being assholes right you're you know what you're doing is really causing problem remember when I said that that was the point where we probably could have stopped it and then it would have been maybe balanced but now we're past the point of balance we're at a point where there's a karma a bad karma caused by you it's a harmful karma. So right now we can limit the damage. Right now we're going to limit the damage. We must because from here it just goes back. From here it goes, too bad. We have to stop it.

0:54:28
So

0:54:30
It's kind of like If Let's say the child's mind is pool of water. You take a little demon stone and drop it in the demon stone You know makes ripples on the water and it's you know being in there just causes trouble. So if you take it out, then stone's not in there anymore, but there's still some ripples of water. And then they calm down, because it was only one. But when it happens every other day, drop, take it out. New one, drop, take it out. New one, drop, take it out. Then it creates lots of waves. And when there's enough waves, it creates a permanent karma right just like you think thoughts again and again and again until you're like this is me you know I think that this is what I am this is what life is then the effect of the demon over and over and over and over again creates that for the for the kid they start to feel, oh, life is, this is demonic point of view. And it's a very, very unhappy thing for the kid. So, it is necessary to make a change. We've got to turn it around. Because it's creating a situation that is not right. It's not right for us to follow a very very positive spiritual practice for us if it hurts someone else. So if your spiritual practice ends up hurting another person, then that's at Dharma

0:56:26
and

0:56:28
That's what we run ourselves into Practice that is harmful and therefore it has to change It must change So you have a choice. You can decide to be mindful. That means that you don't go into those low states of mind, that you monitor your attention, that you practice mindfulness, bodhicitta, and that you don't hit one of those low states of mind not once. Because you do it once, a demon comes through. So not once. So you have that choice or you have the choice of bowing out of death ground. Quitting yoga, bowing out of death ground, and not taking the opportunity that you have.

0:57:40
So

0:57:41
some people have either bowed out of death ground or have been forced out of death ground already because of their life situation. Because you know in death ground it's really intense and sometimes And sometimes really intense karmas come up that you know are make it very very unbalanced for you to continue And it's like oh for your personal safety you need to get out of death You got to a point where it's too much So death ground is still a still an exercise We always do our exercises until we push it really, really, really hard, so that we become really, really strong, but we don't push it until we get an injury. We stop it before an injury happens. So with Death Ground, we have a tremendous opportunity. It's an integral part of the teaching for this year. It's a major part. Now we started off the winter solstice, right? Talking about the third level of attainment that Buddha taught about, the non-returner. Death ground is essential. Without death grounds, it's unlikely. It could happen, but death grounds is an essential practice for teaching for the non-returner. It's like the main one, actually. So, if you can't control yourself, if you don't set an oath in your mind And say I will not go into a low state of mind. If you can't do that, you can't make that promise to enlightenment Then if you can't do it, you're not going to grow up and put on your big boy pants if you're going to just be a Selfish symbol symbol then bow out say I'm not going to do death ground anymore this opportunity is something that I'm not up to it would be a shame but it's already a shame It's the worst game. But that's what's at stake. So tonight this is your consideration. Are you going to be mature? depression and just self nastiness. Get out of your funk in your head. Get out of your funky head and decide to proceed with a positive mental attitude through this teaching. If you can do it now, it's an essential part of being a non-returner. So, it would be important. So this is your consideration. Are you going to do it or are you going to bow out? If you bow out, it is what it is. But if you're going to do it, it's going to be great, powerful, and will bring the level of energy back up so that it doesn't harm people.

1:01:50
You can't continue like this.

1:01:54
It's too harmful. So you're in or you're out and it's up to you. And if you select in and you don't do it, then you'll have a disgraceful out. Because I'll kick you out. So this, see I'm talking to you guys like adults. You act like You act like toddlers throwing a tantrum. You really need to take the practice of Bodhicitta to heart. I know you have suffering.

1:02:37
Everyone has suffering.

1:02:39
Deal with your suffering in a way of Dharma. Can't continue to be such a out-of-control unhappy jerk. It's not good for you, and it's causing tremendous trouble now. You have this capability when you're on good behavior, you have the capability. But when you go into the ghettos of your mind, you know, you go back to the ghetto, you go from the yurts of night to the ghetto of your mind, and then you go into the same crappy reaction. It's got to end. So that's what we're talking about tonight. Talking about being mature. Now Now, some of you are doing a wonderful job, maybe 10% of you. And if you're doing a wonderful job, you know you are. Because you know that you're working very happily, you're actually happy about your work, you're facing difficulties and struggles with a positive mental attitude, and you feel a flow of energy. You feel like it's happening. That feeling that it's happening means that there's progress in yoga. So the few of you who are doing an excellent job, are, you know it because you're super happy and bright. Easy enough. The rest of you, great symbol. So tonight we're going to do a more advanced teaching because it's something it's a big boy pants teaching. It's a teaching of discrimination. So a lot of times we're talking about ways of coping with the self, the karmas of the self, or transforming the karmas of the self. But tonight's teaching is a direct seeing of truth. So this is you know, this is an advanced teaching. You might not get it as much but like I said I'm talking to the more ancient part of yourself to see if it will wake up and tell you to practice mindfulness. Sometimes you're an ancient being who practiced spiritual practices for many lifetimes then you just get into a serious funk and then you're stuck in like reactions of the self But if your higher self wakes up and sees then It could ignite your enlightened activity. So, the self is a habit. It's a habit of attention. It's a habit of thought.

1:07:05
The ego.

1:07:06
Your ego is a habit. A habit of getting angry at certain input parameters. A habit of fearing certain energies. A habit of everything. and bands of consciousness that reduce life into a very little experience. And the self is something that creates a very, very fixed viewpoint. That is a habit that can be broken. The habit can be broken by pure discrimination. You can see the self directly. You can sit there inside of the self and see it. And in seeing it, there is perfect and utter complete freedom. So by seeing the self, you can be free from the self. By seeing the Atman, the enlightened aspect of your being, then the Edo, the limited aspect of clinging to of life actually is completely gone. So in discrimination, in being able to have a direct awareness of the truth of self, you are able to let go of these very, very fixed and negative habits of seeing and viewing and experiencing life. So when you understand something, when you come to hear words, understand words, take is you're dealing with still the self. The self is taking in, conceptualizing, and starting to do things, take actions. This is a great way. This is the beginning through intermediate method. However, it's fixed. It's still fixed in self. And in order to actually attain enlightenment, in order to break free from all limitations, you actually have to go beyond all practices. Because if you're given a mantra, I got a mantra, then you go around saying the mantra, right? And the mantra itself is very, very helpful. Very, very positive. It helps you to hold your attention away from negative things. When something bad happens and you drop into a negative state of mind, you start saying the mantra and then it... because it's a teaching of Dharma, it brings you into a higher state of mind. you know, still using that mantra is something that the self does. So what's important to do is to see beyond that self. something that once seen has no more grasp, no more power. It's like when Buddha became enlightened and he said, world. The architect being this ego, this self that created this limited structure of his life. And in order to, you know, he did many, many, many practices that got him very high and very powerful. But eventually he came to the scene, to the discernment, the discrimination of the enlightened self and the ego. So that is the world of understanding. Mindfulness practice, bodhicitta practice. Realization is direct seeing of your enlightened nature. Enlightened consciousness exists. Mind exists. your viewpoint, you are obscuring the mind, you are obscuring enlightened consciousness with patterns of self, habits of self, such ingrained, redundant habits that you've gone through them so many times over and over and over and over that it's become your fixed view of the world. What we can do for seeing is to stop trying, is to stop the ingrained habits, is to stop the ego clinging. And when we stop, then there's only the observer, there's only the witness. Not us, but just consciousness. We are in a pattern of self, we are in a pattern of viewing and all techniques that we have, all ways of solving the problem and working the problem are just tools of self, which are fine for certain levels. But that's why this is an advanced teaching, because you can throw all that junk away. Don't try to work the problem. This is something that I'm going to show you here in this class. It's not something for you to practice all the time. Practice in that mindfulness and bodhichitta all the time. But here you can see your enlightened self. It is a liberation. It breaks you out of being stuck. It's like being in the dark room and all of a sudden flicking the light on. Oh that's what's going on. Oh it went back on. But then at least I know the wall is way over there. I know that there's no animals in here. And then the seeing of the self gives you that vision. It's a vision that shows you that there's no barriers where you thought they were, that there's nothing to fear and that, you know, lifts you from some very, very stuck habits. So, instead of trying to do something, we look in to what is. Instead of acting, thinking, or being in the way of the self, we just stop it and experience what is. What is, what is right now, it's unlimited mind. It's just a fact, that's how it is. It's always there. And when the self gets out of the way, you know, in meditation or high moments, you have a glimpse or an awareness into that unlimited consciousness. So this is a way of directing you to see that. So let's say it's fear. Fear is something very paralyzing for people. They say, oh, there's something scary. Now I'm afraid. And that fear gets them to make life really tight and small and all sorts of horrible, difficult stuff, all sorts of suffering and limitation and fear. But in the way of discrimination, when external things bring you something that would register as fear, instead of doing what you would do, which is either react or start practicing some kind of dharma, you stop. You just stop and see what is. What is is consciousness. And that shows you that there's nothing to fear. That shows you that that thing that would cause you this very, very, very kind of knee-jerk reaction is something that is transient, small. It's something that, you know, while of course in the physical you need to work the problem, whatever the problem is, that you can do it without fear. You can do it without limiting your consciousness. So, you know, where we might take in a problem and start trying to work on it and resolve it, we don't. We don't sit there and try to solve things. in our mind we look at what is. This gets you beyond the reaction of the self. Not even trying to fix it. Not even trying to practice bodhicitta on it. But to just be there. And look at what is. Look at your consciousness. Your consciousness is eternal. Reactions of self limit that view. But when you can just stop the self and look at mind, then you see this unlimited moment. We're going to have a meditation. In this meditation, I'd like you to focus on the third eye and look up towards me.

1:20:07
Just sit still. Just drop thought. Look at their consciousness. I'm going to demonstrate it.

1:20:22
You can look at me and see it. You can just follow me into this scene. Thank you. the the the

1:20:50
the the the the the you the the the the the the the so so the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, So this was a teaching, a very high teaching. This teaching spoke to your higher self, even if your lower self didn't get it. That's okay. This is not a practice that you should do frequently. It's just an experience, a teaching for tonight. got through to a part of you that is going to decide to make a change because there's a real necessity to mindfulness bodhicitta these are our basic dharma practices

1:24:04
but this dimension of teaching could be very effective. So you have till noon tomorrow to decide if you're in go to your yoga meeting. If you're out send your yoga teacher an email saying I'm out. I bow out. Just so that they know. So this is for real. If you're going to do it, this is the time to do it. Otherwise, I'm not going to have you be on death ground causing this trouble anymore. In fact, if you stay on and you don't do it, then I have a big problem with you. I'm very disappointed with the way things are going. It's harmful.

1:27:40
So if you're going to stay on, make a commitment.

1:27:43
If you bow out, fine. That's your choice.

1:27:47
That's fine.

1:27:48
There's always more towers to build. If you don't have a job, be impeccable on your job. Meet the requirements that your employer has. So the reason I'm talking about this is because, you know, job, foundation, right? And a number of you have a fuzzy attention like you're not working or you're working poorly. poorly.

1:29:01
So fix that.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
