0:00:00
All right, so

0:00:03
Happy Equinox, everyone

0:00:05
This is a Time of balance

0:00:09
time where the duration of the day and night are equal. And there's a beautiful energy of balance, an energy that's present in nature. And when we still our mind, it's very easy to attune to it so that we can feel that balance, ourselves in alignment with this energy. Now, I gotta say though,

0:00:52
there are things that create imbalance.

0:00:54
So, to my students, we try to maintain a positive state of mind. And when you're on your way to a meditation seminar and you start people watching, checking out dudes and chicks, it brings your state of consciousness into a different chakra orientation than what we discussed halfway to enlightenment. So it's best to keep your mind focused on positive things and don't check people out. Because it starts to become imprinted in your consciousness. And it changes your state of mind. So you won't be sitting here in meditation thinking about the two dozen people that you were checking out. You won't think about them, usually. usually, right? But when you do check them out, it brings your state of consciousness into a heavier condition, a condition associated more with lower chakra energies. And then it's difficult for you to be open and pure, and to comprehend and experience higher states of awareness. So especially on times that we get together, hold your consciousness in a positive and high condition. I mean, really you wanna do this all the time, but especially today. So some of you, I'm bringing it up because it's a large number of you. Maybe it's because it's spring today. That's what happened to you.

0:03:20
The universe sprung on you.

0:03:22
You let your mind get blown away. It's important, you know, on the pathway to enlightenment, we're dealing with beautiful consciousness, pure awareness, unobscured attention. And that's beautiful, it's wonderful, it's clean, it's liberating. But there's other ways to go. I mean, you could be a slob, right? You could come here dressed like a mess. You can come to your satsang and just be nasty. You could spill mustard and ketchup on yourself.

0:04:32
It's horrible.

0:04:33
You could have not taken a shower. You could be a slob, right? And when you start to do these things, they have an effect on you and others. So when you're checking out people and you're getting a lot of sexual attention in your aura, then it creates a different energy in you and also for others. We try to recognize enlightenment as a very, very beautiful and special thing, but we bring our best attention to it. We bring our best to it. Not just our worst, most base conditions, routines. We really recognize that this is a special opportunity, special moment. And if we want to take advantage of it, then we bring our best to it. You know the Buddha said that a fool could live his or her own life, the whole life, with a master. You know, an enlightened master and still completely miss the way. Completely. So if you are being a fool and you're following your lower nature, you don't appreciate the beauty of the pathway to enlightenment, then you miss opportunities. And therefore, we recognize that this is exquisite beautiful, luminous consciousness. It's an opportunity to move beyond dissatisfaction, to move beyond limitations, and to be free of suffering. It's important to have a recognition and an appreciation for the pathway to enlightenment. And, you know, it's the sangha sitting here with their teacher, but it really reflects upon you. If you're a slob, if you don't bring your best to your experience, then you end up just harming yourself, ultimately. Where you could have learned something amazing, and you were just a slob and didn't care. Now I'm bringing that up so you can refocus yourself. You can say, okay, let me focus on my higher chakras. And then that way you can have some awareness and Have a higher state of attention You know, this is what a teacher does right teacher points out Where you're making You know unevolved choices And then the teacher Shows you a way to liberation So that's what I'll do tonight, I will show you a way to liberation for sure. I guess I'm pointing out un-evolved choices. But I'm not going to go into too many un-evolved choices tonight. I know that you're working very hard and I'm going to just show you possibilities. I'll let your yoga teachers give you a hard time about everything. They're okay at that. Believe me, I can add to it. But while we're going through this period where we have our death ground, our deadline coming up in June, I will offer many opportunities, corrections where they're needed, where they're necessary. But the yoga teachers are doing a sufficient job in the first detention. So it's very good. We're ahead of the game. No, we're not. Wait, we're behind, are we? So, you know, he'd point out problems, and then he would point out solutions. So he would say something like, yes, it's a four noble truths. He's like, did you ever consider that life is just pain? And then people go, Oh, whoa, yeah. That's horrible. There's no way out of it. If you think about it, it's just always going to be suffering, one way or another. And then Buddha says, well, there's this way out. There's a way out of suffering. So first shows pointing up where there's a problem, because it's necessary. It's necessary to understand and comprehend so that you know that there is something to fix. And then it's necessary to have the way to fix it, the opportunities to get beyond the stuck place. So this is the path, this is the way. I think the real big issue that I can say you're all facing in a general way, there's facing a kind of imbalance. You are aware of it, you sense it, you say, yeah, I have an imbalance. Often it's an imbalance with relationships. You find some dissatisfaction, something that's not working, a place in your heart that's stuck. You find, whether it's work or relationships or play or anything, you come to have an understanding, deep down inside, that you have spiritual imbalance. There's some dissatisfaction, something that's not working. And in your heart of hearts, you have that awareness. You know that it's not productive, it's not evolved, it's something, whatever it is, it's something where there's a problem. And ultimately this comes down to being a spiritual problem. You know you could have a, when you have a problem that you're aware of in a relationship, in some work, or some situation, when you have that as a problem, you recognize. It ends up being a reflection of your spirit. Inside you, you know that. Now, if it's not a problem, if it's just something you're working on, like, hey, I have this situation and I'm working on it, but it doesn't get me. I don't sense it as a problem, right? You could work, you could deal with really difficult situations that most people think are insurmountable problems. And for you, it's just something that you're dealing with. But your mind is bright, your spirit is free, you're meditating, you're luminous, and you take on these issues, these difficulties, with a bright consciousness and a smile on your face. That's the way to do it. That's the way to do it. But sometimes we find that we don't quite get there. We find that there's something wrong inside. It might be a problem on the outside, but when you recognize the problem on the outside, it is a problem on the inside. And it's a tough problem. This is the way a self is stuck. This is a way of recognition of the limitation observing where the ego is. You know, where that constricted aspect of attention, that clinging, that grasping, where is it? It appears when you find imbalance. So, the question The question is, how do I get out of this situation, out of this condition of imbalance? You have to recognize that the problem first. A lot of people go on with their lives with huge, horrible imbalances in their lives. Most people. A lot of people are just dealing with the karmas of their mothers and fathers for their whole lives. You know, I was talking to one of my students in Hungary, and she was one of my older students, I think she was in her 70s, and we were talking about mommy and daddy issues that were bothering her her whole life These are some powerful karmas for people I Like I like mommy and daddy issues because and siblings and best friends and husbands and wives issues because That's where you can see where your ego is. It's an honest place to show you where you're stuck. So we can think of all these difficulties as enlightened teachings. But a lot of people will be in these very enlightened... they have these enlightened concepts, they have a little bit of meditation practice, or a little bit of this or that, these great ideas, read a book or two, and stuff like that. And then they go home for the holidays, Thanksgiving or something, and then they say, I feel like I'm 12 years old again when I go home. My mom does this, my dad does this, my brother does this, my sister does this. And they run into these very base karmas of their life. A lot of times it happens with a man and a woman, or a man and a man, or a woman and a woman, in a relationship. When you're in a close relationship, or sometimes just even with a close relationship with a friend, you find yourself stuck in your karmas. But that's where you see where there's a karma. That's where you see where there's an imbalance. But a lot of people are dealing with this for their whole life. These imbalances of mom and dad, or dealing with people in a close, intimate way. And they suffer tremendously, tremendous limitation. It's recognizable when they are in relation with that person. And that's why it's a powerful opportunity because it shows you where imbalance is. The ego doesn't want to know it. The ego wants to push it off and say, no, uh-uh. You know, when I'm dealing with my boyfriend and he gets mad and it triggers me, when I'm dealing with my dad and he always makes me feel this way about myself, you know, when you see that, there's an opportunity to do something, to learn, to understand your patterns, to understand your karma, so that you can get beyond it. You can't just say, Buddha says, life is suffering, life is pain. And you say, no, no, no, it's not. My life is great. People do that, right? They don't want to deal with the truth. People don't want to deal with the truth. So a lot of people go home for the holidays. You know, Easter is coming up. Go home for Easter. Go to church And they'll be together, and they'll be like, oh, my mom made the ham with the pineapple on it. She always makes me eat a lot of it. And you just, and then she's like, oh, eat the rest of your mashed potatoes.

0:18:35
Or whatever, right?

0:18:37
And you go into this whole karma, and most adults, after going through that, just wanna go, oh, I have my parents, I can't deal with them. I always feel like, so bad. But they don't wanna look at how to change. They don't want to look at the truth. That they are really really really stuck at that level. They want to say, okay, that was that. I only go home for holidays a couple times a year, and now I'm going to go on to my other life. And this is where they have a split. This is where they have a snag. They have a tension, lost, karmically stuck in the past that they're not dealing with, and they're unable to be free. So we find this in close relationship. We find this in families. And it's a place where people are stuck. A lot of people don't want to deal with it. That's why it's so important to recognize that the places where you see imbalance are huge problems, not little problems, huge. If you never solve it, if you never deal with it, then you free up energy, you free up attention. It's not stuck, it's not snagged, it's not holding you back, and you're able to grow and go farther and higher. You have more present attention. So when you say, oh, it's just a little imbalance out there in my life, it's just this one thing about work. Yeah, so it's just this one thing about work. I never like this, I'm always dissatisfied about this, I would see this as a problem or that as a problem. Wherever you recognize those imbalances. At work, I always get pushed down, at work. I could never succeed in my yoga right When you find these things you have to recognize them as important Very important you can't dismiss them And then when you have that recognition When you can fearlessly face it and say, yes, this is the problem, then you can take the next step. So recognition is liberation. Recognition gives you the ability to go on. So the first noble truth is something you have to face and accept so that you can go on to the next noble truth. And finally, on to a complete liberation from the imbalance, from the suffering. So it's very important to have this recognition. A lot of people don't, you know, they don't You've got to be realistic. I mean, if you seek truth. Most people spend most of their lives trying to hide from truth. Truth is demanding. Truth is scary. Truth is looking at the things you don't want to.

0:22:18
But I always like to say,

0:22:20
you're going to face it anyway at the time of death. You're going to face it in the intermediate states, in the bardos. You can run away from it all you want during your life, during this incarnation. You can be clever, and you can find ways to run away, to run away. But eventually, you will come back. You will come back to where you're stuck spiritually. You'll come to it for sure facing it directly at the time of death. At the time of death, you face everything. Everything, directly. Everything in life that you've been trying to stay away from, you face at the time of death. So it's best to find peace and balance and understanding while you're alive so that you're able to have a productive death, an enlightening death. Enlightening deaths are wonderful. The deaths where you're running in fear in your spirit, you thought you can get away from it, but you can't. And also, you know, there's your next incarnation. So your karmas will come about in different ways, lifetime after lifetime. So in this lifetime, even if you're forced to face certain areas of imbalance. And then that's how you're able to work on it because that karma brings you to it. It draws you to the situations where you have the lowest, tightest problem. It also brings you the opportunities of the highest, brightest karma. But little by little, one way or another, you can't run from the places of imbalance that are in your heart. There's no way to get away from it. Therefore, the important thing is to resolve yourself to succeed. Resolve yourself to understand, to accept, and to follow the Dharma so that you can move up, That's the way to go. So we have an imbalance. Talking to my students, we have imbalance. So this imbalance is something that we all feel. We say, I want my yoga to succeed, but in my heart I feel an imbalance. This is a truth that you can all recognize. And in yoga, by working on our project, we're able to have a spiritual conversation. So we're working on our software, but this is a spiritual dialogue. The yoga project has an esoteric structure. It's magic. It's powerful. And one of the great aspects of it is that you are working directly with your mind. The yoga project is a reflection of your mind. And the wonderful thing about yoga is there's a balance in yoga between mind and spirit. So when you are succeeding in your yoga, you see two things happen. You see your sales go up and you see your meditation and brighter. This is the magic of this form of yoga. This form of Karma Yoga is, it's a reality. It is a esoteric teaching. It has a structure in the unseen world. So that's why you're able to look at it and know in your heart, oh, it's not working. Oh, I'm struggling with it. Because you know the physical aspect of your company, you're able to look at it, see what's happening, and you're able to also have the inner recognition of your practice. So for all yoga teams that we're working with, we are currently at a point of great imbalance. We have a deadline, an imposed, according to the structure of yoga, this way of dharma, there is an imposed deadline. That deadline exists. There needs to be a realization, there needs to be a greater connection of mind and to have the karma to continue. So when you're dealing with the opportunity of yoga, it is an opportunity of dharma. It is a powerful, beautiful teaching, a wonderful, amazing, transformative, spiritual teaching. But you've got to do right by it. You earn your ticket on that bus. You have to keep on doing better, keep on evolving to make it to the next level of that teaching. There is a whole universe in each yoga, in each yogic structure. There is a pathway to enlightenment. And it's a direct pathway that you have a personal connection with. You have a personal relationship with yoga. You have accepted yoga as your You're a born-again yogi. Some of you guys are born-again yogis. Some of you are just yogis. First-timers. So, you know, when you're working on your yoga project, and you recognize this imbalance, and then we have a definitive deadline, with a definitive goal, this is the time where you have an opportunity for rapid transformation. So that's good. But right now, we're in a state where we're not rapidly transforming. Right now, we are on a trajectory to fail. And that's why we're talking about it tonight. We are at the crux is foremost. In the beginning, it's the physical attention that is foremost. That's what we bring our attention to and awareness to and our willpower. You know, we build software. It takes a lot of work. We build companies. We build structures, right? And in the beginning, it takes a tremendous amount of work to focus on creating those physical things. But now we're at that place where we have products. We have software. We have identified our milestones, our goals, our deliverables, and we have a date to make. Now we turn into the spiritual focus. And this is where there is a powerful, what needs to happen is a powerful, powerful shift from the physical attention to the spiritual attention. So, so the inner attention becomes foremost now. And this is, you know, crossing the chasm in terms of spiritual practice. Because as we know, remember that field of dreams? Build it and they will come. Not with software. It takes more. You know, even if we look at, you know, Facebook, right? So some college kid comes up with this new thing and he gets it out really fast and just explode. You know the reason why is because he had an inner seeing. He saw something inwardly in the second attention in the unseen world of how his software would And that's why building it worked. I was telling the EventPro team about Salesforce, Salesforce.com. The older intermediate students had created a product called MyWebDB, which was an amazing piece of software. It's still a fascinating piece of software. It's a wizard where you can, in business terms and in plain English, define the requirements for your data-driven application, and then it would automatically build it. The screens and a relational database behind it. So it was like, wow, this is great. This is a cool way to make applications. And we made amazing software, beautiful software. Could not sell it, could not bring it to the market. We missed the opportunity of this shift, the shift that we all must make now. So for older intermediates, we're back to that place again. Look how long it took us to get back to that place. We had to go through a lot of work to get back to this opportunity. This is an important opportunity And this is the time to make that shift. Now, Salesforce.com, a little while later, came out with the same idea. A platform where you can configure applications. Only the Salesforce platform is horrible. It's horrible technology. It's hard to use. Salesforce doesn't even have any grids. You know? So, it's just a clunky piece of garbage. However, they succeeded tremendously where we with better software didn't. And the reason why is because the CEO Saw a way to cross the chasm He saw it in a different way You know mark Benioff is a dreamer So he saw it in a dream Even though he was swimming with dolphins when he saw it in Hawaii You know, but but he's a dreamer That's the true story. He says that I had this idea of swimming with dolphins. But he saw it he saw it in a in a dreaming way. You know the way that you know we talked about dreaming different dimensions of seeing and bringing things to life. He saw in a dream personal power, he's got tremendous personal power to make it happen. He brought his dream to life because he's a powerful dreamer. Now, you know Mark Zuckerberg and Mark Benioff So these two guys are not yogis, you know, they're not doing this for enlightenment. But they have powers that they have used to make this success happen. And in yoga we have to use power too. We have to use willpower. But we also have to use selflessness. The structure of yoga is that it must be something that you engage your attention in, you know, completely and impeccably. And you must do it in a way that is extremely selfless. We'll be talking about selflessness a little bit tonight because selflessness is really the bigger shift that everyone here has to make in order to cross this chasm, make this internal shift. So these two examples, they were able to make this success in the inner aspects. Because both of them had competition, but they were able to succeed because of their awareness. You succeed with awareness. And right now, what's limiting your awareness to succeed is you, the self, who you think you are, your personal history. So just like I was saying earlier, if you're checking out girls on the way to the seminar, what it does is it has a karma. It makes your aura more... So first of all, when you bring your attention out and touch another person's aura with your attention, it comes back with a toxicity, a little bit of... You pick up a little bit of their energy. And when you do that a dozen times, or for some of you a couple dozen times, you have a lot of other attention in your aura, a lot of toxicity from touching other people's attention. And it makes you feel heavier, makes it so that you can't bring your attention higher to understand a greater spiritual insight. So that is the karma. It means that your state of attention becomes lower. Now for being selfless, you have a similar thing going on. You keep thinking the same thoughts about yourself and you keep seeing the same patterns And then you believe it and it and it makes you stuck stuck in dissatisfaction creating for you imbalance Now everybody experiences that from relationships to work to just spiritual life in general or life in general Or politics, you know everyone experiences these kinds of things But that's why we're taking yoga as a focal point. This is where you're seeing it in action against this esoteric structure. And by solving it for this particular case, you solve this spiritual conflict, the spiritual dilemma. You create spiritual balance by having this tremendous focus in where you're being stopped in yoga. So this is the lesson that you need to learn. But it's a lesson of selflessness. You have to be able to let let go of ideas and this is a tricky part because you would say let go of what ideas and I say the ones that hold you down and you say there is a a I think too much. There was a Buddhist monk.

0:42:58
Oh, no, no.

0:42:59
There was a young gentleman who came to a Zen master. He says to the Zen master, please, I want to be a Buddhist monk. And the Zen master says, oh, no, not after what you have done in your life. And then he says, what? And then the Zen master says, you know exactly what you've done. No way can you be a Buddhist monk in my Zen dome. And then he says, what? I didn't do anything. And then he says, no way. I'm going to let you in here. You know what you did. Then he sits there and he thinks, he gets a little bit self-honest and he says, all right, I have done some bad things. You know, he's like, yeah, this one time, there was a kid in school who had, you know, a lunchbox that I wanted, so I stole it. I stole his lunchbox and ate his lunch. There was another time where there was this kid at school, and he was walking slow in front of me, I got frustrated with him and I threw him down in the mud. So he starts going through these, you know, these times where he knows he did something wrong. And then he says, so I recognize that I did these things. And then the Zen master says, oh, that is nothing.

0:44:27
He's like, what?

0:44:28
But those are the worst things I did. He says, no, that's nothing. You've done something inexcusable. And then the young man is just racking his brain. Then he says, OK, there was this one time where my mother, I was trying to watch TV, and my mom told me I had to go do the wash. I'm talking about you know, I'm mixing up times here. But yeah, I wanted to play video games and my mom wouldn't let me and I cursed my mother. I said, mother, me me me. So yeah, that was the worst thing I've done. And the Zen master says, oh no, no, no, no, that is not the worst thing you've done. Not by a long shot. So the young man sits there and then he says If these physical things I did are not the worst thing I've done and these inner emotional Places where I you know did something horrible like yelling at my mom. So these places where I got stuck and I felt really bad, what could this Zen master be talking about that is so horrible? So he just says, Zen master, what do you mean? Zen master says, again, you know, and I'm not letting you in here. And so the young man, Ciceron, reflects on it. And then he has a moment of satori. And then the Zen master says, Okay, you can come into the temple now. See, this is exactly what you do. You have physical things, the karmas that you've created that you have personal history with, that keep coming up with, you know, like, oh man, I keep getting bothered by this or, you know, that. Keep experiencing this dissatisfaction. Keep experiencing this dissatisfaction. And then you also have these deeper things that you feel. But this is what I call your self. This is the limitation, this is the ego. And what the young monk did is he went beyond his karma. He went beyond his ego and had the recognition the truth. The truth that the light is within him. That enlightenment is within you. And the real difficulty, the real thing holding you back is that lack of recognition. The recognition of enlightenment within you. You are it. You are that. And that recognition makes it really simple for you to succeed in your yoga. However, all of the things of the self, the personal history of the self, that won't let you into the temple. That keeps you outside of the temple. So it's very important for you to have this deeper recognition. That's why I call it something selfless, because it's not be exploring tonight. And I will give you a direct esoteric experience of that freedom, of that truth. And although I'll give you that experience, it's important for you to have that realization yourself. Having a nice meditation here, a bright little understanding here, a little spiritual epiphany here and there, those are nice experiences, but your ego will grab onto them and say, oh I'm special because I had this experience. That's not what we're talking about an integrated awareness of enlightenment within you. And that changes, it's not an up and down, oh I experienced this once and then I experienced this once. It creates an enlightened state of consciousness that is unbound by karma. A bad thing happens to you and you're not going to go back into self-sadness mode and to the lower karmas, when you really make progress, real progress on the pathway to enlightenment, this up and down goes away. There are ups and downs, but inwardly there's just enlightenment. This isn't what we call an integrated enlightenment. What is enlightenment? You know someone could say oh, you know I went to the movies and I Had this really high moment and then that was enlightenment I went on a power trip. You know I went out into nature and I saw the sunset. I felt really happy and that was my enlightenment. I Experienced a toy and that was my enlightenment And Those are just high experiences.

0:50:53
Yes they're good.

0:50:54
They inform you of a greater truth, but they are not your condition of awareness. They're not where your point of, your assemblage point, your point of being aware of life exists. Even though it was a high moment, you're still mired in karma. You have imbalance. Spiritual imbalance. Enlightenment is where you don't have an imbalance anymore. Those difficult thoughts, disturbing emotions, they're not there anymore. Sure, you might have an IRS tax audit or something. You have all sorts of problems come over. Something might fall on your big toe and hurt. complete with life in its unlimited dimensions. So this is our path. This is our way of discovering ourselves, the enlightened and true nature of your being. But before we go on, I'm going to take a break. I'm going to try to give you guys breaks. Give you guys a lot of breaks. I know we drink a lot of water at the break. breaks. Give you guys a lot of breaks. I know we drink a lot of water at the break. break. It will inspire my compassion. All right. Thank you very much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
