0:00:00
We're going to begin a comprehensive study of compassion. We're going to thoroughly work through this study so that you have a full understanding of it. This is the study of the Xuanzi Bingfa. It is an ancient Dallas text of compassion. Let me start off by telling you a story about where it came from. a king of an area called Wei, during this period of war in states in China, had a problem. And the problem was that his neighboring country, a much larger country, a more powerful country, was going to attack him. So the state of Qi was going to take over the state of White. So he looked for one of the most famous and obscure and inaccessible generals that he had ever heard of. And this general was said ways of defeating the enemy and his general had led smaller forces against larger forces and were victorious. So he sought him out and one day he appeared in the court and he Will you leave my arm against you. Yes I will. And he said I hear you're so famous. Can you give me a demonstration of your military leadership. And he said how about amongst the concubines of my court? Can you give me a demonstration with that? And then he said sure. So he said okay, he got all the concubines out, he said okay I want you all to line up. I'm going to put them all in the perfect spot. Okay and you know they were courtesan of the court, they weren't used to anything military. And they just listened to him, he put them into place. And then he demonstrated the marching maneuvers that he wanted them to do. And he said, okay, this is what we're going to do. And then he gave the order, do it! And then he gave the order for them to start marching and turning and doing things like

0:03:44
that.

0:03:45
They just stood in place.

0:03:46
And then he gave the order again.

0:03:51
And then they just started giggling.

0:03:52
And they were like, you want us to do what?

0:03:53
Come on, we're not soldiers.

0:03:54
And they just started laughing. he said, if the General's orders are not clearly understood, it is the General's fault. So he went over the maneuvers again, very precisely, communicating very clearly, and then he gave the order again, march. And they didn't march, they just sat there and burst into laughter again. So then what the general did is he went over to the king's favorite concubine and cut off her head. She fell down on the floor, you know, in two pieces. The king was, you know, he was aghast. And everyone was afraid. And then he said to the concubines, march.

0:05:03
And they marched.

0:05:04
And they followed his command perfectly. So, this is how his teachings on compassion began. So this general, his name was, as we say in English, Sun Tzu's Art of War and he created a on dealing with conflict, overcoming difficulty. So this was a powerful, powerful teaching Sun Tzu could be seen as being too serious with acts. However, at that moment, he set a pattern of success in the mind of the king. And he was able to, with that structure, have victory over chief. teaching of compassion. Because of course if he wasn't so severe. If he didn't do things in such a powerful way. And the kingdom of Chi would come in a way. What would happen a lot more suffering. Tremendous more suffering. So even though what he did was he killed someone which doesn't seem very compassionate, but in a bigger picture he set something right You might say that this is an experience of compassion associated with Mahakala. So, Avadhutasvara has that one little angry head, the 11 head, and he's got that one little pissed off wrathful element. So in this Taoist teaching on compassion, this is an experience of the wrathful. The art of war deals with the wrathful aspect of compassion. However, it isn't necessarily wrathful. In In the Art of War Sun Tzu teaches that it is better to win a battle without fighting. That is the highest goal of compassion, which is not to fight, and yet to win. And in all cases, the Art of War teaches the most compassionate way to succeed in a conflict. After that demonstration, the king took him very seriously and the king put him in full charge of his 30,000 troops. The kingdom of Qi had 300,000 troops, so they were outnumbered 10 to 1. So Sun Tzu began. What he did was he started off not going against the main army, but instead of waiting, we knew Chi was going to attack eventually, but chief and attacked a lightly guarded outpost. And then he ran over to the west side and attacked another lightly guarded outpost. So he started laying siege to places where not taking on the full army. Then the full army was moving around, first south then west. They're trying to chase down the forces of Wei that kept on taking up their small places and then the full army couldn't even find them. This made the general angry. This made the general's chief very angry. It frustrated him. So he was frustrated, got more angry. He had a very, very bad temper. And his next door neighbor to the northeast was a small state as well. And they had an alliance. But because the General Chi was so angry, the alliance went bad. The general of the small state got into an argument with the general of Qi because they were in a bad mood. And then eventually the general of Qi said, you know what? I'm mad at you now. So I'm going to come and take your territory. I'm going to kill your men, take your state, and then I won't have an argument with you anymore. So the full army of Qi decided not to go after their neighbor that used to be their ally. With a destructive alliance, she was going to easily beat the neighbor. The neighbor also only had like So what happened was the leader of that state contacted Sun Tzu and said, hey, want to make an alliance? Because we're going to be dead pretty soon and you're actually effective in dealing with

0:13:32
these guys.

0:13:33
So Sun Tzu drives his army to cut off the Manchi army. The Manchi army goes, oh good, there's those Sun Tzu guys. There's the Wei guys. Let's go get them. We've been looking for them and finally, here they are. So they go on a full attack after Sun Tzu. Sun Tzu draws his army back. They are retreating and Chi is following. While they are retreating the back of the army Sun Tzu sends 20,000 of his troops away. They hide. And 10,000 leads them into a big gorge where there's tall mountains on either side and then they follow into the gorge and then at the end of the gorge there's a cliff that drops off hundreds of feet. So they get to the end of the gorge and there's nothing nowhere else to run. And Sun Tzu knew this. And his troops were like, Oh my gosh, why did you leave us in here? And Sun Tzu was like, Oh gosh, it's horrible, isn't it? But the king of Chi, or the general of Chi knew this as well. He knew his country. So he's like, ha, we've got those guys. He said there's 30,000 of them in there and they've got nowhere to run. We're going to go in and crush them. Those are just infantry in there. We're going to beat them. So he says, I'll send three times the force. I'll send 90,000 troops I'll send in my whole cavalry and I'll send in my elite troops and we'll just wipe those guys out and get over to the other place I want to wipe out and he's like ah! I'm going to win this battle wipe out the forces of Wei, go crush that other guy in Mada, and then go and take over Wei with no army. Ha, this is great. Here's where I win. So then he sends his cavalry and elite troops in. 90,000 of them. So he thinks that he's sending in three times as many because he thought the whole army was there, but there's 10,000 infantry against 90,000 of cavalry and advanced troops. So as they're coming in Sun Tzu says to his men, we have nowhere to run. If we try to retreat, we fall off the cliff and die. We can't go left, we can't go right. The only way to live is to go out where we came in from. And that is through these guys. Through this giant army. And we must survive. We are either going to live or die today. So recognizing that they can't run, the army comes to a place beyond pity. And they engage the enemy. So the king of Qin is kind of outside of the gorge with the majority of his army, just waiting to hear about the victory. And then 20,000 troops come back, retreating. And the king says, Wow, did you lose that many men conquering that small army? And then they say, We are in retreat the rest of our army has been killed and the king says that's impossible this is crazy I sent in so many men and they said yeah and there weren't 30,000 there were only 10,000 and the king the generals you know the racking trying to figure out how this could be. So then he starts making plans. He's like, somehow they're really good and we have to kill them. And then he's trying to make plans and very, very offset. And then he gets word, telegram. The other 20,000 soldiers of the Wei army are marching on the capital of Chi and says, Oh my goodness, this is horrible. We've left the capital unguarded or lightly guarded and we can't let those guys take Chi. So the army of Wei Sun Tzu's marched on the capital just to scare them. But then they came back and they hid in a high ground. And as the giant army of Qi started going north towards the capital. They came down and stood before them. That neighbor who they had saved also sent in their 30,000 troops to meet the giant army of Chi. So the general Chi said, oh look, they're coming to attack us. And then he became very, very, very unsettled. He says, there's 20,000 plus those other guys who I was trying to screw over. That's 50,000. And I got a lot more men, but 10,000 of those guys took out 70,000 of my men. So he's kind of a little bit scared there. And then the army of Wei starts charging. And what he does is he falls back. He doesn't tell them to engage. He says, let's retreat so I can think about what's going on and then make a plan. So he starts a retreat, but then those 10,000 guys who are in the gorge, it is only like 7,000 left or something, 6 or 7,000 left, but they come and they cut off the escape. And the king, the general, is very afraid of them. He says, okay I give up. So Wei defeated Qi and after this battle and during this time this is Sun Tzu said to him, writing down old bamboo, this thing, the art of war, his plans. After this battle, the king of Wei says, Death ground. Death ground is where we won. That is when they went into the gorge, when there was no escape, when they went into their first major battle, and but they were at a place beyond pity. They were on death row. No other choice but to live. And so they won their battle. And that changed everything. That changed the energy of the conflict. And even though they were against a larger number of troops, they had a huge momentum of energy to win. And then the General Chi could not overcome it. So death ground. This is what death ground is. When you're facing death, you put more into it. You put more energy into things when you face death. And when you're aware of it. When you know that you're facing death, you will fight more. You will put more in. Like, how much would you pay for a bottle of water? A dollar if you're thirsty, you're dehydrated, it's hot, and you come across some guy with a bottle of water and you say, oh can I have some water? He's like, sure I'll sell it to you. You're all, okay. How much will you pay? You will pay everything. That's what you will pay. That is the truth. Because if you don't pay everything, whatever his price is, if his price is every pudding you've got, plus your firstborn child.

0:24:55
But you will pay everything for that bottle of water.

0:24:58
Because it's either water or death. when facing death and being aware of it, you will put everything in. There's another story of a famous Chinese general called Cao Cao. And we call him General Cao's chicken. That's the American version of it. General Tao's Chicken, that famous general, very famous general, one of the most famous generals. Tao Tao, he really liked that chicken. Okay, so Tao Tao, this famous, famous general, had a similar experience. He took his army over to attack the enemy by boat they landed on the shore and then had all of the boats burned and his men were very stressed why are you doing that and he says there's only one way home through the enemy there's no escape anymore there's no going back we either win this battle or we die. And this put his men in death ground where they had to win. There's no other choice. And of course he won. Otherwise they wouldn't be in the chicken dish now. I bring this up, this critical point in Sun Tzu's success and this critical point in Cao Cao's success in these battles, because you are entering death ground. where you will live or you will die. However, death isn't so good.

0:27:15
Living is good.

0:27:17
Living is winning, winning the battle. For you, the battle is the battle of yoga. The art of war is not about... I mean, sure, it's about a conflict with anyone else and sure it's about war and military combat, but it's also about yourself. The art of war you can call it the art of the enlightened warrior. which means that you learn the ways to overcome the conflicts in your mind. You learn the ways to win the conflicts of the self. And it's about you. It's about you winning on the pathway to enlightenment. So this death ground is about you. This death ground is about your yoga. So you, all of you, are standing in the gorge with a large army out there. You have the cliff behind you. And the death round is now. By the summer solstice, you will be crushed in bed. So, this is an excellent way to support you in becoming a non-returner. Because as of the summer solstice, you will never return to the place that you are now. You will either be victorious or dead. Death changes you. It's not the best way to go, mind you. But it does, it definitely changes. Death changes things, right? So if the general of Qi slaughtered Sun Tzu and his army, then they would have slaughtered the rest, took them over away. Something would happen, but definitely things wouldn't be the same in a bad way. But having victory, that means that things are never the same, but in a good way. So there's the constructive way, the way that's elevating, or there's the dead way which is really really not the best thing. War is important to the nation. It's important. Winning is important. Losing is cataclysmic. And you are on that ground. You are in that situation. The situation of death ground. There are certain marks that I want you to hit. For some of you with a revenue model, it's revenue. We need sales.

0:31:09
It has to happen.

0:31:10
We've got to make a certain amount of sales. For some of you who are a social network, it's number of users. We have to see a certain number of users. You can't go on doing nothing forever. A prolonged campaign. Use your energy, do it, win. So we are at that point where it's time to win. It's time to make it happen. We're on death ground. If it happens, great, there's victory, we have momentum, we will win the whole conquest. If it doesn't happen, then it's over. It's over. The yoga is over. If you can't at this point figure out how to sell your software, then the software isn't really sellable. You could sit there for five more years screwing around with it. If you can't muster your energy and awareness and attention to make it happen now, don't count on it happening a year from now. There is no new feature that you need to make sales. Don't be feature focused. You need to succeed with what you've got. Once you've got something, I always say, sell what you've got. You've got something? Sell it. And guess what? It'll sell. I remember when AppBuddy first came out, it was like a pathetic little something. And then I said, and they sold it and then they made version 2. They enhanced, enhanced, enhanced. Now it's what they would originally want to sell in the beginning. But if they didn't sell it in the beginning then they wouldn't have had the momentum. Success on death ground builds momentum. Cash flow equals energy flow. level. That's what we're looking for. Or in the case of the social network, users equal energy level. So we must succeed. It's success or death. You put a lot into it. All of our yogas are excellent products. All of them are awesome. All of them are fantastic. All of them can make millions of dollars. A couple of them can make billions of dollars. We have really awesome opportunities here. It would be a shame to lose the opportunity because you don't stand on death ground. It would be a shame to just give up being mediocre. Being mediocre on death ground, you die. You have to be like Buster Douglas. You have to go to that point beyond pity and you have to break to a higher level of energy. You got to get over yourself. Get over yourself. And you'll much, much, much more personal power. And that is the mystical way of looking at it. But this is a study of compassion. Compassion on death ground. And understanding compassion, you have even more power. I talked about the Buster Douglas, the place beyond pity at Death Ground, because it's accessible in a certain way. However, compassion is more powerful. Think, what if Buddha was there with Sun Tzu? You know what Buddha would do? You know there was that one time where his cousin Devadatta sent eight men to assassinate him, the Buddha. And the Buddha stood there, these guys come in to kill him, and then the Buddha teaches them dharma, shows them compassion, and then they become monks. So, without a doubt, Buddha would stand right next to Sun Tzu and preach the dharma, and then those 90,000 soldiers will become Bruce Mawson. And then that's a greater compassion, less people think. Compassion is more powerful, but it's harder to do. But if you can really connect yourself with the spirit of the yoga, the spirit of the yoga, and how it spreads light. It creates a stronger structure of Dharma. And when you have cash flow and energy flow, it elevates your consciousness so that using these structures you can get in touch with the spirit of yoga and see that it is a means for compassion, yoga is a powerful means for compassion, minimally as a refuge for spiritual seekers, minimally, then you can have a tremendous power at this point in death row. So, serious, serious business. Your yoga is powerful, is special. It's done a lot for you. You've gained a lot of skills. You've gained a lot of personal power. You've burned off a lot of karma in your yoga. And until you have cash flow, the maturity of the yoga isn't even really seen. The yoga can be very, very, very powerful. Win this battle. Win this battle of death round and like Sun Tzu facing the larger army, you have momentum. You will succeed tremendously if you succeed now. If you don't succeed now, it's over. We've faced death ground before, the older intermediate students, and loss. This was with our first software product. And after losing in death ground, as you can see, and I still hear it, however, they had a lot of work to do. They had a lot of restructuring to do. And all the restructuring, it's all good and constructive, but it's hard. and it also requires certain things. For example, one of the things it required was Bodhi Woods. We created Bodhi Woods as part of our re-tonalifying. We were working on the teachings of Bodhisita and everything, and also working on financial tonal and things, and we said, let's do a Bodhi Woods. But they had to do a Bodhi Woods. They had to have this karmic structure. There was a lot of birds. So if you see Bodhi Woods as being a big project, it is a big project. And if you feel in Seth Brown, there's lots of big projects like that, that you have to do to build up the momentum and the merit to go back into yoga. You don't take yoga lightly. If Milarepa is starting to build his tower, then Martha says, no, no, no, build it over there. And then Milarepa says, forget you, I'm out of here. It would take Milarepa a build up the momentum again to come back to yoga and especially if you didn't have an enlightened teacher he was kind of leave and muddle around and screw around and stuff and thinking in his head you know about himself and then eventually in a lifetime he would come back and say hey what do you want me to But, you know, yoga, every yoga project is a universe of dharma. And it is something that you don't take lightly, that you foster properly. The etiquette is that you give it the proper attention. And dying on it is not the proper intention.

0:41:38
Laughing

0:41:41
Dying on it means that you have to kind of go into a reincarnation and do other things.

0:41:49
Laughing

0:41:52
Um, which uh, believe me, it's not the funnest thing. It's Dharma though. It'll make sense. But it is hard. So the preferred way is to succeed, is to win, is to take that Dharma and build those towers. To succeed, to take that yoga and make it definitive battle, gain the momentum, and succeed on the larger scale. This is where it's going to take off or it's going to die. And the projects that you guys are working on shouldn't have. They're excellent. They're excellent. They should make millions of dollars, which is just kind of fun. But it shows itself. So that's why we're here. So, we are entering death ground. The summer solstice is the date of decision. I will tell you the marks that you must meet, not miss me, later. The marks that you must meet are proof to me that you're establishing your revenue model for social marketing that you are establishing your virality for web marketing. So, when I see a certain amount of sales happening, I'm like, oh, this shows me it is working. If I don't see sales, I say, oh, it's not working. So it's based on sales or users. You've got to hit the number. If you don't hit the number, if you come $100 less than the number I choose, it's over. This is a definitive battle. You make the number or it doesn't happen. I'm not going to waffle about with this. It's a shame if you fail. But there are things that happen. Just like in the Bardo Fetal. You die.

0:44:20
Oh, it's over.

0:44:21
Oh wait, you're in a Bardo now. There's something to do here.

0:44:25
Right?

0:44:26
It's never over.

0:44:28
In Buddhism, when we get knocked down,

0:44:31
we get ourselves back up, dust off, go into another round. There's no ultimate failure.

0:44:41
But there is

0:44:43
awesome, fantastic success. So I'd like to see that. I'd like to see that. On the drive down from Bodhi Woods, talking to Dharma and Ajna, and Dharma was talking about in the last round that we had, or the first round with our first software, and he's all like, it seems impossible. I was like, you try and it seems impossible. It seems that way. But it is possible. Success in your yoga is totally possible. I've seen lots of people succeed in their yoga. So in my school, there were dozens of successes. One success was the success of Ananda. So Ananda who later became I think the first enlightened ST1. He had a product called X-Ticket. And it was a trading system for Wall Street. And it was given a quota. He was told by our teacher, you've got to make $2 million this quarter. And he's like, wow, that's huge. So once the product was done, right, and then you worked on the product for a year. It was done and it was time to sell. And he was like, okay, I'm gonna do it. So he starts calling up these Wall Street firms and trying to tell them, hey, I've got this really cool trading system that you could use and you could just implement it and it gives you these benefits. And on Wall Street, they're like, sorry.

0:46:47
They're like, we don't know you, we don't know what's going on,

0:46:50
Sorry, click. We don't know you, we don't know what's going on, we don't want to risk anything. The way things are going is fine. So they weren't willing to take a chance. And then one day, he got a call from a Swedish financial firm. And the Swedish guy was in New York and he just so happened to be having a meeting at Goldman Sachs and he heard when Ananda called and pitched someone, that guy talked to him a little bit but eventually rejected him. And then he asked the guy, what's that guy talking about? And then he was interested in it. So then back in Sweden he looked him up, he talked He talked to his team about it and then said, hey, we're smaller than those Wall Street guys. We're willing to take a little bit of a risk. We'll see if this is anything. Now, I might mention that two and a half months into that quarter, Ananda sold nothing. And then he had this circle that make it or break it. And that was just a three month quota. And that was his death breath.

0:48:09
And then the Swiss guy calls him,

0:48:10
Swedish guy, Americans doesn't matter. I know a lot of Americans can't tell the difference between Swiss and Americans. So, so Ananda gets on a plane, flies to Stockholm, meets with them, and they buy it. And they buy it big. They buy it for $2.5 million. He comes back, has his meeting, and now I'm like, okay, good. And then after that, he took it big and then he sold it. That's what a lot of, a lot of, a lot of things that we did was we built something, took it to a certain amount of sales, and then sold it. We like building things. We don't like owning mature companies where it becomes kind of management. That's what that Facebook guy should do. What's his name? Zuckerberg? Yeah. I guess he's got a professional CEO management thing. That's why there's stocks dropping. He's the kind of guy you should go out and try to do something new, even though he got lucky. OK, so. So there is success in the way of that. There was another time where there was, I'll give you an example of death browning. And there was another guy, he had a product, an STY, a real push-pull. He had a product, I don't know what it's called. I just heard the word. And he was given a deadline. He was like, this many sales by this time. It might have been three months, six months, something like that. And he failed. When he failed, he was kicked out of the sauna. He was like, oh, you failed. You're out of here. I told you this was death row. And then the guy's like, OK. And then the guy moped around for about six months. He's like, oh. And then he decided that he was going to sell this product, I am going to make it so big, and I am going to ask to get back to the Sonda by offering half of my sales to the company. So, once he made that decision, he went out, sold a lot of software, and then he had an acquisition for a hundred and ten million dollars. And then he came back and said, look, I succeeded finally. And I'd like to offer you, you know, 51% to Buddhism. And then he was accepted.

0:51:25
I would accept anyone for that.

0:51:27
So that shows you on both sides, there's success in yoga. Sometimes you've got to die to learn something. So with the older intermediate students, the ST3s, they learned something by going through death rounds. It wasn't the funnest thing to learn, but they learned something. So this is important. Now, another aspect that I really like about the Art of War is the first chapter is called Estimates, Plan. So Sun Tzu says, you can plan your victory. If you know yourself and you know your enemy, in a hundred battles you will win. If you plan properly, you will succeed. You can look at failures in battles, failures in businesses, failures in relationships, And you can point out the things from Sun Tzu's chapter of planning and estimates to see, this failed because they didn't plan this, this failed because they did this wrong. The things that he points out there are universal. And you can plan your success. You can plan your victory. A wise general would plan victory. And you can plan your victory. I like that. It's a science. There's the teachings, you do them, you experience higher, brighter states of mind, gain greater personal power, you follow the teachings of yoga, and you become enlightened. You plan properly, you win. So, I would like to give you a new writing assignment. And this is to read the first chapter at least. Maybe you want to read the whole thing. Read the first chapter of the Art of War, the chapter on estimates and planning. And I'd like you to write a five-page paper on planning success in your yoga. How is your yoga going to succeed? How are you going to win? Plan it in the terms of the art of war. And five pages means that you really think it through, that you consider everything that Sun Tzu says. must be considered for your success. So we're making a little bit of a change here. We're rushing into battle, meaning that we're trying to sell, we're trying to market, but maybe we didn't do enough planning. plan. So Sun Tzu warns, the bad general rushes headlong into conflict. What we must do is plan first. We must plan our victory. Must plan. So we're going to create a new focus marketing. Marketing is the priority. Yes, you got to make your sales calls. Yes, you got to finish coding, whatever you got to do. But everybody is focusing on marketing. Now, our marketing team is at work. We're putting our marketing plans together. The marketing team has, team members have had their initial meetings with each team. And we have scheduled to have the marketing team put more marketing strategies together. In a couple of weeks, we will have a complete marketing plan. However, every individual here will also be considering the success of their yoga in terms of Sun Tzu's art of war. These go together. Sun Tzu says that there are two forces, the seeing force and the unseeing force, the first attention and the second attention, the yang force and the yin force. And he says, I engage the enemy with my seeing force, but I win the conflict with my unseeing force. Now, a lot of the ways that we're going about sales right now is the seen force. What we need to develop is the unseen force comes from these more broad, far-reaching plans, or our is more broad, far-reaching plans where our second intention goes into all of it. If you're making a phone call, if you're just doing cold calls, you're never going to succeed. That's the seen force. If you put the unseen force there, what happens is you look at things a bigger way to follow all the fundamental teachings in the art of war. And then you have this full marketing plan that thinks about everything. You cover this whole scope, the whole universe of marketing. A plan of getting out there. And then when you make that call, someone buys it. You make that call without that, no one buys it. You make that call with all of that, you make a sale. This is the principle of the Seam Force and the Unseam Force. This is why we must do this writing assignment. And this is why we must focus on our kids. It's fantastic. You gotta play that game, Go. You know that game, Go? There's this game called Go. An ancient Chinese Taoist game.

1:00:46
Very popular in Japan.

1:00:49
And Go is a game. Sometimes people call it the Chinese chess. However it's very very different than chess. So chess is a Westerners mentality for success, war, Go has a different goal. The goal is to win the objective, not fight the battle. Sun Tzu says, don't go to war to fight in the battle. Go to war to win. Win the objective. So in chess, you go forward and you kill things. And then finally you get the queen. So chess is really a focus on the battle. Fighting a battle. In Go, it's not a matter of winning a battle, it's a matter of gaining territory. So in Go, you win when you own the largest territory and or have captured the most troops. You gotta play Go. Learn how to play Go, play Go. There should be a Go in the Saratoga Dojo and in the Lorde Woods, and you should play it. I bet there's an app for that. I bet there is, so see if there's an app for that too.

1:02:42
Play Go.

1:02:42
So Go is completely analogous to Sun Tzu's teaching. It's win in the easiest, most elegant way. You're not fighting to kill, you're engaging to gain the objective. Capture is always better than kill. So playing Go will give you a different state of mind at looking at sales, marketing, success

1:03:30
and win.

1:03:31
Like for example, I was talking to Saratoga Dojo about their sales calls. I think it's the WebBuddy guys. And I was like, you guys are doing chess. You're going into a phone call just to be on a phone call. You're doing a sales call for the sake of doing a sales call. That's not the point.

1:03:54
Play, go.

1:03:56
The point is not to just go in and do something. It's to win the objective. The point of when you pick up that phone is make a sale. Not give information, give them a time to call you back. Go. Play go. It will change the way that you look at doing things. So we're going to play Go. 1, 2, 3, Go! We'll have Go Tournaments! General against General. Play Go.

1:04:51
It also works in yoga.

1:04:53
I remember General Schwartzpox during that war thing he was in charge of. Someone asked him, what was it, Desert Storm? For a while he was the guy. The head honcho. Someone asked him, what do you think the art of war? He's all like, it's so boring. So obvious. It's like the lamest thing. Meanwhile, if you analyze what he did, using the art of war, he made huge mistakes, huge mistakes. sorry so that was just an interesting so estimates five pages you turn it in early but you must do it by the 19th. The 19th of March. Let's see if I have any announcements I can do. Okay, next Saturday we have a Sangha event. and Bode was in the earth. And we are going to meet for the purpose of learning something about marketing. So Vajra is going to give us a presentation on viral marketing. So I want everybody in the group to start to have a stronger awareness of marketing. Vagra has done a lot of research and also has had success in viral marketing. And so he's going to share with us what he knows. And this should be quite exciting. So we'll meet at 11 a.m. After we have our viral presentation, then we're going to do a social web setup. This is where we're going to start setting up accounts. Things like Twitter accounts and things like that. So we're going to try to get for you a little social web marketing playbook that tells you what you need to set up. And we're going to set everything up for every yoga so that we can be prepared to start our

1:08:03
program that way.

1:08:04
So that's what we're going to do next Saturday. Now, the weekend after, we're taking a full marketing weekend. So, not this Saturday, but the next Saturday, we're going to have yoga team, yoga teams, complete yoga teams, meeting with the marketing team one by one. So, the, you know, so let's say the WebBuddy team comes, everyone, and you will meet with the marketing team, and the marketing team will discuss and confirm the marketing plan and strategies with the whole team. Here's what you guys are gonna do. Here's your plan, here's how we're going to execute it. So I want the whole team to be there because we all need to expand our awareness of marketing. Everyone is marketing. Everyone is marketing. So one team at a time, we'll meet with the marketing team two Saturdays from now. And then on Sunday, we will not have a regularly scheduled yoga meeting on Sunday. We are going to have a social web marketing competition. This will be a fun experience and an all day experience. It will be like 10am to 10pm. We're going to sit there and we're going to do social marketing. And we're going to get results and it's going to be awesome. And it's going to be a competition. more about it later, but there's a special prize for the winner of the competition, which is a dinner with me. The pleasure of having me join you for dinner at one of my favorite restaurants. It's a big secret. And it will be really, really, really fantastic. See, the reason that the prize is a dinner is because it's on my 14th day of a fast.

1:10:59
And dinner sounds like a good prize.

1:11:01
All right. OK, movie assignment.

1:11:03
It is called, the movie is called, Branded. Branded. Branded.

1:11:10
And, let's see, I think we'll have a Branded movie night next Saturday at Brodywood, so if you don't see it during the week, you can see it at Brodywood's next Saturday, after our marketing set up and viral meeting. Sound good? Oh yes, it sounds really good. Very exciting. So we have a strong focus, strong focus on marketing. In a couple weeks we're gonna have our definitive marketing plans. We're going to then go to market. But you also have very, very, very, very important, very important writing assignment so the Hungarian Sangha also has deaf ground has death ground. I have to give you a death ground for your attainment of the third realization. Because you need a definitive battle for success or death. Now with a Hungarian song that's worse, I didn't tell them this part. They survive death round, good, they go on. They don't survive death round, I kick them out. You guys, I'm not so sure yet, you never know, but I'm definitely sure. They don't survive, they're out. I've done this before with them, I've kicked people out. They tend to have different problems. We'll see. So that's a tough time. But for you, believe me, if you fail, it's a tough time. Is it the same as being kicked out? I don't know. If I kick them out, they can come back. It's just very rare that they do. But a couple of them have come back, which is usually hard. But for you, you're not going to get kicked out.

1:13:54
You'll have a lot to do.

1:13:57
It's nice working on a skill project, all cool coding and everything, but if you stay on death row, you go into a different mode. You never know what you're thinking. It might just be rolling up your sleeves and doing a dirt yoga. You know my teaching of the preferred way, right? There was Oyama Sensei in New York, teaching a student the preferred way, and the not preferred way, of etiquette. So this one student, street street kid from New York was coming in to learn his first day there and then he's just like watching the teacher show technique and he thought that would never work nah that wouldn't work in the street fight. Then the sensei is like okay let me show you that it won't work okay so you punch and then blocks and succino do this and then the guy goes that wouldn't work. And the sensei is like it works trust me you know I'm showing you the technique. And then the guy goes, let me show you. So punch again, and then the guy punches. And then the guy goes, now in a street fight someone would go like this, and he throws a punch a little too fast, or he has something out of etiquette. And then the sensei blocks it, and he punches him a little bit hard. And then the guy goes, fuck, why'd you do that to me?

1:15:39
And then the sensei goes, don't swear in my dojo.

1:15:45
And then he beats the shit out of them. Get yourselves a senior student, barrel out, clean up the place. That is not the preferred way. However, the young gentleman did learn etiquette.

1:16:03
That's not a preferred way.

1:16:05
But that is a way of learning. So, failing death rounds is not a preferred way.

1:16:11
True story.

1:16:12
True story.

1:16:13
Branded. Branded.

1:16:14
branded. Okay, I would like to meet with my yoga team.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
