0:00:00
So, you should understand something about enlightenment. So, first of all, enlightenment is great. It's the greatest thing. Do you know that everything you do is done selfishly? Did you know that?

0:00:31
Yeah.

0:00:32
Even when you're trying to help out a friend, you might have a lot of layers of good intent on the surface, but when you drive it inward, you might find it's related to desires, fears, attachments, ideas of self. But you'll find that if you really investigate your intent so you have layers of intent but they all come from the self. And maybe once in a while you can yield the self to your enlightened practice and enlightened nature. And in those experiences it's kind of like meditation. Tremendously bright. Tremendously bright. But almost everything you do is selfish. I remember one time a friend of mine when I was an intermediate student I went over to her house to work on the yoga project and I walked into her house and it was messy. That angered me because that's what I did back then.

0:02:01
I would get angry.

0:02:02
Any problem, I would get mad. So I got mad at her for having a messy house. I was like, how are you gonna do good yoga if your house is messy? How are we gonna do yoga? I can't code in this. So I would get mad at her. So then I offered to help her clean her house, which was my selfless giving. I'm like, I will selflessly take four hours on the weekend to help you clean. But I did it because I was pissed off. Yeah, it's true. And you know, I've also had times where friends were having problems and they would talk to me either because they had the problem with me or they had a problem and they wanted to ask advice from me or something. I would usually give them advice based on how things would work out for me. So if someone has a problem with me they come over to me and they're like, they're all, hey Jeff, that was my name, hey Jeff, you stepped on my toe and it made me mad. And then I would say, oh yeah, well, you should take responsibility for your toe. And you shouldn't get mad at me, because I did it on accident, or out of negligence actually, and you're just, you know, it's your problem. So you should like be mindful. Yeah, that's it. I give them good dharmic advice. Hey friend, I stepped on your toe, spilled coffee on you, and it's your fault. You should practice mindfulness. So I did that out of a way of self-defense. Because, you know, a little bit easy to see examples, but in a lot of subtle ways, in dealing with people, in dealing with problems, in dealing with stuff, even when you see that you have, that you're putting forth effort and good intent. If you look, you could look deeply inside and find out where, you know, where your motivation comes from. And most of the time your motivation comes from an attachment to self, fear, desire, you know, stuff like, oh, I don't want to deal with this person, or if I tell this person to do this and it'll work out nicely for me.

0:04:51
Those kinds of things.

0:04:52
Yeah, so that's horrible. It's horrible because then you're just manipulating people to do what you want. Basically, and maybe you know telling someone to do mindfulness is a good thing, of course, but it's not coming from a pure place so it doesn't work well. If you come from a pure place and you talk about mindfulness to the person then there is light and power. If you're telling someone to do mindfulness, then oh it's not very good. So we practice mysticism, right? So we always have this focus on not losing power. But this is also not just mysticism, there's a pathway to enlightenment. So you know if it was just mysticism, it would be kind of like just martial arts, just beat the crap out of people, doesn't matter. But no, there's a nobility to certain arts and on the pathway to enlightenment we work on selflessness. Beginning Buddhist mystics are so funny to be. They're all like they're selfish about their power. They're like, you're draining me. You know that kind of thing? Which is the opposite of bodhicitta. So you're like, oh you're draining me, or oh you're lining me out. These are selfish attitudes. This is looking at your own power in a very small way. Just because someone annoys you, or just because you're taking a little bit of pain, doesn't decrease your power if you're practicing mysticism properly. Just because someone's upset with you, it doesn't decrease your power. That's small-minded. That's the little way of looking at things, and that keeps you relegated to a experience of small power. But the great thing about enlightened mysticism, so the little mystic, the little sorcerers were pissed off about every little thing, have to shoot energy back and forth, and do all sorts of stuff. The little small-minded witch or sorcerer, that's what they do. Sorcerers and witches are petty. They are. You can read lots of stories of the sorcerer or the witch who cast a spell on someone for some reason or some other reason. They're petty. Or even in the Mahabharata where everyone could just say something and then it's like a binding spell, right? Whatever they say. Don't say anything. One day I'm going to get revenge on you because you did something bad to me and here's what's gonna happen to you." And then it happens to them. Whatever they say, it's gonna happen, right? So these curses that people have through power, you know, as you can see the Mahabharata, it all comes from selfishness. Selfishness. This is petty. See, the way of enlightenment is to use sorcery and magic for selfless means. So don't get caught up in the in the small ways. If I was at this time teleported back into the time of Mahabharata I'd just be like all right I'll fight I'll fight because I like But I wouldn't do anything. I would be kind of like Krishna, but not as... He was pretty badass. He was like a honey badger. And I'd be like one of those jackals following him around. Yeah, so, you know, I would go through the thing without, you know, without having to curse people. Without having a problem.

0:09:46
Hey, who's that?

0:09:48
Hey, welcome! Come on in.

0:09:52
Well, we just finished meditation, but...

0:09:54
So, when you're relegated to the small-minded view, you're really stuck. You're stuck in a transient experience and it's no fun. When you're stuck in a transient experience, you're limited. You're negative. You're causing harm to others, even if you think it's to help your side or to help yourself when you're causing harm to others, then it's an unhappy way to be. So you have to be You have to have the big picture in mind see if someone gives you a hard time and you have the big picture in mind then you're just like this is no big deal you know it's just like what's that thing push it off and keep going it's really no big deal but if you're small-minded every little thing is a huge deal that person said this this person's looking at me funny you know You know, all these little weird things become the biggest thing in the world for you when you're small minded. But if you keep your eye on, you know, the big thing, enlightenment, right? The big picture of life, if you keep a broad perspective, then when you face all sorts of adversity, all sorts of problems, you can just brush it off and keep your eyes focused on enlightenment. So enlightenment is the big picture. When you're doing your yoga, when you're struggling with stuff, you're struggling with other people and your own mind, you have to keep your awareness focused on the big picture. What is this about? This is about an enlightenment and it makes the journey, it makes the yoga exciting and fun and then the little things that come up, the little oppositions with people are not a big deal. And then when you're focused on enlightenment and you're having a problem with someone, then you can actually really help them more selflessly. But when you're small-minded you're coming from those layers of intent inside of self. See, the big-minded view is the pathway to enlightenment. And when you're stuck in the small-minded view, you're stuck in the self. So enlightenment is good because when you're enlightened, you don't have that self, that self thing. So then what you do isn't stuck. It isn't stuck in a sad, unhappy state. It doesn't have desire and fear and ideas of self, you know, personal history and attachment, when that's not the core of your being, when the core of your being is purely light, then when someone comes to talk to you and you give them advice, or if someone comes and they're painful, if they're mad at you, even if you didn't step on their toe and spill coffee on them, then you can still bring a positive bright light to them. And there's also, you know, whatever way you do it, you know, you can yell at them, I do that sometimes, or you can just talk to them kindly, and it brings a light, a light of compassion, a light of wisdom, a light of love that supports and helps the person you're dealing with. When you're enlightened you don't see a problem with helping other people. Yeah, see that's still the small-minded view. Small-minded view. Enlightenment has the big picture in sight.

0:15:22
So enlightenment is good.

0:15:25
Remember, what was it, about a year ago? I don't remember. We were in Monterrey. We were on Carmel Beach and I was

0:15:31
giving some of you a hard time. No all of you. I was telling you guys, oh you guys are so toxic and so bad. You're making me sick right? And then I disappeared for a while. So I went through a process of detoxification, basically. So dealing with egos, dealing with people, students, in a close way, makes me vulnerable to toxicity. So all those times where you're feeling unbalanced, where you're feeling darkness, where you're being pulled by attachments and you're falling for it, you know when you go into dark states because of attachment or if you go into dark states because of desire or you know if you're just in a bad state of mind because you're not practicing mindfulness. So all those times where you're going on your rollercoaster ride of your life's experience, the ups and downs of the transient experience of self, when you're going through that stuff you have a open internal connection to me and what I give is light, power and and teachings of support and you know spiritual elevation and then what you give back to me when when you guys are having a hard time is auric toxicity. On many levels, you could say there's many levels of the aura, on many levels. So it is a very profound thing to have an enlightened teacher. It's a very deep connection. And while I can bring you light to a very, very deep aspect of your aura, at the same time, this is what students do. They have a hard time and in this connection, your toxicity comes back towards me. So, this is just the way it is. During that time, a year, a year and a half ago, something like that, when we were on Carmel Beach, I was pretty toxic and I saw the pathology in my aura of sickness that would occur. So I worked on it. I had to detox, fast and stuff, and go away for a while. I had to be physically apart from you because when I'm physically with you it's even worse. When I'm physically with you there's a more of a physical, subtle physical effect. So this is the way it is. But when I'm physically with you, it's really good for you. Because when I'm physically with you, I will extend a greater energy. So, it's good for you. It's good for you! Not for me. That's the deal. That's the way it works. For a while, this is the way it works. It doesn't have to work this way. I mean it doesn't have to be this way. I'm sure in other times when we weren't in the Kali Yuga or something I think it was better. But right now, you know, from what I've seen this is the way it happens, unfortunately. So, you know, you have to be tough if you're going to be a teacher because you have to deal with stuff at a really intense level. Most of the students of my teacher, they don't teach. And of the enlightened ones, only three of the enlightened ones that I know are teaching. So Kundalini teaches a pretty similar size sangha. And then Agni Kala has a couple students. Samadhi has a couple students. So, you know, so they usually besides me and Kundalini, they usually maybe have a couple students. And some of the ST1s maybe have one student. It's like with ST1s, it's like in Star Wars with, you know, Darth Vader and then the Emperor. Yeah, that's how it's like with the ST1s. And then eventually the ST1 has to be killed by a student. It's just the way they roll. The reason why most of the students of my teacher don't teach is because in this practice of mysticism it's a pain in the butt. It's literally physically painful and it also is psychically painful. It's very very difficult. So I draw in a lot of toxicity when I'm working with you guys. So from time to time, and I just have to deal with it, but from time to time I have to do something like a serious detox. So there's goodness. So right now I'm on the seventh day of my fast and I'm really, when I fast, I'm very low in physical energy and I'm a little bit more sensitive. It's even hard for me to talk. I would normally, like when I'm at Boney Woods, I'm just kind of like, oh, and people come over, hey, Simbar, can you explain this? And I'm like, I don't feel like it. Maybe later. So it takes a lot of energy to talk. Meditating is wonderful when you're fasting actually. That's kind of nice. So the good thing, the good news here is that this time when I'm going through my detoxification where I'm going to be fasting and stuff like that up until when I go to hungry oh my god so I'm gonna I'm just gonna fast and like have a lot of exercise until I go to a hungry like I bring I bring my exercise really high so my meditation and exercise is a full-time job for me to detox for this period of time. Then I have to go to Hungary where it totally throws me off. It's horrible, but I have to go because the students there need help. So the good news is that during this time Two good things have happened. I have figured out I've become a little bit stronger. So you know when I did my full contact tournament thing and my it was my fifth degree black belt test. That for me got me to a tougher condition where I just got tougher and I was focusing on becoming tougher. It was interesting. Yeah, so I was focusing on becoming tougher in general because I have to be tough actually to deal with you guys. So I got a little tougher, but also something else really really good happened. You guys got a little better. I guess you would say a little purer from your yoga. You guys scrubbed off a little bit more karma. So between the two things, the two improvements, I am able to, while I'm going through this detoxification period, I'm able to actually come and sit with you and meditate with you as you guys, as required for your development. So I don't have to pull away. So this is a very good thing. So you guys are definitely coming along a wee bit. You know, definitely coming along. I would say by a grade, by a full mark. However, we've got more to go. Every time you go up a grade it's a lot better. So this is great. In the intermediate study you burn off a lot of karma, as Marpa would say. Which means it's really hard work. And then when you get to the advanced teachings, it's not hard work anymore. It's just awesome. Because I guess in Marpa's way of saying it, you've burned off enough karma so that you can do the advanced exercises. That's really what Milarepa did. He worked really hard, went through a lot of difficulty and pain in his work. Then after that, Marpa says, okay now sit in a cave and meditate. Then Milarepa becomes enlightened. That's the recipe we're So you guys have burned off some karma already by doing your yoga and this is really good. So you guys are purifying a little bit. So it's easier for me to be around you. Like it's easier for me to be around the older intermediate students in Bodhi Woods because they've done more work on it. me to be around them. But also I'm actually pretty tough. Exhibit A, Mandala. So Mandala is starting a new yoga project called Agile Pathways. It's an agile coaching company and then they're going to, based on their coaching, develop a software product which helps people overcome some of the biggest difficulties in agile. So Mandala asked resources. She's like, okay, who are some good yogis to put on this project? So I put a team together. I put a team of consultants and business consultants, who could be coaches, and a team of developers. So Mandala... so the The consultants were all Hungarian, actually, I think. One of the consulting companies that we did in Hungary was called OTD, One Team Development. In Europe, development means business development. I was like, why are you calling it development? They're all, it's business development. Anyway, so it's called One Team Development. So they started that project and they were successful in sales. So I think they made a half million dollars in sales between four people and in Hungary you know if you make $15,000 a year that's a good living. So they did really well. Really well. Am I kidding about that? $15,000 a year is a good living, right? Or it's okay. Okay, I think $20,000 a year is the equivalent to $100,000 a year here. So they made half a million in sales and guess what they did? They sold. They sold their services. They lived on their yoga and then they lived well. Also, all they did was work a week a month. They actually went into a job a week a month each. And the rest of the time they just worked on developing new consulting products and they worked on networking and sales. So it wasn't very stressful for them but they were impeccable because they knew their work and they did it really well. So they were very successful in yoga and that was really excellent. Now the problem with the consulting model is you're just always going to make a product because when you have a product you can sell it to a lot more people than you can work for in an hour. So the rest of the team, the development team, Mandala rejected. She had a kickoff meeting, it was supposed to be the kickoff meeting. And after the meeting she was just out. She was in tremendous pain. And the reason why is because of this thing that I'm going to work with you I'm gonna let you into my aura, right? And if you're in there, awesome, something great is going to happen. We're gonna go places You're gonna learn things. You're gonna have an amazing adventure and being able to work with Mandala is really fantastic because she I don't know. She has a different what we call Siddhi, which is a different expression of enlightenment. She has different powers and different skills and a different expression of enlightenment. She's an enlightened woman, which is awesome, especially for women. She kept Ajna because you know I give Ajna a hard time right now but I put him under you know like I did with Ajna kind of like a you know, kind of at the level you guys are at. But he needed to become stronger. So I gave him a task that was just extremely hard. So he's like, yeah, I could, you know, stones this big, you know, football-sized stones, I can build a tower, sure, I can do that But then I said, okay now let's work with stones that are much bigger and then he built a tower kind of up to here and it's supposed to be seven stories tall and then he's just so Frustrated kicking the stones up it. He's just had such a hard time But it's because I gave him a hard time And I gave him a hard time because it helps him burn off karma. So even though he was a complete mess, and he did a bad job, because if he was really, really focused on enlightenment, he was much too into self. But you know, so was Milarepa. Milarepa's all, I want everything sucks every day. And this is the big picture. But he did, because he followed the teachings to some degree, you know, he did burn off a lot of karma. He tried, he just tried poorly. But Mandala thought he was awesome. She's like, wow, he's a lot more humble than he used to be. He's a lot lighter than he used to be. And this is really true. So even though, you know, it's the same for you guys, you know, it's like I give you hard work to do because it burns off karma. And if it's hard, that's good, right? It's good if it's hard, because you have to be more impeccable and selfless to continue. So Mandala was very happy with Ajna's progress. She was very, very, very impressed with him, even though he'd been doing a crap job on all of his yoga projects. He's like, I built three towers, and one's two feet, the other one's three, the other one's four. Because I made him build four towers at the same time. And he's like, and he kept asking me, Simbar, can I just focus on one and get it done? I'm like, no way. You better do all of them. And whenever he would start making progress on one, I'd ask him about the other.

0:35:08
But you didn't do anything about that.

0:35:09
And he's like, ah. So can't I just do... No! You can't! So this is something that made him stronger, burned off karma, he's more humble and pure. Now he knows what it's like to suck in yoga. Eh? Eh, some of you? Right? Because Ajna used to call him Boy Wonder. The Boy Wonder because he did everything and he could do everything excellently. So he had to have a little bit more of a hard time in order to understand some things about himself and do better. So the good proof is that Mandala was extremely happy. She worked with him before, in 2002 to 2005, and he was kind of always egotistical, self- important, and now she's like, like if you hang around Ajna, he's just sitting there going, he has that look on his face. I don't remember that look from when I used to know him in past lives. That's his adult look. Did I tell you the story of that one time? It was the last time I knew Ajna. It was in India not too long ago. He was a renowned sadhu. So they're like, yeah there's a sadhu. He's amazing. Up this little road or something. By a river. So I was like, oh, and I was like young, I was like 18, and I'm like, I want to be enlightened. And so I go over to him, and I'm like, oh, sadhu, please teach me the ways of enlightenment. And he's got that look on his face. He's all, oh fuck. So now I'm helping him burn that karma off. Yes, so I want to see him smiling again. This will be good. This is good. The Pathway to Enlightenment is excellent. It's really excellent. It's an amazing transformation. So Vajna had to go through this. Yeah, but the proof in the pudding is Mandala's reaction. He's still like, but she can see that inside of him he's burned off a ton of karma. He's also excited to work with Mandala again because he was telling me the day before I signed him to the project he's like should I join like the Army Reserves? He's like I want to be Simhara, you don't discipline me enough. I'm like, yeah, that's all. Just wait until tomorrow. So he's very happy. When Mandala worked closely with him, she disciplined him a lot, every day. So he was very happy about that. Now he doesn't have to join the Army Reserve. He was like, if they send me to Afghanistan for two years, can I still be in the study? I was like, no. Yes, yes, yes. Yeah, so, and Mandala was very, very happy with the OTD crew and she said that they had a lot to learn. However, she saw that there was a opportunity and she said, yeah, you know, they don't know a lot of things yet. She said, but I could teach them. Now, what is it that they did? They made sales. They had success in yoga. In a year they made a lot of money. They lived off of their projects and they were very very happy about it. So that yogic success created an opportunity for them to work with Mandala. Otherwise, Mandala would totally dismiss them. So she was, you know, she was being accurate in her discrimination. And also, you know, can't take too much self and too much sloppiness. So she called me the next day and she was like, oh my god, yesterday I was totally taken out. She was on her back, she was in physical pain and psychic pain. And I'm like, oh yeah, I know exactly how you feel. And I was like, I thought you were up to doing a yoga project. And I said, you know, and we're in full swing here. I'm like, you know what it's like. She knows what it's like. And she's like, yeah, she's like, it's just that, she's like, maybe I was a little naive here in starting again. She's like, I don't know if I want to go through this." And I said, it's up to you. Because this is yoga. She's been through yoga. She knows how hard and painful it is. It's just that she's been inaccessible by herself for a while. I guess since 2005. So if an enlightened person builds their own structures and you know get some insulation from the world they'll just sit there and be super happy. Now the world still is a little bit painful but you can you know you can manage it. There's things to do to deal with the people that she can work with and the people that she couldn't work with were people who would bring her pain level too high. So she said, okay I know how I can do this yoga project. It's the OTD consultants and Ajna. But all the other ones have to go for two reasons. And the two reasons are she described her... at that point I think she talked, she might have interviewed a couple of them. She was interviewing everybody to see if she would let them on the team. But she gave me her psychic experience or ideas of each person who she was letting go. And she was accurate. But the two reasons that came up for everybody who's been let go is that you're not impeccable enough, which is true. And the other thing is too much self. And for different people, there were varying degrees, but she was specifically pointing out for each person where there was too much self and where there was the lack of impeccability. But for everybody who was not allowed onto the Agile team, it was both. too much self and the lack of impeccability. So that's what she wanted to work with. Now I remember in 2002 when she started the dev team which is most of the Bodhi Woods students, she did not want to teach Dharma and Tao. She's all, I can't, you know, they're just too heavy. And Dharma and Tao were the older ones who had actual experience in the world. And so what I did was I decided to use them for business development and sales. But you know, Tao has always been really upset about that, like just being dismissed. Mandala's all, nope, can't work with you. And I'm like, come on, Tau, gotta let it go. But it's a bummer. It is a sad and an unhappy thing not to have that, the experience of being able to work with Mandala. However, instead of getting upset about it, you should use it as a wake-up call that you need to be more impeccable and that you need to be more selfless. You can't be all filled with like ideas and whininess and laziness and stuff you know. Yeah just too much self is blocking you from success. Too much self is slowing you down. You have all sorts of ideas, you have attachments to states of what you think is whatever, you have fear, and a bunch of junk. So all of The things that you are aware from doing your yoga, that have been things that slow you down or stop you from doing your yoga, you've heard it a million times from your yoga teachers. That stuff creates so much self, it's so heavy and toxic that Mandala didn't even want to deal with it. So she's like, all right, you know, she'd rather code the product herself than to have you guys code it. The thing that I thought would be great is if Mondala just worked on, you know, as an executive level person and came up with the, you know, kind of knowledge engineering for the product and then have you guys code it. That'd be great. But she's like, nope. Too much self, not impeccable. Poor in your impeccability disciplines. So too much toxicity and too much pain for her to continue or to let you guys on board. So you know she said gotta pass. But this should also be a wake-up call for everyone because the six people I had on this team were average amongst the intermediate students here. So that means that there's a problem. It means that you should be better. You should be stronger in your discipline and you shouldn't be hung up on all this stuff. Yeah, Mandala is like, whoa, they are so hung up on such, you know, little crap, little junk. You have to, so you have to have your eyes on the big picture. You can't be hung up on a, oh, I feel kind of lazy today, so I'm not going to do anything. Or, I was pointing out the one lazy person. Not all of you are lazy. You guys are mostly not lazy at all actually. But the one who is. That's why I keep saying lazy. Or you know just fears, just states of mind of limitation. You have to look towards the enlightened nature of the yoga projects and push beyond them. Gotta push beyond them. You gotta do more and do better. That's the way definitely to make more progress. But I would say that on average this is not such a good thing. The fact that you know your level of impeccability and selflessness isn't so good. Mandala she said, wow you know it's truly amazing that you would work with these people. And it is you guys don't have a good view of things. Very limited. It's kind of like when after my teacher died, you know, I spent 10 years with him experiencing all this amazingness. Being very very challenged and experiencing amazing experiences of light and power. After he died I decided to go to the Far East to look for an enlightened teacher. I was like, oh, I gotta go find another one. So I went to the Far East. You know, Thailand, China, Japan, Nepal... Would not go to India.

0:51:07
Eww.

0:51:09
Even though I was just a... not enlightened yet, I still had to say, stay away from India.

0:51:18
Okay, anyway.

0:51:19
Sad to say it.

0:51:21
So, and I really, really looked around. In Thailand, huge Buddhist community. And in Nepal, huge Buddhist community. So I would go over to them and say are there any enlightened teachers? any enlightened Rinpoches or Lamas or Sadhus or something? and they all went no no I'm like no one? you know in Nepal they're all well if anyone would be enlightened it would be the Dalai Lama but he But he himself says he's not enlightened. But really no one else? Because I knew he was enlightened a long time. So in Nepal, no. I found a couple of guys who can go into Samadhi. And everywhere, no. And all I did was go from Buddhist monastery to Buddhist monastery. So for the couple of guys that I did find who could go into Samadhi. They were considered masters because they could go into Samadhi when they sat down to meditate. They would sit down, oh actually they wouldn't even sit down, they would do, it was in Nepal, and they would do pujas or some weird chanting stuff for a while. So you know, like for example this one guy, he's doing a puja, where he puts little things on an altar, lights some candles, pour some water, burn some incense, chanting a little bit, and then he would go like this. In the middle of doing all this crap, then he would sit there, just standing, and then he'd go into samadhi. And I'm like, oh look, there's light! And then about 20 seconds later, it's gone. Then he's all... Then he would go and do something again. So he went to Samadhi a couple times in a two-hour puja. And I was like, Is that it?

0:53:25
I'm used to sitting in rooms filled with light.

0:53:28
You know, gold light. And... And then I got the idea that what I had with my teacher was extremely rare and special. You know, like he told us, but I didn't see it. I didn't see it. So obviously, you guys don't see it. But this is a rare and special opportunity. Hopefully, the reality check that Mandala gave by not accepting seven people on the project could give you an idea that there's more to do. There's a reason to change more. There's a reason to be more selfless. There's a reason to push yourself beyond the barriers, beyond the limitations that you've experienced time and time and time again. And you do that by doing your yoga. Do your yoga. Burn off your karma. The only people that Mandala accept were people who had some success in yoga or asana. So enlightenment is really good. I was wondering last night I was like, hey, do I have an attachment to food? Because I was standing near the kitchen, and people were cooking. I was like, what's happening to me? Why am I being drawn? Why does this smell make me want something? I was like, maybe I have an attachment to food. And I'm like, wow. And then, you know, sometimes, so I only have maybe three hours a day where I can be productive. I can meditate. So I meditate for six hours, then I'm productive for three hours. And then after that, I'm like I can explain do this okay so I don't have to get explanation but yeah that's after my productive period I'm working myself during my productive period. And then the only thing that I could do is watch movies. So I've been watching a lot of bad movies. And I notice also when I'm watching movies that I'm you know I'm sitting there you know looking at my laptop and I'm like and then you know like all of a sudden it's the family having dinner or the romantic dinner out in a restaurant and I'm like, I'm looking at the food. What am I eating? And I'm like, huh, take my computer and start trying to eat what's on the screen. It's really ridiculous. So I started to wonder, do I have an attachment to food? I thought if you're enlightened you don't have attachments. So then I thought about it and I figured I actually don't have an attachment to food. Phew. But um you know so you know I have this biological thing you know like this physiological thing like my body knows that it wants food. It knows that it's starving, it's being depleted of its resources and energy, and that it would regain that sustenance if it eats food. So my body will put those... I'll be dealing with sensory desires from the body. My body's like, hey, I want to eat. I'm like, oh wow, smell food, think food. I'm like, why did I have a thought about food? Oh, because I'm smelling it or I'm looking at it in a movie, I don't actually have an attachment. Because an attachment would be a sense of self, not just a reaction. It's kind of like, I can say, oh my gosh, if I hold my breath, am I addicted to air? And then my body is saying, breathe. Am I addicted to air? Do I have an attachment to air? Yes, I have an attachment to air. So, you know, it's just, you know, the body runs its own program, right? And it wants to do things like, you know, eat, breathe, and procreate. So the body wants to, you know, the body has sexual energy too. It's part of the biology. However, sexual energy, sexual social conditioning is tremendously dangerous for a spiritual person. Usually eating isn't. And usually breathing is okay too. I mean, eating can, you know, you can get eating disorders and stuff like that too. But usually, you know, eating is okay. But that, so that main thing, remember, women in gold, as Ramakrishna would say. Or men in gold. Yeah, so instead of losing energy on that, that's something that you got to figure out. You have to have some mindfulness about that. Otherwise you'll lose energy. you will lose too much energy and you won't be able to succeed in your yoga. So that's where you have to get to a place of balance. You have to deal with the automatic subroutines programming of the body. You have to say I can't be crazy here. Because, you know, maybe if it was just biology, probably wouldn't lose as much. Yeah, you wouldn't lose very much energy. But all the social conditioning around sexuality means that you have a lot of thoughts about it, a lot of self-identification weird aggregate constructs from what people think. And those things, when you engage in them, those thoughts and ideas have an effect of taking away your personal power. Your personal power goes away and that's a problem. That's a problem. Your ideas about sex is really what drains your personal power. And if you're a woman it also, if you're a woman who dates guys of course, it also hurts your aura. But what drains your personal power is not your... it doesn't have to do with your subtle physical body. What drains your personal power is yourself, your ideas, your conditioning. It's all in you. So that's the way it goes. That's something that you must come to terms with. You must have an ability to, let's say, fast and not think about food all the time. So like, you know, if I didn't have, if I had an attachment to food I'd be like oh I need food I need food I think about food all the time and I and I really want food or something right but when I don't have an attachment to food then yeah you know if I'm around food I'll be like food but then you know I I don't have to act on it. So you have to be fasting in your sexual conduct. You really have to be mindful of the fact that in sexuality you lose personal power from yourself. You lose personal power from your ideas, from your personal history, from your social conditioning. You lose personal power. So, you know, it is like fasting. Fasting is good. Yeah, that's something that, you know, in my study in the beginning, it drove me crazy. I had to really, really, really get myself under control because I had bad energy. I had bad energy because I had a lot of attachments to ideas that I learned in society. So I had to get through it is by mindfulness. You have to observe when it comes up and what you think about it. And you have to work on relinquishing yourself. You have to relinquish your attachments. when your negative mind comes up or when your limited mind comes up. Because mostly people in relationships, people engaging in sexual relationships, generous way, about 75% of their energy goes into wanting someone, pursuing someone, being with someone. It goes into the whole ball of work of this sexual thing that you have conditioning about, that you have personal ideas about, that you have attachments to, that you have personal history with. So this whole thing is something that you have to be mindful about. It's not all like whatever. If you're not mindful, you'll take it very lightly and you'll lose personal power. Being mindful is being aware of where you lose personal power, where your personal attachments and ideas are, and really looking at that. If you really look at it, you'll see that there's a problem. And hopefully you'll be able to fix the problem, cut the attachment. But it is a place where people lose tremendous personal power. So it's an area to be careful about and mindful about. Yeah. Like fasting. Once in a while we do a fast together, right? Usually three or four days, something like that. Three or four days is good. It's a good fast. but for me I have to do a real purge. I have to do a longer one. And then I'll be able to go to Hungary. And get toxified again. The students there aren't doing as good as the students here actually. They're doing horrible. You think you guys have it bad? Yeah, so I'm getting ready for that. But I picked up a lot of toxicity on the solstice. That was where the peak came. So after we got back from Honduras, from Roatan. Then we had our our New Year's Eve meditations, really awesome, and party was really good. And then at Bodhi Woods we had a New Year's Day and that was really awesome, really fantastic. And then then we went to Shasta, some of us. So the other group went to the Shasta. So on the way to Shasta I was at that point okay I'm way over toxified so I was actually sick the first night and the second day or the first night and second night in Shasta I was I was actually pretty unwell but yeah I made it I survived but that showed me okay this is seriously time to detox. So you know my level of toxification, let's say if a hundred percent for me is being completely detoxified, if I'm a hundred percent, I was down to like 54% going the wrong way. So I really had to spend this time on detoxifying.

1:10:07
Yeah but I don't have an attachment to food which is good because you know like

1:10:14
if you're if you're gonna go to the Haran Yoloka you want to go to the higher incarnations? If you have an attachment to a favorite food You might just be born here on earth again, just so that you can get that food It's true I mean some of you are like, you know, not that into food. I like food. I like good food. Let me tell you what I like about food. I don't know. Um, but you know, if you have like some favorite thing, like ice cream or something, you're like, ice cream is awesome! Guess what? In the Hiranyaloka, no ice cream. That's right. So you have to definitely deal with that attachment. There's two ways of dealing with the attachment to ice cream. One is you stop eating ice cream. You just let it go out of your mind. You're like, no ice cream. The other way is to eat a whole bunch of it. And see what happens. And I mean a whole bunch of it at once. So you get your favorite ice creams, a whole bunch of them, a dozen of your favorite Ben and Jerry's or whatever and just eat them eat them eat them eat them eat them and

1:12:11
then after a while you'll be like I

1:12:14
don't have to be a tosh to this anymore and you keep eating and eating and eating which I mean reminds me of the SpongeBob SquarePants movie I went and saw that movie when I was in yeah this is a kid's show and it's ridiculous except where one funny part the Spongebob guy he got fired from his job and he was upset about it so him and his starfish friend went to a bar and then they ordered a bunch of ice cream sundaes so that was their way of dealing it but as they ate it they started acting drunk. So they're sitting there like slurring their words and getting totally crazy and stuff. So ice cream was like beer for them. It was really funny. So you can do the same. You can eat a ton and it'll be a messy situation but then you'll be like oh yeah no ice cream. Parvati and tequila. So we were in Hawaii. I'm sure a lot of you have a similar experience. We're in Hawaii and we were having a party. And she used to have a couple drinks, but then this was the first time where she got totally wasted. Totally smashed. She just didn't know what happens if you drink too much. So she drank too much. And then she was out on the lawn just having a hard time for a while. And so I went out there to babysit her. It was pretty funny. Then after that, she didn't need tequila anymore.

1:14:33
Laughter

1:14:39
So, you know. In fact, if she got near tequila or smelled it, she was repelled. You can deal with your attachment to food the same way. Eat it too much, far too much. Okay, did I digress? Okay, so yogis who got denied from enlightenment. So it's kind of a sad thing and what it would normally do is it makes someone feel bad or make them their personal power go down. So I've devised something for them. See, in the way that yoga works, it has some structures. So if given this opportunity and rejected, it could send someone into bad thoughts and bad feelings about themselves and then it would reduce them to having less personal power. So, you know, what I have to do is I have to give them a way to come out of this in a way where they can increase their personal power. So the team is going to start a new yoga project. They're not going to start a new yoga project with me and I'm going to be their yoga teacher. So since they were rejected from Mandala's yoga because of the lack of impeccability and selflessness, now they're going to work with me and I will point out self stuff directly. So this gives them an opportunity to work more directly with me. Yes, so this is a good thing. It ends up being a good thing. So one way or another they were gonna get an enlightened yoga teacher. If not Mandala, then me. And you know, I don't know, Mandala is actually harder than me. She is. She's not polite. I'm polite. I mean I'll yell at you and give you a hard time but I'm polite. She's more like how Rama was. She would just yell at you for... She would just hit you in the place that needs to be hit. The right spot to show you how to be impeccable. The right spot to smash her ego. But then she wouldn't have anything else around it. I'll yell at you, but I'll also give you a lot of instruction and a lot of support for your first attention to understand that me smashing you is a good thing. So I'm always... I call it being polite. So that's the good news. The good news is that that team is going to stay as a team but instead of working with Mandala they're going to work directly with me and I'm going to make sure that they don't have this problem again. This problem of not being impeccable enough and not being selfless enough. In fact I might take a couple more people on to the team because it might be good me directly. Let me ask about Danielle and Shan. You guys are on WedBuddy, correct? What are you doing? You're doing sales, right? QA?

1:19:46
No.

1:19:47
No. You're on my team. I probably want to clear that with Raj and Dakini. But I think you guys will be on my team. Who else is the uninitiated new people? There's Ryan, but Ryan you're doing fine. You're doing fine. Yeah when I look at your practice, I like your practice. When I look at Danielle and Shen, I don't know. I see problems.

1:20:31
Who else is there?

1:20:32
Oh yeah, there's, let's see. There's a couple. There's Sonia and Jeannie. Is Jeannie here? Jeannie! Hello! You survived! Congratulations on being alive. Thank you. I'm happy to be here too. Jeannie, what are you doing on the WedBuddy? I've gone back and QA. I was thinking silver dollar. Can I call you silver? It's weird. I'm going to leave you guys on QA. You guys have been... this ain't your first rodeo. Who else on WedBuddy who's new or uninitiated on WedBuddy? that's it okay all right then just Shen and Daniel okay so we have a big-ass team and you might have to do a little bit of QA for for Raja and Dakini because if they're counting on you for something. So I really will have to clear it with them, negotiate it with them. So that is good. That is what we shall do. That is the way of things.

1:22:42
All right.

1:22:44
Very good.

1:22:46
Yeah, so this is a good opportunity. I actually didn't teach, so like in terms of being a yoga leader, I was a yoga leader for Ajna and Tara because they were my first two students. And then Mandala took over for the rest of the students. She was the yoga teacher. And you know the primary structures of yoga that we work on, that we work on, were created as tools from mandala. So all you know all the skills that you guys are learning are from the lessons of mandala really. I did teach the Hungarian original Hungarian Saga yoga, sales yoga directly, and then most of them came to America, and now I have a new Hungarian Saga. So I'm trying to teach because I will have it no other way. Isn't that awesome? It's like I tell the Hungarians when they want to move to Bode Woods or something, I'm like, when you live in Bode Woods, it is totally different. In Bodhi Woods what I do is we have our meditations together like this and I yell at individuals specifically. I call you out and I point out things you don't want anyone else to know about. You know why? Because that's the way it is. In Bodhi Woods, you can work on things faster. Yeah, because Bodhi Woods, the whole, all of Bodhi Woods has my energy, my energy lines. And when there's problems, right, good. It's like, there's problems in my, in my house, I fix them. There's problems in my yoga, I fix them. So it's a fantastic opportunity and a way for you guys not to lose personal power from getting rejected from mandala. Yeah, yeah don't worry about it. It's not that bad. It actually gave birth to a whole new So I'll briefly tell you guys all about the yoga that the new yoga project that I'm leading and then And then we will Then I'll take my new yoga team and then we'll go and talk about it more but essentially This is following the WedBuddy business model. So WedBuddy is making a wedding blog and they don't have to be better than any other wedding blog or any other wedding website. What they have to do is succeed in their business model. They can have a simple easy wedding blog with a registry and a link to Amazon and other products right but what they need to do is direct partnerships with you know wedding planners and if you tell a wedding planner hey wedding planner you're going to so so you make money on basically consulting to your you know to the bride and the groom but you don't make money at all on what they spend on all the products and the registry for the wedding. We're giving you a way to make 5%. And the way is you get them to blog here, and you get them to put their registry here, and for all their people to access the registry or through Amazon or whatever and then we'll split it with you and then they say wow that's a great idea and then they do that it's in their favor because it makes money for them it's a new way for them to make more money doing what they already do and it adds a new cool thing, a new wedding website. So it is awesome for the wedding planner because they make money on it and they have a new product to give their customers. But more importantly, the reason this business model is so cool, the reason why we don't have to compete with, we don't have to be better than or compete in marketing with all of these other wedding websites, like the Knot or something. The reason we can win and we can make our revenue model is because we're going to make these partnerships and those wedding planners will make sure that the bride and the groom use the site. It's totally in their interest. They're like, oh, you gotta use this site. It's totally awesome. Oh, we were looking at the Knot. Oh, no, no, no, this one's better I'm gonna make money on this one you know so it's totally in their interest and they can and you know they're being hired as a consultant because they they point out the things to use and even though you know another website have might have more features they're going to recommend and insist that we use this one because it's so cool. And it is cool, it's better in a lot of ways. It might have fewer features but it has a cleaner vibe and stuff. So that is the way that we succeed in our business model. Now I think that's a very good business model. The reason why is is because we have not, in any Yoga project yet, figured out how to succeed in internet marketing. We're generally pretty bad at it. And I hope that with our new marketing team, by the way, we had our first meeting, it was very awesome, really bright. Very talented people, they know what they're talking about, and they're putting together really excellent plans. So they know what they're talking about. We're gonna get a good, new, fresh start on marketing. But we haven't been successful in marketing. We've been horrible in marketing. But what we have been successful in, in the sangha to some degree in the past, was direct sales. And the other thing that we were successful, very successful in, was partnerships. So if we get the right partnership we should be able to make money. So this is an easy idea to be, fostering relationships with wedding planners. Easy idea. Partnership makes total sense for them and all we have to do is support that program. Make sure that you're in touch with them. Is everything going well? Do you know how to use the site? Are you doing it? And we just do it. Very good. The New Yoga Project follows the same model. I sat there thinking, what else has a consultant to general customers, uses a consultant who tells them to buy products that we can sell over the internet, or that we can get over the internet. So I was thinking and thinking and thinking, and I realized it's not a lot. And then I started thinking, wow, the wedding planner is perfect. Such a perfect situation. It's like, what else could be that? And then I thought about it and thought about it. And then I went, oh, I know, why don't we just expand this idea to event planning? So the new idea is what we're calling event buddy. So when you go into event planning rather than wedding planning, it's a lot more broad, but it's a totally different market. So you would make, you know, you would go into affiliate programs with a bunch of party favor websites. You would call and make agreements with local DJs, limousine services, flower places, florists, and stuff like that. Then you go to... so you have all of these ways where when someone uses your service, when an event planner uses your service, then they will make money, right? Then you have to get event planners. So, you know, just like they have wedding planners, they have just regular old event planners. They'll do weddings too sometimes but they they often do just parties, Sweet Sixteen, you know, Quinceañera, Debutante Ball, baby showers, and and and at these things they also need a registry so So this is a way where we're able to just take the same model and just use it for different types of events. And then you can also go to these event halls. So when you go to an event hall, they often do offer things. They're like, do you need a caterer? Would you like limousine service and stuff like that, right? So we'll tell them, you know, hey, you can get your caterer on our thing, you know, or something like that. But, you know, if you use our website, you'll get 5%. And then they'll say, oh, there's a real reason for me to use this website. So event planners, function halls, those are the the types of consultants who will tell their customers to use the available products. So that is, you know, it is a, I don't know, probably per party, they probably spend less than on a wedding. But still, I think it has a solid revenue model following the same revenue model that we've seen, that we're starting on with on Woodbunny. So this is very good because I saw you guys get kicked off of Mondal's project. I said there needs to be something for them. They can't just go back to what they were doing before. And this gives us an opportunity to work together. Additionally, This is a sales job, so it's very, very little development. All that we have to do, I talked to Dakini about it, is we just have to delete the styles page and change the words. And then we're in business to start doing sales. So we will have a very very very strong sales focus.

1:35:40
And that's exciting.

1:35:42
Yeah, in fact, the only development that we're going to do is re-skin it. So it is definitely sales focused yoga.

1:35:50
Hooray! All right, I probably have taken up far too much of your time. Probably

1:35:50
have to get back to our yoga works. So I will say thank you. Domo arigato. I could sense the yoga teachers going, our students back. our students back. And I will meet with my team now.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
