0:00:00
We will find our own limitations. We will summon our greatest energy and greatest power. We'll doubt. We'll be hated. We'll be scared. It's just all sorts of stuff about ourself. And self-destruction in many ways blocks the success of the organization. So, we need to see the way out of self-deception. We have to conclude this consideration.

0:00:36
Complete this consideration.

0:00:39
We need to change it.

0:00:41
Get the self out of the way.

0:00:43
When the self is out of the way, when you see past the weight out of the suffering, then you will go directly to success. The self offers a whole bunch of resistance. If If you're completely selfless, then it's just a matter of time, it's going to happen for sure. Because you'll just work on it and work on it, it's going to happen. However, when your self is involved, and you're stopping yourself from succeeding, that's the real shame in practice. When you're not observing your mind, when you're not like saying, whoa look I'm continuously doing this. I need to just get beyond that. Whatever it is, whatever this walk is about. And what we're seeing here, what we're talking about, is the way to get yourself out of getting stuck. It's the way to get out of the suffering that limits you so much. So this consideration of seeing the mountain, this is a very, very, very powerful seeing. And that's why we're discussing it. That's why we're going over it. That's why we're sharing our scene together. It brings the whole group into a higher consciousness of being able to be free and being able to get out of hardship.

0:02:47
Very important consideration.

0:02:49
And yeah, probably tonight we don't have the time to work on the second consideration, which is going to be success in yoga. But we can work on that tomorrow. That will be okay. Yeah, don't worry. So tonight we get self-suffering out of the way and then and then when you when you have this insight looking into how to succeed in yoga becomes a lot more clear. that was in front of me. Very cool. Very cool. Um, tomorrow, during the day, I would like to try to go to Medicine Lake. Medicine Lake And it is a very, very beautiful place. And it has special qualities, especially a feeling, that are very, very, very, very good. So during the morning, I'm going to call the tourist bureau or something and ask them if the road is open because It you know the roads usually closed by snow this time of year But it might be at a lower elevation where the road is actually open so somehow We will find out Somehow we're gonna we're gonna work on If if we can get there, it is a place that is extremely helpful for the consideration that we're going through right now. The consideration of the self, because it adds a wonderful dimension of spiritual healing. Very interesting, very interesting place. I can talk about it more over there. But there's this one really, really famous deity that lives there, hangs out there. She's called the Rainbow Woman, and she's like this amazing spirit. Really fantastic, very helpful, very healing, and a lot of people do yoga. It's funny, this is a really magical area. We're sitting in just one super strong place of power here. But the reason I like Shasta is because it has many places of power. Near Shat, which is, there's a lake we call Naga Lake. If we can't go to Medicine Lake, we'll go to Naga Lake.

0:06:11
It's kind of difficult.

0:06:13
But even going to Naga Lake for a little while, just like walking over there, being able to sit for just a little while, is also another place that we can use the conventions there to help us what we're doing. Naga land. And hopefully we won't be eaten by a Naga. I haven't seen a Naga in a long time. Like the past two or three times I've been here. The Naga land has not had the Naga. Naga is a serpent. Kind of like a dragon not not really a dragon and that Naga have power and it's you know places of power, you always got to be careful. In a place where the light shines very bright, it also casts shadows. So there's dimensions that are very, very, very bright, but then you could also walk into a place where there's dimensions that are very, very dark. Places of power, you know, with so many dimensions and things like that, you've got to be careful. You could sit in a place where the dimensions are dark and it basically does the opposite of what we want to do. It closes your attention, it adds a weird, funny, crazy, you know, idea and paranoia and all sorts of weird stuff. A lot of people who come to Mount Shasta, they talk about weird experiences that happen to them. Like some of them feel like they get abducted by aliens. There's a lot of stories about that. And they probably did. Probably walked into the wrong dimension and got, you know, arrested by aliens that live there. It's a very magical mountain. There's stories of people who are walking around the mountain in the snow, right? And then they find themselves kind of entering an area where it's tropical, like it looks like Hawaii. People find themselves going into this place and it's really beautiful and then eventually they come back out into the snow. So there's stories of that. This is a very magical place. A lot of you might sense them, but definitely throughout the night there have been many different spirits that are drawn to come and look at us, to come and check us out. And, you know, there's a. and take a moment of recognition and they really get something out of the mountains. UFOs shooting in, landing in there, or coming out of there. Which, I've never seen a UFO flying in or out of the mountains, but I believe it's true. I'm really. because there are some really astral dimensions that are really funny and really interesting. They're fascinating. They're just kind of funny, neat, and wacky. So, yeah, when I was, in one of the bookstores there was some book, you know, one of the local stores, a book about people's experiences, spiritual experiences in Rochester and I looked through it and there were lots of funny stories. Some people felt like they were able to hiking along the mountain and they find a door that leads into the mountain and so they went into the mountain and a number of people tell this story that they go into the mountain and that there is a civilization that lives in there. And they say that the civilization that lives in there is a civilization of Lemurians. And Lemurians are an ancient culture. I don't know. This could be true too. But the Lemurians were the people of the first age of this universe. In Hawaii they called them the Mani-Hinryu, physical time, was reaching from California, which is the east coast, through to Japan, which is the west coast. Actually, not even Japan. I guess you would say Okinawa. It was So Hawaii is part of it, that's why you have the stories of the Mandahins. And then when you get to Okinawa, they still have a cool thing, they have the underwater pyramid, and that is a relic of the first stage. And it was just, yeah, it was just people. We called ourselves Mushins. Yeah, for some reason I called it, like before I learned the word Lemurian, I just called the place Moo. I just called it Moo. And then later on I made it into MCO town. But yeah, it was the first culture here during the first age. It was a very very spiritual, beautiful time. Very amazing. One of the strong energies of Shasta connects with the feelings and dimensions of that early time, in the first stage of the move. A lot of the spiritual dimensions that were accessible then are also accessible now. It's pretty nice. Many of you have Lifetimes in Move in your life, feel a kind of energy that's beautiful and somehow, you know, it seems familiar. Just by hanging around this mountain, just experiencing the feeling, feeling the feeling. As I'm talking If it is something that resonates with you, that scene is new, then new! Yeah, so, it's interesting. A lot of people who have these stories of going into the mountains, they actually meet these beings that are in there and talk to them, you know, they're just people who live in the mountain. They talk to them and they tell them interesting things. So there's all these stories and all these strange things that are happening around here. Another very There are these beings that love to make spells come, and they are said to live in the mountains as well. It is definitely possible, I don't know, in this location, it's easier when we can get up the road a little bit to hear them. Where you're sitting around and then, you know, it's like with your third ear, you can't really hear them. And then, it starts to become, it seems really pretty physical to hear the dogs. The people in the mountains like playing bells and it is their spiritual practice to make bells sound. And a lot of the locals are into it too. custom made crystal bells. The lady who does it, she'll put all these different metals and crystals into the bell that she makes, and lots of magical places around here. Like Mishima. It's quite a wonderful thing. But yeah, again, this is why I say do not come to places of power by yourself. Jack's Hill Wild is beautiful, amazing, there are so many wonderful things. There's also really weird dimensions. You might find yourself stuck in the mountains, talking to people from the moon. Gallywag, Shanghai, by aliens or something. You know, this is just a fascinating place. It's one of the wackiest places of power. So many fantastic and interesting animations, but there are so many that are so good, so awesome, so beautiful, so helpful for meditation, so helpful for seeing the way out of the self. Seeing the way that you can find balance in your life. That's what we're here for. The people around here, there's a lot of spiritual people who are drawn to this place, who live around here. They see this place. They're so connected with the dimensions here, that they see this place. They see the fairy, they see the magic. And they connect with the dimensions and it really helps their lives. I remember one time, the last time I was here I went down to the headwater, the spring, and there was that woman there, she had these little Chakra oracle cards, and she was like reading the future, answering questions and things like that. And it was authentic and it was connected with the dimensions of the space. And so there's... I brought a cap for my face. It's a gift from the sky. I didn't bring a cap. I know I was going to.

0:20:23
I was going to.

0:20:25
I'm always focusing on the dimensions that are most useful. If we were to think about cookies and that was our past, there would be a whole bunch

0:20:56
of other dimensions that we could imagine.

0:20:57
And it would be wacky and weird and fun and fairies and all that kind of stuff. But there's tens of thousands of dimensions here. And all of them have their own thing. And all of them are real. And if you focus on them, the more you get drawn to them, and you see them, and you start to understand and process information from that dimension. So if we wanted to see the ascendant masters, they're able to see, you know, aliens, and the Miriams, and the Belle people, you know, you can start focusing on those things and go into those dimensions and have all sorts of experiences. it exists there and it's magical and you can look into it. But it's not that fruitful for your enlightenment. There's all sorts of shenanigans going on. It's not that fruitful for you to learn how to educate yourself on the suffering and the limitations. So it's not something that we focus on all the time. Other than once in a while, we stick with the same thing. I always want to focus on what dimensions of life come, what dimensions of power, what dimensions of thought are there, power of the most deepest part of our being. Our dimensions are most helpful for our physical world, are most helpful for our inner life and body, are most helpful for our ego. frivolous ideas, or really weird, wacky experiences that don't really do anything, but are life And when we focus on those things, then there's something that is solid. There's something that you can come out and say there's a place of magic, and you can come out of it not spaced out, but stronger, more illumined. So what we're doing is super, super, super strong, super bright, super powerful, very, very, very emotional. It closes the path to a higher consciousness that is luminous, that is free. So, if you come to a place of power by yourself, you might not choose the right dimension. You might just take whatever is the most accessible, you might walk into it and not even see it. And then all of a sudden you'll be in a dimension, perceiving information, and without proper discrimination, you won't see it coming, you won't know it's there anymore. And then, what happens to your awareness? It might diminish. You might start drawing information from the wrong dimensions that doesn't help your yoga or meditation. So you've got to be careful when you come to places like this. You've got to see it coming. So like, we were driving up from this And when you go from Redding to Shasta, there's a bunch of places where you cross strong energy lines. The energy lines by themselves are not a bad thing. They're not bad, but they're strong. And when you cross them, what happens is your attention starts to drop, the blood sugar level might go down a little bit, and what tends to happen is as one's driving, one starts to become a little bit unaware, a little spaced out, but you lose energy. You lose energy because your mind is not strong, you're not So what happened when we were going across, the car that I was in, any time we went across one of the energy lines, I kept talking to the people and I would shift our attention. I'd be like, hey, you guys, what about this? And then everyone's attention is drawn forward. And then we were able to drive the whole way with no problem. and bringing my focus back, bringing my awareness up. And then we were able to drive the whole way without feeling tired, without losing energy. And we were able to go through it just fine, with no problems. But the car behind us was like the person driving got tired and so-called funky, So that just shows that when you cross energy lines and you don't see it happen, if you don't address it by bringing your attention to the level, then you start to lose energy, because you're focused on the process. So one could walk into a dimension. And when we start to lose energy, we start to think weird thoughts. We start to connect with weird dimensions and start to draw that information out. respect places of power and respect that, I don't know, you might not always see what channel you're going into, you might not have proper discrimination, or even if it's a powerful place, you might not access the power right or use the power correctly. Are you guys awake? So this is a consideration of how to understand the place of power here and how information One. Actually, in regards to a number of limitations I had in mind. So it wasn't just one. I saw sparkles and flashes of light and the mountain even disappeared. And then it was nothing really, it was not much else for a really long period of time. and then like probably just five or ten seconds before the exercise was over all of a sudden I could hear like a message and it was really it was really kind of like the way it addressed me was really like informal and really brief it was kind of something to the effect of like girl please please you know that tone? What I got out of the energy from it was just like, rethink the question. I have ideas of what my limitations are, and they're just that, they're ideas, but the limitations themselves are illusions. so I kind of thought it was related to Adam's team because it was it was kind of like a shift in perspective or like what I thought was like the big deal wasn't it might not be a limitation yeah that is that is actually the meaning Definitely along the lines of Adam's theme. And again, this is something that we've seen time and time again in our experiences of this theme of the mountains, is that there's a larger perspective. And a lot of the things that we bring as a problem, we bring as a blocker, the mountain shows us that it's so small. It's so small. And this means that the mountain is showing us a way in ourselves to expand our awareness of things, to expand our perception of things, so that one little ant hill, and you become mountain ninja. A little thing is not the whole problem in the universe. Very often we get snagged in these little things, so little, when we're experiencing it, it seems like the biggest, worst, most difficult problem. So yeah, that is a threat scene, and it is a scene that's similar to... We're going to. And I'm going to be working to, or connecting to, dimensions again that are very much linked. For us, that team is the one that is getting stuck. That team is actually getting down on the ground. and we've been looking at the area of mountains, just as the climate is supposed to be. Alright. Alright.

0:33:33
Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright.

0:33:58
Alright. Alright.

0:33:59
Alright.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
