0:00:00
All right.

0:00:23
We seldom have just women's meditation. The teachings for the enlightenment of women are incorporated in the regular program. This is a special opportunity, however, you can go sideways, you can turn bad if you have improper attention. of enlightenment is a very, very beautiful and powerful thing. It's like back in the days of mystery schools in Egypt and Atlantis, there were these groups of women who had a very, very magical balance balance where their experiences of the pathway to enlightenment were beautiful and just really really something special. It's kind of unique in this world because it doesn't happen too often anymore. Very often in this world when women get together in a nunnery or a monastery or something like that, they go into bad reactions. They start to focus on the wrong things that pulls their unity apart. And this is a very, very unhappy way to be in a group, where you're not putting your attention into your practice, into the power of the community in a way that brings greater awareness to greater life. Please translate. As we discussed last week, the seat of a woman's kundalini is in the second chakra. And the second chakra is a place where we process and emit emotion. So the reason that very often in a community of men.

0:03:38
But where a woman

0:03:40
very often creates trouble in their spiritual path is by not interpreting correctly their emotional power. So having the the Kundalini, spiritual energy, residing in the second chakra, this means that a woman has a greater connection to emotion and that it's actually a much more balanced and powerful emotion than a man has. Is that funny? Unless a woman uses it incorrectly. So, because of social conditioning and karmas, women have poor emotional conditioning. And this means that we're given these stories that imprint our minds and attention to think a certain way, but those certain ways are not really true. So, women are often told that their emotions are bad. They're like, oh, you know, you don't make any sense because you're too emotional. You can't do computer programming because you're emotional. That's true. People in general have, and this is something that's really an important effect for US Sangha in Silicon Valley as programmers because that's part of social conditioning. Everyone has this idea, oh women are not good at computers, women are not good at fixing things, women are not good at science because they're too emotional. And these ideas came up from society and have imprinted you ever These ideas that there's basically and like you're crazy because you're too emotional that's basic these ideas are ideas that make it difficult for you to process the positive, balanced power that is normal and innate to your being. And it makes it so that you start having really wild swings of emotion in ways that are not balanced and not spiritually elevating. So it's really important to have the recognition of the balance of emotion and that emotion is a power unique to where your spiritual energy lies. And that society has told you and imprinted you with a whole bunch of crazy ideas that just unbalance you from being able to use this emotional power in a constructive way. When your emotional energy is unbalanced, what happens is you tend to, what happens and you give them great importance. And the small things are partialities of experience and truth. So what's necessary to get back into balance is to elevate your awareness of what's going on. It's to gain a higher perspective. And then when you have a proper perspective, then energy flows. So when there is emotion, even if it's bad feelings, This is an indication of power. This is an indication of... This is an expression of your feminine power. However, if it's bad feelings, negative feelings, sad feelings, depressed feelings, what you must work on is you must work on getting your power into balance. And when you get your power into balance, then there's the beautiful, powerful energy flow. So you can't just sit there and say, oh, I feel angry, so this is bad, I need to stop it. That would be missing the point of your power. What's necessary is when you have bad feelings is to say, oh look, this is an indication of my spirit. And then you have to see the big picture. You have to elevate your perception of what's going on so that that bad feeling falls into balance. And when that bad feeling falls into balance, it won't be a bad feeling anymore. It'll be an enlightening power. So this is a very, very important thing that we need to focus on. We need to be able, we're going to do this together, an exercise where we elevate our emotions from partiality and imbalance to wholeness and balance. And in that elevation, that's where you get a true vision or a true experience of the power of emotion. The power of emotion is good when it's balanced. It's very, very, very good, very enlightening.

0:11:20
Okay, please translate.

0:11:21
Think of a time where you felt emotional imbalance, where you saw something in a bad way, where you felt something bad. And I'd like you to visualize it to be a small ball of dark light or something well if it's anger it's green. If it's depressed, it's usually like some sad yellow. Go ahead and close your eyes and envision this ball of imbalanced emotion. Please translate. That you're lifting that ball of imbalanced emotion. lifting it up as if to hold it in the sky before the sun, and see that there is a light like sunlight. You can imagine that it's the sun, or you can imagine that it's a gold light or a white light, any kind of luminosity. You lift it up, and then you see the light, the ball of imbalanced emotion dissolves. And the light becomes the emotion. And you can do this. We'll sit here and do it, you can run it through your mind again and again, where you really want to see that ball of emotion dissolving in the light, and the recognition of the light as balanced emotion. Please translate. Translation. This exercise is so important. When you ever find yourself in a place where you have imbalanced emotion, again, this is an indication of your enlightened power, but it's not balanced. And this is a way of balancing it, elevating it to its natural place. Bodhicitta also brings this into balance, because of course, bodhicitta is accepting it and it dissolves in the light of bodhicitta. But this is such an important exercise I want to meditate with you guys again. For one song, it'll be from Mystery School, Hardest Time, and what I'd like to do in this meditation is just really again That feeling of dissolving, dissolving the bad limited emotions in the light. It's such an important exercise, so important for you to understand this, that I really want to go into it a little bit more.

0:15:31
the. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the the the the the the the the So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. so So you Alright. Very nice. So, this esoteric teaching is very, very, very, very profound. And I want you to consider in your mindfulness this feeling. Next time you find yourself experiencing your power of emotion in an unbalanced way, you can just bring it into the light. All right, this brings up more things that we should cover. Today I wanted to cover with you the teaching I call the

0:24:31
woman warrior and also the teaching I call Tantra for her.

0:24:39
But I think we have to cover another healing exercise first.

0:24:51
Okay, so please transit. an additional consideration for healing that some women in the group need. It will work well for you. And this is going to be the same consideration of healing that we did of the last week's course. So first, I'd like you to close your eyes and envision the color red. And I just want you to hold an awareness of the color red in your mind through this consideration. This is the consideration of over-anchoring, being an anchor, you know, like a ship's anchor. So this is a circumstance that some people get damaged in. This is when you're like the center of attention, or you're the foundation of a group where everyone kind of like revolves around you, or you're just... yeah, it's called the anchor of the group. And it's totally fine to be a support. So sometimes it's at work, sometimes it's in a family, sometimes it's in a group of friends, where you find that you're not just a foundation, but you're getting stepped on, where you're over-anchoring. You're there to add support and help, but you're getting out of balance from it. This happens to a lot of women, because they are over-caring for other people's feelings. They're taking responsibility for other people's emotions. Taking responsibility for it, not just adding support for it, but taking responsibility for it. And when you do that, and there's too many people in the group, or sometimes we just have enough room for them, what happens is your aura starts to get damaged. You start to get stepped on and broken. So this is over-angry. And what's necessary is for you to recognize that in any group, you can add support to it. You can be positive, put good energy into it, but that you're not responsible for everybody. You're responsible for yourself, and you're responsible for putting the best positive energy that you can into a group. Next, I'd like you to focus on the color white. Oh, actually, please translate. Focus to envisioning a white life. Please translate.

0:29:06
All right.

0:29:20
So the second consideration is for social conditioning. and kind of just, yeah, bad impressions from family, society. So this is something that we always address early on in the study. You know, a lot of the messages you were given growing up have been very limiting, and they have also been very damaging. So we often talk about the fact that society has given you conditioning that limits you, but we're addressing here the aspect of societal conditioning that is harmful to the subtle physical body. So, the kind of harm that occurs is very often sexual harm, where the society kind of tells you to act a certain way, and to want a certain thing, and then you go and get that and then it hurts you. So like, society says, you know, oh, you know, what you want to do is you want to you know, you want to get a guy and you want to get a line to him because then you can pull on that line and control that. But my teacher used to always compare it to having a shark on a leash.

0:31:15
Great!

0:31:17
This is awesome.

0:31:20
So, these are ways that you have put a bunch of sharps on a leash and it ends up being something that comes back and bites you. So this is something that we're addressing in this consideration. The damages in the aura from this kind of Please translate. Focus to green light. Please translate.

0:32:11
So, the next consideration is fluidity.

0:32:25
So one of the primary aspects of the power of the second chakra is fluidity. However, when we feel or when we get blocked, when our energy is blocked there, then we experience in our awareness difficulty and harm. So the aura actually becomes damaged. block and fluidity for women is because of men and society. And you get all sorts of confusions. And what happens just because of that kind of social conditioning and interactions with men is that you block your power and you actually in the course of Experience just actually kind of set yourself up for injury It's kind of like that, you know there's a tree a great oak tree and Then there's the blade of grass and then when when the big storm comes over the blade of grass just bends over in the wind, but the great oak tree breaks in half and dies. So that is, you know, that's fluidity. We want to be like the blade of grass. When the big energies shift, a lot of times it's emotional energies. When these big energies shift, we want to be able to be fluid. Because then we're open. And then the energy moves in a positive way, unobscured. And then there's no damage and there's a great flow of spirit. So this is an important consideration. You have to consider that when you're feeling stuck. Consider, just think about being fluid. I gotta be fluid here. Please translate.

0:35:19
This consideration I'm starting to get a little subtle

0:35:24
it's a consideration of

0:35:26
creativity another aspect of the second chakra is of course creation and you can consider it in ways of you know artistic creativity but also creativity of success in yoga when you're blocked in the second chakra, when the energy is not flowing properly, you block your creativity. So when we want to create a successful software company or something like that, you hinder yourself. Your energy is not free to move. So this is a consideration for the blocking of creativity. When you're blocked like this, it really closes down your attention. It means that you can't see enough. You can't feel enough. You're less aware of options. And you tend to see more problems. You tend to see impossibilities. But when you're open, when you're unblocked, and the creative energy is balanced, it flows. and you can accomplish more and see more options for success. A good way to just practice opening up this block is by doing something artistic. You know, play dough. Any kind of dough. So sometimes it's good to do something that you feel is an artistic expression, because in that exercise you can feel the opening of this block. and this opens up states of mind and it opens up the power of creativity for important things like yoga. Please translate. Envision the color blue. Please translate. For this consideration, this is a consideration of past lives due to your femininity. Some of you might know of abuse in your family that has affected your awareness and your psyche as well. This is a kind of karma. Not that it's something that directly affected you because that's what we focused on last But this is what I would call ancestral awareness of prosecution. Or this consideration reaches into past life karma as well. And there's a way to, at some point, you've got to let go of that karma. You got to come into balance. You can't always be a victim. You have to start becoming powerful. Not reactive, but powerful and balanced. So supports that healing and direction. Please translate. To meditate to one song from Samadhi, one perfect moment. And again this is going to be the healing meditation where we see, we envision the opening lotus. So we see the lotus with the first petals opening, they're red, and it opens up to the white petals that open, that open up to the green, that open up to the yellow, that open up to the blue, and then it goes back to red again. So red, white, green, yellow, blue. You don't have to consider what all of the colors mean. You don't have to think about that. These are, this is an esoteric connection to the dimensions of humans. So I just want you to focus on that. So focus on a chakra. Let us envision the opening Please translate. One song.

0:41:40
And let's begin. the the the So so so I'm not afraid of the dark I'm not afraid of the dark I'm not afraid of the dark I'm not afraid of the dark Oh Alright. We have to work on the things. So I guess this is good.

0:46:09
So I'm going to, I think I'll try to briefly give the teachings. I could spend a long time on these subjects, but I think I will cover them in the time that we have left and of course it's an esoteric teaching these are always implicit in our school anyway so it's something that we will touch upon here but it just gives you more of a connection and awareness to it. Beginning with what I'm calling at the moment the woman warrior. The Woman Warrior.

0:46:52
Please translate.

0:46:54
When there's a dimension of the woman or warrior that we're going to focus on. So we often talk about the warrior in our school. It's a caretaker personality that we practice. a special and specific woman warrior dimension that I'd like you guys to focus on for yeah up into the solstice something like that and this is the is... Well, it has a powerful attention because the tigress doesn't mess around. Not the honey badger, the tigress. Laughter Right? So the tigress is very, very, very powerful, deadly, doesn't sweat the small stuff, doesn't worry about the little things, is efficient with her attention, and is powerful. So this is the consideration of how you should be a warrior. Very often when we talk about the warrior, we're talking about the Don Juan warrior, or the samurai, or something like this. And those are definitely powerful templates of warriors. But I want you to focus on the tigress. I want you to get a picture of a female tiger and put it on your altar. And just have it there. and just consider this template.

0:48:53
Okay, please translate.

0:48:55
Well, let's see. Important attributes to understand. For a woman to be defensive. So for a man to be a powerful warrior, he should pick up a club and go, whoa, running around,

0:49:33
in his or her mode.

0:49:35
So a man has to be open, energy going out more, and a woman has to be more defensive. So there's three modes of a woman warrior's energy. The first mode is what I would call concealment, or a closed aura. And this is the most important thing. So, you know, when a woman has a soft or more porous aura, so therefore she has to have a stronger attention for closing the aura and for cutting lines to the aura. So, when the aura is open and it's drained of power. When the aura is closed and you cut off lines, then every time you meditate, you fill yourself up with light, and the light stays in, versus it goes right out. So, sealing the aura is the most important thing. This is like, you know, having, if you're in battle, having two shields, closing yourself up in the middle of it. But this is a very, very, this is the most important focus for a woman warrior. The second mode of the aura is activation. It's going out, right? It's doing, taking action. And when a woman goes out and takes action, it's very important to do it with the aura in defense mode at the same time. So you don't just go out and do something. You also focus on closing and defense. This is in contrast to a man, because a man doesn't have to defend, a man just goes. So, yeah, when you're in acting, when you're going out, taking action, it has to be done. That cannot be done alone. You have to also be in the focus of sealing the aura. The third consideration for the mode of a woman warrior's aura is openness, the receiving mode. So, at times, you must let your aura open. And that could be meditation with a sangha. That's a good place to practice it. That could be going out into nature, going into the ocean, sometimes exercising, sometimes meditating. There's times where you need to be in a safe place and you need to let your aura open. Because when you let your aura open, you recharge and you become balanced. So these are the three considerations of how to use your aura, how to use your attention. First, most of the time, be on guard. And when you got to go out and do something, be on guard. And then, once in a while, you find the right place to open. Okay, please translate. first work on shutting the aura. Then we're going to focus on, with a shut aura, seeking knowledge. Then we're going to open the aura. When you shut the aura, what we do is we focus on the navel. And you can envision a door being shut like it could be a wooden door or an iron door you you envision a door just close it over your your navel chakra that's a very simple way to envision this and it suffices so that's what the navel chakra. Then we will focus on the third eye. So a funny thing is when you close your aura you open yourself to more wisdom. You open yourself to more It's a funny thing, but it's because for women mostly, their auras are porous and they lose energy. So when you shut it, then you can actually get more intuition and more light and more wisdom. So the second part is where we're going to do something, we're taking an action, we want to see something, we want to see a path to success in yoga. And you just open your intent to that and don't think anything and see what you see and become aware of what you will become aware of. Okay, and finally, we will open the navel chakra. So you'll imagine the door opening. And we're opening ourselves up to power. We're just opening ourselves up to power. And it's a good tower, and this is a safe place to practice opening. These are three practices. We'll step through it one step at a time. Please translate. Please translate them. Okay, sit up nice and straight. And we're going to shut the aura. So feel that door shut and feel what closing the door is. Let's begin. Now with that feeling of shut, we bring the focus to the third eye and we open ourselves to a vision of yogic success.

0:57:19
Okay. Now bring the attention back to the navel chakra and we're going to feel the opening, the light, feel how that is a shift that you can just really just feel it balance it. Okay.

0:58:35
Okay, very nice. So these are the three modes of the attention for a woman warrior. And that's all we're going to cover with that.

0:58:59
Oh, it's time. Well, let's see.

0:59:06
We can go through the last one in just a few minutes so just go a few minutes over so there's this saying Atman is Brahman and that means that the enlightenment within the self is the same as universal enlightenment. But then there's the other saying, Brahman is Atman, which is saying that universal enlightenment is also the enlightenment of the self. So this is the second half. that the male way of enlightenment is that the energy goes from the root chakra up to the crown chakra down to the root chakra. So we always are focusing on bringing the Kundalini up, but the feminine way of enlightenment is bringing the energy down. in Bodhicitta, but primarily we work on bringing it up. So this is Tantra because it's opposite day. And it's a consideration that we can do together, or you can do from time to time, but in this experience of it, we're going to be working directly with the chakras and the kundalini. But normally we do this through our structure of bodhisattva. Please translate. Bringing the focus, you know, from the lower chakras up, instead of raising Kundalini, which is the refined spiritual energy within yourself, what we do is we focus on the 8th chakra, somewhere above the crown chakra. And we feel that we're just going to feel that light coming straight down the Shushumna. We're not going to focus on any other chakras. We're just going to feel that light come all the way down to our sitting bones.

1:04:15
We'll sit for one final meditation with this focus.

1:04:20
The focus on the eighth chakra and the light coming from enlightenment down through all the way to your sitting bones. And let's see, we're going to meditate to a sitting City of Lights, Rain in Paris. For just one song, you'll just feel that opening, and you'll feel the light just continually coming down like in waves. Please translate. I'm going to go get some more food.

1:05:12
So the the the so so so so so so so you I'm. I don't know. That was cool. So, yeah, so we'll feel our eighth chakra. It's something that we don't focus on very often, crown chakra, but it's nice to be and found chocolate. But it's nice to do once in a while together. And this is also an exercise that you can do if you want to focus the intent on creating something. So if you're feeling like things aren't coming together for you, like you're trying to do something

1:10:27
that's not coming together, you can focus on bringing the energy down. It's very grounding in that way. Or if you want to create something, create some success or create anything, something. This is a way of, if you have the intent to make happen. By focusing on the light, you're drawing from enlightenment. And then coming down, it passes through the vision and seeing, through the way of communicating, the way of finding the heart aspect of networking, finding a balance with the people to work with. And then you come down to the navel and the navel is taking action. And then the second chakra and the second chakra is kind of the fluidity and power of creation. And then when the energy comes down to the first chakra, that's where it has manifestation. So this focus also is a way of taking enlightened energy and creating things. This is something that I do when I'm starting a new yoga or something like that. So this is something that you can do too. All right, only 14 minutes late, which is about three and a half hours better than last week. So I'm going to sign off and let you translate. So I'm going to sign off and let you translate. Thank you all very much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
