0:00:00
So it looks like we survived August so far. Whew, just barely for me. Yeah, you know, we go through certain esoteric structures and we go through them and then we go beyond. So it's like... Sometimes they're considered to be like vehicles. So it's like you use a certain lesson, a certain vehicle, and these are the esoteric, the inner teachings. So it's kind of very subtle teachings. Subtle vehicles. So you go through these subtle experiences. And then once you get through, you don't need that vehicle anymore. Like you might need a boat to sail the sea. Then once you hit land, you're trying to go down 101. It doesn't work so well. So you need to change into a new vehicle. Now, our last vehicle was a garbage truck. But now we're changing to more like a nice stretch limousine. Tonight, that's what we're going to do. I've seen the way. All right. But first, we're going to begin with meditation

0:01:41
Okay, we'll meditate for three songs one song each chakra It's a beautiful song. And I'm not a fool

0:01:54
I'm not a fool

0:01:56
I'm not a fool I'm not a fool

0:02:00
I'm not a fool I'm not a fool I'm not a fool I'm not a fool I'm not a fool I'm not a fool I'm not a fool I'm not a fool I'm not a fool I'm not a fool the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the the the the Oh, the the the Oh Thank you. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, All right, very nice. Can we bring the lights down a little bit? sunglasses in the car and after I meditate my eyes are very sensitive. How about take these lights down behind me and leave these ones on. You're an engineer. That'll work. I guess you take these ones down. Okay, thank you very much. All right. Well, I just want to thank you all for every effort during the last seminar we were talking about transforming adversity and difficulty into the pathway of awakening by practicing bodhicitta, the yoga of compassion.

0:18:15
makes a real difference. It creates a brighter atmosphere, a more spacious atmosphere, a less heavy atmosphere. So I appreciate every effort. And it's something that we continue to work on until we master, and then it's less of a headache. But tonight I'm going to talk about ultimate bodhicitta. So ultimate bodhicitta is part of the third point of the seven points of mind training. And we often talk about relative bodhicitta, which is the actual practice, but You must also do ultimate bodhicitta so ultimate bodhicitta is necessary because this is an intermediate practice In the intermediate practice there is the foundation of meditation and then there's the addition of the and then there's the addition of the practice of compassion. So without the foundation of meditation, the practice of compassion is unbalanced. So that's why the way that we learn and what the book tells us to do is ultimate bodhicitta first and then relative bodhicitta. So whenever we have a session of relative bodhicitta, it's always after meditation. So in ultimate bodhicitta, there's three primary considerations. There's the consideration of dreams, the consideration of the mind, and then the consideration of placing the mind in meditation. So those are the primary considerations that we're gonna discuss tonight. Ultimate bodhicitta essentially is learning how to meditate. So tonight as we go through the considerations of ultimate bodhicitta, it will be a process of actually experiencing ultimate bodhicitta. So the first consideration is regarding all phenomena as dreams. So when we consider everything in our lives, we have to consider them as being transient, because everything in our lives are transient. So the people that you know, your closest relations are transient. There are people you know right now, you might not the next day or the next even your closest friends and closest relations, you have to say, yeah, this is a transient relationship. Even if you're married to them or they're your mother or father, this is transient, ultimately. Everything that we do, everything that we see, ultimately is transient and therefore it's considered to be like a vision in a dream where there's actually There's so much transient that it doesn't even scratch the surface on reality. So that's why they say Everything that you can everything in your physical life all the people all the places all the things Actually have no truth there, that they're completely empty. So we start to look at our lives in this way, regarding everything in our lives as something that is as transient as in a dream. And then that makes us understand things in a different way. We don't just fall into the karmas of the transient experience. We start to look for a deeper light in everything that we connect to. So it's not a bad thing. It's actually a good thing. You start to say, oh, this person who I'm talking to is like in a dream. I can wake up or very soon this person could be gone. So then that gives you a reason to appreciate them more. And it gives you a reason to look at the things in your life and look at the essential qualities to them, the eternal qualities of them. And then you are able look past the dream and see that there's really a bunch of great divine things, eternal things that are in your life. So we see through whatever appears and we look for enlightenment. For example, the last dream you could remember, maybe last night, or a lot of you, right? It's like the things that appeared in your dream, you just kind of accepted them as being as real as what you would see in the waking. But in your dream, if you practice this, you will sit there and look at the things in the dream, and you will look for their eternal quality, and you will find it. Because even in a dream, because the dreams are as transient as the awakening, or more transient, but equally transient, you will come to see that there is eternity even in the objects in a dream. So we start to look at life differently through this consideration. Because there's so many troubles in the transient experience of life, when we don't know how to negotiate our way through the dream, when we don't know how to deal with the illusion, when we don't understand it, when we don't see it properly. We start to fret, start to get upset. There's so many difficulties. I had a student once who was actually having existential conundrums over a dream. So in the dream, he had a repeating dream and it frustrated him. There was a door and he wanted to open the door. He knew he had to get through the door, but pushed on it and pushed on it, kicked it and rammed himself into it. And he was so frustrated that he couldn't push his way through the door. And he described the door to me. He said, I keep having this dream over and over. And I'm good at interpreting dreams. So he's like, it's a big wooden door and it has this big handle and this big, it looks like a lock. And it's like brown, but then there's darker brown and black. He was just describing it and he's like, and there's this big sign on it. And then I said, what's the sign say? And he said, oh, I don't know. So I said, next time in your dream, look at the sign. So in the next night when he was in the same dream, he finds himself pushing against it and pushing against it. And then he says, oh, I remember, Samara told me to look at the sign. So he goes and looks for the sign, he sees the sign and like all of a sudden becomes clear to him. And the sign says, pull. So he pulls the door open, walks through, and then experiences a great elevation in the dream. So, but I know it sounds funny, but this is what we do in our physical lives, in our waking lives. We push on the wrong place, we don't understand what's going on, we don't read the sign, right? We miss information. And then we experience difficult effects in the illusion. within the illusion. We can't have blind spots. When you have blind spots, that's where there's a lot of frustration and that's where you have a lot of suffering, discontent. So there was once a samurai who went to a Zen master. Now, this samurai, a couple years earlier, was in a battle where he was knocked off of his horse and he fell down. His helmet fell off, and he hit his head on a rock and was knocked unconscious. When he woke up, he was blind. But over the next few weeks, his sight came back. And then he got a full recovery, and he got to go back into battle and kill people.

0:29:00
So he was happy.

0:29:01
And then he comes to see this Zen master. And the Zen master says, and he says, Zen master says, you will die in battle very soon, so you shouldn't go out into any battle anymore, because you have a deficiency. And the samurai says, what do you mean? I don't get it. It doesn't make any sense. He says, yeah, you have blind spots. Then the samurai says, no, I don't. I've been in battle and I do fine. And he says, yes, but eventually someone's gonna take advantage of your blind spot and you're going to fall in battle. It's gotta happen. And then the samurai's like, ah, I don't understand. I'm a great swimmer, I'm an amazing warrior. I can beat anyone. I've got lots of experience and skill. So the Zen master sees that he doesn't get it. So he reaches over to the altar, picks up, there's a little, they have little pillows that they shut the bowls on. He puts the little belt and he picks up the pillow and then he says, okay, he says, watch this, I'm gonna throw it to you. And then the samurai says, okay. And they're sitting a couple feet apart. And the Zen master throws it into one hand, throws it into another hand, acts like he's gonna throw it to him, but then flips his hand up and the pillow goes really high up in the air. And the samurai watches him throw it, and then when he expects it to be thrown to him, he gets his hands ready, and then all of a sudden he sees the pillow disappear. And he's like, where did the pillow go? And then it falls down and hits him on the head. And then the samurai says, what just happened? And the Zen master says, well, I exploited your blind spot. I can see, I have awareness and I can see the way that you look at me, that you actually can't see things." And then the samurai says, oh, maybe this was a time when I fell off my horse and I was blind, but my vision came back. And then the samurai, and then the Zen master said, well, all of your vision didn't come back. You have blind spots and you're such a good warrior that when you see someone lift their sword to cut at you even though the sword might turn invisible for you, you know what what the trajectory is, you know what's going to happen and so therefore you're able to make up for it. But then the samurai said well okay that pillow I didn't expect it to do that and it disappeared but in every battle I don't see anything disappear and the samurai says yes, because the Zen master says yes Because you your mind fills in the blanks But what your mind is filling in is not truth. It's illusion And then so the samurai decides to take the Zen master's advice. He says, well, in that case, someday I could imagine someone throwing me a curveball. And so he decides to retire as a samurai. And he becomes a Zen monk and becomes a notable one. So this is what we do as well. We have blind spots. Some of us, many blind spots. And we just fill in the blanks. Our mind creates illusions that are false, the function and the balance of the dream that we're in. So we have to figure out where our blind spots are. We have to increase our awareness because that way we'll be able to be stronger in the dream. starting phenomena as a dream is not only recognizing the transience and the eternal, but being impeccable in dealing with the transience. That means balance, that means proper awareness. So this is something very important. You know, we think the world is so physical, right? We think a dream is not physical. You know, you're like, oh yeah, but when you're in the dream, when you're in the dream, it is physical. It's as physical as this is. You say, okay, I knock on the table and that's physical, right? If you do it in the dream, you'll have the same experience of physicality. You knock on the table and you say, well, this is a physical world, right? But even looking at like physics, an atom is like 99.99999% space. This physical table is space and all the atoms that are so spacious don't even touch, but I say this is physical. So having an understanding of the space gives you a different way of looking at the physical world, understanding your physical world. Because when you look at life that way, when you understand that, you could say, all right, there's a physical thing that I'm facing. It might be succeeding and getting my first job, overcoming a fear or anything, and it seems so physical. But when you understand even at a base level of this table is 99.999% not physical, then you say, oh, maybe there are more options. Maybe there's other opportunities. Maybe this thing that seems so physical, so impossible, so solid, maybe there's a lot of space. It's mostly space. And there's many, many, many, many ways to look at it. Many ways to see opportunities. So the world's not as physical as we think. So why wouldn't a dream be equally as physical? 99.99999% space. Well, it is. And we have to be able to see the forest through the trees. We have to know what's real and what matters. So that you need to have discrimination when you're in the illusion. Right? You have to know, even in in the dream, even in the illusion, what's what, what matters? Because it matters. Yeah. Being aware of eternity is important because it connects us with the truth. And in the truth, there is a balance of attention. And the balance of attention in the illusion. So you have to have a strong awareness in the illusion so that you have a strong awareness of the truth of eternity. So that's why we work on our blind spots and that's why discrimination is important. What matters is in the illusion. So, there were two men who were out camping. They pitched their tent, they sat down, you know, roasted a quail for dinner or something like that, and, you know, eventually went to sleep. At some point, one guy woke up the other guy and said, Hey, what do you see? They were looking up at the night sky. He said, Oh, I see, uh, you know, the stars. And he said, what else do you see? And what do you see? And he said, well, there's, there's the moon. What else do you see? Um, there's Orion, you know, that's a constellation. What else? What else do you see? Well, I just see billions and billions of stars up there. And he says, why, what do you see? And he says, I see that someone stole our tent. So when you're looking at stuff, there's a lot of stuff, but you gotta look at, you have to be able to, you know, acquire the cognizance of what matters, what's important. Another Zen anecdote. who went to a Zen master and he kind of wanted to debate him and find out really, you know, what Zen was about. So he just sat there with him and he went into a long description of his And then he and the Zen master just listened. He didn't, he didn't argue, he didn't debate. He just sat there and seemed to accept all the ideas that the philosopher brought up. And then when he was done expounding his philosophy,

0:39:48
he asked the Zen master,

0:39:49
well, what do you think about my philosophy? And the Zen master said, I think your philosophy is like a blind man in a pitch dark room looking for a black cat that isn't there. And the philosopher got mad. And then he's all like, well, what's what's Zen then? And then he said, Zen is a blind man in a pitch dark room looking for a black cat that isn't there. And then the philosopher says, oh, he's about to ask and go, well, okay. But then the Zen master says, and finding the cat. Now, when we're in the illusion, one of the things that causes us great suffering is our own expectations. We expect stuff. Girlfriend might expect flowers. When she doesn't get the flowers from the boyfriend, she's mad. Husband might expect wife to, after he had a tough day, to go over and massage his back. Then he gets mad. So people expect things from each other, and then they're upset when they don't get what they expected. Don't expect things from people. Save yourself a lot of trouble. Communicate and talk, right? But don't expect, because that causes your suffering. But we have deeper suffering than just expectations from people. We expect things in life. We expect, very often, limitation. We just expect it because that's what we've experienced. We expect limitation, we expect hardship,

0:42:17
we expect suffering.

0:42:18
We have these built-in expectations. Where do they come from? They were there since we grew up. They were just there, happening over and over. If you look at your mind, if you're mindful, and you see places where you've experienced a lot of suffering, you can see that you have had built-in expectations of that suffering. If you're self-honest, you'll say, wow, I kind of expected that to happen. Yeah, I expected that suffering, I expected that limitation. And yet, when it happens, even though you know you expect it, if you are mindful, when it comes up, the thing that comes up, you're surprised, you're shaken, you expected it, but oh my god, I didn't expect it now. Or I didn't, I wasn't mindful enough, but I expected it and it happens, and now I'm all shocked and worried and concerned and suffering. But when you understand the nature of the transient world, you don't need to suffer. You can expect that the nature of the transient world is what it is. If someone's born, they're going to die. So if someone dies, you can say, oh my gosh, I'm sad, but my spirit isn't, isn't torn into pieces and balance because of it. You can understand the transient nature of life and then be able to be balanced with the transient. There was a story of the time of the Buddha. There was a lay woman who was a non-returner. And she had an only son. And at one point, for some reason, there was some disagreement or something where there was a, in the state that they were in, the army believed that he was a traitor and gave secrets to the other side or something like that. So they came over and accused him and he was actually innocent and he tried to explain it, she tried to explain it, and they were like, nah, we don't believe you. So they pulled him out of the house and cut his head off. And then everybody who knew him and everyone around, and then the army goes away, right? And then everyone's like, oh my God, this is so horrible. It's terrible. We all know he was innocent, that they killed him. And then his mother is like, okay, let's get on with the burial here. And then they say, aren't you totally, completely devastated and upset?" And she said, no. She said, you know, I understand that when you're born, you're going to die. I understand that there's things that are not fair in the world. I also understand, I also see the truth. And the my son, this being who was my son, is an eternal spirit. And so she was not put out of balance by a severe tragedy in the world of, in the divine comedy, right? the truth and not having expectations in life that are out of balance with the truth of nature. Now, why do we get expectations? Expectations come from somewhere. Expectations come from routines. Routines that are physical and routines that are subtle. So, you know, you might do the same physical things over and over again and again, but that all stems from what happens in your mind. The way that you think, the attention, your outlook. These are routines. These are the greater routines. So a physical routine could be the way that you drive, right? You observe yourself driving, especially when you're driving home You drive the same way. You drive in the same patterns. Now, I've observed some of my students. Some of you tailgate, and that's not a good way to drive. So observe if you naturally tend to drive up right behind the car in front of you. And say, oh, wow, that's what I naturally want to do. And Sambar is pointing out that I shouldn't do that. Don't tailgate. I'm on the freeway driving with some of you guys, and you're tailgating right behind another car. I'm like, this is not good.

0:48:07
Give yourself space.

0:48:08
A lot of you, I've observed, when you're driving, you don't look farther down the road. You're always looking at a place up in front of the car, but not far enough. So sometimes I see, we're driving down the freeway, and I look down and I see traffic has stopped ahead, and you're sitting there going 70 miles an hour. And then all of a sudden, it comes into your routine awareness of where you look, and then you have to put the brake on really hard. So try this when you're driving home. Look further down the road. Don't just look in the same place. Look further down the road. So we want to look for routines in our lives, if we can be aware of where they are. Physical routines, subtle routines, routines of thought, routines of feeling. And we want to start to expand our awareness. We want to be able to walk outside the ruts of routine. Because outside of the ruts of routine, there's other opportunities. So if you're always walking along the very same path, it's like you know what's around you, but if you get off of that path and take another path that leads to the same destination, it's just Just not the same way. You've always been doing it. Then you say oh look, there's other things along this path. I find wild strawberries Or something like that. You see new things. There's more opportunity. So we don't you know, we are We are very, very practiced in discipline. Discipline is very, very important. And in discipline, there are things like, yes, I meditate every day. I practice mindfulness every day. I practice bodhicitta, compassion, every day. But we don't want to practice it in the same way. If you practice meditation the same way every day, you will be going into the same states of mind all the time. And so that's not what we do. You know, so yes, we sit and meditate every day. But we don't go through the same awareness. We don't go through the same thought structures and considerations. We always are pushing our inner practices to a higher level. We are always pushing for a greater experience of light, a greater experience of stillness. So even though every morning you meditate, meditate, meditate, it's not a routine. Because inwardly you are going for a brighter experience. There's a lot of movement, you're ascending and shifting So we don't want to fall into routines if you see in your mindfulness With with the compassion if you see that you're in a routine there is a limitation Right you're in that routine You need to say oh, I'm just kind of in the same feeling the same awareness. I Need to push my mindfulness to be stronger. Basic mindfulness, you just have to start being more aware. But in compassion, you have to say, I need to experience a greater light of compassion. I need to fully practice taking and sending. I need a more profound experience in taking. I have to know that I'm taking the suffering. And when I send the light, I have to have a stronger experience of sending light. So in your mindfulness, you keep on getting a stronger, brighter and brighter, unlimited. So in our meditation and our mindfulness, even though these are things we do all the time, we keep on seeking a higher way, not a routine. Routines are karma. You did it before, the result is that you're going to do it again. If you just keep doing it the same way, you will keep getting the same result. But that ends up being something that limits you and it ends up being just a routine. So an interesting thing for the Hungarian Sangha, Dolma G started to see that they were in routines just about a month ago. So she said, okay, all right, Hungarian Sanda, we're going to break up these routines. So she started actually breaking up the physical places that they would go, and the things that they would do. And so she saw that that the routines were making them stuck. Right? So she started breaking it up. And she, you know, she was, she was wise and had discrimination. So she saw that and started doing it for them, and they were able to weather August a little bit better because of that. But for you, I want you to be very aware. Break up your routines like while you're driving, look further down the street from time to time. Start to incorporate a greater awareness by looking further Take that physical practice, but also I want you to be aware of Pushing beyond your routines a thought of mindfulness and meditation Now Routines they come from karma, but it's like it's it seems to be completely automatic It just it just happens You know how I was saying we are entering into a nice limousine so Let's say that life is like sitting in that limousine So now we're in a new vehicle experiencing life. So you are driving around in the limousine and you know it's like you want to go to a beautiful place but the limousine takes you to a crappy place, gets you stuck in traffic, right? You know and you're sitting there getting stuck in traffic so horrible like in New York. It's like right at like six o'clock on a Friday. If you're in the wrong place, it's like gridlock and you're and you start yelling at the limo driver. You're like, why are you taking 6th Avenue? I told you to take the West Side Highway. You know, it's like I used to do this all the time when I was in New York, just yelling at cab drivers. I'm like, I know which way to go. Go this way, go that way. So, you know, it's like, you're like, you can stack traffic, you know, they take you to the Lower East Side, you want to go up to, you know, I don't know, the park or something like that. So, you wonder why it just, you're automatically brought to traffic or places you want to be. And then, once you get to, you know, some nice spot that you want to be at, it's like the limo just kind of breezes through it and doesn't hang out there. It just seems to happen automatically. And this is your experience of life. Why does that happen? Yes, it happens because of routines, which is karma, but it happens because there's to direct your experiences which create your karmas which are your routines. So influences make this happen. Things influence us and we have to be very careful about these things when we're regarding all phenomena as dreams, because these things that arise in the dream could force us to go in a way that creates imbalance. One time I saw some guy who was, he would do hypnosis, he was like a master of hypnosis, and it was like a little show. I've seen several shows where someone hypnotizes somebody else. And this guy took someone and said, all right, you're under my hypnotic spell. And he said, every time I tug my ear, you're going to get up from your seat, you're gonna do three jumping jacks, and then you're gonna yodel and sit back down. And then he goes, okay, okay. So then the guy sits down and he says, are you feeling okay? And he said, yeah, maybe I guess you couldn't hypnotize me or whatever. Okay, fine. And the guy springs up, does three three jumping jacks and then yodels. And he sits back down. And then he asks him, why did you just do that? And then he says, what? You just jumped up and did three jumping jacks and yodeled. And then he said, oh yeah, I was a little cramped. And so I decided what I should do is I should just get up and move a little bit. So I did the jumping jacks. Then it felt good and kind of reminded me of being in the Austrian Alps. So I yodeled. So he does the same thing again. Then he says, so why did you do it this time? And then he says, oh yeah, because you know, I was thinking that, you know, the best thing to do is every once in a while, three jumping jacks and a yodel. Really clears your head.

0:59:20
It's like, oh, okay.

0:59:22
Then does it again, same thing. And then he just keeps on making up reasons why, different reasons why he's gonna do the jumping jacks and the yodeling. So when you are influenced, what happens is you start filling in the blanks. You make up logic that is the reason why you're doing something. So things influence you and then you make up a reason why. A reason why it's so logical and perfect for you to do. It's a very interesting... it's like that with advertising. Did you guys see the movie Syrup? If you haven't seen the movie Syrup, see the movie Syrup. It's about marketing and advertising. But, you know, especially in America, we have so many marketing messages that are pressed upon us, and it influences us. Why do you like Coke better than Pepsi? Why do you always buy coke and never Pepsi? Right, or you might be the other way around Or you might be backwards and wrong Yeah Yeah, so, you know when you're when you're sailing along in your limousine things that happen and they influence you. And you say, oh, I got, you know, you see a billboard, and you go, hey, you know what? Let's stop for McDonald's.

1:01:01
Right?

1:01:04
Yeah.

1:01:05
And that's a blind spot. If you don't see what influences you and you just automatically follow it, it's a blind spot. Although some of you, in your new fancy Mercedes I've seen have the blind spot assistance. So that means that you're driving along and you want to get into the left-hand lane and then you look but you didn't look enough and then you start going and then your car goes, you know, starts flashing little lights and starts beeping at you and it's not safe to go into that lane. You go, oh, okay. So that's your blind spot assistant. I guess that's me. I'm that feature for you. The blind spot assistant. But you know what you've got to do, and this is the important thing about being in the dream, being in the transient, but having impeccability and discrimination. You've got to, at some point, realize this. And this happens usually out of just frustration. at the limo driver to take you to the nice places and stop you from just running into the bad places. And you say, okay, I'm fed up. So you get out of the car, walk over to the driver's door, knock on it, he doesn't roll down the window. And you yell at him, you're all like, roll down this window and you're gonna listen to me and take me where I want you to go. He doesn't roll down the window. and you're going to listen to me and take me where I want you to go. He doesn't roll down the window, or she. And then you open the door and you're about to give them a piece of your mind. And then you say, oh, wait, there's no one there. Oh wait, there's a little card sitting on the seat. You pick up the card and it is a limo driver's license and it has your picture on it. And then, oh, there's a jacket, perfect size for you, a little name tag with your name on it, and then a nice little hat, you put it on, and then you realize that you're the driver. You're the only one driving this thing. This vehicle, you're the driver. And that means that you have the command of where to go. And the only reason that you were going to the places of traffic for the bad places and just shooting through the nice places was because you were in routines and you were influenced. So we take command of the dream. We take command of this phenomena and we become impeccable in it and we use our personal power to do what we need to do, to do what is happier. Then we start driving to the happy places. We have to get beyond our, we have to understand what influences us, what puts us into the routine that takes us to all the boring boring places are the traffic. So you're the driver. With influence, let's talk about marketing then. I remember when I was a kid I played soccer. And I really liked it and it was really fun for me and I started watching Saturday morning Cartoons or you know, I had to that was my obligation as a kid And You know, I was like I was like seven or eight or something like that and there was this Cracker Jacks commercial so Cracker Jack. There's a little song about it. And they showed scenes of these kids playing baseball and soccer. And these images of the kid playing soccer and being so cool. Oh, you're a Cracker Jack. And his technique was good, and he did all these cool things, and he scored the goals and everything. So I started to say, I want to be a Cracker Jack. And I want to be like that kid. It created an image in my mind that I wanted to be. I was influenced by it. And I started buying a lot of Cracker Jacks, started eating them. And every time I went out on the field, the pitch, I started to really say, I gotta be like that kid. I have a mental image. But the thing was, the kid in the commercial was way better than me. So I couldn't do what he did. And actually, sometimes I could. I was one of the better players on my team. But whenever I fell short of that image, I was very unhappy. So while I used to just have fun doing it, all of a sudden, there was this thing that I was influenced by, and I started saying, I gotta be like that, I gotta be like that. And then I found myself, more often than not, unhappy playing soccer. So these influences set up ideas in your mind and things that are very out of balance with truth. And then you find yourself driving into traffic because you're influenced by something that leads you to a place of dissatisfaction. So when you recognize the influences, you're able to let go and you're able to direct your mind to something that's more beautiful. Something that creates a tremendous influence for us is society. We are socially conditioned from birth. We're conditioned to think, this is good, this is bad, this is right, this is wrong, and I got to do this. And you find yourself throwing your whole life in the direction that society points. The problem is, look at society. People are not fulfilled in society. They're mostly miserable. Even a good, happy situation, if someone starts to investigate their mind and their experience, they'll find great dissatisfaction. The person who's got the happiest family, the happiest marriage, millionaire, you know, all everything that we could say in society is a great, wonderful, fantastic thing. On average, actually, the great majority are pretty miserable. They're pretty miserable. So we don't see that there is spiritual fulfillment, like or, you know, the fulfillment that we need, our hearts and our minds, from society. So we have to start to question the influences of society. One person might throw their whole attention into society's program and realize finally, wait, this isn't what makes me happy. Something very simple, like meditating or going out into nature is something that makes me very happy. But all of the things like you've got to go to a good school and this and that, I still love that in our day and age here in America, there's still the societal pressure to go to a university. And right now, I don't know, we might be at that breaking point where that might fade from the American dream. Because you look at the facts that college degrees are going up in expense and that people are coming out of schools, even as doctors and lawyers, they can't pay off their loans until they're like 40. So it's like 20 years they might be sitting there paying off their loans. It really puts a stress on people. And luckily we have an amazing path of discrimination to be in the illusion of the world and to be smart, to have good discrimination, to practice computer programming and to follow that path. Because that way you don't have to amass $100,000 in student loans and pay it off by the time you're 40. You can just learn technology in 6 to 12 months and join the job market at very very high rates. So right now there's a big disillusionment going on where people are saying is it worth it go to the university. And for a lot of people, yeah, it is because they don't know what kind of, they're just not clear on their life goals. But for a lot of people, you could be smarter and you could succeed without them. Don't amass a lot of the debt that you would. So So that's interesting, an interesting dream, and part of our American dream that now is being put into question. I hear a lot of stories on NPR where they're like, does it make sense to go to the university? Here's all these difficult experiences, and a lot of people are questioning, should I, you know, right out of school, should I go? No, just go to Golden State. So you have to look at what society tells you and really see if it makes sense. Can you use your discrimination and be smarter and not get stuck into the same traps that many people do in society? All right, so again, we'll meditate for three songs, one song each chakra. the the

1:12:23
the the so the the the the So so so the the the the you the the the the The. the the the the So the the the the the the you so the the the the Oh the the the the so All right, very nice. Now we will discuss the mind. Exploring the unborn nature of the mind. This is the second aspect in consideration in ultimate bodhicitta. Now this is really

1:24:08
esoteric. It's like, okay, the unborn nature of the mind. It's kind of a crazy thing to think about. So we're going to walk through it in a way where you don't have to think about it, but you can understand it, you can apprehend the inner teaching. So when looking for the mind, examining the mind. It's something that we don't have to look for. It's something we already have. It's kind of like someone with an oil lamp that's lit looking around for fire. Where can I find fire? Where can I find fire? Is it over there? Maybe I should You already possess it. Now, the nature of mind is a very profound thing. And the nature of mind is that the mind is empty. There was a Zen master who saw that one of his students was ripe for enlightenment. So after a meditation session, the Zen master went right to the student and said, What is all of this? And then the monk ponders it and comes to a place of recognition that there is nothing. So he, even though he was going through his regular rounds of thoughts in his meditation, he ponders and sees in that moment, there is nothing. And he tells the Zen master, there is nothing. And in that recognition, he immediately goes into Samadhi. And he experiences the direct knowledge, the direct apprehension of mind, of truth, of eternity. This is knowing the unborn nature of mind. Sometimes we call it the primal cause, right? Which means Nirvana, which means enlightened. This is the unborn nature of mind. Another time, there was a monk who was hungry. And so he heard that there was a restaurant where the woman who owned it was a Buddhist. So he went there for his alms round. He said, okay, walks over and knocks on the door. And he says, please, would you put some food in my baking bowl? And then the woman was happy to see him. And she said, oh, wow, this is really awesome. Yeah, of course. And she said, monk, would you please teach me some dharma, tell me some dharma, and of course I'd be happy to fill your, fill your own bowl. And he says, okay, sure. And he says, form is emptiness, and emptiness is form, right? One of these basic, confusing Buddhist teachings. And she says, really? And is that true? Do you really believe that? And he says, yes, of course. Buddhists always believe that. And then she says, oh, okay, all right. She says, well, okay, I'll bring you some food. So she goes away, comes back, the big platter, and it's got a covering, and she places it down on the table before him, and he's like, whoa, there's a lot of food here. He's like, I'm gonna eat really well. And she pulls off the covering, and there's all of these empty bowls and plates. And she says, you really believe form is emptiness and emptiness is form. She's like, then this is what I'll give you. This is the mind. Form is emptiness and emptiness is form. It's how you understand it. And if that really were the monk's assemblage point, he would have been happy, but I think he wasn't so happy. Can I just have some rice and curry? We see ourselves as individuals. So we see ourselves in a limited way, a small way. Like if you're on a beach, right? You would look with a magnifying glass and see one grain of sand. And we would say, that's me.

1:29:46
I am that grain of sand. So small, just this one little individual in a world of billions of people.

1:29:48
However, there's another way to look at it. And this is to recognize our unity with all things. To recognize that we're not just the grain of sand, but we're the whole beach. This is the awareness of the eternal self. We see, yes, of course, of sand, but I am also the beach." We can recognize that, we can see that in meditation, in the telling of the unborn awareness of mind

1:31:20
for example

1:31:22
I'd like you to Imagine in your mind see in your mind's eye go ahead and close your eyes I'd like you to envision a blue dolphin See a blue dolphin.

1:31:38
See a blue dolphin.

1:31:40
Very good.

1:31:41
Now we're going to change.

1:31:43
I'd like you to see that dolphin as the color white. See a white dolphin. Very good. You guys are good at this. It could be very challenging. But we have to change again. Now we're going to envision a gold dolphin. This time we're going to change to see a different animal. How about a gold manta ray? Okay, very nice So

1:32:12
You did it congratulations

1:32:14
You examined the unborn awareness of the mind

1:32:19
You saw the whole beach. But here's the trick. You probably didn't notice that you knew it, that you saw it, that you were apprehending it. But I'll point it out. When I was changing to different colors, you let go and you were open to a higher vision. So we went from blue, happy blue dolphin, to a white dolphin. And then when I said, we're gonna change the color again, then you let go. And in that space between a concept and another concept, you knew something else was coming, but you had an expansion of consciousness where you could see the whole beach, your connection, the eternal mind. And then we went to gold, and then we changed animals again. You dropped the concept of the dolphin, and there was that pause where the mind and the spirit can feel

1:34:05
The extent of the eternal mind

1:34:08
This is what we do this is what this is the whole thing that I'm doing all night all night I'm talking to you. I'm telling you stories jokes I'm telling you stories, jokes, and I'm addressing your mind and shifting so that there's space where the Spirit is able to connect to eternity. This is the, you know, these are the secret teachings, these are the esoteric teachings. So it's not just something that you hear and that is logical, of course it has to be logical, but there's the balance of the spirit, the balance of the eternal truth that you experience. The esoteric teachings are teachings of experience, of spiritual experience. And we become more aware of these subtle and inward teachings, more aware as we meditate, as we practice mindfulness and bodhisattva. We start what's going on. Speaking of jokes, let me give you a joke. See, I'm doing this trick. The joke is a trick. It's to take your mind and then create space for your spirit to feel So, this lady was crossing the street. She got hit by a car, but it wasn't too bad. It just kind of bumped into her hip, but the bad part was that she went crashing down on her left knee. It was kind of painful. But the guy got out of the car, and he was really, really, really nice. So she didn't call the police on him. She didn't want the nice guy to have a felony on his record. Felony. Translate that one into English. Yeah, so this is the examination of unborn awareness. You know, where is the mind? Is the mind in your brain? Is that where it is? Is the mind confined to the space of your brain? No, probably not. Because when you think about far off places, maybe you were in Hawaii at one time, a nice tropical island or something like that, your mind travels there when you think mind, it actually becomes part of your reality. This is what we work on in mysticism a lot, making connections to places. And we see that our mind travels and connects to the beauty and energy and purity of the place. So that could be somewhere halfway across the other side of the planet. But as soon as we bring our mind there, we're there. Our attention is there, our mind is there. So the mind isn't just in the brain. And the mind isn't something that's limited by time. We can think about the past.

1:38:16
You can think about a very painful moment of the past.

1:38:19
And then what happens is your mind gets stuck back there, stuck in that suffering, stuck in that dissatisfaction where you didn't get what you want or someone hurt you. And then you are not in the moment, your mind is completely in the past. Your mind can go towards the future. You can sit there and worry about, you know, a nuclear war that could happen tomorrow. And if you sit there and worry about it, your mind goes to the future. You're not in the moment. You're totally immersed in the future. So the mind doesn't exist in any time or space. And if you examine the mind, you could come to the awareness that the mind never was born. The mind always existed. This is a very deep truth of your mind. Your mind was not born when you were born. Your mind always existed. And when you die, your mind will not die. The mind is unborn. The mind does not live or die. The mind is. So this truth, this recognition, this awareness of the unborn, unlimited, undying aspect of mind. It's something that we come to be aware of from meditating, from this inner examination. And when we recognize this, this truth. You can have a sense of this truth just from hearing the teaching. It's expanding your awareness. In expanding your awareness, you come to notice. In our world, there's lots of confusing things that draw us away from knowing truth. The most powerful influences that are supposed to be good in our planet are religions. Religions, for example, teach, all religions teach good things. They're like, oh, God likes you if you do a good thing. They teach love. Religions teach love. And they teach all good things to the people who follow their religion. The problem is that probably most of the wars that have ever, you know, we've ever had on this planet have been religious wars. Or at least, you know, highly influenced from religion. Yeah, so it's like, even though religions teach good and love, people end up taking that and doing bad things and having hate. Because when you grab onto it, then you'll follow that karma. If you're taught something good and you believe that, then you're going to find yourself experiencing the opposite. If you grab onto yin, you're going to experience yang. This is the transient mind. So what we work on is we work on expanding our awareness. So, for example, if I don't say anger is bad, but you're angry. And I say meditate, be mindful, examine your anger. If you bring awareness to anger, anger will eventually dissolve. to anger, which is limited and dark, the light of awareness will make, you will reveal that there's no anger, you come into balance. So you don't grab onto a concept, you don't experience the yin and the yang, you just experience whatever it is and bring awareness to it. And you will follow the nature of truth. If the nature of truth is that something is bad or what we can call bad, limiting, then the nature of truth is that it will dissolve when you understand it, when you bring awareness to it. However, if it's something good, you know, if you have compassion and you bring awareness to compassion, instead of it dissolving, it will grow. And that is something that you can experience directly, not by getting caught up in what's good and what's bad, what I read in this book, what I'm trying to do in my life, what I heard religion or whatever, forget all the concepts. You take your mind, your experience, and you just bring awareness to it. And in bringing awareness, if it's something limiting and devolving, you will be free from it and Why is because of it and if it is something that is truth? Dharma in your experience it will grow so the teachings of Enlightenment are not the teachings of religion They are not grasping on to any concept of good and bad. Because look at that, that brings us into religious war at our highest ideals.

1:45:44
But you just

1:45:46
bring awareness to your experience. And in that you set yourself free and you come to a higher connection with truth. This is so important. This is what we practice. And it's not an idea, it's an experience. It's the experience of being aware, experience of casting onto your life, to what's going on with you. This is why we practice bodhicitta, we practice compassion. Because compassion is bringing awareness to suffering. And in that awareness, if it's something that's limited, that causes suffering, it goes away. And at the same time, because we're practicing compassion and we have that intent, compassion grows. When we see suffering, when we apprehend someone suffering or we're suffering, when we look at it and say, I see this suffering, I know this suffering, I'm bringing my full awareness to this suffering and I'm accepting this suffering. I'm taking it. I'm taking the suffering. I intend to take it so that another may be free from it. Or if it's my own suffering, I'm accepting it. This is bringing awareness to your suffering or to another's suffering. And then the intent to give them your light, your freedom. When you have that intent, then you are bringing your awareness into a greater sense of truth. So this is why the practice of compassion is so important. It is the key to understanding the unborn nature of the mind. Enlightenment is already within you, of course. We just have to come to see it. We just, you know, the nature of your mind is already in your mind. You have a mind. It's just that we come to see it through these practices, through these teachings. It's like the great Tibetan mantra, om mani padme hum, enlightenment is within you. The jewel is within the lotus. That's what it means. The jewel is in the lotus. So this means that this beautiful lotus is, the petals are unfolding. The petals keep on unfolding and eventually when they unfold completely as you go through these layers of understanding, layers of observing your mind and your nature, you finally come to the perfect nature of mind, the jewel, which is enlightenment. So it's just a process meditation, compassion. These teachings to understand your mind are ways where you open these petals. So it's kind of like those Russian dolls where you open one up and there's another one inside. Yeah. So you open up another one, there's another one inside. So as we go through the teachings, you go from a big ego, a big ego, big self, right? You finally figure something out and you crack that self open and it's a great relief, but then you find another one, another self. Oh, and you're like, oh. So this is what we go through. We go through this process of cracking through the self. We're doing this right now. We're going from a heavier self, a more limited self, a bigger ego, to a more supple, more self-effacing, more humble self. One that really follows truth more closely. It's not so distant from truth. And as we open these one after another, we go through this, this is a process that we go through. We go from a bigger self to a smaller self to a smaller self to a smaller self. This means that we're closer and closer and closer to direct truth. And then finally, in my little set of Russian dolls, or whatever they are, when you open the very last one, instead of there being a teeny solid one there, you open the last one and there's nothing. That's enlightenment. See, I changed the dolls. Changing the dolls around is important. There's nothing after you crack that last teeny little doll. You open it up and there's nothing there. And that is the truth of your mind. That you're not any of those selves. And when you experience the final unfoldment and you experience that there's nothing, no mind, then you have the true recognition of the unborn awareness of mind, that the mind was never... it never started and it never ends, that it is eternal and that it's no self. The Buddha, when he first became enlightened, I should go back over to those other guys and tell them how to do it. Because I know they're really trying, they're just doing it wrong.

1:52:56
They just don't get it.

1:52:58
So he goes over to them, and he gives them the first discourse of the Dharma. And only one of them becomes what they call a stream winner. He enters the pathway to enlightenment. He goes, oh, I get it. And then the next day Buddha goes, okay, I really know what I'm gonna do now. And he gives them a few days later another Dharma talk. And in that Dharma talk, all five of them become enlightened. They all become arhats, perfected saints. And the cool thing about it is, these guys later on said, oh, here's what Buddha taught us in those teachings. So they actually got to write it down so that we know what it is today. So the teaching that made these five guys enlightened is the teaching of seeing the direct mind, seeing the unborn nature of mind. Buddha taught this to them in the five skandhas. I think we've talked about the five skandhas before. So he taught them the truth of the five skandhas and they became enlightened that day. And the truth of the five skandhas are first form, your body. Second skandha is sensation, like how you feel if someone touches you. It's a The third skanda is perception, the way you perceive and understand things. Oh look, there's a giant polar bear flying at me. I see it, I perceive this, I should do something. I'll make him a snow cone. Fourth skanda is mental formation, thoughts, frameworks of understanding life, mental models. The way we think. The fifth skanda is consciousness itself, being alive, being conscious of life. Buddha called these the five aggregates. And we have so much awareness, much of our attention is about my body, how I feel, how I perceive things, what information I'm taking in and how I see it and respond, what I think. I think all these thoughts. I look at the world this way. And I'm conscious, I'm awake, I'm aware. So Buddha says that these five skandhas are things that keep us from enlightenment. That's why in meditation we try to stop thought. So the five skandhas, attachment to the five skandhas is what keeps you from enlightenment. So the Buddha said you have to see that you are not the body, see that you are not the feelings, see that you are not your perceptions, that you are not your thoughts, and that you are not your consciousness. These do not belong to you. They belong to nature. They happen because of nature, not because of you. So if you're experiencing, you know, like your arm got cut off, you can't say, arm grow back. So this is true. That you don't have control and command of your body. You don't have control and command over your feelings. Someone pokes you with a sword, it's gonna hurt, right? You can't say, oh no, that's not gonna hurt me. So you don't have command over your feelings. Your perception, if there's a giant white polar bear flying at you and you see it, you are perceiving it. You can't say, make it stop, I want it to turn invisible and not be there anymore. If you perceive it, that's what's happening, right? You don't have control to say it's not happening. This is not happening. Right? You can't do that. It's very childish. Thoughts. If you have a thought in your head, you can't stop thinking it. If you have a mental model of understanding life and outlook, you can't just say, nope. It's like, here, we'll try it right now. Be 100% perfectly humble. It's like, you want to be humble. Okay, cool. Right? Be a gem. Always, you know, be happy. Always, always be happy in your mind. Think only good thoughts and never any bad thoughts. So the thing is, even though that, you know, even though we practice mindfulness and meditation,

1:59:14
we cannot just do that.

1:59:16
We can't just say, okay, I'm just gonna be humble for now on, period. I'm never gonna think an angry thought, a negative thought. I'm never gonna do it. You just can't say, I'm gonna change my mind. So it belongs to nature, and nature is what causes it to change. But we don't. We can't be attached to our minds. We can't be attached to our thoughts. They do not belong to us. We do not control them. We don't even control our consciousness. You're awake. You're aware. You're aware of whatever you're aware of and that's it. You can't say now. I'm going to increase my awareness So that I can choose the right numbers for my lottery tickets You just can't do it, right

2:00:13
so

2:00:15
when Buddha Described this to them and said let go let go of attachments to these things. They were able to get it. They were able to say, whoa, even my thoughts, but I'm always struggling with my thoughts. And Buddha says, they don't belong to you. Don't be attached to them. And then thoughts come and go.

2:00:41
And they were able to just let go

2:00:43
of the attachments to the body, attachments to feeling, perception, mental formations, consciousness. And when they were able to let go of all those things, they were able to see the nature of unborn awareness, the truth of the mind. And they all became enlightened because of it. Now I think since those teachings are written down, and there's many Buddhists who read these things these days and don't become enlightened, there's also that other factor that there's a fully enlightened master telling you it. There's a little bit of magic in that. There's a little bit of esoteric teachings and empowerment, a little bit of assistance. So unless you guys listened and became enlightened right now, that'd be cool. Now, you gotta ask the question, okay, so if I'm not my thoughts, why do I get up in the morning, every morning and meditate? Why am I always working on mindfulness? We learn to be detached from the five skandhas, but we work on yoking our consciousness with nature. So when we kind of put ourself in a direction of truth, we don't have to fight. Life will push us along into a greater level of truth. It's funny because we sit there struggling in our meditation, but this is why we don't judge our meditations. That's a rule of meditation, never judge it, because you're not in charge of it. Sananda used to say, life meditates you. And it's true, he said that after his liberation and It's true All we do is when we have an awareness of truth like meditation is the pathway to enlightenment we meditate For no reason we just do it because we're aware that that's That's a thing. That's true. It's a good thing. So we just do it and then when we have horrible meditations, for year after year, never a good one, we just never judge it. You can't say, I suck at meditation. You can't say, I'm bad at it, I have bad ones,

2:03:24
it's horrible.

2:03:25
You just can't say that, right? Because you have to be detached from meditation. You just have to say, I'm aware that this is something that is, for me, the way. The way of truth, and I just do it because of that. That's it. I don't judge it. And then that way, you don't frustrate yourself. But this is the way you become detached from thought, by not judging your meditation. Can't expect results. Remember expectation? Sometimes you get lovely corrections from life And it helps you out There is a story of a Buddhist monk.

2:04:07
This was in China. No, no, I think this, yeah, this was in China, but it was Zen Buddhism.

2:04:12
I think it was the sixth patriarch. So there's this enlightened master, the sixth patriarch of Zen. And he has this one very promising student and he's making a lot of good progress. And the monk says, Master, I need to go over the mountain to the lake. There's a little island on the lake. There I will create a little hermitage and I will live there and meditate there until I become enlightened. And so the master goes, OK, you want to do that? Do it. And then he said, I just ask that once a month some monks come across on the boat and give

2:05:22
me provisions.

2:05:23
And then the great master says, okay, fine, good, get out. So the monk goes over the mountain, out onto the lake, onto the island, builds a little hermitage, and meditates diligently. And, you know, like, every month some monks would come across and bring him some food. He would take the food and, you know, just keep going in his meditation. And he was there for three years, until finally he said, Aha, I have attained it. Yes, nailed it. So he has a beautiful Samadhi. I finally came, but I always wanted to attain enlightenment. So he says the way I will announce it to my master is how sometimes they do, and like some enlightened masters wrote little poems. And he's like, I'm going to write an enlightened poem statement and send it to my mother.

2:06:38
So he gets parchment,

2:06:40
and in a really, really beautiful calligraphy, he writes, the diligent monk meditated perfectly on the island. Then the next row is, and now the winds of the world cannot move him. So he rolls it up, puts a lovely bow on it. When the monks come to give him his provisions, he says, give this to the master. They take it, and then they come back a month later, and he's expecting to hear all this great stuff. The whole month he was sitting there going, oh the master is going to be so happy. Yes! He nailed it! And then he's like, and then the master's gonna like tell everybody and then everyone's gonna be like, oh, yeah Yeah, cool. And and and I'm gonna come back with the next boat. There's gonna be like a big fiesta We're gonna have a pinata and everything Like and then the world word will spread through the land that there's a parchment with a different ribbon on it. So, oh, so the master has responded to my poem, my poem Declaration of Enlightenment. And he eagerly while they're putting food on the island, he eagerly opens it up and reads it. And he opens it up and he recognizes that it's his own parchment. Now the first line is crossed out. And then there's a sloppily written character in Chinese for fart. Second line, crossed out another fart character. Third line, crossed out another fart character. And he's like, what? It's so rude. Like, why did he do this? So he goes, you know what? I'm really frustrated. By the time they put all the food on the island, he said, I got to go back with you guys. I got to find out what the master means by this. And then they put the food back on the boat. And then he gets on the boat with them, go back across the lake. And he's just reading it going, what is this? Then they go over the mountain, go to the temple. And by the time he gets there, he works himself up into quite a bit of anger. He's like, I can't believe it. He's like, I told him this beautiful thing. He's supposed to frame it and show everybody.

2:09:52
And what did he do?

2:09:53
He crossed it out, and he put fart on there. How messed up is that? I mean, that's crude. Why would the great master do that? So he's all confused and frustrated and then by the time, but he gets he gets mad, by the by the time he just bursts in to the Sixth Patriarch's office, he's just like what do you mean by this? I can't believe it. You were supposed to like be positive about this and you will fart on it. And then the Sixth Patriarch looked at it and said, I thought that, let's see, the winds of the world cannot move you, but it looks like three farts move you across the island, over the mountain, and that he recognized his mind and his reaction, and he was enlightened. So again, this is where you got one of those little Russian dolls, and maybe you think that's it, that's it, this is it. But you gotta realize that you can break through another layer. There was a story called the wishing game. And it could be a genie or a sadhu or a swami or something. But some magic person goes over to three people. Wait, is there three? Yeah, let's say three. Three people and says, I give you a wish, but whoever has the highest wish, the most profound wish, there's four of you, will get the wish. The others won't get their wishes. So you have to think of the best thing you can think of to wish for as you're in a competition.

2:12:17
So it's the wishing game.

2:12:18
So the first guy goes, I wish for a billion dollars. And then he's like, yeah, because if I had a billion dollars, I could do anything I want. And then the next guy says, I wish for all the money in the universe. And then the billion dollar guy goes, Oh, man, I wish I thought of that. And then the third guy is really smart. And he says, I wish for three wishes. For my first wish, I will wish for all the money in the universe. My second wish, I will wish for world peace. And then the other guys are all, oh, we totally lost. And then he says, but for my third wish, I will wish for three more wishes. And then I will continue to wish for all the best things and three more wishes and all the best things and three more wishes for as long as I can come up with, you know, everything until I have everything. And then they were like, okay, there's no way that we can, you know, that guy obviously figured out the trick. It's the best thing. And the fourth guy, there's no way he can wish for anything better than that. So, you know, number three, I guess he figured it out and he's going to get it. So the genie or whatever goes over to the fourth guy and says, what would you wish for? And then he said, I would wish to be so content that I wouldn't need to wish for anything. And then the genie gives him that contentment. So, the mind of enlightenment is a content mind, not one following desires, not one wishing. not just spiritually seeking, but an experience beyond duality. And that is apprehending in non-dual truth. Oh, sorry. We're going to take a break for 15 minutes. We'll come back and we'll have another short session. And then that will be it. Thank you. The

2:15:36
and a very magical one, is to rest in the nature of being, the basis of everything.

2:15:52
All of these considerations are traditional in the seven points of mind training, traditional in the practice of the yoga of compassion.

2:16:30
So these are all things that come directly

2:16:33
from the great pathway of awakening, and I am talking about them and elucidating them for you to understand at a very deep level. And also because I don't think they have a translation in Hungarian. So I'm comprehensively going through all of these points So that you all learn it So, what is it to rest in the nature of everything It's very simple This is Meditation this is placing the mind in ultimate bodhichitta ultimate bodhichitta is really samadhi So how do we come to know what's outside of our mind? The way is through stopping thought Everything that we think our Mental formations our outlook mental models are all stuck in karma. They're stuck in routine. They're stuck in expectation. They're stuck in the dual aspect of the mind and not the unborn nature of mind. So what we got to do is we got to meditate. When you meditate you stop thought and you break out of That's that way of looking at things And then you experience

2:18:08
Ultimate bodhicitta

2:18:10
Now it's very simple, you know, this is what we always work on meditation

2:18:15
and

2:18:16
ultimately samadhi which is perfect meditation. It's kind of like a tadpole, right? A tadpole lives in the water and just swims around. Then it starts growing feet. And then it eventually becomes a little frog, but all it knows is the water. It doesn't know what's outside of the water. So we're all tadpoles until we stop thought. We know our mind, we know our life experience, but at some point, a beautiful transformation takes its course and you become a frog. And then you're able to jump out of the water and see a completely new dimension of life. And when you jump out of water and have that comparison, then all of a sudden you know water. At first it's just what's going on. It's just what's for dinner. But then once you're able to break out of that, then you have a whole new way of looking at life. Then there's the land and the sky. And then you have another appreciation for water. So, we know our mind by breaking out of any limitation of our mind. And the way that we do it is meditation. Light and power

2:20:02
Right

2:20:04
the way that

2:20:06
We in our study are able to Stop thought it's primarily from a momentum of light So there's something amazing and beautiful that we have in our study that a lot of spiritual schools don't have We have the dimensions of light, we have the teachings of light. So when we meditate, we very often experience an awareness of light. Even if we're complaining because we have a lot of thoughts, we still say, wow, but there was a lot of light becomes so bright that it shines through, dwarfs and squashes our thoughts. So this is why when we're meditating, we meditate on light, because it is that momentum of light that eventually creates so much brightness that we are able to drop thought and then merge with the light. And then we experience Samadhi, which is ultimate Bodhicitta. is an amazing aspect of our practice. This is why it's very important to, you know, when you're meditating to really direct your mind towards that light. This is what Buddha taught, being attracted to the spirit, the light of spirit or the light of eternity. And vichara is the grasping of bliss in that light. So we actually see the light. You experience a tremendous bliss when you experience Ultimate Bodhicitta. So there is a story of a Buddhist monk who was meditating and experienced Samadhi. And in that experience, he stopped breathing. So sometimes in Samadhi, you're so gone that you actually don't even breathe. It's something that you hear about in Taoism and Hinduism, Buddhism. You hear about this breathless state of Samadhi. So he was sitting there, totally deep, profound absorption in enlightenment. And there were these two, this old couple, they're walking by. And then they looked at him and they're like, whoa, there's something unusual about that guy and they walked over and they're like Hey trying to wake him up. Hey, you okay? He's not breathing and then they say oh this poor old monkey, I guess he died he died sitting up How about we, you know, it would be a shame to let him sit out here and be eaten by wild animals or something like that. So, you know, let's, yeah, let's create a funeral pyre for him. We're going to burn him to ashes because that would be the right thing to do. So they put some wood together, they lay him down on top of it. They say, Buddha's name be praised. And then they light it. And then it starts burning, starts burning. And They leave. So at some point, the monk is in this deep, profound Samadhi, and he could stay in Samadhi forever, and he has no sense of the transient world, but perfectly on time, without any feeling or sense, his Samadhi ends, and he's laying down and he starts to feel that it's getting hot around him. So he says, ah, this is the perfect moment for me to come out of my absorption into nirvana. And then he says, okay. And he gets up, gets off the fire, and says, wow, how did that happen? And then the next day on his rounds begging for food, he knocks on their door, the couple who put him on the fire.

2:26:06
And then he's like,

2:26:07
he's all, please may I have some food? And they were like, oh, that's a ghost. They thought he was a ghost haunting them. But then eventually he explained that he was just in Samadhi and they gave him some food. Hey, you know, we work things out. And he thanked them for trying to look out for him. So Samadhi, in Samadhi you go beyond the five senses. So when you experience Samadhi, you are so far in enlightenment that you don't feel things, you don't smell things, which is good sometimes. Meditate with certain people. You gotta go into somebody really fast. Didn't I warn you about eating garlic before meditation? So you don't see you're so far removed from the you are in, you are totally immersed in and unified in spirit and enlightened. So that is ultimate bodhicitta. There's another really interesting story of one of Buddha's monks who was meditating, went into samadhi, and maybe don't know how long he was in samadhi, but when he got out of Samadhi, he came out of Samadhi, and he was like drenched. He was wet. Now he was sitting in a place that was prone to flash floods, and he saw at the tree next to him the sign that there was a water level that had recently been sat there through a flash flood that went over his head. And so a flood came and it went. And somehow he was sitting in Samadhi through the whole thing without being aware of it. And somehow without dying. So I don't know if he floated up or, or he probably was a breathless state. And then he just didn't have to breathe underwater. He's practicing mystic scuba. So this is us driving through in our limo, looking for ultimate bodhicitta. We are in command, heading in the direction of truth. We know we're the driver. Which reminds me of a joke.

2:29:02
I think I've told you guys this one.

2:29:03
Some of you know what I'm going to say. There was this limousine driving the Pope somewhere, and it's just the Pope and his driver and his bodyguards and the Pope said wow this is a new limo and it's a cool car and he said this he's like you know I I'd like to drive it so he says hey driver um it can I switch with you because I want to be able to drive this car just a little ways. And the driver says, sure, I guess so. So the Pope gets in the driver's seat, driver sits in the back, and the Pope starts driving. He's having a good time and you know, he's like, wow, okay, so this car is cool. Like, see how fast it goes. He goes like a little bit faster. And as soon as he exceeds the speed limit, a police officer catches him, pulls him over, And then he goes over and knocks on the window. Pope rolls down the window and he goes, Whoa, because he recognizes the Pope. And then he calls into his sergeant. And he's like, Sergeant, I caught this guy speeding, but I'm not sure what I should do. And then the sergeant says, Well, who is it? And he says, I don't know, but the Pope is his chauffeur. So we're driving around, and we're driving, God's in the back. And lightning's in the trunk. This is our new vehicle. So there was this one Buddhist monk who experienced Samadhi and he goes over to Buddha and says, Buddha, I experienced Samadhi. It was amazing. I loved it. It was incredible. And ever since I experienced it, I'm trying to get back there. I want to experience it again, you know, and but I can't. And then the Buddha says, Yeah, that's because you're trying. You, you know, it's like, you can have an intent to follow the Dharma, an intent to go towards enlightenment, but Samadhi is this magical thing. You can't want it. So the Buddha said, don't try for Samadhi. Do what you were doing when you experienced Samadhi. You were just meditating. You weren't trying for anything. You didn't have an expectation of experience All you did was experience a simple deep meditation and then Samadhi comes looking for you Knock knock, who's there? Samadhi! Samadhi who? Samadhi is not something that we go seeking. All we do is meditate because it is the nature of truth that we're aware of. There's no seeking it. There's no expectation. Like when we meditate, you don't just sit there and go, what's going to happen? Am I gonna have somebody? Forget about it. All you do is meditate because you're aware that meditation is something that's right and good and positive. It's meditation, there's some truth in it for you. Yeah. To experience samadhi, you gotta stop it. Not stop Samadhi, but you got to stop it being you. You got to stop. You got to stop thinking about yourself, self-reflecting on things. You just, you just stop all that garbage and just be very simple. Meditation is a very simple practice. We just focus on the chakra, hold our attention there. When a thought comes up, we recognize, oh, that's a thought and just let it go and bring the focus back to the chakra. Just by doing this, you will experience greater light and greater stillness. And then eventually ultimate bodhicitta. I like how it's called ultimate bodhicitta. UBC, the ultimate bodhicitta challenge The challenge is to not see it as a challenge just drop So There is a so Buddha used to get these longest courses Much longer than mine. I'm whittling them down so that you guys could like get through a night without like passing out

2:34:53
So this is gonna be

2:34:55
So booty see these long discourses and there was this one monk who it's kind of new and He was sitting there going whoa, you know the stuff is Kind of intense and Buddha even though he's saying all these beautiful things, it's just so long. Like, Oh, God. So after, you know, week after week, hearing the Buddha get these long hours and hours and hours of talking about the Dharma, he just got really kind of bored about the Dharma. And he's just like, and then he found he found himself one time, Buddha gave a discourse one day and then the next day, eight hour discourse the first day, and then like four hours into the second discourse, the next day, he's like, when is Buddha gonna stop? When is he gonna stop? He just goes on and on and on. He just never stops. He just keeps hearing in his head, when is Buddha gonna stop? When is Buddha gonna stop? And then he comes to this epiphany. And he says, when am I gonna stop? And when and when he switches it to when am I gonna stop? He realizes that all of his discontent, everything comes from him, his outlook, his way of looking at things. And in that moment, he goes into Samadhi. And then this whole, and then the little Russian doll opens up, pulls out another smaller one. So he totally transcends this dissatisfaction and this way of being limited and way of suffering. He experiences ultimate bodhicitta. Because he stopped. He stopped the self. We just got to drop it at some point. You got to drop the self. Now, this was something that my teacher, my great teacher Rama would talk about. I remember one time he was meditating with us and he just said, you guys just don't know how to let go. And that was so powerfully profound. At the time I was all, yeah, I don't know what you're talking about. But later, much later on, when I was in a very deep meditation, I realized I was still hanging on to self. And at some point I said, okay, well, I'm just gonna, I was able to, from the momentum of life, let go. And in letting go, I let go of control. The self wants to be in control. The self clings to this idea of the world and how it relates to it. And if it's gone, it's a big scary thing. So what we do is we practice letting go. We practice connecting with the light, seeing that the light is actually not a scary thing, that it's a good thing. We come closer and closer and closer to the light, and the momentum increases with the light. And then at some point we can let go and merge with the light, and finally letting go. It's like going up in a hot air balloon. You go, oh, I'm going to go up in a hot air balloon. How jolly. Maybe you're in Napa. They do that once a year, right? And if I were in Napa, I would first go to the kitchen door restaurant. And I would order a whole bunch of stuff, put it in my big picnic basket. And then I would go over to the wine store and get a case of Paradox or something like that. And then I would blow up on my hot air balloon. And at some point, I'd get way up and see Napa Valley below me and say, this is so beautiful, but I wanna go higher. And then I'd go, well, in order to go higher, I gotta dump some weight. So I'm like, oh, that chicken bahn mi sandwich is so good. I love it, but over it goes, right? And then I go, oh, I go up a little higher. And I say, oh, okay, well, you know, I want to go higher. I got to throw out the wine, the food, the picnic basket, and finally, you throw out yourself. Nothing left. Now, don't take this the wrong way. I'm saying physically go into a balloon and throw these things out because you could hurt someone under you. And definitely don't yourself jump out of a balloon. If you do that, I'm going to find you in the Bardo's. But we gotta let go of everything. We gotta let go of the things we love. Chicken patty sandwich. And then you just gotta let go of yourself all together. Ultimate Bodhisitta. The balloon free to rise into enlightenment. You know, the pathway to enlightenment exists, but as you walk it, you find that no one walks it. Enlightenment is real. Enlightenment exists, but no one reaches enlightenment. So here's the trick about the limo. We're the driver, but then we come to a recognition that And that's nobody

2:41:29
I'd like to conclude with a meditation

2:41:32
This meditation is Placing the mind in ultimate bodhicitta

2:41:37
This is the actual teaching

2:41:40
of this whole thing For this meditation, we will sit for one psalm with a focus on the third eye. And we'll sit with our eyes open looking up this way.

2:42:30
It likes to get ready. All right, just one song. Oh, I'm a murderer

2:42:53
You're not alone.

2:43:00
so Very nice. This concludes our teaching on Ultimate Bodhicitta, the second point of the seven points of mindful training, and also it's the first aspect and foundation of the two practices, Ultimate Bodhicitta and Relational Bodhicitta. Okay. 12th of September, we're going to have a Bodie Woods work day, where we are going to lower

2:48:40
the yurt of power. So please plan to be in Bodie Woods to say goodbye to our yurt. And But yeah, we'll have some sort of festivities

2:48:56
in the evening as well.

2:48:57
All right, so a lot of people have been asking me, when should I buy a house in Pacifica? And my answer is, I don't know, when should you? Here's something I'd like all of you to do as part of your financial tone out, make a budget. Make a plan. Because if you had the money right now, I'd say, go ahead and buy it. Go for it. Yes, do it. But if you say, well, I don't know if I have enough saved up, well, then you have to figure out how to make a plan so that you will know. If you make a plan, then you will know. So if you say, okay, I plan to buy a house with a friend, and the house I want is going to cost this much, and I have this much saved up, and I need this much more, and what's my monthly income, what are my expenses, how much can I save towards that? Then guess what? You will know. You will know when you can buy a house. So you don't need to ask me. What you need to do is you need to make a plan. So I would like you to all make a plan and identify those things.

2:50:38
Simple.

2:50:42
Okay. So, as some of you have heard, there were a group of people in Bodhi Woods who have put in a lot into Bodhi Woods. So now that the Bodhi Woods is going to be changing and the Dharma is heading over to Pacifica, I'm going to be rewarding them with some very special things. So there was a group of people in Bodie Woods who have put in individually over a hundred thousand dollars into the Bodie Woods compassion dojo. And that was a really wonderful thing for them to do because it made everything possible for so many of us. They either helped pay off the mortgage or helped buy cabins or helped pay for our tractor guy to go around in circles or whatever. That's a significant big amount of money and because of that they've earned some good karma and they're going to get some special activities. For example, Mandala, who is a liberated ST2 gal, she is coming up to Bodhi Woods at least, she's going to do like four to six times to meet these, the women who have put in over a hundred thousand. And she's meeting them, meditating with them and talking about the enlightenment for women. Because as you might know, there's some considerations. And all of you have heard these considerations from me because I know them. But it's even a little bit more authentic when you hear it from her. So it's actually an extremely magical and fortunate opportunity. So that started yesterday. So Mandala, like every month or so, will be coming by and meeting with the gals. The guys, you guys are going to get a special event

2:52:54
and you'll enjoy it.

2:52:57
So when you give so much, and you've reached a certain threshold of giving like that, then the experience that you get in return

2:53:07
is something that's really, really, really,

2:53:09
really quite profound. And it's like, it only costs $100,000 to buy it. But when people give, when someone gives to the temple in China or whatever back in the day, then they would, the enlightened teacher would talk to them, say, okay, you know, thank you for giving. It's been very helpful. And it's not like, oh, you gave, I don't want to talk to you. It's like you gave and you have some good karma and I will talk to you about that. So there's another one, a very special one that's coming up. Our Equinox event is going to be a meditation seminar. I think it's going to be here. Yeah, it's going to be here on the 22nd, which is a Monday. We'll start at 7pm on the dot because 7.30, I think, 7.30 somewhere around there, 732, is the actual time of the equinox. So I always love to meditate right at the time of the equinox. So that's when we're having our sangha meeting. But for the people who have made that good karma by putting in $100,000, we're going on a very special trip the weekend before. We're going to go down to the Anza Borrego and we're going to join Agni Kala on an Agni Kala desert trip. This is very, very powerful, very, very, very profound. The thing is, I know that the people who have come to that level are very powerful and very giving, So they can accept, they can handle it basically. They can handle an extremely powerful power trip where they go delving deeply into mysticism and the second attention. I know that they can handle it. Now, a lot of you guys, you don't have enough tonal or enough good karma or something like that. Because when Agni Kala was here, you guys reacted very poorly. I was very ashamed and bothered. But oh well. So in order to be able to have access to Agni Kala, you have to be in a very strong position and a very selfless position, powerful position. So we're going to go down Friday afternoon, join him in the desert Friday Saturday and Sunday fly back up and then have our sangha meeting So it's going to be a very very special event So it's going to be a very very special event

2:56:08
Good




Transcribed with Cockatoo
