0:00:00
Okay, we're going to begin with meditation.

0:00:07
That's the beat. It's a new song. I don't think we could be too serious tonight. We better not. We'll have a not serious meditation. the world. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh,

0:00:52
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh,

0:00:59
Oh,

0:01:01
the the

0:01:15
the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so the the the the Thank you. the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, I'm a man of my word I'm a man of my word I'm a man of my word All right. Tonight I would like to talk about one of my favorite things in the seven points of mind training, which is the third point of mind training. And of course you all know this because we've talked about it many times before

0:16:03
But today seems like a very good time to talk about it The third point of mind training Which means but this is the one where hey if difficult things come up we use it as Part of The pathway to enlightenment. We take it, we wrestle it down, and then we become enlightened because of it. Simple. So transforming adverse conditions into the pathway of enlightenment. That's what it is officially. this as part of the Bodhisitta training, because the seven points of mind training are the seven points of practice in the doctrine of Bodhisitta. This is a very important one when things are difficult. When life's hard, when you're getting a difficult experience, someone's giving you a hard time, you're giving yourself a hard time, things aren't working out. So, whenever, you know, there's a lot of us who are having just a lot of difficulty right now. So When that time comes it's always good to remember the third point of mind training that you can take Whatever hardships, whatever adversity that comes up in your life You can take it, you can use it to advance yourself on the pathway to enlightenment. And that's what we got to do. Otherwise, we're stuck. We're stuck in suffering. But when you have a commitment to the dharma, when you're really focused on, hey, whatever happens, I'm really going to practice bodhicitta, then it's amazing. Something miraculous happens, and that is that the things that are super hard and difficult end up making you more powerful, more bright, more happy. It hurts. Maybe there's pain. Maybe there's toil. Maybe there's difficulty but You become brighter because of it so that's my lovely idea you know because Really tough things happen sometimes You know, it could be Anything, yeah, whatever's happening with you, the difficulties, the hardships in your life right now. It could be the worst case scenario that you can imagine, right? But when these things occur, instead of just complaining, whining, sniveling about what's going on, we don't just roll into that karma and just get stuck there. We have a commitment to the practice of Dharma. So how do you do it? Tonight we're going to talk about a way when there's great difficulty to really, really practice bodhicitta, practice dharma. And that way is simply by caring about the Dharma, caring about truth, caring about enlightenment, your enlightenment, and the enlightenment of others. Very simple. So of course, in the third point of mind training, they just say, you know, practice bodhicitta. And that's the technique. So when things are, when you when you have adversity, you just practice bodhicitta. And that's what we do. But I want to talk about why you would practice bodhicitta. You would practice bodhicitta because you care about the Dharma. And you have to reflect on the pathway to enlightenment. You have to reflect on your commitment to the Dharma to having a greater awareness of truth. And you have to say, oh wait, no, this really, really matters. Now it's very important. I'm gonna do this. When you reflect on your pathway to enlightenment, then you can look at things with the right perspective. You can say, wow, even though the worst thing I can imagine happened to me, I can still take this experience and practice bodhicitta, because I don't want to get trapped just in my karma. I don't want to get trapped in just the suffering of the situation. I want to find a way out. So when life, you know, throws you a Then you throw a curveball back.

0:22:28
Speedball.

0:22:29
You hit it out of the park and then make lemonade. So when things get really, really, really, really, really, really practice. This is the time where I can really break out of my dissatisfaction, break out of my limitation, because this is the hardest thing. And I can break out by being committed to my bodhicitta. So it's the time where you practice for real. You know, when everything's going A-OK, everything's easy and nice, then yeah, you know, practice is easier to do, maybe, right? A little bit, it's no problem. You can think about it.

0:23:40
It's very nice.

0:23:41
Say, okay, I'll practice. But when things get really hard, that's the time where practice becomes real. And that's the time where you gotta dig in. And it's a time where you can have really profound breakthroughs. You can, because of the difficulty, because of the hardships, you can push beyond limitations that you wouldn't otherwise. And this is because you care about the dharma. You care about experiencing truth more than experiencing limitation.

0:24:23
And so you're able to take this opportunity to push further.

0:24:26
Yeah, caring about the Dharma is important. So you know, like, you have to sit there and go, Oh, okay. I, in this situation, I have to really, really, really, really practice. There's no such thing as, you know, too much caring about the Dharma. When you're given that hard time, you have to dig in and really look at the situation and look at your opportunities and really, really be committed to trying to find freedom from that suffering and limitation. That's where you really, really, really, really make these amazing shifts. You become a strong person, a powerful person, someone who can get out of the worst ghettos of the mind, prisons of karma, right? So, this is because you really have to reflect on your dharma, your experience of truth. And then it's quite amazing. You just have to care a lot about dharma, care about truth, care about enlightenment, about getting out of the suffering, not just experiencing it. So you can't, there's no such thing as caring too much. Worrying, you know, caring too much about enlightenment, caring too much about bodhicitta. Caring too much is excellent, because then you're going to be mindful and aware. I remember hearing this story when I was in Nepal. There was a little kind of leaky roof over it and it started raining and they just put the gold leaf, he had little touches of gold leaf on his robes and stuff like that. Actually, he had it on his crown chakra and there was something in his hand or his hands or something. And this, it just started raining and this guy was walking by and he said, hey, I know that this Buddha was just painted with the gold leaf. And I know that this rain is going to leak through that little roof on the altar there. So he went over to it and he said, let's see, I'm going to cover up this gold leaf so it doesn't get ruined. And he's like, what can I cover it up with? So he took off his shoes, and he put one of his shoes on the Buddha's head, and one of the shoes covering his hands. And then, this is because he cared about the Dharma, he cared about the Buddha, right? And he said, okay, you know, and then it started really raining. And then he's like, all right, so, even though I put a shoe on Buddha's head, at least he's covered and that gold leaf isn't gonna run away. So then, and that's a big sacrifice because then he had to walk away with no shoes. So he's gone. Then later, stopped raining, sun came out, everything dried up. And then another man walked by and said, who is going to put a shoe on Buddha's head? So he goes over and takes the shoes off. And then they thought, okay, now this is perfect. So these were two people who cared about the Dharma. You can care about everything any which way as long as you care, as long as it supports truth. And at every different time, there's different things that support truth. Sometimes you've got to put a shoe on Buddha's head. So, caring for the Dharma, then it's quite magical, right? Because when you believe in the Dharma, then all of a sudden, your heart and your mind open up to all of these dimensions of possibility, all this power, all of this light, because there's a truth, right? There's a beautiful Buddha enlightened truth to the Dharma. And then that way you find yourself dealing, you know, you can deal with all these different situations and be in a really beautiful way, a very beautiful way. There was once an archer, right? He was a warrior. And he was just walking through the jungle one day and a tiger across the field starts running at him. And the tiger's going right at him. There was a yogi nearby as well, but the tiger decided he was going after the archer. He's like, oh, that guy looks like he's a meteor. He'll be a good feast. So the tiger's running at him. And so what he does is he, you know, he's an excellent archer, strings an arrow and shoots at the tiger, but the tiger dodges it, keeps running at him. Then he shoots again and again and again and he shoots all of his arrows and each time the tiger gets out of the way. And then he's got no arrows left and the tiger is rushing in and then he's really freaking out. Then the yogi produces from his satchel a little drum and he throws the drum over to the archer and the archer catches it and then the yogi says, it's a magic drum. He's like, so play the drum and you'll be safe. And the archer says, I guess I have nothing else to do except for to try this, right? But he was also very, you know, devout. So he really, he said, Oh, look, it's a, a Swami gave me a magic drum. So he's like, Okay, I'll play the magic drum. So the tiger is almost on to him just running right up to him. And he starts playing the magic drum. And then something happens. The tiger, like, gets a little bit confused or something lunges at him, but misses and goes too much to the side and runs into a tree. And then, you know, kind of knocks himself silly. And then he has to take a nap. So, so then the archer, the warrior goes over to the yogi and says, Oh, thank you, Swami. It's so wonderful. How can I repay you? He's like, oh, no, no. You can just always use this magic drum any time you're in trouble. And no one can stand before you or attack you or beat you in battle. So he's like, wow, this is amazing. So he brings the Swami with him and gives him his daily alms and learns from him. And then one day, a couple, a year later or something like that, there is a battle. And he says, OK, when I go into battle, I'm not bringing my bow and arrow. I'm going to bring just my drum and so Swami says okay well I got to watch this I'll be on the sidelines so they so he goes out onto the battlefield and he's like you know right out there in the head of the army and the other armies closing in and then he starts playing his drum and when he plays the drum, all of a sudden, the whole other enemy army starts losing their balance. And when they try to shoot their bows and arrows, they miss. When they try to do something with a weapon, they fall down onto the ground. And his drumming just throws everybody off. And then everyone on his side started beating the other guys and then they had to run away. And then the enemies, they ran away, they regrouped and they said, that guy with the drum, that massive drum. So the next day they decided to have another battle, because why not? And then they come together and they were very, very focused on tricking the guy. Before everything, before they even rode in to battle where the two armies met, they sent some clandestine spies in and they stole his drum. He put the drum next to him, he looked over there, and then it was gone. And then the enemies start running in and then he's like, Oh no, they took my drum and now I don't even have a weapon. And now the war is breaking out and everything's horrible. So he runs over to the Swami, the Yogi, and he says, Oh Swami, they stole my magic drum. And then the Swami says, Oh, it wasn't a magic drum. Not at all. Yeah, he's like, you just thought it was a magic drum. Like actually, you know, because you believed in it, because you believe that it was, you know, this enlightened power, because you had devotion and faith, then you were able to be powerful. This was your power, right? Or this is your connection to a greater power that you learned through this idea of the drum. And he says, really? Then he looks over at the battlefield and one of the bad guys pulls out his drum because he thinks it's a secret weapon. And then he starts playing the drum and then you know, it just doesn't do anything. So he says, wow, okay. So then he just walks out into the battlefield and then he just, as he walks out, all of the enemies start like falling again. And the same thing that he did with the drum, he just did by walking towards them. And then they ran away and gave up. They're like, okay, this doesn't make sense anymore. We tried taking the drum, we thought it was going to work. So when you have belief in the Dharma, when you care about the Dharma, when you reflect on the Dharma, you start to open yourself to power and light and all sorts of magical drums. Magical drums. We have some magical drums. Yeah. So one word of Dharma, one word of truth, one word that opens your mind to light, is worth so much. You could hear all sorts of stuff. You could read all sorts of stuff. You could comprehend and get a whole bunch of information about everything in the world. But if there's one little point about the Dharma, that when you apprehend it, when you get that information, it opens your mind. It's powerful. It's meaningful. It's spiritually enlightening. It's spiritually liberating. So when we care about the Dharma, we

0:37:42
we look for that truth.

0:37:44
Not just stuff and things, right, and information, but we look for that, you know, the heart of things, the truth of the of your spirit. Because it's there. It's here. When you care, when you're looking for the essence, the spiritual nexus of life, when you're looking for truth, it can be one little word, one little where your spirit connects with the Dharma and then it opens your spirit up to a beautiful spiritual experience, a beautiful satisfying experience where you can break out of being stuck in some kind of suffering. So if things are really hard, everything difficult is happening, That's where you have to care about the Dharma. You have to say, what here, where here can I practice bodhicitta? How can I do it? How can I get myself into the yoga of compassion so that it shows me a way out of the suffering? You reflect on that. And then when you can have that one idea, that one experience, that one experience of taking and sending, where compassion lights up, you transcend the difficult situation that you're in. And then it's magic. It's magic. Sometimes, here's the hard part, especially with difficult conditions, when things are hard and people are bad and you're stuck in traffic. When things get very difficult, we often forget that spiritual light. even if we're going through meditating every day, going through considerations of mindfulness, sometimes we can't see the forest through the trees. We get caught up in all of these ideas, we get caught up in all of the difficulties we're facing, we get caught up in the karma, surface experiences and You know, it's not very fun and we don't connect to the light and You could go on like that for a long time Where you're kind of going through through the steps, but you're not really really connecting to the light You're not considering the Dharma You're not reflecting on the Dharma and your pathway to enlightenment and caring for the Dharma. You're just kind of not looking deep enough, not applying the practices of Dharma that lead you to a brighter experience. And it's funny because when spiritual people do this, they lose, you lose the plot, is what I call it. Lose the plot, and you're like, I'm in a spiritual school, I'm on the pathway to enlightenment and I lost the plot and I'm just frustrated and angry. That's what's going on. And then they have a, you know, and that's people who miss the plot, right? People who don't value the Dharma, who don't connect to spirit, who don't care about the Dharma. So if you care about the Dharma, you practice the Dharma, right? But when it's just concepts to you, and you've lost the plot. Well, there's a place for you. Lots of people live there. People who don't care for the Dharma, when you're really, really not reflecting and looking at it and trying to find that light, make that connection where everything becomes the light of compassion, then you're the denizen of Asshole Valley. It's a place. Versus a Enlightenment mountain. You're in Asshole Valley. So, you know, and, you know, sometimes, you know, we look at assholes and we think it's kind of cool. A lot of assholes have nice cars, lots of money, you know, they got things that look pretty cool to us. So sometimes we get a little confused and we go, oh I want to be like those assholes. And then, you know, it's like you start focusing on the things that they're into and the way that they see things and you find yourself That's the place. But this can change. This can change by caring. But the other thing that some of you are doing, which is really odd, is you are spiritual assholes, which is probably the worst kind of asshole. You're the spiritual asshole who says, Oh, look, I made my yoga rank go up. I'm spiritual. I got my black belt. I'm spiritual. And you know, a wonderful thing that Rama used to always say is about martial arts, when you get your black belt, he says, that's the beginning. That's when you really start to learn martial arts. So when you get your black belt in your yoga rank, don't think that, oh, okay, I did it. I should be enlightened now. Right? You're like, oh, I got my black belt in Taekwondo. I'm a grandmaster. Right? So you got to have a little bit of perspective. When you are, I mean, it's beautiful how you think well of yourself, but then you find yourself in Asshole Valley. The biggest asshole of Asshole Valley. You're the mayor of Asshole Valley. You are his assholiness of Asshole Valley. That's what you became. Yeah, I'm not the mayor because of your spiritual Because he became so spiritual you became his or her ass holiness and It's funny because you know like it makes sense to you But you're not on Enlightenment Mountain when you're doing that So you have you have to recognize that the reason we have the yoga rank structure is to help you to understand how you're developing in practicing correctly. And if you're a black belt then you're practicing correctly. This is good. But you can't let it go to your head. So if you're getting your You know two hundred dollars an hour Rate or something it shouldn't you shouldn't be Wow, I'm better than everyone else so you're looking across the Yoga ranks and you're like I'm better than everyone else We should have we should add just a humility score and that one could go Stay out of asshole Valley. Very important. Very, very, very important. So we care, right? We're working on understanding that the practice caring about the practice of Dharma is very, important. It connects you with light and it connects you with wisdom and power. And when you don't value the Dharma, then you miss so much. One time I was in the Annapurna range, there's this beautiful stupa up on top of the hill. And I said, okay, I mean, it's a it's kind of a magical structure Stupas are considered to be a living Buddha and When when stupas are created, they're created by monks who go through a special practice special meditations special diet and then and then they create the stupa. And they have all sorts of structures, like on the bottom, they have the bottom of the stupa, inside or under it, they have the five representations of the five hindrances that we have to get above. And then stupas are filled with prayers. So there's all these prayers, like prayer flags, but really I think it's on paper, and they roll them up really tight and then they put them in the stupa. So it's actually filled, stupas are, some stupas, are filled with these prayers. There could be hundreds of thousands of prayers written and rolled up in that stupa. And then on the top they have the Buddha finger. So yeah, it's kind of funny. I think there's a lot of stupas where they're like, oh, we have Buddha's finger. I don't know why it became a very popular thing. I thought he only had 10, but there's at least a hundred stupas with Buddha's finger on it. It was his double, double fingers. So, yeah. So, you know, and then the last thing is that, you know, the, the highest teacher of the land will come over and they, they'll do this meditation where they, they go through a mandala and they're supposed to bring the mandala, the deity, the mandala down into the stupa. So, You know, soup is like sometimes a special thing. And I don't know, from where I was sitting, I looked up and it had a little gold roof on top, and it was painted gold on top, and I thought it was pretty, so I said, I'm going up there. So I took this long hike during the day. And about a quarter mile ahead of me on the trail were these two American guys. And they were, you know, they're just walking, talking, laughing. But when I was walking up there, I was like completely reflecting on my teacher's teachings. Now I had gone of course to Asia because my teacher died and I was looking for another enlightened teacher. And then after going around and asking, finding the most advanced people and seeing that some of them could go into Samadhi for like two, three, four seconds, ten seconds or something like that, which is cool. I mean, why not? And I think I came across four people who were strong at meditation and were able to go into samadhi. And then I remembered that my teacher was in sahaja samadhi, which is not just a little samadhi, a big samadhi all the time. So it's just the amount of enlightenment was so much bigger with him. And I was like, okay, I guess I gotta really just reflect on what he taught me, because I don't think I'm gonna find anyone else that's gonna be able to teach me as well. So I was just totally focusing on my teacher. My whole walk up there was a meditation, a reflection, was where I was really caring about what my teacher taught me. And it was a magical walk. A magical walk. And I, yeah, and it continued from there. My whole trekking through the Himalayas was a reflection on these amazing teachings. amazing teaching. And when I got to the top, you know, what I saw was the Americans, they got up there, and they were like, cool, we're here, looking around. They look at the stupa a little bit, and then they like look at the view. And then they sit down, they eat some food, and then they throw their garbage on the ground. And I was like, oh, wow. You know? And what I did was I got up there and I went over to the stupa. And you know, it's like some stupa. It's cool or whatever. But I looked at it. And on the stupa, there were these pictures. And the Americans glanced at them, and then they threw some garbage on the floor. But then I started looking at the pictures and they went around kind of spiraling up the stupa. And so the first set of pictures was the story of Buddha, the story of Buddha's birth all the way to his death. And so I really like observed that with care. And I was like, yeah, wow, Buddha started this whole thing. And it's really amazing, right? It's amazing that there's this enlightened being that started this tremendous structure pathway of life. of light. And then it went to a story of the next teachers spreading Buddha's teachings. And I followed it around, just seeing master after master, teacher after teacher spreading light around in the teachings after the Buddha. And it finally ended with a story of pictures of Atisha. So Atisha going from India and bringing the teachings of Bodhisitta to Tibet. And I sat there and I reflected on it. And I was like, wow, you know, there's something so beautiful about how Buddha began this amazing thing. He shared a way of Dharma, and it worked for other people. These other people learned and spread way past Buddha's life, and even today, you know, experience enlightenment because the Buddha shared it at one time. So I thought that was very beautiful and I had a deep regard for the Dharma. And then I sat down and I considered my teacher. I said, wow, you know, my teacher shared this amazing thing with me. I had no... The light is so precious. The light is so valuable. And you don't find the light hardly anywhere. It's so hard to find the light. And my teacher shared all of this light with me.

0:56:22
Like, a lot of light.

0:56:26
A lot of times. And he taught me how to connect with the light. And he taught me how to connect with him. And it's just something that's very rare and special. So I experienced the light and I thought about how it's so amazing that Rama taught that, you know. And then I thought about, you know, like how then, you know, Rama passed away, and how I was like one of those other guys, you know, on the stupa after Buddha passed what I did was I sat there and I meditated and I experienced what I think is at the time a teaching from my teacher. I didn't understand it at the time. All I did was, well, I was sitting there reflecting on how amazing his teaching and life was. And then I saw his face, even with my eyes open, I saw him like appear and there was gold light everywhere. And it was beautiful, amazing. And then that light was so bright that I completely went away in that light. The light just washed through me completely. And it was extremely enlightening and beautiful. And then after that reflection and meditation, then that's the place where I said, you know, like these other masters who came after the Buddha, I want to continue my teachers teachings to help other people. And that's why I said, you know what, I think I'll move back to San Francisco and teach there. So from that experience of caring for the Dharma, I experienced such a beautiful and amazing connection with light, and it exposed to me a very, very beautiful dharma and showed me what I should do. And then I moved to San Francisco and met you guys. I had to go from San Francisco to the valley. Valley, yes, I met you guys. And we'll see what happens from there. For me, it's okay. So this is my experience versus the experience of the other Americans on the hill. It was very, very, very, very profound and amazing. I was connecting with the Dharma and they were just like, oh, some stupid stupa. Let's litter on it. It's because of caring about the Dharma that I'm engaged in right now, which is teaching you guys junk. And it's beautiful and amazing. So you got to care. When you care about the Dharma, That's where everything amazing happens. When you care about the Dharma, that's how you can meditate. Because if you're not in touch with caring about the Dharma, you're just like, OK, it's morning. I sit down and meditate. But when I wake up, I'm excited about meditating. And I want to, like, I think how awesome is this? I get to meditate and become as bright and still as possible. This is so fun. This is awesome. I care about that experience. I care about connecting with the light. I care about it and it's exciting and fun for me. And when I meditate, I take the opportunity to, I take it seriously. I take the opportunity seriously and I care. And because of that, I have a wonderful experience. So you gotta care about your, if you care about your meditation, then you can start to say, oh, okay. That's where you will bring your full attention that's where you will honor the opportunity and That's where you can learn meditation better. You know, you can actually meditate so, you know, I

1:01:47
remember one once I

1:01:49
Was going I think out to Mount Tamalpais like three weekends in a row. And once it was too cold. Once it was too hot. And then Goldilocks. It was just right. And the time when it was just right, I had remembered, well, last time it was too hot. And it was like I was meditating and sweating and going,

1:02:23
ah.

1:02:24
And then the time before that, it was too cold. I couldn't meditate. I couldn't focus. This is a This is a long time ago before I even moved to New York, but on that day where it was perfect I said, oh, let me take this opportunity to actually really try to meditate Because the weather's good and I'm not bothered by this thing that it's too cold or it's too hot So I said, oh Let me let me do this. So I appreciated the opportunity that I had before me, because the conditions were, were good. Now, the conditions are always good. You all you every time you meditate, you have an opportunity to experience light, right? The spiritual experience where you break out of your heaviness and your self and you experience a higher state of light, a higher awareness of truth. That's always available. So it's like you have to care about that opportunity Because then that's where your meditation becomes wonderful It's the same for Bodhisitta Bodhisitta is all about Caring right? It's about caring for another's Well-being, caring about somebody else's suffering. And that's where we care, we practice because we care, we practice taking and sending. Now, if you're in touch with caring, then taking and sending is really easy. And the experience isn't just like a mental experience of going, ah, people, right? It's not just that. What happens is you deal with really difficult things, really difficult suffering. It might be yours, might be another person's. But when you care, that's when you really open up the gate of bodhicitta, which is all of a sudden there's this beautiful light of compassion and you practice taking and sending and the light of compassion gets even brighter and more beautiful. So caring about your meditation, caring about your practice of bodhicitta is what makes it

1:04:58
amazing, which makes it miraculous.

1:05:00
And if you're stuck in, you know, not caring, you're going through the routine of meditation. You're going through the thoughts of bodhicitta, but not really connecting to the light Got to reflect on it. You have to say well, I got it. I got to care more And when you care you you treat people properly you work with people perfectly I remember

1:05:30
Rama was

1:05:32
Interesting there was this one class where somebody asked a question and he gave a very nice answer explaining it it was actually one of the early very early classes for me and so there are the new people here and they're all like why do we have to dress up I wanted to come in you know ripped jeans and dirty socks. So they're all, so the first guy asks, why do we have to, you know, wear nice clothes to these meditation events? And then Rama explained it. And then the guy's like, okay, sounds nice. And then the next question in the audience was a girl who asked the same question. She's like, yeah, but why? Really? I was like, didn't I just, but then he, he like yelled at her. And so the first guy, very nice. And then the girl, he, yeah, he yelled at her, gave her a heart, very hard correction. And, you know, but it was also, it was very good. It was very bright and it showed a whole different aspect of the teaching of dress nice, right? And so it was like, oh, okay, really cool. And at the break, one of the new young students came over to him and said, so that was weird because like, you know, they asked the same question. And you gave like a nice answer. And then you gave like a really angry answer. And then so the guy was all like, so why do you do that? Rama? And Rama said, well, you know, I do it because I can see that there's a certain way to talk to someone and certain things to show them that will get them to understand about how to care about the Dharma care about why we do certain things and For the guy it was a nice way for the girl was the the other way so That's that's what he did And it was because you know, he was a an amazing teacher and he could see what would work, which reminds me of a joke. There's a guy and a parrot on an airplane. And the parrot, the flight attendant came over and said, okay, what would you guys like to drink? And he's like, the guy says, I'll have a tomato juice or something. And the parrot says, look here, you ugly cow.

1:08:39
I want a whiskey.

1:08:41
And then she says, what? Okay, and then he's like, snap to it you fat nasty and then the flight attendant walks away and she's very perturbed by this angry little parrot so she comes back with the whiskey but she doesn't bring the tomato juice for the guy because you know the parrot is the one talking about it and then then the guy says oh yeah um could I get my tomato juice? And she says, sure. And then the parrot downs the whiskey and says, I want another one. Make it a double this time, you disgusting pig. And she's like, oh my gosh, and he's all, snap to it. And then she goes away and she comes back with a whiskey, double whiskey. And then the guy's like, well, what about my tomato juice? And then she's like, oh yeah, okay, I forgot, I'll get it. And then Harret downs the double and says, you ugly, nasty, horrid woman, you're so disgusting, get me another one. And then he says, now do it. And then she runs off, very upset. But she comes back again with his whiskey, but not the tomato juice. So then the guy goes, well, I guess the thing I got to do is I got to act like the parrot so that I can get my tomato juice. So he says, you nasty cow, you're so ugly and fat. I want my So she starts, and then the parrot yells at her too. And then she just actually starts crying and walks away. And then she comes back with the scotch and the tomato juice this time, but she's really unhappy. And then before the parrot can ask for more, she walks away, and she's really upset. And then the guy's all, I guess that worked. But then, two flight attendants come over, two guys, big ones, and then they're mad because they're all like, hey, you can't treat her like that. So they grab the parrot and the guy, open up the door and throw them out. Get out of here. And then they're falling down going, ah. And then the parrot says, you know, you really got to watch what you say when you can't fly. I don't know how that joke goes with what I was talking about.

1:11:30
But it's funny. All right.

1:11:35
I think it's a good reason to take a break. Alright, so we're going to take a break for 15 minutes or so. We'll come back and meditate some more. Okay, we're going to do a little meditation. Why not? So again three songs one song each chakra the

1:12:15
the the the the the the the the so So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. the So, I'm going to play a little bit of it. so so so so so I'm not the one you're looking for the the the the the the the the the the the the the I'm sorry. the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the It's a beautiful thing. Very nice. I think a lot of times it's very difficult to deal with difficulties and and hardships, right? When you expect things to be okay. So change, there's the pain of change. When things change, it's unsettling, unless you're ready for it. So, you know, this is what the Buddha said, he said, suffering is like the flattened ox cart wheel. You're on the ox cart,

1:24:10
and most of the wheel is just fine. But you get to that flattened section and you're sitting there going, everything's good. And then, right? It's like this big chink and it hurts and it's startling.

1:24:21
change comes in.

1:24:22
And what we want to do is we want to be ready for that change. It's so funny because from your mindfulness practice, you've seen that the suffering is cyclical, and it comes back again and again. It's kind of like the same thing, unless you discover new suffering, which is always. But from your mindfulness practice, you've seen these cycles where you kind of go through the same thoughts and the same disturbing emotions and it is very unsettling. And you find yourself, you know, sitting there, miserable, right? But what I'm saying is, we want to, when everything's going smooth, and everything's fine, that's when we have to say, oh, when's that thing gonna come back? I'm gonna be ready for it, I'm coming, I have my bodhicitta ready. I'm ready for that suffering again. When's it coming? And then it comes, and you're not surprised, you're not all jolted. You're like, ah, this is this. I'm ready and committed to practice my bodhicitta now. Yeah, you know, because that change, that shift into suffering is always something that's like, oh, all of a sudden, you go from like an okay state of mind to a bad state of mind. And you're like, I don't know how I got here. I don't know where this came from. But sure you do. This is why we practice mindfulness. We practice bodhicitta as our mindfulness.

1:26:06
Yeah, because you know

1:26:08
changing into a difficult situation is painful and horrible unless you're practicing. If you're on it, like this is what Buddha said that an enlightened person watches and that watching is their most valuable possession. And this is because when something happens, a situation changes, things get bad, there's some suffering, there's a problem. right away with mindfulness, with bodhicitta. But if you're just kind of like going along on the ride and clueless and then all of a sudden you get jolted and you're like, oh, something horrible happened and now I am not mindful. Now I'm going through the karmas of You know, all sorts of horrible things happen, of course. But when you're mindful, when you're watching, when you're prepared to direct your mind to Bodhicitta at all times, then when it comes up, then you can deal with it. You know, it might be road rage. You're sitting in traffic, someone cuts you off, and you want to go into crazy road rage, this comes up again and again with you guys. Traffic and road rage. It's not that difficult. Road rage is not becoming of a Buddhist. So, when you get into a situation where there's traffic and you want to get angry, practice bodhicitta, relax, watch, right? When it's gonna come up, say, I'm not gonna get mad, I'm not gonna get mad, beat my horn and give someone the finger, I'm going to, because that's really not bodhicitta. I'll accept all loss and give all victory to the guy who cut it off.

1:28:26
It's important.

1:28:27
You know, all sorts of, I mean, all sorts of things happen. Maybe someone at work is mean to you, maybe it's your boss. And then you get mad, you have to practice, you have to practice your mindfulness. You have to be aware, you have to be watching watching. So that when it changes into something difficult, that you're on it with your practice, with your mindfulness. And then you say, oh, okay, this is happening now, and I'm dealing with it with Dharma. So whenever any difficulties come up, practice bodhicitta. Be ready. And like they say in Great Pathway of Awakening, for taking adverse conditions and turning them into the bring all blame into one. And what this aphorism means is that you have to recognize that even if there's difficult conditions, difficult circumstances, that your suffering comes from you, yourself, right? If you're dealing with difficult situation in a way of enlightenment, in a way of bodhichitta, then yeah, it's maybe a difficult situation. Yes. But at the same time, you're dealing with hardship, things have just changed into like a nightmarish situation, we can handle it with the practice of Dharma, with reflection and care. And then it turns into something bright. Even if it's the hardest thing, like traffic. Even if it's a very difficult situation where things are unfair and it's all bad, this is where we can say, okay, I see it coming and I'm going to practice. And anything that you suffer from is from your outlook. You start saying, Oh, I'm a victim. Someone's done me wrong. Someone beat me, hurt me, threw me down, robbed me. Buddha said, if you think this way, you think you live in hate. So you don't want to do that. We want to live in reflections of bodhisitta. It's our own outlook. Our own outlook. Maybe we do get beaten and robbed. But if we live in hate, if we always blame the other, think about the worst thing that happened, then we are having a bad experience. But even if you're beaten and robbed, if your reflections are reflections of compassion, then it's a very, very beautiful thing. I heard this story, I don't know the whole story, but there was this guy who was a nice guy, I don't know what his name was, but he was a very nice, beautiful being. And he was walking down the street one day and he got mugged. So what happened was, he's walking by the alley, a guy grabbed him, threw him into the alley, and then punched him. And he realized he started to get mugged. So what he did was, he took out his wallet and handed it to the guy. And then the guy took the wallet. And then he was like, Oh, this is awkward. And then and then and then he he also took off his jacket. He's like, Oh, here I have a really this is a really nice jacket. And he's like, Oh, and look, I have a ring and my watch. And he just starts giving stuff. So these are really good shoes. So here's my shoes, you know? And so the mugger is just, you know, he was desperate because he like had a, you know, he's like a drug addict and he was trying to get his fix. But this guy who he just grabbed and punched, realizing that he's getting mugged, all of a sudden he had concern and care for the mugger. He started giving him things and thinking, oh, you know, it's cold and your jackets old. So let me give you my jacket and then and then the The mugger took all the things Okay, and then he turned around and went away Well this next guy who who did this eventually he created this Billion dollar company he made a fortune and then and then he died. But at his funeral, this guy shows up, and he's like, after the eulogy, he's all, can I say a few words? And then, you know, everyone's like, oh, I guess so. And then he says, this happened to this guy, and his family knew about it and stuff. He's like, I was that mugger. I mugged this guy. And he said, and the fact that he just was giving me more than what I was asking for and that he was, he had concern, he was actually concerned for me, even though I was and beating him. He said that really just shifted everything for him. He was in crack or heroin or something like that, but because of that experience, later on he's sitting there with the stuff, the money and everything, but he's like, wait a minute, people could be good. And since I've seen a demonstration of that, I want to be good. So then he went and cleaned up, got off of drugs, and then became a nicer, better person. And it was because he experienced compassion. So it's kind of a neat little story. I forgot who the guy was who did it. But you know, it's like if you're, if something bad is happening to you, you could react like, oh, I blame you and everything's horrible. Or you could react with compassion. And at least for you, it makes all of the difference. But in this, like in this story, it also can make a difference for other people. That's the truth about Bodhicitta. You usually don't see it happen, but it does. Bodhicitta works. When you're dealing with hardship, when you're dealing with difficulty, when everything changes from it's all good to, oh my God, it's horrible, your outlook, you're responsible for an outlook of Dharma, of Bodhisitta. And that makes everything a spiritual adventure rather than an adventure of just suffering. So it's important that we drive all blame into one. That it's the recognition that our outlook, the way that we react to difficulty, is the thing that creates suffering. Sure, it might be hard, but with a positive mental attitude, with a vigilant focus on the Dharma, being ready for change, then it's a bright experience, even if it's hard, even if it's painful. But the suffering, it doesn't have to be there. The suffering is only there if we have that hurt, negative, victimized outlook. So then there's the person doing it to you, right? The person who mugged you, the person who cut you off in traffic, the person who's suing your company, the person... your boss is a jerk and who's giving you a hard time, right? Or, you know, the person that you're just mad at at the moment for whatever reason. So in the Great Pathway of Awakening, the teachings of Bodhisitta, for the third point of mind training, they say that you recognize when someone gives you a hard time, everything changes into someone did disrupt something, did something horrible to you or whatever. It's very important that, you know, sure we're street smart, you know. We don't turn the other cheek because if they throw another punch we block it, right? But it's very important to recognize that in our heart, in our inside and spirit, we don't want to be an angry, upset jerk. That's where we experience suffering. We want to work the solution and be smart, be intelligent, make things better, of course. But at the same time, we don't want enmity. We want to practice compassion. It's a much more fun way to live your life. We work on being impeccable and intelligent, grounded, and we work towards a good, bright, constructive solution, but we also come from a place of compassion so that we're happy. We're happy and we're bright. And that means that our outlook is an outlook bodhisitta. And we are recognizing that the other person is someone that we have to have a concern for their suffering. And that. You go from being upset to being happy, even when someone cuts you off in traffic. So this is something that I'd like to practice with you guys. I'd like you to think of someone who gave you a hard time. You're like, someone did something to me. Someone's doing something to me. I've got this hard time. Or maybe you were cut off in traffic on the way to the seminar. But a lot of you are dealing with

1:41:01
someone gave you a hard time.

1:41:02
So, and if you're not dealing with it right now, you could probably remember a time where someone gave you a hard time. What I'd like to do is I'd like to practice bodhicitta together.

1:41:19
We're going to

1:41:21
do one song bodhicitta, relative bodhicitta meditation practice where we're going to bring to mind that person who gave us a hard time or who's giving us a hard time, and you will practice taking and sending for them. So you will practice having compassion for them. Give them the victory, is what the book recommends. You win, you can accept the loss, and you practice taking it on the breath, inhaling the darkness, inhaling their suffering, inhaling their unhappiness. You take a look from their perspective and then you give them your light. This is the practice of bodhicitta. So practicing bodhicitta on someone who's giving you a hard time is very, very important because it makes life bright. So we're going to do that together.

1:42:31
we'll sit for just one song You're not alone. You're not alone. You're not alone. You're not alone. You're not alone.

1:42:47
You're not alone.

1:42:49
You're not alone.

1:42:51
You're not alone.

1:42:53
You're not alone. You're not alone. You're not alone. You're not alone. You're not alone. You're not alone. so so the the the the you so so so Very good. Yeah, this is always the way where it works out, where someone gives you a hard time, but eventually, in order for you to not suffer from it, eventually you have to be okay with it. As long as you hold the grudge or you're mad

1:48:07
about it and you feel like a victim, then you're always hurt. You're the one suffering because of your outlook. But when you really can practice true bodhicitta for that person, you let go of suffering. And that's a better way to go. Of course, there's always the third noble truth, which is suffering eventually comes to an end anyway. Maybe it'll come around again, but it's like you will experience a piece of suffering and then it has to stop. It has to stop on its own. So you also have to have perspective when you're suffering. You know a lot of times when you're feeling all the suffering because of whatever, you just think this is the way life is and it's never ever going to be different. And then you have to say wait a minute. Just start going, wait, this is not true. I have experienced higher, brighter experiences of light, and life isn't just this way. But when you're in it, when you're in a dark state of mind, the thing about it is you can't see out of it. You just feel like that's with Bodhisattva. But again, it's going to go away at some point. There was this man who was swimming and he got caught in a tide, like a riptide that pulled him straight out to sea. And it was a very, very strong pull. So he was just getting pulled out and he was smart. He didn't fight it. Because that's where if you're getting pulled out and you're fighting against it, you'll eventually get exhausted and then just drown. But he said, okay, I'm getting pulled out because the thing about it is it's going to let up at some time. It's only going to take you so far and then you'll have the options to deal with it when it's not so strong. So this is like suffering. Sometimes it comes, grabs you, but you have to have the perspective. This is a transient experience. It's going, you know, even if you're in a dark messed-up state of mind, you have to just say, hey, this is going to change. It's not going to be, it's not this way. This is transient. Eventually, this will change and I could look at things in a different way. I could be more balanced again, like I have been before. Yeah, now change is actually very good. I'm gonna tell you about a really beautiful change tonight.

1:51:14
Yeah.

1:51:15
Yeah, change is so wonderful because when we get kind of just locked into our ways of looking at things, we get into routines, and then we don't see past the way that we keep seeing life. So change, even if it's like, you know, a difficult, something that seems like a difficult change, it's not so bad. It actually gets us to look at things in a different way. Change is wonderful. Transience, right? You move from one transient experience to another, and you go, oh, okay, I see a difference. But lots of people, I mean, most people hate change. So that's why we practice mindfulness. We're ready for change. We're not surprised when something difficult happens. know, things are delicate. And we care because of things being delicate. When you're changing, there's something very beautiful about it. Because it goes from a solid experience to something new.

1:53:17
And the new experience is something

1:53:18
that's fragile and wonderful. Yeah, we appreciate flowers, flowers, because they're delicate and they don't live very long. And there's a beauty to it. Yeah, that's why we like to have wine in a wine glass. So you have to have a little bit more care other than a plastic cup. Plastic cup, the experience is just different, right? You're like, oh, plastic cup, I see. But in a wine glass, it's more elegant, but you could drop it and it could break. The plastic cup, if you drop it, it's fine. Or, you know, have dinner with a candle as your life. It's more special because you have this little candle, goes out after a little while, but it makes a different experience.

1:54:28
So, you know, a candle.

1:54:30
So yeah, have dinner with a candle and have a glass of wine. Enjoy, pray. So, you know, when we experience, you know, things that change and we experience things that are fragile or delicate or only last for a certain time, we recognize that there's something really beautiful about it and we can accept it. We don't have to be plastic cups and neon lights. So when things change, we say, oh, okay, we're going to another beautiful, delicate experience. That's very nice. That's very nice. So now I'll tell you about our change. This is not a change for all of you, but for some of you. I guess it's a change for everyone in the US Sangha. Our change is that we are going to conclude the Bodhi Woods Dharma. We're going to move out of Bodhi Woods. We're not going to continue with the construction project on expanding the house and we're going to move out. The Bodhi See, I told you it was a very, very special, beautiful thing, Bodie Woods, a beautiful opportunity. But now it has become something that will change. And we'll go into another situation that's going to be beautiful and awesome and fantastic and fragile and special. So when I was in Iceland, there's this one place of power I like very much, and it's a place of power that's excellent for seeing. So you just kind of go there and then all these amazing wonderful things come up that you can just see. You can start just apprehending information that makes sense. So at this place, through reflection there, I saw that this would be the change that we will make. And one of the things that is driving it, practically speaking, is financial tone-out. So I want all of my students to have a stronger financial tone out. This is something that we work on from time to time. But it's a new idea. And the new idea is to diversify your portfolio by investing in real estate. So that means I want you to buy a house. Yeah. So, this is good because, you know, a lot of you guys in the valley are renting, right? And renting means you're throwing your money away, right? And when you buy a house, at least all the money goes into the house, and at some point you can sell it and get back what you put in, plus whatever the percentage of appreciation is. So a big expense, of course, in our lives is spending money on the place that we live. And if you're spending money on buying a place, then at least you're putting that money into equity and you're gonna be able to get that money back. So, and it's an investment because real estate will appreciate and therefore you will make money on this investment. And it's good to have a diverse portfolio. You have stocks and equities, but at the same time you also want to have some real estate. So that's the financial toenail part of it. So it's a good idea for that reason. And also, besides the financial tunnel, it's my seeing that this would be stronger for your personal power and your spiritual practice. You know, a number of times in Bodie Woods, I would yell at you guys. I'd be like, you guys are making a mess. You know, you start to get, you know, line things out, you start to like look at things in a very limited way, you know, like a Lot of you guys like just never even show up for morning meditation and things like that. You don't you don't Appreciate the opportunity you start you lose it and so It's nice to restructure things so that it works out better So This is a new, fun, exciting thing. And there's gonna be a lot of structures and timelines and all sorts of things like that that we'll talk about in detail later. But this is a big change. There's a place I want you to move to, a place where I want you to buy a house. I think it's a pretty amazing place. It's pretty special. The place is called Pacifica. Now, the first reason that I started being interested in Pacifica was because Yana lives there and I was like well you know it's like he has a you know good discrimination and good seeing right so if he lives there there's a reason right really I'm not kidding this isn't funny so that that maybe go wow cool neat So that made me go, wow, cool, neat, interesting. And then I went there and I looked at it and I looked at it on the map and I'm like, wow, this is so interesting. There's a practical reason as well. One reason is because, this is very important, when you live in Pacifica, it's 20 minutes to downtown San Francisco and 45 minutes to San Jose, because you're right close to 280. So right now, we're most of us are limited to Silicon Valley market, but the San Francisco market is a very big market. So if you live in Pacifica, then you're going to be able to interview in both places and your rates are going to go higher. So it gives you more opportunity. And that's very important to me. I think that Pacifica is really such a perfect spot. First of all, it's on the ocean side. And so there's that whole thing, the ocean, which is very beautiful. It's wonderful to live near the ocean. I always wish that in Bode Woods. I'm like, oh, if there was an ocean a little closer that I could see, it would be great. So it's picking up that ocean energy line. And also in Pacifica, you can meditate. So I keep telling you guys, it's very hard to meditate in the valley and you probably notice if you live there And that's why Bodhi Woods is a really good place for meditation. It's really nice. But the valley boy when we lived in the valley It's like

2:03:02
Really hard to bed

2:03:04
so met so the valley just has just there's a little bit of toxicity and stuff because of all the dreamers pushing their ideas of their companies, and it makes it harder to meditate, unfortunately, right? So, you know, that's why I want to move out of the valley and over to Pacifica. So, I was in Pacifica the other day and I just went to some various places around town and I just sat there and said, how easy is it to still my mind? And I said, oh, it's very easy. So the Valley, not a good, it's very difficult. San Francisco, really bad. In San Francisco, while you're meditating, you feel like smoking a joint. What's going on?

2:03:59
It's not right.

2:04:00
And Daly City is a little too funked out.

2:04:02
It's really funked out, right? And then Pacifica, it's like, you start to feel,

2:04:06
oh, there's an ocean. And oh, it's kind of nice here. So this is really good. So this is the location I'd like you to go.

2:04:16
Yeah, so I think it's very, very, very interesting.

2:04:20
And that's the change that we're going to make. And we'll make it gradually and talk more about it and everything. But what a wonderful glass of wine and candle Boaty Woods is, and the new Pacifica experience will be. Something new and something special, something that works to be stronger for your life. That's what we're always making our way to. Making things stronger for your life. So, that's the change. So, it's easy to deal with change, right? In one way, it's kind of sad. Bodie Woods is going away. But in another way, it's totally exciting and fun. And it just opens us up to see that, you know, when we follow these little structures, like the Bodie Woods National Adventure, the Pacifica Adventure. It's just happy, it's bright. They're fun experiences. Happy. I'm happy. Okay, so change and difficulty. Practicing the Dharma. Just, you know, it's not so difficult. You just have to be present. You have to be present in the moment and care. Care about the opportunities that you get. Care about your opportunity to live in Pacifica. Care about your opportunity to practice bodhicitta. When you are just present in the moment and you care, then when the things come up, even difficulties, you are capable of dealing with it. When some big changes come up, you can deal with it in a beautiful way. That's what we want to do. Because when you care about the Dharma, then you start to see deeper truths. You start to see that things are awesome and just dimensions of amazingness that are there. And you even see the ultimate truth when you are still quiet and meditating. When you're in the moment, when you're practicing Bodhicitta, there's good things. There was a famous Buddhist abbot, I forgot his name, but there was a king who got him to promise, hey, if I build you some temples and stuff, can I come over and talk to you anytime I have a spiritual question? And then the abbot was like, sure. So one day, the abbot was, I don't know, in a bad mood. He wanted to meditate, and then the king comes over, and the king says to him, you know, where is the light of the self? Right? And then the, the abbot's like, Oh, you're pestering me with questions again, right? So he goes, it's, you know, the sun. Yeah, the sun, when you when you see the sun, that's the light. And then He says, well, what if it's nighttime? And then he's like, ah, this guy's bothering me again. So he says, oh, the light is the stars. And then he's like, oh, okay, stars, I got it. Then he said, but what if there's clouds? And then he says, well, the light is your lantern.

2:09:15
And then he goes, oh, okay,

2:09:16
well, what if my lantern runs out of oil? And then he says, oh, then the only light left is you. And then he goes, oh, okay, makes sense. Simple thing, right? But this is also something that Sariputra, one of the top students of the Buddha, he was practicing the set of practices and meditation and stuff by himself for a long time. And he was making a lot of progress. And then one day he saw one of Buddha's monks come over. And this was a young Arhant, you know, like in his 20s or something like that. And Sariputra was like, wow, like this guy knows something. He's like, I see that this guy really knows something. So he goes over to him and says, he's like, where's enlightenment? You gotta tell me, where is it? And the Arhant says, oh, I don't know much about it. And then Sariputra is following him around on his little alms round and he's like, he's like, you've got to tell me where enlightenment is. And then finally, the Arhat says, well, it's within you. And this was a revelation for Sariputra. And that's why he immediately became a non-returner and then became a student, became an arhant himself. So light is within you. We see that when we care about the Dharma. We see it, it's amazing. So you gotta be able to deal with changes like moving out of the bathroom, moving to this new place, Pacifica, buying a house, things like that.

2:11:31
I used to change. Change is good.

2:11:33
Let's see.

2:11:34
I don't want to keep you guys too late tonight. But I will tell you another story. Hopefully to entertain you. Buddha met this Brahman and he told him,

2:11:45
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.

2:11:47
looks more inferior, it's something that I've been with for a long time. And the Buddha said, oh, you have to, you got to change the way that you think. And he, and Buddha told him a story about two men that went to an abandoned village. There was a war coming or something, and everyone kind of ran away. And these guys are like, oh, we could sneak in and maybe find some good stuff. So they, they sneak in and the only thing that they can find of any value is a bunch of hemp. So they take some time, they bind up all the hemp, put it in their bags, and then they walk out. On the way out, they find hemp that's already woven into cloth. And then one of the guys goes, oh, this is probably better. Now I don't have to actually weave it. So he says, okay, I'm going to unpack this, throw it down, and then I'm going to take the cloth. The other guy goes, oh, I already went through all the trouble of packing my hemp. So I'm just going to keep the hemp. I know that maybe later I'll have to do something with it, weave it or something. And then he says, okay, so we keep going on. And then they find some cotton cloth. And then the guy who had the hemp cloth goes, cotton's better. So he goes to, takes his pack, opens it up, takes everything out. Then he gets the cotton, then he rolls it up, puts it in the pack, goes through all the trouble. The other guy's like, I can't be bothered. I know cotton's better, but whatever.

2:13:59
And then they keep walking.

2:14:01
And then they come to some silk cloth. And then the guy's like, well, I haven't done it for, you know, I haven't done it at all. I just keep my hemp. So even though the silk is really nice and worth more, I just, nah, I'm just not going to do it. But the other guy exchanges the cotton for the silk and then they come across silver. And then the guy's like, well, I'm so infested in this hemp.

2:14:26
I'm.

2:14:27
So he keeps the hemp over the silver. The other guy takes the silver and then they come across gold. And then, you know, same thing happens and they get back to their village. And then, you know, Buddhists, everyone's like, wow, you know, if you come across something better, you gotta take it, go through the trouble of dropping the other stuff and taking the better thing. And every time you take those steps, things get better. But if you always hold on to something, you'll become invested in it more and more to the point where you're crazy, where you hold an idea that's more limited over something that's totally amazing. You'd rather hang on to your hemp than gold. So, changes are good. Alright, so, ooh, very funny. I used to love it when my teacher would just change things completely around all of a sudden. It was so fun. He had such great style. He would just do it so fun. It was so funny. But at the time when it was happening, I was like, no! I'm just like barely keeping up. I remember one time he was a spiritual teacher and he had meditation classes and seminars and he also had a lot of people who didn't like him. So he had a lot of opposition and people are like, you know, and they were like writing articles about him because he was teaching and then Then one day he said I'm no longer going to teach you guys meditation and this whole spiritual stuff. Forget it. It's over Now we're just gonna do business It was like he's like if you want to do the meditation thing, get out of here. If you want to do the business thing, you can stay.

2:16:54
And I was like.

2:16:55
No.

2:16:56
I'm like, I wanted to learn meditation at one time, but I didn't practice very hard. So yeah, he used to do all these wonderful things

2:17:06
that were so exciting.

2:17:07
Yeah, see, you know, it's like, you know, things have to change so that you can get unstuck from seeing things a certain way. And then, you know, you end up really, you know, caring more because you realize how special all of the things that we do are. And, you know, Rama definitely said, okay, just business, but then just business was the business of enlightenment. We were just working on companies, but it's still amazing. And it just opened up this whole new experience of enlightenment. So it wasn't so scary, but they don't. There was a Zen practitioner, a monk, and he was very serious. He's like, Zen master, I need to know the best meditation to become enlightened. And they says, Oh, he's like the Vipassana, right? And then the monk practiced diligently, diligently, and diligently. And then after several years, he's like, Zen master, I haven't become enlightened yet. This focus on the breath, you said is the best way. And then the Zen master goes, oh no, that's not the best way. He's like, you act, he's like, he's like, if you're focusing on your breath, you're just focusing on your physical body all the time. He's like, the best way is this secret mantra. I told him the secret mantra. And then he goes, okay, okay. He's like, you know, because I asked you before. And now it's years later, I'm an idiot for even doing this. And now, okay, but now he gave me the special mantra. So he's meditating with the special mantra and he's like, I'm meditating really hard. And then a few years later, he's like, the special mantra is just not working Zen master. And then the Zen master goes, you're doing a mantra?

2:19:23
What kind of idiot uses a mantra?

2:19:26
He's like, you just need to, you know, just meditate on your navel. And he's like, Zen master, I was asking you, which was the best way and then the Zen master says, this is the way, just meditate on the navel. Then he goes, okay, meditates for several years and then he goes back, Zen master, it's not working. He's like, what are you doing now? He's like, just sit there and stop thought. So he finally figures that out. Zen Master is all, meditation is stopping thought. That's all you do. That's it. You don't have to focus on your breath or whatever. And then finally he sees that it was all directing him towards stopping thought, that he has his tori, becomes enlightened, and they all lived happily ever after. So we think things change, but on the path it's always something to enlightenment. Sometimes it seems like it's the opposite or very drastic or different, but when you see it in the proper perspective, it ends up being the same thing. I heard a thing from a quantum physicist. He was saying that there's as much positive matter or energy in the universe as negative, that they're actually equal. And if they came together, they would all cancel each themselves out and there would be nothing. So there is nothing. Actually, nothing is what there is. But then sometimes we see something positive and something that's negative. And it seems so different, but if it all came together, we'd get back to that nothingness. And nothingness is what we care about, right? In spiritual practice, we find that when we stop thought, that there's nothingness. And that's what we work for, work towards, experiencing. So that's what we care about. We care about the Dharma. Even when things are hard and difficult and someone's trying to sue you or cut you off in your lane, we care about the Dharma and we work on being aware, so that we can practice bodhicitta, so that we can practice meditation. We look at our opportunities and we say, Wow, this is a great opportunity. This is a chance for me to experience enlightenment. So we're going to conclude with our final meditation. We're starting from this disposition of caring for the opportunity, caring for the Dharma. We're so fortunate to have meditation. So fortunate to have these teachings and to have the that appreciation for enlightenment. We'll do one song, focused on the third eye, and eyes open looking up towards me. the

2:23:33
so Oh, the the the the So So So so I'm not afraid of you I'm not afraid of you Yeah, you gotta lighten up. Gotta lighten up. We sit here tonight

2:29:16
sharing the Dharma and the light in these teachings, the light of my teacher. So bright, so beautiful. It's worth caring about. When you care about it, you experience it. Very good. Thank you all very much. Now, I have a few announcements. I'm going to clear our red tag at Bodie Woods on September 15th. on September 15th, that's a Monday. So I'm going step by step with him. There's still some things I need to figure out before we create a schedule. I need to figure out if we have to take down the yurt deck or not. My land use consultant says no, but we have to make sure the county agrees with him. And I'm also gonna see if he'll let us keep the cabins on the land, just no one living in them, and disconnected from utilities. That should be okay. But if he says, no, they have to be off, then we need to hire a bunch of tractors. So we're stepping through this, seeing what we have to do to make sure it makes sense. But pretty soon, probably by Wednesday, I'll know what we have to do, and then we'll start making a schedule. It's probably going to be that we have to do, plan it, we're going to hire the right people to pull it off. So at the time of the Equinox, some of you were up to the 15% challenge, right? And you And we went on either the Italy trip, there was like 15 people on the Italy trip. It was really nice. Prego. Yeah, that was really great. And then, let's see, there was two Iceland trips, 10 people on each trip. So a lot of you guys did it, and that was really awesome. In fact, there were only two people who didn't. But I have an offer for them. I think you guys came close. So I want you to keep pushing for your 15%. And if you can do it by the Equinox, I guess, something like that, then you can join me on my next trip to Europe. then you can join me on my next trip to Europe. You could either come to Hungary, or after Hungary, I'm going to go to Spain.

2:33:04
Spain.

2:33:05
But my mother will be there.

2:33:10
My mom wants to go.

2:33:15
My mom is so funny when she goes to Hungary, right? Some of you guys have seen my mom in Hungary. She speaks Spanish to Hungarians.

2:33:26
And she's just like, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.

2:33:28
She's great.

2:33:29
She loves the Hungarian saga. You guys, I don't know.

2:33:34
She doesn't like you.

2:33:35
All right, so Spain is the next trip

2:33:38
for the couple people who didn't make it.

2:33:41
If you want to, you can push and maybe make it onto the next trip. Just those people, see, it's even more special. Yes. So they could go to Spain or Hungary? Yeah, or both. So I'm gonna go out to teach the Hungarians and then right after I'm going to go to Spain. And it should be cool. I think that's what's going to happen.

2:34:15
No, sorry. Yeah, I know, but it's awesome. It's fantastic to get a first tech job,

2:34:25
but I want the people I wanted the people to be at a higher level. I don't want you taking time off. It's your first tech job. Okay, please send all your please. I'd like each of you, if you would, please send your resume to Wanda. Right there. So we are starting liberation technologies recruiting very soon, and Wanda is going to make sure that we have that level of quality across the whole sangha. And then if she sees anything else that's interesting, she might add it to our best practices. Yes. Okay. What else? What else is going on? Oh, I'd like to talk to you guys about Hawaii. So you guys know that our next opportunity to have a place where we can hang out together, all together, is going to buy land and build a retreat that has really good tonal. It's not going to be all slapdash like Bodie was. We're going to architect it properly from the beginning. So a couple of things came up when I was out there with Raja and Dharma. We were looking at the properties and we're using a, thank goodness, a land use consultant. So he's like, yeah, this one can work. This one can work. But it was all we would have to get a special use permit. And getting that in Hawaii can be really difficult because Hawaiians don't want anything to change. And when someone puts up the public notice that there's going to be, you know, like a 100 bedroom mansion that's going to be built there, what they do is they get all their cousins. They're all, hey, we've got to go to this public hearing and say no. And so we heard some horror stories and just the difficult path. So we decided that we don't want to do that. So it was on the solstice we found a solution. There's a 170 acre parcel in the South Cona, which is really the area I like. And it can be subdivided to have 34 subdivisions. And then you could build a house, a five, six bedroom house on each one. So you wouldn't have to get a special use permit. So that's going to be the thing that we have to do. This is a really nice parcel. It's very unusual because it goes from the road all the way down to the ocean. So it's very rare to come across oceanfront. So we're going to progress with that, but the Pacifica house investment is a higher priority. So we're going to have to make sure we have our plans, that we make our financial models so that everything's going to make sense. But it should work out, but I'm just telling you, Pacifica house, more important, higher priority. All right, let's talk about the solstice. I was saying we should go to Thailand because we have a chunk of time and Thai food is really good but we couldn't work it out with the dive boats. We're a rather large group and it's a third world country. So instead we're going to go to a Caribbean island called Bonaire. Bonaire is one of my favorite dive islands in the Caribbean. It's really, really awesome. So that's what we're going to do. We're going to go there on the 18th or 19th, so either of those days, because we're going to really start our thing on the 20th. And we're going to go through to scuba diving. So it'll be pretty incredible. It's an amazing place. Fantastic diving. And a happy place. So that's what we're going to do. What I'm going to do is we're going to schedule everybody on buying their airfare. Because remember last time we were like, oh, all in the same time, same night buying our airfare. The websites are smart and when they see demand going up, they start jacking up the price. So we're going to schedule it where like 10 people a day will be buying or something like that. So you're going to get an email with a date for you to buy your ticket. And you'll get additional information about the trip.

2:40:28
Okay

2:40:30
Yes, we're gonna make a change in the martial arts class All right, so martial arts classes Monday and Wednesday are going to be Bodon classes. So the Bodons need to start focusing on sparring more. So we're going to be, these are going to be fight classes. So Monday and Wednesday, you guys got your basics down. We don't need to work on it very much. We might learn some of the new kicks and stuff like that, but we're going to be doing a lot more sparring because that's the way you get a black belt. You've got to beat a black belt. And to beat a black belt, you've got to be able to fight. That's just due technique, right? So we're going to start working on sparring. So Tuesday and Friday will be, I think we might do it in the valley, because there's a lot of people who aren't up at Bodie Woods. So we have the Ben Gini Dojo. And I'd like to do it there if we can. So then that way the white belts get, all get together. All right, additionally, I sent an email out. So in Bodie Woods, Yana has been teaching basics martial arts. For a while it was just only Security who was getting the advanced teachings of martial arts. Really amazing. But then he started teaching some of the basics, which is really, really important for everyone to know. So if Yano would like to, I think that we'll start doing basics class like we did today, basics class for anyone in the sangha who wants to come up. And then after that, it's the security training. Basics are awesome, by the way, in martial arts. I could do, you know, like practicing basics all day is super, super fun and helpful. So, and everyone was, I don't know if you guys went, but everyone that I talked to was like, oh my gosh, basics class is so amazing. It is.

2:43:07
So, you know, I really recommend that everyone does it,

2:43:10
even people who are black belts go to basic class because, yeah, there's, you know, when you're stronger in your foundation, stronger in your basics, then your jumping, spinning, flying thrust kicks work out better too. It's true. Yeah, and also, you know, Yana is, I don't know, like, I'm like, let's see here. Yeah, I'm a martial arts master. It's just amazing. It's like some of the most amazing martial arts that I've experienced. In fact, I haven't experienced anything like that except for Rama, who had magical Siddha powers. So it's really incredible. Really recommended. Okay, and that is it for the announcements of things. So thank you all very much. It was very nice spending time with you guys in meditation. Really wonderful. And I look forward to the adventures up ahead. And I look forward to the adventures up ahead. All right, have a good night.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
