0:00:00
We are going to talk about damaged auras. Women get damaged auras a lot faster than men get damaged auras. One of the ways that women get damaged auras is having sex. So when you have sex, a guy's aura goes into your aura. It'll rip it. And then the other lovely thing that men do is they have bad conditioning. Probably about 9.95% of men have this kind of bad conditioning where they automatically in their mind, even if they love you to death, also have violence towards you. They get afraid of women's power. And so they act that out energetically in your aura if you have sex. And what it does is it creates, you know, what do we call them? The golden worms? Right? In Carlos Capitaneta. So what that does is it leaves this horrible kind of energetic scar that has this bad attention and moves around in your aura. And we call them worms because they're nasty, like worms. And just imagine all these worms rolling around in your aura. You're meditating, you're trying to clear out, you're trying to be bright, but then these nasty little toxic worms are crawling around in your aura. That is the result of having sex and that is damage to your aura. These things can be cleaned up. It takes a lot of time and attention, generally seven years, but with me it goes faster because I do a lot of purification work when I work with However, if you keep having sex, you keep getting more. Another way that women get a damaged aura is just being around men. So when a man throws sexual energy at a woman, which guys do like every eight seconds, you're walking down the street and there's a guy on it you're probably getting hit so what happens is this energy from the man's naval chakra is hitting the woman's aura it's you know and it's just it's an impression of just yucky nasty just like Like, remember Wayne's World?

0:02:51
Where Garth is like, schwing, schwing, schwing, schwing,

0:02:54
and everybody goes to sleep. That was a happy way of looking at it. So, guys do that.

0:03:03
They go to a nightclub or something,

0:03:05
and they're like, bam, bam, bam, bam. So, that is a way that you pick up toxicity and damage as well. So, if you practice inaccessibility, if you hold your sexual energy in and the guy doesn't notice you that much, then he doesn't throw sexual energy at you. However, if you're visible, then the guy's going to, boom, beat you. So there's ways to avoid it. There's caretaker personalities that guys don't enjoy also, that you can hold your energy in. So there's ways of dealing with that. that you can pull your energy in. So there's ways of dealing with that. The third way where women get damaged auras is having children. So when you have a kid, when the baby comes out of you, it rips a gigantic hole in your aura. And that causes a ton of damage. Most American mothers never heal their auras afterwards. It's possible to heal their aura, but Americans are so horrible with their energy that they usually don't heal their auras. Europeans are a little bit better, a little bit. So there might be, in general, like 30% of Europeans who tend to heal their auras after having children. However, Asians mostly feel their aura's after. They have certain cultural conditions that tend to, and ways of holding their energy and awareness of what to do after you have a kid, that tends to be better. So, you know, like China and Japan, usually it's like 70% where they naturally heal their own. So these are three ways where women get damaged auras. And we have to have special attention to cleaning up this damage. Because if your aura's damaged, you're spiritually limited. That's just it. The light is going to come in. It's going to flow right out. Even if you go sit with your enlightened teacher, get empowered, if your subtle physical body can't hold it, then you lose that energy right away. If you've got so much toxicity in your aura, you're just going to be really confused, you're not going to have proper discrimination, and you're going to lose the energy. So it's very important that we address cleaning aura of toxicity and healing it of damage. Please translate. I'd like to talk a little bit about the auric effects of being a mother. So the second chakra of a woman cool that doesn't happen as much in a man. It happens about 90% in a woman, about 10% in a man. And that is, when you make a baby, there's a connection with the second chakra and the divine. And it reaches into the bardos, but it reaches into the bardos in a totally divine dimension. And that's where babies come from. They come from the bardos.

0:06:37
So.

0:06:38
And you can see it.

0:06:39
You can see it in a woman who's pregnant.

0:06:42
There's some divine connection.

0:06:44
There's a connection to light. And that connection comes from the second chakra. It happens for men as well, but in a much more diminished way. A man can explore that and have that connection as well, but they usually are oblivious to it. So this happens to women, whether muggle women or anything. So this is a very very interesting cool thing. So if you're pregnant then there's actually a prenatal meditation that you should do. Actually why don't we do that together? Why don't you translate that first? For this meditation we will meditate to the last song on City of Lights, the Eiffel Tower song. And what we're going to do is we're going to just have a visualization of a orange bubble around us. So in this meditation, the dimensions here are here are extremely positive for your experience and your baby-to-cums experience. So, you sat and got pregnant and have a kid, and definitely this is a supportive dimension. And this, again, is a dimension that I definitely have had students who have gotten pregnant and had kids. It's a dimension that I extend to them so that their kids can be more happy and stuff. Alright, please translate.

0:08:57
Let's begin. so so so Oh I'm not sure what I'm doing here. I'm not sure what I'm doing here. I'm not sure what I'm doing here. I'm not sure what I'm doing here. I'm not sure what I'm doing here. I'm not sure what I'm doing here. I'm not sure what I'm doing here. I'm not sure what I'm doing here. I'm not sure what I'm doing here. I'm not sure what I'm doing here. I'm not sure what I'm doing here. I'm not sure what I'm doing here. I'm not sure what I'm doing here. I'm not sure what I'm doing here. so the the the So. So the next consideration for a mother is healing the subtle physical body after birth. So as I said, not a lot of people do that, but if you're going to practice meditation, it's a good idea. Well meditating in itself is a way to heal the self physical body. Meditation,

0:14:07
Tai Chi, Hatha yoga, yeah these are all very good ways to heal the aura. Another way to heal the aura is to be in water a lot there. Then he got into scuba diving. So, being in nature is also very good, because if you have a big, deep hole in your aura and you're getting natural energy, it's a very good way to heal the aura. So you have to be very careful not to get the aura damaged anymore but then you have to start working on ways to heal it. Qi Gong also very good for breathing exercises. So you know all of these are positive considerations don't overdo it. So when I have a couple who have a baby I always tell the man you gotta do a whole bunch of stuff because we're Westerners. But I'm like no rest, rest. We're going to do one meditation practice that is a very very strong positive way for healing. Of course all of the women who are my students, I already work on this dimension with you So, you know, that's why your aura When we're together gets healed But as long as you're like not breaking it again But just to bring it to attention to mind this practice will be a focus on the navel chakra and we'll do a little bit of breathing. We will inhale a full slow inhalation, hold your breath for a couple of seconds, exhale a full exhalation, and hold and after you exhale just don't breathe for a couple of and then inhale again, full inhalation. We're just going to breathe in this breath cycle. Full inhalation, hold your breath. Full exhalation, hold your breath. And all the time, you're focusing on the navel chakra and seeing it in a yellow light. Please translate. This is a very powerful healing practice. It's both very helpful for healing holes in the aura, damaged aura, and it's also very good for purging toxicity out of the aura.

0:17:04
Translate. Let us begin. you. the the the you the the the you All right. The additional considerations for being a mother, I will fold into the considerations of lines and healing. Please translate. In the beginning, you make connections with people through energetic lines for different reasons. So

0:20:33
if a woman wants to attract a boyfriend they very often will extend a line from the second chakra to the man's third chakra so that there's a connection there and then the woman will use her influence or her power to get the man's attention. That's a very common use of a line. Having a kid makes a line. Any use of any connection in your life with sexuality, emotion, creative projects, sometimes work. These are places where a woman will extend energy from the second chakra. And my rule is, it's fine to extend as many lines as you want, as long as they are profitable to your personal power and happiness. Please translate.

0:21:39
Control or unaware,

0:21:41
that's where you lose power. So what we're gonna do is we're going to look at ways of, we're gonna look at what's going on, take stock of where our lines are, and then we're going to do three things, three considerations of lines. We're going to cut lines, we're going to clear lines, and we're going to empower lines. Please translate. Is what lines we need to cut. So if you have a line from the second chakra to some person who's very bad for you, they're bad for your personal power. A lot of women do this in relationships. They'll have a boyfriend or husband or something where they are totally attached, totally have a very, very strong line of energy from their second chocolate to his third chocolate, and yet the guy's horrible. And what happens in her life is that she just loses energy from being with this guy. But she doesn't let go of the line. And this could even be years later, after you've broken up with a guy, that the line is still there. There's a line from intent, there's a line from emotion, and there's also a line from sexuality. So this line could be extremely fixed and that it could be something that you lose energy on and you're not even really that aware of it. So that's one example. There's lots of examples of how you could have a problem but this is a common one. So what I'd like you to think about is where do you have toxic relationships? They might be current relationships or they might be past relationships. If it's a past relationship and you have a line, that means you have a thought. So if you sometimes think about some guy you used to be with, then I guarantee there's a line there. Where there's a line, there's a thought. Doesn't help meditation. So I want you to identify your toxic lines. We're gonna just think about the three biggest ones or the five biggest ones, whatever you can come up with, just reflecting on it in like 10, 15 seconds, because it's not hard to identify. Please translate. Lines right now together. If you have a very strong conviction, you can cut these lines. The way that we do it is we focus on the navel. We focus on a yellow light that is kind of like a fan. You know, so it's like, you know, you stick your finger in a fan, it would like hit your finger. So it's kind of a swirling energy that has chopping power. And you focus on each person one at a time, envision them as if they're before you, and see an energetic line that going from you to them. You don't have to get specific, but just see a line between you and them, and then envision this yellow circle of light cutting that line right in the middle. And what happens is your part of that line comes back to you, and their part of that line goes back to them. This This is one way where we retrieve the power that we lost.

0:25:40
Please translate.

0:25:41
Close your eyes. We'll envision each person come up at a time and cutting the line. This should take 30 to 45 seconds. It's not a matter of like dwelling on it. It's a matter of having conviction to make that cut. Please translate. Let's begin.

0:26:04
Okay. You're welcome. Okay. Next, we're talking about clearing lines. So, this is especially important for mothers. tend to keep and you want to purify the line. So this might be where you're in a marriage that's boring and draining and you're going to keep the marriage for whatever reason and you want to purify it. This is for mothers and their children.

0:26:41
You want to purify the line. This is for people, you know, with your... if you are, you know, have a co-worker who you have to do a lot of stuff with, and you have a connection with that person, if you have a line to that person that is profitable to you, you want to purify that line. So this is anyone that you have a line with that So, with this exercise, we envision that person appear in front of you, and we start in the center of the line. We see that there's this little white dot that starts to grow out on both sides. And then that is a white light of purity. And it grows out from the center to you and from the center to the other person. So this is a place to clean lines, if there's a problem it purifies it. This is a place where mothers should definitely practice on their children. Please translate. Now, and again we'll spend about a minute on it. Let's begin. Let's begin.

0:29:38
Okay. And. Okay, very nice. lines is fortification or empowering. So if you have a line to someone that is totally positive for you, it doesn't matter what's going down on the other end for you, but it's good for you, we're going to fortify those lines. So that best friend, a teacher, a sangha, a healer, these types of people who only help you. Three jewels, these are lines you want to fortify. What we will imagine is things like your sangha being there. There's the sangha. Now the sangha is one of the

0:31:19
three jewels and it's a very positive thing for you. And what you imagine is you imagine gold light going from that person to you. It could be a friend, it could be a specific person in the Sangha, it could be me, it could be a healer, something like that. You will imagine them in front of you and you will see gold light going from them to you, down the line. Please translate. Let's begin the practice again for about a minute. Okay.

0:33:06
Okay. I'm going to go ahead and get the camera. All right, very nice. Wow, that was bright.

0:35:13
Okay, so These are practices that you could do and should do from time to time Re-examine where you need to cut lines Re-examine where you need to enrich lines or purify lines and where you need to accept and fortify lines. Please translate. We'll go on to the last thing which is healing the aura This is very very very powerful even though we're going to go through it in a timely basis So I'd like you to Start a meditative focus beginning by even while you're hearing the words I'd like you to bring into your mind's eye just the color red. Please translate just the color red. Please translate. One place where women have something broken in their auras, broken in the second chakra,

0:36:14
is with dependencies. This happens with mothers often. You have too many dependencies that hurt your aura and hurt your second chakra. So this is a consideration for

0:36:30
healing where you have been pulled apart. If you are currently in that situation you know you have to find balance otherwise the pulling will still happen. Light is a light specifically that heals the damage from too much dependency, too many lines out to dependence. Please translate. Now bring to mind a white light. Please translate. This white light is very helpful at healing from a damaged aura from sex. So this is very, very good for purifying the worms out of the aura and otherwise the damage that the aura got from having sex with a man. Please translate.

0:38:14
Now bring to mind a green light. Please translate.

0:38:36
This light is helpful for healing where you've had some kind of physical damage, whether you had some problem with your uterus, ovaries, urinary bladder. It's also for if you've had problems from STDs or if you've had an abortion or miscarriage or if you've had kids. So this is a way of where there was some sort of physical problem that created a hole in the orath. This is a way of healing it. Please translate.

0:39:40
is a way of healing it. Please translate.

0:39:44
Next, bring to mind a yellow light is a light that's very helpful for healing your aura if you were damaged if you were damaged in an abusive relationship. And this is where you are in a relationship where someone is either emotionally abusive or physically beat you.

0:41:02
Please translate.

0:41:03
The next light is a light that is very, very helpful for healing damage in your aura from sexual abuse, specifically rape or just sexual abuse of all sorts of kinds. So please translate. So we've just, in a brief way, gone through some very important considerations for healing the aura and we're going to put it into a meditation. And in the meditation I want you to envision a lotus and the lotus leaves are opening. First leaves are red, the next ones are white, next ones are green, then yellow, and then blue. So the same sequence that we went through. You do not have to even think about what the colors represent. Because the colors represent dimensions, and they are dimensions that are healing for the five types of auric wounds that I've discussed. Please translate. Please, translate. So as a final meditation, I'd like you to go to the Breathless album again, the last song of Breathless. So this will be our final meditation. It's a very powerful one, so I want you to be very focused and conscientious about seeing the colors. Please translate.

0:45:01
Okay, let's begin. the the the the so so the the the the so so the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Oh. All right, very nice. So again, this is a meditation that you can do, especially if you feel like any of these areas are places where you have had damage. By practicing this, healing dimension, red, white, green, yellow, blue, same dimensions, you know, the secrets of the mystic school as well.

0:47:49
So, feel free to explore these dimensions of, these considerations and dimensions of support and healing and awareness of your feminine considerations for my group. And we have a martial arts training coming up, so I have to say thank you. And I'm getting the Hungarians out of there before midnight, so that's good. before midnight, so that's good. And thank you very much, and have a good night.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
