0:00:00
Alright. Yeah, we're going to sit in meditation again. The next aspect of the mind training is that we're going to focus on is being able to practice when there's distraction or difficulty. So the mastery of bodhicitta practice is when you're capable, even when hardships come up. Kind of like a soccer player, going for the goal, and then all of a sudden, some guy from the other team jumps in front of you. And you don't just go,

0:00:50
Oh, darn, it's hard!

0:00:52
If you're proficient in your practice, that's normal.

0:00:56
You go around them, you shoot, go for the goal. So that's the thing,

0:01:02
when you're practicing bodhicitta,

0:01:05
it shouldn't be like,

0:01:06
Oh, okay, I see someone's angry, so now I'm going to practice compassion for them. And then they turn their anger on you, and then you go, ah, oh yeah?

0:01:22
Let's fight.

0:01:23
Okay, let's see, where was I?

0:01:25
Okay. the so so the the the

0:02:14
the

0:02:21
the Oh Phone Vibrates Phone Vibrates Phone Vibrates Phone Vibrates Music Oh, I'm so sorry the Some of you are so focused, you didn't even hear what my mom called. I just had a little alarm to go off. So it makes some of you laugh. But really, you know, this happens from time to time. You're meditating, going

0:07:21
into deep state of consciousness, and then like an airplane will fly over, or a car will backfire, or a bazooka will go off. And these things tend to, you know, like you could be in deep state of consciousness and go. Oh, that's disruptive for me but

0:07:44
again

0:07:46
You should not be disturbed You should be able to maintain focus through distractions in meditation and in bodhicitta That was funny. So, something that I see happen again and again with bodhicitta practice, where there's a distraction, there's something difficult that comes up, and where my students tend to lose etiquette and focus is when they begin with a positive state of mind. They begin with an attitude of bodhicitta, but then they perceive that the other person doesn't accept it, that the other person reacts negatively. And then so what they do, what I have seen happen again and again and again. And I know we've talked about this in Bodhi Woods. Is you forget Bodhicitta and then you go right into a reactive state. Well, I tried to help them. I tried to do Bodhicitta on them. I tried to give them positive intent. But they came back with this. They came back like that. They came back something reactive and negative. And when you do that, what you're letting happen is, you're letting yourself be distracted. You're letting something difficult stop you from your practice of Bodhicitta. You say, well, oops, I forgot. I forgot about Bodhicitta because I got pissed off. So it's very, very, very important. I mean, I taught a class on this part of Bodhisitta in Bodhi Woods, and then the next day, I started seeing people go into the same thing, starting with positive, perceiving from other people negatives, dropping the positive, and going into self-reaction. So you can't be disturbed. You have to always develop positive intent, even if what you see coming back from someone is negativity. Because when you're acting like that, your perception is actually not correct. You think you're right. You think that you came with good and they gave you bad. But you're just not seeing the whole picture. I remember hearing both sides of the story. One person says, I came with good, and then they gave me bad. And then they go, no, I thought you were coming with bad, and then I tried to give you good. And I'm like, yeah, you guys are really confused. And I've heard this many, many, many, many, many, many, many times. So the thing is that it's your responsibility to be positive and to practice bodhicitta no matter what. So no matter what the other person's response is, I did bodhicitta on him, but it didn't fix him. He looked at me weird, so I punched him. This doesn't make any sense. So your discipline of compassion is to always be compassionate, no matter what the other person does. And of course, we're always working the solution. So you don't do something, you don't put yourself in a position where someone can drain your personal power or harm you. You try to step back from those things, but you don't have to get upset. You can still practice compassion while being intelligent about how you deal with people. Compassion is where you're coming from in the heart. And then as a warrior, we're working on being intelligent and maintaining our personal power. So we are warriors, but we're also practicing the path of the Bodhisattva, and that's where we come from. So your job, your practice, your responsibility is to, no matter what, just continue to practice compassion. If you think someone's responding negatively to you and that you've tried to be nice, they have a different point of view. They might have had a different day, a different perception. They might have said, oh, because you ate garlic and I smell it, that means that you're offending me or something, and you're like, I was just giving you positivity. Well, whatever, for some reason, whatever happened. But what they do is not your responsibility. How you react is your responsibility. So the trick is, even if you are starting positive and you perceive negative, you continue positive in your heart. Maybe step away, or whatever. Be intelligent. But in your heart, you don't sit there and go, oh, totally denied. I was giving you my friendship and then you came back with a mean face and now I'm sad. Say, you came back with a mean face, well, you must have some kind of suffering. Let me practice bodhicitta. And if I feel pain, then let me practice bodhicitta for my own pain. So you have to have the resolve to, even in a conflict, continue with the focus on bodhicitta. That's of the utmost importance in taking the next step in your discipline, getting out of the karma of conflict. Now sometimes people say, Oh, the teacher is screwing me over, giving me a hard time unjustly and, and so bad. Right? A lot of times this happens.

0:14:39
It's funny.

0:14:39
And the truth is that maybe there's another way to look at it. So in the time of the Buddha, there was a case where this happened. And it's a very convincing case. So, in the beginning, Buddhism was a boys club. It was just guys. And then after Buddha became pretty popular as a spiritual teacher, he ended up going on his first visit to his home kingdom to see his family. And he had a connection with them and a lot of people were so amazed at the transformation he went through and they saw that the prince who had come home was now this enlightened master. So a lot joined the sangha. However, there was no room for women, but a bunch of the women got together and said, hey, we want to do this too. And in fact, Buddha's mother was the chief among them who wanted to join the sangha. So she went to her son and she said, hey son, can I join the sangha and these other gals too? And he's all, no, no, no, no. He's like, yeah, we're just not set up for that. We have to have a lot of infrastructure changes. And so, you know, so he said no. But then later on, she was talking with the other gals and they said, no man, that's messed up, we really wanna do this. So they said, we're just gonna do it. So they shaved their heads, and they put on the okra robes, and then they followed Buddha.

0:16:38
And they said, you might say no,

0:16:39
but we're just gonna follow you. And then Ananda goes over to them and says, hey, what are you guys doing? Because this is weird. And then they said, we want to become Buddhist monks. We want to do it too. And we asked, but Buddha said no, so we're just going to follow the best we can. And then Ananda says, oh, that's awesome. And he said, you know what, let me ask Buddha for you. And then they said, oh, would you?

0:17:14
That'd be really cool.

0:17:16
So Ananda goes over and he says, hey, you know, hey Buddha, can they join? And Buddha says, no, no, no, no, no.

0:17:23
No.

0:17:24
And then Ananda asks three times. And finally Buddha says, yes, yes. So Ananda's like, no. I mean, Buddha says, no, no, no, because, you know, it would just change things so different. It would be so much harder and all these problems. But then Ananda said, in the other Buddha realms, are there no women monks? And then Buddha said, no, there are. Then he said, can women become enlightened? And then Buddha said, sure, just as much as any man. Then Ananda's like, so why not then?

0:18:04
What's the deal?

0:18:05
Then the Buddha said, okay, okay. We'll take in the women into the sangha. Then he said, but they have to agree to these eight additional rules, which later became a lot more rules. But the first eight rules were kind of tricky. The first rule was that a woman monk, if she was even a senior monk and had been there for even 100 years, the Buddha said, if she comes across a male monk who was even initiated that day, she has to bow to that monk. So all women have to bow to men. That was what the first rule of Buddha said. And then I think the seventh rule was, some of the rules are just boring, but the great ones. Well, let's just do this first and the eighth. The eighth rule was that no woman monk or nun could ever say anything negative or admonish a male monk. And the men could yell at the women, but the women couldn't yell back. That's the rule. And then Ananda goes out and says, OK, these are Buddha's rules if you guys want to join. And they all say, sure, no problem. Well, we will follow those rules. And then they became the first female students of the Buddha. Now, that seems kind of strange, right? Seems like the Buddha is making it hard for someone to follow the pathway to enlightenment because they get strange rules like the women have to bow to the men and the guys can yell at you but you can't yell back, otherwise you're out, you know, kind of thing. And it is a little strange. But there's other ways of looking at it. Then there's a group of people who are being put into a lower position. And that is that Buddha was aware of the social environment and social conditioning of the time, and that women had a stronger conditioning than men, and that this conditioning would make women have certain disposition to acting a certain way, which would be a problem for their own enlightenment. So with Buddha taking them in, which was kind of a big deal, because there was a lot of groups of different ascetics who are just guys. So he's like taking them in for a big change in the saga. He brings them in at a disadvantage. He brings them in kind of pushing their buttons right away. It's like, these are really difficult things for you to accept, but if you accept it, if you would be so humble, and if you would be in such a position where you wouldn't act out in socially conditioned ways that might leave you at a disadvantage for enlightenment, then you're welcome in. So I have to believe that it worked. Because I've read dozens and dozens of tales of women in Buddha's Sangha who became enlightened. So it might seem hard at times, or difficult. It might seem like the teacher is giving you a hard time. But the teacher might see something that you don't that is actually going to be beneficial for you if you experience that hard time and go through it and come to understand it. So I have students that come to me all the time and say all sorts of problems. They're like, you did something to me. Why did you put that person in charge of that? Or why'd you make, why'd you say this, why'd you do that? And I actually push people's buttons on purpose a lot so that they have something to focus on, something to work on, something to meditate on and practice that it's enlightening for you. And you just have to, you know, when you find problems, when you think that I'm giving you a hard time, you have to recognize that it's probably something that's very helpful for you. The same way, whatever Buddha did, a lot of women became enlightened. So if you think I'm giving you a hard time, you should be happy about it. You should be like, God, this is great. Rules give you a hard time. Or even, we don't have rules, but we have statements. Don't go over there. But But rules in the time of the Buddha, that he had lots of rules for the monks. So we're a little bit different in that we have etiquette instead of rules. Because rules are always made to be broken. And every one of those rules that he gave the women were broken. There was this one Buddhist nun who came across the Gang of Six, and she didn't bow to them. I'm not gonna go more into that story. But Buddha said that was okay.

0:24:34
She broke the rule, but she was supposed to get kicked out,

0:24:36
and they knew it, the gang of six knew it, but she, Buddha said it was okay. There was another time where there was a woman who yelled at a guy, in a very polite way. This was actually after the Buddha passed away, and there was this big party, the king of the land, King Ashoka, or something like that, he was having this big celebration for like a week, and he was a big supporter of Buddhism, so he invited all the Buddhist monks, and there was a senior monk, an old, long-time student of the Buddhas, who was a non-returner, but not enlightened. But the king knew him well, and the king put him in charge. And he was kind of a leader amongst the monks. So he said, okay, you're gonna set a table of honor, you're gonna do the Buddhist blessings, it says kick off the ceremonies and all this stuff. And so, he goes to the first night of the celebration and starts it off. And there's all these Buddhist monks there. But this one Buddhist nun who was enlightened, she walks over to him and she says, are not keeping strict propriety. And then, you know, that basically means like you're socially unacceptable. And then he knows that she's enlightened, so he's like, oh, okay, that's serious. So the next day before the celebration,

0:26:34
he like shaves, you know, shaves his head,

0:26:36
shaves everything, brushes his teeth with whatever they brush their teeth with, and, you know, washes himself and makes sure that he's totally clean. And then he goes to the party. And again, she comes over, disappointed look on her face. She says, venerable sir, again, you are not keeping strict propriety. And he goes, oh, darn. And he's like, oh, it's my robes. He's like, and he washed them a few days ago. I mean, usually as a monk, it doesn't matter that much,

0:27:19
but, oh, yeah.

0:27:21
So the next day, he washes his robes, makes sure they're perfectly clean, cleans himself, shaves, makes sure that he's nice and proper, and puts his robe on all smart and cute. Make sure there's nothing wrong. And then again, he's at the celebration, does the opening remarks, Buddha's name be praised, and party. And then she comes again. She's like, venerable sir, you are not keeping strict propriety. And then he says, what do you mean? I washed myself, I shaved, I cleaned my clothes. And then she says, strict propriety according to Buddha's teachings. And then he realizes that she's talking about his state of mind in general. He just totally freaks out. And he says, you know, I know what you're saying, I feel horrible about it. He said, but I studied with Buddha for like 40 years, and I didn't become enlightened, and I don't think I can. So I think that this unsociably acceptable state of mind that I have I just never going to shake it because it's been so long And then she gives this beautiful Dharma talk about how The 40 years that she said that he studied with the Buddha Don't it doesn't matter at all That only his attention in the moment matters his awakened mind in the moment is all that matters. So she draws his awareness to the moment and all of the teachings of enlightenment that the Buddha gave to that moment. And then he sits there with it and she walks away. And he sits there through the rest of the party, pondering this, reflecting on this, meditating on this. Then after the party, he finally attains liberation. The next day, he cleans himself, shaves, puts on his new clean robes, and comes to the party. keeping strict and proprietary. So, she got to yell at him.

0:30:02
She got to correct him, and that was totally against the rules.

0:30:06
But it makes total sense.

0:30:07
Yeah, so, that's good. There are lots of stories of people breaking rules. But sometimes breaking the rules ends up being something that is congruent with Dharma. Sometimes breaking the rules ends up being something that is congruent with Dharma. Yeah, it's pretty cool. Oh, there's another story about Buddhist nun. So according to the monk's code for men and women, you couldn't listen to music. You couldn't listen to music. If you were walking through the village and there happened to be music, you didn't have to shut your ears or anything. You could still hear it, through the village and there happened to be music you didn't have to shut your ears or anything you could still hear it but you couldn't go out and seek it. So one day one of the nuns she was going for alms by herself into the village and then she heard someone singing a song. It was a beautiful song, an amazing song. And she just felt something from the song, so she kind of broke the rules and went a little bit a little closer to where the singing was coming from. And she saw this slave woman washing some clothes and doing some hard work or something, and she thought that the slave woman was singing about her suffering of life, the suffering of a slave. And the woman thought it was so beautiful. And she was like, wow, it's such an amazing song. So the next day, she went for her alms again, went to where the slave woman was again, singing the same song. And then she found herself just skipping alms and just sitting there, just listening until the woman was done. And then again and again, she would do that. And then after, you know, I think a month of doing that, she was sitting there just listening, and she was breaking the rules, and she felt guilty about it for a while. But after doing it for a while, she just realized Buddha's teachings of the four noble truths, that there's suffering leading to the way out of suffering. And when she recognized the truth of suffering, then she became an arhat. So she became enlightened. So this is another story where, breaking the rules leads to enlightenment. And that's why our school is informed by that. Don't have rules, just have etiquette. So breaking the rules is bad for rules, but if you follow etiquette, etiquette follows dharma. Etiquette leads to a condition of less ego grasping, and etiquette leads to enlightenment. So breaking the rules is bad, but actually it's good if breaking the rules leads to liberation. Quite interesting. So the

0:33:27
the thing about having difficulties come up is

0:33:31
difficulties are not bad. Like the Buddha giving extra rules to break for the girls. Or sometimes if I give you a hard time. Or, just something can come up and work.

0:33:48
It's not bad.

0:33:49
I remember when I was working in New York, I was working at some big company. And I did business intelligence where I sat down with one business expert and made reports for them basically. And my business expert was the dreaded Peggy. Angry, pushy, mean Peggy. And then Peggy somehow found out what my billing rate was. She was a full-timer, right? And I was a contractor for a very specialized thing. And she absolutely went berserk on me. She's so mad. She's all, why don't you finish this all in like two hours then? I was all like, I don't know what to say. But anyway, Peggy was so cross with me, so angry with me. The fact that I made more money than her drove her crazy and insane, because I was like 23 or something. And so, I don't know, there's like all this stuff about her own personal history being thrown at me. And so at first, I got angry at her back. So I was like, hey. And I was like, yeah. So I started like yelling back at Peggy, and then we would just get into shouting matches. And this is right around the time, a little bit before I had started learning bodhicitta, I just didn't practice it. I was like, wow, that's an interesting idea. But then I went to a meditation seminar with my teacher, and he said, well, sometimes at certain jobs, you just get a horrible person to deal with, and you gotta practice bodhicitta. And I said, hey, I have an idea. What if I try to practice that bodhicitta?

0:35:49
Oh, like my teacher just said.

0:35:51
So then I go in the next day, and Peggy is sitting there, all claws and teeth. And I just practiced taking and sending with her. And I practiced it really, really, really hard. And I didn't get angry anymore. I didn't get out of balance with her. I just took it as a practice. Can I, when I see her get mad, have the intent and the vision of taking that from her and giving her light? And I did that for the whole rest of the four months that I was there. Peggy never got any happiness out of that. She was always angry, always pissed off, totally negative, always upset. However, I learned how to be more mindful. And I learned how to deal with someone negative who really just pushed my buttons. I learned how to deal with them in a way where I was accepting and I was taking and sending. And I came out of that really happy. So that's why I recall, that was the aspect, that's the aspect of bodhicitta where we call it, you know, selfish selflessness. Because I got a lot out of it, which was pretty cool.

0:37:24
Otherwise I would have fought with her

0:37:26
and I would have quit and stuff like that. But I used difficulty. I used some horrible thing that came up as a reason to train harder, a reason to dig deeper, to be more mindful, to do better bodhisitta. Then I left, and I had gained something from that. And I believe I helped Peggy. She just wasn't ready to admit it. It's true. People feel it, but they're going through like some whole big cycle of karma, but it adds an impression of positiveness that helps them. So, yeah, even when it's hard, that means that your practice needs to be stronger. Which leads me to the last of the points of mind training, which is really great. It is to always have the support of a positive mind. This is something I talk about a lot in Bodhi Woods. It's like, be positive, even if it's hard.

0:38:49
Be positive.

0:38:50
Right? Look at things in a positive way. So when you have a support of a positive mind, this is where you have very very strong bodhicitta. This is where you don't find yourself actually being pulled into anger, pulled into conflict, pulled into your personal suffering. This is when something happens, you immediately address it with bodhicitta. And bodhicitta is always something that takes darkness, accepts it, and transforms it into light. So if you're on your bodhicitta, not only do you deal with the peggies of the world, but you are ahead of yourself. You're ahead of your self-reaction. You know what the cycles of your self-reactions are, and you know what triggers them. And when you see it start, that's when you start bodhicitta. And you do bodhicitta for real, and then you sit there and like, you know, some anger, some difficulty. You transcend the anger and the confusion, those states of mind. And you exist in an experience of bodhichitta, the dimensions of compassion. And sure, there's that stuff there. It's difficult. It's painful. But at the same time, there's There's a part of your spirit that detaches from it. Now this happens just from meditation. In meditation what do we do? We detach from thought. Thought comes up, you say, oh, I'm thinking. Drop the thought, bring the focus back to the chakra. So just by meditating over time you see that the intensity of your thoughts, you start to get some distance, some space between them. You can't be so attached to every little thing. It's like one person sneezes and you're like, oh, that bothers me. You can't get a good cup of coffee and you're like, argh, you get so frustrated. You're driving in traffic, someone cuts in front of you. So you can't be so attached to every little thing. You're sitting down to meditate, a thought comes in, you grab it and go, ah! So the practice of meditation, it's like, oh, I recognize I'm thinking. Let it go, bring the focus back to the chakra. Oops, I noticed that I'm thinking. Let it go, bring the focus to the chakra. After a while, the time spreads out. I'm thinking, I'm thinking, I'm thinking, I'm thinking,

0:41:50
I'm thinking.

0:41:52
And this is how you get detachment, you get space between the karmas of thoughts that keep you so wound up and bound up. So this is a natural thing that happens and this is a wonderful thing. And you can give yourself permission to let go of thoughts. You can give yourself permission to not be so clawed in and attached to every little thing that comes up. Give yourself that permission And then you find that even though you'll notice thoughts, someone swerves in front of you, and you might have that distant thought of your normal reaction, but there will be some space. There'll be a part of you that's like, okay, I'm detached from this. You know, can't get a good cup of coffee, and you're like, I need some coffee. It's okay. You're detached. The same thing happens in the practice of bodhicitta. You create that detachment because you're using that method of accepting and transforming, bringing light. That selfless intent from suffering. So these are the, these are these powerful techniques of Dharma for transforming your karma and your dissatisfaction into wisdom and getting space between you and the heaviness of your karma. It's very important. There was this Zen master, Zen master, well, he was this wise, amazing fellow. And one day this monk comes over and says, hey, I was walking through the woods and I found a couple of gold pieces, gold. And it doesn't belong to anyone, it's just there. And so I took it because we need to repair our roof and we don't have the skills, so we need to hire someone. And isn't that great for the whole monastery? And all the monks are like, yay, this is awesome. And then the Zen master goes, yeah, this is good. And then a week later, same monk comes back and he says, hey, I was out in the woods with Yoshi and a tree fell on him and he died.

0:44:32
Seriously.

0:44:33
And then he says, and then he's like, so Yoshi, our brother monk's dead. And all the monks are like, oh, how horrible. And then the Zen master is like, hmm, that's great. So the Zen master looked at things that are good and things that are bad, but the Zen master was in a state of consciousness where everything was supported by a positive mind. That means that his awareness was beyond good and bad, that his mind was in a consciousness of light, where he could experience the good in the transient, something that's positive, and something that's negative in the transient, and see that both of them are enlightenment. I get this one too, actually. I've heard this a Like I'll sit here and someone will say, hey, Sambara, this is bad. And I go, yeah, you're right. Then someone says, but no, it's good. And I say, yeah, you're right. And then someone says, Sambara, it can't be both bad and good. And I said, yeah, you were right. I'm coming from a different place. All right, let's see. We have very little. We're going to do one last meditation. Yeah, so... In this meditation, we're going to do open eye, looking up towards me, and this will extent of the proficiency of mind training. In a moment. I'm going to play a little bit of the song.

0:47:42
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, You're a good man, you're a good man, you're a good man You're a good man, you're a good man, you're a good man You're a good man, you're a good man, you're a good man You're a good man, you're a good man, you're a good man you Alright, very nice. This is the extent of proficiency mind training now, you know what that means

0:54:04
All right, thank you all very much

0:54:06
Very lovely meditating with you this evening Let's see, I think I have

0:54:10
Yes. Yes. We have one final book that we're going to be reading in our Tibetan cycle of teachings. This is the hidden teachings of Tibet. Where are they? I'll email you guys the information. It's an explanation of the Therma tradition of Tibetan Buddhism. Very important for us. So one more book and the books, if you want to be dialed in to the solstice, you should read the books by then. I know I'm adding one more, but try to do it.

0:55:38
Okay.

0:55:39
So our special solstice trip,

0:55:42
our meditation will be on Mount Shasta. So this is gonna be Friday, June 20th. We're gonna meet at 10 p.m. at the Bunny Flats. So you have to be ready to go at the Bunny Flats at 10 p.m. Simple. We're going to be returning on Sunday the 22nd around noon. So Friday you might have to take the day off or leave work a little early. But we should be back in time for yoga on Sunday.

0:56:25
Just kidding.

0:56:26
I'm going to say we meet at 6 o'clock. All right, and then just a heads up, the 23rd, after the day after we get back, I'm going to be flying to Raleigh in the morning, getting there in the afternoon. I'll be available to teach that night on the 24th. That's when I'm going to fly to Italy. And there's a number of you who are planning to come with me to Italy. We're going to meet the Hungarian Sangha there. We're going to go to Tretien, which is a place of power in the Italian Alps. Where they have really good pasta. Where they have really good pasta. where they have really good pasta.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
