0:00:00
Funniest thing happened to me on the way down here. It'll be pretty much like that. At least it happened after we meditated. It's very polite. Yeah, let's worry about it at the break.

0:00:22
No necessary fiddling. So,

0:00:30
something happened and I thought it would be really funny if I talked about it tonight. It would seem humorous to me so while I was driving I was behind this that's a little late I was behind a Sunday driver from like Colorado visiting Big Basin there's like 25 miles an hour and I tried to tell them to move over, but they didn't get it. So, whatever. So while I was driving, I had this experience of tremendous sexual desire. And then, that came first. And then after that, a huge experience of anger. Then after a little while, while those were still there, this giant experience of restlessness. And then finally, even though all these things are kind of going on at the same time, finally, this kind of giant feeling of sloth, you know, too lazy to do anything about it. So, that was my experience, driving there. And, I know it seems kind of strange, because you're, you know, it's like you come to an enlightened teacher to teach you about enlightenment, and you expect that this person doesn't go through those things. You would expect, wait a second here. This person has to be above and beyond all of those things. It can't happen for them. And then you say, hey, wait, you know, I can do all those things on my own. I don't need to learn from some person who experiences it themselves. Because, you know, what's the point? So, oh, there was one other little part about my experience. So as I was driving, experiencing desire, anger, restlessness, laziness, doubt. And they were pretty kind of intense experiences. At the same time, I was in salvacopa samadhi. And salvacopa samadhi is a condition of spiritual absorption where there is no limit of your consciousness. There's no suffering. There's no self. So at the same time that I was experiencing this desire, anger, laziness, doubt, restlessness. I was in what you would call a perfect state of mind. So, that's... isn't that a... it seems like a paradox, right? Because I'm telling you, I experienced this thing, and at the same time, I was in Samadhi. I can drive in Samadhi.

0:05:28
I can talk in Samadhi.

0:05:29
I mean, that's kind of weird, too. So, it is a paradox. And tonight I'm going to talk about that impossibility as an experience that you can have. Yeah, it's very important. So Buddha had a teaching called the five hindrances. He said, are the things that stop you from meditating well. They are the things that stop your happiness in life. So, he pointed out these five hindrances, the five hints. as these things that are tremendously, just they're tremendous obstacles to success in meditation and success in personal happiness and spiritual balance. So, the five hindrances are sensual desire, anger, sloth, restlessness, and doubt. So I thought it was funny because I recognized that. Those were experiences that I, those were direct experiences I was having. I said, And what the five hindrances do is it messes up your meditation. It messes up your happiness. But again, we have that little weird paradox where while I was experiencing the five hindrances, I was also in Samadhi, which is perfect meditation. Unhindered. Yes, indeed. So to teach you how to be unhindered by the five hindrances, tonight we're going to talk about, or I'm going to give you the teaching of the on considerations of how to get out of the way of the five hindrances. Now, all of these things we've talked about numerous times. We've had whole seminars on desire and anger,

0:08:14
you know, things like that.

0:08:15
So these are things that we've investigated before, we've talked about. However, this is a very special teaching, and when you talk about it, or when you accept this teaching in the aggregate, so not just one of these things that we're delving into, we're delving into bringing all these things up. So when we're looking at it in the aggregate, it addresses a deeper dimension of your mind, a deeper dimension of your being. It's a very special teaching and that's why Buddha brought these five hindrances up. And that's why he taught about it. Because when you understand the five hindrances and how not to be hindered by them, then what happens your meditation becomes better. And I'd like you to learn to have better meditation. Yeah, so you know I teach advanced meditation. You might be a beginner, but I teach advanced meditation. Just like if you come to my martial arts dojo, I teach black belt martial arts, even if you're a white belt. Because the point is to be a black belt. The point is to have advanced perfect meditation. I don't just sit there and say, okay, we're going to just sit there and focus on our breath and then think, and it's okay. I tell the truth. The scope of meditation is to stop thought. And it's frustrating for people, but it's true. It's not like, oh, this isn't first grade. You might be a first grader, but you're gonna, and you know, you get all the lessons that lead up to your PhD in enlightenment. But the scope is to do it right, and to do it to a level of really satisfaction, which is very close to enlightenment. So meditation is stopping thought. If you stop thought, that's meditation. And on the way there, If you stop thought, that's meditation. And on the way there, you're practicing, you're developing the ability to stop thought. Yeah. Now, some of you started feeling really good about yourselves when you looked at your yoga belt ranks. And you're like, wow, I got a 95 on my meditation score. I must be doing it perfectly. I don't have to try so much on my meditation anymore. Now, it's kind of important to recognize that the yoga belt ranks are really the beginning and intermediate study. And it's very important and very, very helpful. But you can't really get a belt ranking for the advanced study. It just wouldn't make any sense. But within the structure of beginning and intermediate yoga, it makes a lot of sense. And it's very helpful and very constructive. So when you're looking at your meditation rank, that is something you can measure in the first attention, which is the time that you spend and the consistency of your meditation. Like I said, you might consider that you have horrible meditations, but if you spend the time, you get the score for it. Because spending the time and being consistent is what will eventually make you a master at meditation. Not spending the time and not being consistent means you'll never master meditation. You'll fool around with it. So it's very constructive to have that scope of score. But I would say that if you really look at enlightenment as being a black belt, then can't stop thought,

0:13:22
white belt.

0:13:22
Can't stop thought for like a minute, maybe 30 seconds, yellow belt, a minute to a minute and a half, orange belt.

0:13:41
So it's like, you have to actually stop the thought there.

0:13:44
And a green belt would be something like five, six minutes, a song or two, stopping thought, which I think is pretty good. But a black belt is pretty much the whole time stopping thought. And if you have a black belt in meditation, then you're very, very, very, very close to enlightenment. Very close to enlightenment. Now, I'm not telling you this so that you start getting down on yourself. You're like, oh, I have a 95 score. Then you go, oh, wait a minute. I'm actually a white belt. That would be totally normal. Totally normal. It was pretty much the case for me. I was very consistent with meditation, but I was really bad at it. But actually, I can't say that I was really bad at it. I just say that to relate to you. Um. Um.

0:15:00
Um.

0:15:00
Um.

0:15:01
Um. Um. Um. Um. Um. Um. Um. Um. Um.

0:15:09
Um. Um. Um. Um. Um. Um. All of those meditations, I thought I was horrible. I was just like, oh my God, finished a meditation.

0:15:21
I was just like, what the hell?

0:15:22
I don't know.

0:15:23
But all of those meditations matter. And me being able to figure out my mind, figure out what's going on, it takes a lot of work. And things eventually cleared up. So for the majority of my study, I thought I was a horrible meditator. But I knew my teacher said, don't judge your meditation. So I was like, okay. I got past the point of judging my meditation and I just said, okay, I'm just going to meditate, whether it's good, bad, or ugly, which happens. So don't judge your meditation, but realize that, you know, really in terms of enlightenment, that it's about stopping thought. It's about stopping thought. Now some of you struggle a lot with your meditation. You come to me and say, oh, Sambara, this is so bad. And I say, it's not so bad. What should I do to fix my meditation? Meditate twice a day, sit up straight, focus on the chakra. When a thought comes up, recognize the thought, bring the focus back to the chakra. Within the dimensions and understandings that we experience in meditation together within this subtle spiritual structure, where there is a structure for learning, you are working on lessons. And within those dimensions you're working on understandings. And then, that is good. So if you're working on it, then I would say, you're making progress. Even though that would even be judging. But, it's good. That's what we're trying to do. We're trying to just meditate, just work on it, just be impeccable with our meditation. That's it, and nothing else. Some of you come over to me with really big hardships. You're like, my meditation is never getting better. I've always had this one problem that just hurts so much and it comes around and it hits me again, so it flattens me, makes me feel terrible, and I'm not making any progress and, you know, this problem always comes up. How do I get rid of that problem? I think you might not get rid of that problem. In fact, if it's a really big problem, most likely you're not gonna get rid of it. You're like, what am I doing here? What am I doing here? A teacher who's filled with desire and anger, is telling me that this thing that I came to meditation for, to get rid of this suffering, is just going to stay there. Yeah, sure. Let's see what Buddha said. Buddha said, the enlightened, the arhants, they direct their mind away from the five hindrances. It doesn't say they don't have the hindrances. It says they direct their mind away. So that's what Buddha taught. So you might have a hindrance that causes you tremendous suffering. And Buddha's teaching is to direct your mind away from it. And that's one teaching. But it's important to recognize just the fact that he says the enlightened direct their mind away from it. So Buddha, one example of many. One time Buddha had an experience of hate and anger. He went to a town that was a Hindu town and they had heard about this Buddha guy starting up his own religion. And you know, and he and a bunch of Hindus that they knew, like in the other village, like all these Hindus became Buddhists. And they were mad about it. They were like, wait, you know, really like our religion, like some people do. And we want to stand up for it, against this Buddha guy. So Buddha walks into the town, and then they go, ah, gar, rah, and they get mad at you. And then they go, you, you're stupid, you're just a person, our gods will kick your ass. And stuff like that.

0:21:23
So they got, they're furious.

0:21:25
You know how people are about religion sometimes? And they were really mad, and they were like yelling at them and calling them names and stuff like that. So what they did was they brought hate and anger to Buddha. They brought something to him that he had to experience. He couldn't just say, I'm not experiencing this, because the truth was he was. He was confronted with a situation. It's not one that he generated. It's one that people brought to him. And so what he did was he directed his mind away from anger, one of the five hindrances. And then he was able to stay in Sahaja Samadhi, which the Buddha was probably in all the time. Which is just kind of the highest samadhi. So, he dealt with the situation, dealt with one of the hindrances, and was able to direct his mind away from it, and stay highly absorbed into nirvana. Then he walked on. So, for me, it's kind of like, as I'm walking down the path, sometimes I find landmines. And I'm only a little bit enlightened. Buddha was what we would call an enlightened master. So I actually have samskaras. So I have samskaras. Things like, I tell you about my big one was anger. So that was a big thing for me. I was totally pissed off. And then one day I finally learned how not to be. And at that point, it was in the intermediate setting, I was like, I'm never going to get angry again. Because now I finally get it. But it's a samskara, because I've been pissed off for thousands of incarnations. So what happens is, as I'm walking, my samskara of anger appears many times. Every time I would normally get angry, that thing appears. So I experience, in my experience, I experience anger. And it's an anger that is associated to some serious, intense past karmas of mine. However, I have learned through the teachings of the Dharma not to step on that landmine. I'm like, oh no, no, I know what happens if I do that, so I'm not going to do it. And the other thing that I get is, one of the things about a teacher-student relationship in an esoteric school is that I extend my aura, my enlightened energy, to all of my students, all of the time, to help them. And sometimes what happens is my students have the five hindrances. So someone might get angry or something like that. And what happens is, to me it's like, all right, you and I are sharing, we're walking along the same path, and you've created a landmine. You got angry, there it is. And so for me it's like, oh, one got dropped right in front of me, let me go around it, and let me help you to go around it as well. So that is also something that occurs. So I see them, I'm aware of them, but then I don't step on them. I direct my mind away from the five hindrances. It's not like they're not there. That would be ridiculous. It's like if you become enlightened, like things in life disappear and don't bother you anymore. No, no, the stuff that's in life is in life. So the teaching of the Buddha is to direct your mind away from the hindrances, because the hindrances will ruin your happiness, the hindrances will ruin your meditation. An enlightened one, an arhant, would rather drink a bowl of molten lava than to have a thought of desire. And it's totally true. Because a thought of desire is extremely painful. And it creates this whole universe of problems. The moment that you have desire, when you're operating in the world of desire, then there are ten thousand things that create problems. There's just problem, problem, problem, pain, pain, pain, limitation, limitation, limitation. At least drinking a bowl of molten lava just kills you. Yeah.

0:27:20
Although in Hawaii, it's a cold remedy. Just kidding.

0:27:26
That's Googling for cold remedies. So, when you don't, if you can direct your mind away from desire, there might still be that landmine there, that if you stepped on it would create that whole universe of problems. But, if you don't step on it, then you experience You experience life with that thing, but you haven't made the explosion happen. So the thing's there, but you're not going into that universe. You're staying away from that problem. And when you do that, you see life in a completely different way. You are outside of that completely stuck condition of so many problems and you are at peace and in your meditation you're at peace and in your heart you're at peace. Now when I work with my students I am always the piece of moving away from the five hindrances. And I deal with the landmines with them. So, if I have a student who, let's say, is putting out sexual energy, has desire, wants focus, wants something, puts out that energy to get it. I will work with them. Sometimes I'll talk about the matters and the ways to hold energy and focus. So I'll talk about the second and third chakra. I'll say, so you want to not think about this. If they don't know, try to help them to understand it. Or if there's someone who's in a relationship and having relationship trouble, they're like, oh, well, this is like they desire the person, but they're having trouble. They're in that universe of, you know, messed-up sexuality. But what I try to do is I try to show them the way out, how to direct their attention away from the problem. Now, in sexuality, there is something that everybody has. In sexuality, there is a unity, right? So, when... And that's what people seek from sex. They seek basically enlightenment from sex. They seek to experience unity and to be satisfied spiritually. So unity and spiritual satisfaction are really associated with the heart. So when someone has problems with a relationship or sexuality, I always try to deal with the situation, try to work the problem, tell them, stop wearing that. Put on a jacket or something. Here, cover that thing up. You know, so I always talk about practical things and stuff like that, but I'm always directing them to the heart. I always want them to move to an awareness of the heart. And that's what I feel for them, and that's what I impress that awareness, that there's a way, at least there's a possibility. And that's what they, that's what spiritually they want when they're having trouble with sensual desire or sexual desire. They want fulfillment and fulfillment and balance is the place of the heart. So I want to and I teach that energy of here's the way not to experience the suffering of this whole mess. It is to elevate to a level of the heart. That's what I'm teaching. always get it? No. But it's an impression, a dimension that they feel. They become more and more aware of. And then when they become more and more aware of it, eventually they get the hang of it. And they say, okay, this is way, way better. It's way, way better. It's a universe of awesomeness better. So when I have a student who's angry, right? A student might be angry at me. Hey, you're supposed to teach me meditation. My meditation's not working. I had a bad meditation and I'm pissed off about it. So I could respond in kind. What happens when someone walks over to you and goes, ah, you're a jerk, and they project anger at you? The human thing to do is to go, ah, step on the landmine and go, you're a jerk too. So if my students get mad at me, for whatever reason, wouldn't it be silly of me to get mad at them? I accept that there's a landmine, but at the same time I start to bring them to a different way of looking at it, the way to direct their awareness out of the problem, away from the hindrance, which is bodhicitta, which is compassion. So when I have a student who's angry, I always work the problem with them. It's about meditation. I say, yeah, just sit up straight, focus, and simple. Just work on it. Or if they're mad about whatever, another person, I always talk to them about how to work the problem and solve it in the best, most balanced way. But inside, I am teaching them how to have bodhicitta. I direct them to bodhicitta. Maybe it's a little hard and they don't get it for a while, but every impression teaches a different way, a higher way. If I have a student who's lazy, right, like Right? Like they're like laying around on the couch, you know, watching a movie on their laptop. Yeah, I just, I don't know what to do. Just kick back. So I would sit down with them, and instead of being lazy,

0:35:07
Let's have a Lord of the Rings marathon,

0:35:12
and then a Matrix marathon,

0:35:15
and then watch every James Bond movie ever. Instead of doing something like that, what I do is I sit down, and you guys might recognize this, I always direct you to energetic activity that follows the Dharma. And sometimes it's fun stuff to, you know, to shift and shake things up. Sometimes it's wonderful because we have karma yoga. There's many opportunities, but it's something we still struggle with. If I have a student that's restless, if they come over to me and they're like, oh my god, there's all this stuff going on and I'm freaked out, I always go, okay. So instead of going, yeah, you're right,

0:36:30
I'll just go right over there. I'll just go right over there. I'll just go right over there. I'll just go right over there.

0:36:33
I'll just go right over there.

0:36:34
I'll just go right over there.

0:36:35
I'll just go right over there.

0:36:36
Like, see me and them running around,

0:36:37
but we went to school.

0:36:38
But we went to school.

0:36:39
But we went to school.

0:36:40
But we went to school. But we went to school. But we went to school. But we went to school. But we went to school.

0:36:44
But we went to school. So instead of that, I always listen, and I understand, okay, I see that they're a little restless. And then I help them to work the problem and also see things in moderation. Okay, let's kind of chill out. How can we work with this and see things in moderation? How we can get through this thing, because getting restless and freaked out doesn't actually ever help. It is a hindrance, which makes your awareness smaller. So we work our way away from that hindrance by calming down and finding moderation. And then if I have a student who has doubt, they're like, hmm, I don't argue about the doubts, because that's just going into the realm of doubt. where they can see assuredness, where they can see confidence. So they're sitting there in all this doubt of some things, and I offer them a way through to things that they can be confident about. And what that does is it draws their attention away from doubt, and then they experience confidence. They move away from the hindrance, and then all the troubles and problems, the whole universe of doubt disappears because they've moved away from that hindrance. And when you're not in the hindrance of doubt, you can look at the same problems, you can see the landmine, but you just don't go into that state of mind. You're not limited by it. So these are the ways that I work with my students on the five hindrances, and I teach you to work with the five hindrances come from karma. So, with Buddha, he wouldn't have gotten yelled at in that one Hindu town if he wasn't teaching and sharing the Dharma and converting Hindus into Buddhists. Hindus into Buddhists. So there's a karma even for Buddha. The thing Buddha didn't have was his own karma. He didn't have any samskaras because he was an enlightened master. An enlightened master doesn't even have samskara. However, you know, for me, you know, I have my samskaras that I am great at understanding and not going to run into that problem again. But it's also challenging for me. There's a karma because I'm teaching you. We're having discussions, teachings, experiences, and when you have those it could create a karma. I could have a beautiful meditation with you and for whatever reason you step, you know, you go into the anger mode and then what is it? What happens is you share this whole experience of anger with me. And I direct my mind away from anger and try to take you into the experience of bodhicitta. And try to lift you up to an awareness of compassion. But at least, you know, it's a karma, and that's why it happens to me, because I have an open spiritual connection with you. Now, for you, you have mostly your own karmas and samskaras. You're just figuring it out. how to stop the same silly cycle. Like, oh man, I got angry again. Oh man, I got angry again. Oh man, I got angry again. So, enlightenment is like really not running into the same cycles of self that creates suffering and hindrance. Once you can avoid all hindrances, you're very close to enlightenment. You've figured your pattern out, you've figured out how to get away from all the dissatisfaction and all the suffering and all the bad ways of thinking, and that's very good. But until that time, you're mostly stomping over a bunch of landmines. You're like, okay, landmine, oh, stepped on it. Here's another one, oh, here we go again. And sometimes, all five hindrances hit you at the same time. Desire, let me do it this way. Desire, right, anger, the laziness, restlessness, and finally, doubt. Hits you, boom, all at the same time. And that gives you so many, so much wonderful inspiration to direct your mind towards the Dharma. Otherwise it's so painful, so limiting. So you're working with your karma. There's so many reasons why, there's infinite reasons why problems come up for you. There's karma with specific things that you know very specific details that trigger the thing in your mind into your experience so it's like yeah you know this happens for all sorts of reasons but the important thing is not what happens to you but how you deal with it so you get slammed with anger. And if you just go in that whole universe, yeah, you're going to ride out the same karma of suffering and anger. But if you can learn how to direct your mind away from that anger, then you experience freedom from that anger. And then when you master that, then that suffering, that hindrance that limits your awareness, you never experience it again. And it's amazing. Sometimes you think it's never going to happen. It does. Without a doubt, it happens. It takes a lot of focus and a lot of practice. But if you are earnest in seeking liberation, then you will be free from that. Without a doubt, you will be free from it. There was Maha Mangala, who was a, that's funny, Maha Mangala, that's this guy's name. Maha Mangala, right, and Sariputra, which that's a weird name, but those were two, those were the two top students of Buddha, right? And Maha Mangala, he first came in and he had one of these things. One of these hindrances was huge for him. So he comes in, a very advanced being, right? And then he sits down to meditate and he's all. Khh. He would fall asleep and snore.

0:45:05
Right?

0:45:06
And so it's like, he would just fall asleep, fall asleep, fall asleep. So he had this laziness thing when it comes to meditation. Even though he's just infinitely like, you know. He had some good path lives before he met Buddha. But Buddha finally went over to him and taught him, you know, oh, here's what you do when you're experiencing that hindrance. Do this. And then, very quickly, he became an Arhat. He became liberated. And then finally he also became an enlightened master. So he had tremendous, in the world of enlightenment, like uber success. However, he started off with a hindrance, it is because of karma. However, the teachings, if you follow them, they lead to enlightenment. Yeah, so, when I was an intermediate student, beginning an intermediate student, I had every problem. Anger was the biggest one. But I had every hindrance. And I just struggled and struggled and struggled with it. But I followed the teachings. I never doubted the teachings. I just followed them. And they work. They work. They worked for me. They worked for many others in my school. They worked for the Buddha. They worked for many enlightened teachers, enlightened beings, for the past couple thousand years. And probably these teachings that Buddha had even go back further. Maybe they work in other universes. They are universal truths. So, stuff works. You just have to keep positive mental attitude and keep working on it. Yeah, because eventually for me,

0:47:13
it led me out of the hindrances,

0:47:16
and then I experienced Samadhi. Then eventually I became a master of Samadhi, where I could sit here and talk to a bunch of people and still be in Samadhi, say words, and be logical. And I could drive my car in Samadhi.

0:47:35
It's a really interesting experience

0:47:37
because you're blissed out. And you perceive a lot of light visually. And that's the thing. When you can let go and direct your mind away from the five hindrances, then Samadhi happens a lot, and then mastery happens, and enlightenment happens. So when we sit down to meditate, we're not sitting down to experience Samadhi or to get our enlightenment, right? Because if you're doing that, then you're trying to do something in meditation. We meditate for the sake of meditation. You gotta get to that point where you're just like, all right, if I'm gonna be mature about this, I do it, that's it. I could have a good day, I could have a bad day. I could find fault with this, I can find fault with that. I could have a smile or I can have tears. But I just sit down and meditate. We simply meditate to abandon the self. So we're not trying to get something for the self, like some enlightenment. We're not trying to get some Samadhi experience. We're just stopping, we're working on stopping thought. And then, the thing that happens is you experience Samadhi. It happens. So, okay. So, and then once you have your first Samadhi, so I know that a number of you here have had at least your first samadhi, which is wonderful. When you have your first samadhi, then you have... you don't have faith anymore. Faith is kind of nice, but it doesn't matter. But what you have is direct knowledge truth. Direct knowing. So you know I could sit here and say, Samadhi is so beautiful and bright. What a lovely story. Then you can have some sense of it with me. You know, you're psychic, you can feel the light and things like that. You go, wow, okay, I feel something. Cool. So it gives you evidence that it's a good thing. So you're like, okay, I know a little bit, and I hope, and things like that. But when you have samadhi, you have the direct experience, you see the universe, the God, or whatever, it all happens. You see enlightenment, or whatever we want to call it. You see truth directly. You experience the essential truth of the universe, of this life and death thing that we have. And what you experience is something unmistakable and it's direct and then you know. You know that enlightenment is real. So you go into Samadhi, bam, it's pretty nice. Then you come out of samadhi and you go, okay, now I know. And then you say, okay, so now I'm just going to work on continuing and trying to get better at it and experience it more. Yeah, because also, once you have a samadhi or two, it's easy to get very dissatisfied afterwards. You're like, yeah, I saw the universe once. Yeah, you know, yeah, I guess went into Nirvana. But right now I'm pissed off. Right? Yeah. So, you know, Samadhi is just the perfect state of mind. And when you're enlightened, there's a part of you that's always in that state. But when you're just learning, and go into it, go, oh, I love, oh, God, everything. And then the next day, you're like, I'm pissed off.

0:52:06
This really sucks.

0:52:07
So unhappy.

0:52:09
And you can go back into the hindrances and stuff. So what we work on is, Samadhi's beautiful evidence. But we work on continually refining our meditation. And if you, what I did for a while is I was able to go into Samadhi sometimes. And then I would sit down and be like, where's my Samadhi? Where is it, where is it, where is it?

0:52:33
Which would prevent me from going into it.

0:52:35
Then I would be bummed out. Life sucks without Samadhi. So that happens, but that's in the advanced stages. And if you're smart, you don't even do that. So, yeah, we just, but all we do is meditate for the sake of meditation.

0:52:49
Samadhi does happen.

0:52:51
It's a wonderful thing. Now, what you notice when you're, you know, if you have high meditative experiences, you notice that something in you concentrates super intensely. It tries so hard. And then you see light and you have maybe Samadhi or just a really high, beautiful, bright experience. And then you say, wow, that was so amazing.

0:53:28
And then the next day you're like,

0:53:30
I can't even summon enough energy. I can't even see the possibility anymore. You're like, it is so hard to have a bright meditative

0:53:41
experience.

0:53:41
It takes so much.

0:53:42
I don't know if I could do that all the time.

0:53:44
How do you do it?

0:53:45
How can you sit there for an hour, let alone six hours or eight hours, just pushing that hard so that you're in such a high state of mind? It takes you all your energy to experience some highlight, which is very normal and accessible in the intermediate study, right? You're like, how do I do that so long?

0:54:13
That's a good question.

0:54:14
Well, what my teacher used to say is, it is like the space shuttle taking off. At first, you know, it is really intense. You have to try so hard. You have to push so much energy. And then, you know, you're going up fighting gravity. But at some point, you break out of the Earth's gravity, and then you don't have to have the thrusters on, you're not pushing against anything, and you just are floating. And that's what happens. So you have to learn to fight the gravity of the self with tremendous focus, with tremendous capability of letting go of the, or directing your mind the five hindrances and it is a supreme intense difficulty. But like any exercise, you get better at it the more you do it. But at some point you break the gravity and then you just float. So sometimes you go into Samadhi. Samadhi is a timeless time, but sometimes you'll sit in Samadhi for a long time and it feels like nothing. It doesn't even feel like you're trying anymore. You're just absorbed into enlightenment. So, yes, it's hard in the beginning, You develop concentration and focus for a great intensity. And once you have the awareness to navigate away from the five hindrances, then what happens is you sit there and focus, and then boom, you're just floating. Effortless perfection of attention. So, this is advanced meditation. Concentration, consistent practice, extremely important. But, an awareness in your meditation to move away from all of those five hindrances The five hindrances are what limits you now In your meditation. I don't want you sitting there going. Oh my anger my desire. Oh wait. What we don't actually

0:57:01
We don't do it so much in meditation

0:57:03
We do it in a teaching this teaching this teaching This teaching gets you to look at your mind in mindfulness. It's an analysis in the first attention, in the physical, where you might be sitting there driving and you go, of understanding that's different than what we have done before. This is a good, helpful teaching. If you take this teaching to heart, observe this in your mindfulness, then what automatically happens is your meditation improves. So when you meditate, because you've had the kind of awareness in your mindfulness, then when these thoughts arise in your mind, you naturally move away from them without having to consider them and think about them and use an antidote to them or anything. You just, because you've considered it mindfully, you move away. And then you are unhindered by the five hindrances, which means that meditation is just consistency, practice, and concentration, and then much, much faster progress. It's a wonderful thing. That's what Naropa, the enlightened teacher of Marpa, enlightened teacher of Milarepa, and so on. Naropa called that the natural state. It's like, it's so natural. It takes a lot to get there from the point of view of being stuck in samskara, an illusion, stuck in the five hindrances, it seems very hard to get there. But once you get there, it's perfection, the natural state. And within the natural state, there are the five hindrances. Just like, you know, the whole universe. It's there, it's not like it goes away. But it all falls into the balance of enlightened perspective. We don't meditate to get away from the hardships and difficulties and even suffering. What we do is we meditate so that we can understand it. So that we can see it in the big picture, in the full picture. And when you understand hardships and horrible things, right? Difficulties, the worst things, if you understand them in the big picture of enlightenment, then you don't suffer from it anymore. You have a spiritual awareness of acceptance and those things that caused you the greatest suffering no longer do. But we're not trying to get away from them. We're just trying to understand them. And when we understand them, then they fall into balance. They don't go away, but they're in a balance where you are free from them.

1:00:58
Okie doke. Let's take a little break.

1:01:02
In this meditation, I'd like you to focus on the third eye. the world.

1:01:13
so so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, You the Let's talk about the five hindrances. So, if you are constantly going into a focus on, let's say, desire, or constantly going

1:05:48
into a focus of doubt, or any one of them, what happens is, when you go into that mode, your way of looking at life diminishes. It takes your awareness of truth and it makes it smaller. You enter into a whole world of karma when you go into any one of the five hindrances. What we seek is to not be limited, but they are, by their own natures, limiting. So anytime that you're experiencing desire, anger, laziness, restlessness and doubt, I guarantee you are experiencing life in a small state of mind. It is by moving yourself outside, away from, directing your mind away from those things, where your mind opens. You're more open-minded. So it's worth the effort. Because if you're experiencing those things, that means that your whole experience of life is diminished. You're caught up in a huge, gigantic karma that just brings suffering. So it's worth seeking the way out. It's worth, with all your might, seeking a way out of the hindrance. Now, we're pretty good at figuring out, okay, desire, anger, and doubt. Yeah, those are really difficult, right? But something that you might not be aware of is laziness and restlessness as much. I mean, yeah, sometimes I'm lazy. Some people are, yeah, I'm pretty lazy. And sometimes, you know, it's a little bit of restlessness. However, when it comes to your spiritual practice, these are two of the ones that you don't notice often, but they are very much there. A lot of the time, you're experiencing laziness or restlessness. They are something that's very, very, very present in your practice, but it's a little bit more subtle. Like you probably know when you're pissed off. But sometimes laziness is more subtle. Sometimes restlessness is more subtle. Laziness is when the mind is disconnected from the moment. That's considered dullness of mind, laziness, or sloth. So you know how people say, hey live in the moment. When you're lazy, you're not living in the moment. So a lot of times when I talk about meditation, I say for beginners and everyone, I say don't just sit there and kind of like relax and feel peace. That is a lazy mind. I always say sit up straight, engage, Engage. Push your energy. Be focused. Be in the moment. And that is snapping out of laziness. Most people are very lazy. And that's why meditation is very different. You go from a lazy kind of state of consciousness to being awake and aware and clear in this moment. So that's something that the majority of meditators on the planet, they are experiencing lazy. Because a lot of people think meditation is just like, kind of sit there, breathe and think about my thoughts. Just kind of like feel the vibes. The majority of meditators do that and that's lazy. So that's why I always make a big deal about, you know, like, no, you use a lot of energy, focus, you should feel a lot of energy when you meditate, you should be engaging the moment, experiencing now. So it's something that sneaks up on people and they just don't even see it. So that happens to people a lot of the time. Another thing that happens to people a lot of time that they don't really see is that they're restless. They're restless. Their mind is constantly going out there going, oh wait, what about this thing? What about tomorrow? What about yesterday? You know? And that's thinking about the past, worrying about the future, and thinking about lots of things. And it's like if there was a horse in a really small stable, and the horse is just like, oh my gosh, I'm stuck in here a lot, right? The horse is just like, come on, I wanna be out prancing in the field. It's kind of that feeling of like, oh I want to be doing this, I want to be doing that, and the horse can't just sit there and go, well eat some hay while I'm here. The horse wants to be gallivanting. So this is something that occurs in people a lot and they don't recognize it. A lot of people in meditation sit there making plans. Or they create creative ideas. Oh, you know, I always wanted to start a rock band. You know, they're just exploring these beautiful creative worlds. That's being restless. Or like, how am I gonna solve this problem at work? You know? A lot of people in their meditation are making plans, and that's being restless. And it's like, people do it all the time. It's just that it is getting caught in restlessness. So, even though it's very tempting to wanna make plans, it's best to just say, you know what, I'll do that later. I'll make plans after meditation. And it's always better, because when you make plans after meditation, you're as clear and still as possible. You're not restless. Restless plans, making plans when you're restless, are not best. It's best to make plans when you're still, when you're balanced, when you're connected with spirit. So you know my teacher always used to say, the more you think the less you know. So if you want to make some cool plans, don't think for a while. And then when you focus on making the you'll make good plans. But if you're sitting there going, oh, what should I do? Oh my gosh! You'll start to make worse plans. You're just too antsy. It's that feeling, right? It's like, how is that spiritual book? I don't know, I had to pee the whole time. But the restroom wasn't available, so I just thought I'd read the book, but I had to pee. So, these are two of the five hindrances that people generally don't notice as much, but they don't look at as much and they don't see it as a hindrance. Of course I make plans. Of course I just kind of sit there in my meditation. This is what I do at Bodhi Woods. I really am focusing on getting the usha deshi to be very, very awake in their meditation. And that's why if you guys get stuck into a state of mind, you know, stuck into a way, then I will pull back the morning meditations. I'll say, oh you don't need it. If you're going to be, if you're not going to do what you should do, your part, which is come there with a strong intention, don't just say, oh best part that I did today was woke up and sat there, fell asleep again, right? It's like, no, you can't be lazy. You have to bring your best to your morning meditations.

1:15:23
Yes, so very important.

1:15:25
Now, here's a really important thing for intermediate students to know. The thing, so, you know, I hear a lot of people who are like, you know, on the radio or in a book, I've been meditating for 30 years. I've been meditating for four years. And this is what I've learned. And a lot of times, who cares? You've been meditating poorly for a long time. Who cares? What advances your meditation more than the time that you meditate, the number of years that you meditate, is the ability to direct your mind away from the five hindrances. That, you could meditate for a short period of time, but if you can do that, then you make real progress. That is something to be aware of. Not time. Once there was a young nun who joined Buddha's Sangha. And there was this older instructor, and he was, he'd been around with Buddha for like 30 years. And he wasn't enlightened yet, but he was working on it. And meditated a lot, learned a lot, he was just doing well, making progress. And then, so when the new people would come in, he would give them some of the initial instruction and tell them where to go and what to do. So she comes in and he's like, okay, sit down. And he's like, I'm gonna give you the instruction of meditation for the first time, and then we're going to meditate together. So he's like, okay, so you know, stop thought, junk like that. And he explains it, and then they meditate. After the period of meditation, which was about 20 minutes, he opens his eyes and says, okay, and then bows. And then she is stuck in Samadhi. And for him, he had never actually been in Samadhi. He's just like, whoa. He's like, he sees the light, and he sees like all this goodness, and he's like, oh my goodness. And so he's sitting there for a while, she's in Samadhi, after about 10 minutes, he goes and gets some other monks,

1:18:12
and they're like, hello.

1:18:13
And then they're sitting there watching her, and going, wow, that's pretty cool. So you just got here?

1:18:19
Yeah.

1:18:20
And then after a little while, he's going, he starts getting a little jealous. He's like, hey, we shook her and tried to get her out. We're like, we gotta get out of the room, you know? Like, time for other things. And she's just blissed out, stuck in Samadhi, unable to come back, right? Just in tremendous bliss, like what really high-level, enlightened people go through. And then, you know, what he does is he goes and finds the Buddha. And then he says, hey Buddha, so it's new, none, just got initiated. I taught her meditation for the first time. She said she didn't meditate before. I just taught her it the way I teach everybody, the way you taught me to teach it. And she goes into Samadhi, and they still can't get her out of it. It's been like a couple hours. And we tried to get her out of the room because we wanted to do other things, but she's in Samadhi, she can't get out of it. Buddha is like, that's nice. And then he says, well, god damn it, I've been doing this for like 30 years. And why doesn't that happen to me? And then the Buddha says, because you still have one or more of the five hindrances. And for her, she just heard the teachings and took them seriously. She said, oh, OK. So all right, so no desire, and don't focus on self, and stuff like that.

1:20:00
OK.

1:20:00
And then she just gave it a shot. And she was directing her mind away from the five hindrances. It's not something that is impossible for a new person. Definitely beginning students, sometimes on their first night, seeing me go into Samadhi. Sometimes. It's not it's not an impossible thing. So you can't get caught in your hindrances and say, it's impossible. It's totally possible. It kind of depends on your attitude.

1:20:37
If you have the attitude of,

1:20:38
okay, I'm going to direct my mind away from the hindrances, I'm not gonna believe in the whole universe of those hindrances and those karmas and all of that being rock-solid. Better move away from that. It's no fun anyway. So this is so important for intermediate students, especially. You guys have some concentrations and focus and discipline. If you can hold your mind and direct it away, if you notice that you're getting a little lazy, be awake. If you notice you're planning the future, stop it. If you're like, I don't even think I can get, you know, focus, stop focusing on my hindrances, that's doubt. So if you can really take to this take this to heart and direct your mind

1:21:42
you can break out of

1:21:44
These great cycles of dissatisfaction Worlds of karma that don't even have to exist if you direct your mind away from it That's what I would hope you would do When you learn the teachings of the five hindrances, then you make amazing spiritual progress in your meditation, but also in your life. to have an anger, okay, let me stop that. And then what happens is in your physical life, things start going better. Because, you know, even though we practice bodhicitta when anger comes up, or with anything, that's our mindfulness practice, but the teaching of the five hindrances shows your mind a way to kind of focus away before it even comes up as something that you have to practice bodhicitta on. You feel it coming and you direct your mind away. So you'll notice from this teaching that as you practice mindfulness in the days to come, that you get a feeling or a sense when it's coming. So it's not like you're sitting there and then you go, oh, I'm angry.

1:23:17
Anger, anger, anger.

1:23:20
Oh yeah, Bodhisitta. So you'll notice that you have a sense of something's coming, let me direct my mind. And it doesn't even hit to the point where you have to start breathing.

1:23:38
And then, not only is your meditation stronger,

1:23:43
brighter, more beautiful, but with your mind making those direction, course direction, corrections, directing your mind towards dharma, you see that your day is clearer, more awake, and really more successful.

1:24:03
There was a Brahmin, a layman,

1:24:05
who was actually a Brahmin by profession. And he went to the Buddha, because he's like, okay, I can tell you're enlightened,

1:24:14
that's gotta be cool.

1:24:15
He's like, so I wanna learn some stuff, and he practiced, and he loved it, it was wonderful. But then he would go to his day job. And his day job was to be a Brahmin priest and do chanting and blessings and stuff like that. And a lot of times, he had to read long chants. And he noticed after practicing that the chanting that he did, he just somehow memorized whole books of chanting and whole pujas where he used to have to read things, ceremonies, and that when he did those things, that it was so filled with light and it created just a positive success and he got more donations. So he noticed this and he's like, wow, this is amazing. And then he goes over to Buddha and says,

1:25:20
why is this happening?

1:25:21
And the Buddha said, simply because you've learned to avoid the five hindrances. And it makes your meditation beautiful, and it also makes the things that you do in your life, especially when he has a religious life, much more beautiful. So this is something that helps your yoga. This is something that helps you adhere. The wonderful thing about you is you are leading a spiritual life. You are yogis. Your day job is your yoga. So when you are able to move away from the five hindrances, then there's greater success in your yoga. This is something that you can see as you see it in your meditation, it creates in your physical life a balance, a balanced and equal experience. That's kind of wonderful. However, you know, the thing about the five hindrances is the more you do them, the worse they get. They don't end, and they get worse. They feed off of each other. So you can't just say, all right, I'm going to let it slide on this hindrance this time. I'm going to indulge in it a little bit, right? You can't do that. That's taking a step down in the wrong direction. And who knows if you're gonna have the personal power to get back out of that. Once you start stepping down, and I've seen a number of the intermediate students do this, you go, oh, now I'm gonna just step down, go with that hindrance, because I feel like it, for whatever reason. I'm not gonna direct my mind. And you know you should, but you don't. And what happens is you take a step down and you notice, I'm talking to you, you become even more hindered. They feed off of each other. So let's say with a sexual desire, let's say you're experiencing a great deal of lust. So as we said, when you experience it, when you go into it, it makes your awareness of the world very small. So you might objectively say, oh no, I wouldn't want to have a relationship with this person. I wouldn't want to get into that situation or something like that. But when you feel lust, you're all in. You're like, yeah, let's go for it. Now, lust can be so bad that you might sit there and say, you might be in the throes of lust. You might say, well, I guess it doesn't matter if I have sex with this prostitute who does heroin. At the time, it seems like I should, because you're following lust. And that's an extreme thing. But there's some simple experiences that you know in an objective way. I wouldn't want to do that. But then if you get into it, you're like,

1:29:16
wow, okay, I want to do it.

1:29:18
So if you follow that, that's the kind of thing that happens. And then, you go, okay, so it happened one time. But if you follow it again, then you end up doing it again. And this is something that could be very dangerous. You can find yourself catching AIDS, giving people babies or having a baby, something like that. And it leads, if you do it once, you'll probably do it again unless you use a lot of willpower to go the other way. But if you give in to it, then that's where it brings you. So anger, of course, if you feed anger, anger continues and it grows. So it might just be you get angry at someone and you think an angry thought, and if you're not mindful, you let it grow. Then you go, you say something to someone. You go, hey, you know what? Meh.

1:30:20
You know what I mean?

1:30:21
Of course.

1:30:22
And then, maybe they say something back, or for whatever reason, you follow anger. So again, just like with following desire and lust, you make worse decisions the more you go. So you said something, they said something back, your anger increases, right? You guys get into a fist fight, anger increases, you pull out a gun and shoot him. So you, the more you follow the path of anger, the smaller the way you see the world, and the worse, you can't make better decisions. You make worse and worse decisions. Same with desire. Same with laziness. So if you're lazy, you know, you're just like, you know what, tomorrow, you know, you wake up in the morning, you know, I'm tired. You know, I'm going to sleep in and go to work late. You know, it's like if you did it once, why not do it again? And then later on, you come over to me and say, I just can't wake up in the mornings. Because you're practicing laziness. But really, it moves from a condition of making that one decision to be lazy, and it's okay, to I just can't wake up in the mornings. I have a condition that, oh gosh, I'm just like, I'm all blue in the morning, I can't wake up, my alarm goes off, and I just kill my own life. I have a joke about laziness. There was a guy who goes to his doctor. He's like, hey doc, so I got this problem. You know, as I get getting older, he was 40. He's like, you know, I just can't do as many chores around the house anymore. It's like my energy's down, and it's like the vacuuming and the dusting. I just can't do it, doc. And I need you to examine me and tell me what's going on. So the doctor examines him. He goes, okay, yeah, all right.

1:33:05
Does a little knee test.

1:33:06
Takes blood pressure, say ah, listens to the heart. And then the doctor goes, okay, I know what's going on here. Then he says, what is it, doc? You can tell me, I'm ready for anything. And the doctor says, you're lazy. And then he says, okay, thanks, doc. Now, can you tell me the medical term for that so I can tell my wife? You wanted to continue to be lazy.

1:33:38
You wanted some Latin term for it, right?

1:33:40
So laziness means you don't wanna do things.

1:33:45
You're gonna find more excuses to be lazy.

1:33:47
And then restlessness, right? Oh, restlessness is a bad cycle. So let's say you can't sleep very well. You're waking up and you're stressed out. You're restless because the next day you're giving a presentation at work and you're worrying about it. Then you wake up, you're not well rested, you go to work, you do the presentation, you were worried about it. Then at work, you start to get restless. You're like, hmm, you know, my friend Joe, my old good friend, we're supposed to get together for drinks, and that means I'll have to leave the office a little early, but I really want to meet with him because he's a good old friend. And you start getting restless about meeting an old friend. Isn't that ridiculous? But it happens. And then you meet the old friend, and you're having a drink, and it's a good time, and then you start getting restless. I've got to get home. having a drink, it's a good time, then you start getting restless. I gotta get home, you know, the wife wants me home, and we're supposed to have family sit down dinner tonight

1:34:50
and things like that.

1:34:51
So you're sitting there with your friend, looking at the watch, restless about getting home. You go home, sit down with the wife and kids, have dinner, and halfway through dinner, you're like, now my wife really doesn't like it when we watch TV at dinner, but I really want to watch

1:35:16
the ball game.

1:35:17
I want to watch that game, eat real fast, worry, get restless about getting the game, say, all right, I'm done, can I excuse myself? And then you go and watch the game. And then while you're watching the game, you start getting restless about work the next day. And guess what happens? Bad sleep, the whole cycle again. So restlessness is a way of life for a lot of people.

1:35:44
They just live stressed out lives,

1:35:45
worrying about the future. And what you gotta do is you gotta stop it. You gotta say, whoa. I did this in my career. I used to be fearful and stressed out all the time. And then at some point, I said, whoa, this restlessness doesn't feel good. So I said to myself, OK, I'm restless about the next day. I've got to go in and do something at work and show people something or whatever. And then I just said, I don't care. I don't care what they think. I don't care if they fire me. But I'm not going to worry about this anymore. I slept well. I went in. I did a great job because I practiced impeccability. I just stopped worrying about it. And then that cut the whole cycle, because the whole cycle keeps going around. And then I was just like, OK, I'm not restless about stuff anymore. So cut out the restlessness. What if doubt feeds upon itself? Doubt feeds upon itself. There's a story of Zen monks. So a bunch of Zen monks got together from different places to go visit this old master. And the old master, he came to Kyoto and all these monks came and said, hey, we wanna learn from you because you're some Zen master we've heard about. Then he says, okay, walk with me back up to where I live in the hills, which is like miles outside of Kyoto, and I will give you a Dharma teaching." And so they say, Okay. So there's about a dozen of these monks who are eager to learn from him. So they say, Okay, we're going to follow you. They follow him. And, you know, it should be about an eight-hour walk to his temple. Except for after about eight hours, they don't get there. So the monks are going, what's going on? And then they're just mumbling, I don't know what's going on. Shouldn't we be there by now? And then they walk again. They walk on another four hours, and then it's getting dark. And then they say, what's going on? And then the old master says, oh, I think we walked east instead of west. And then they go, oh my God. So we're gonna have to camp here tonight and then try to make it the next day. And then they're like, it's gonna be two days to get there. So they're like, God, this guy. And when they go to sleep, or before going to sleep, they just start going, yeah, I don't know.

1:38:55
Does this guy know what he's doing?

1:38:56
I mean, is he senile or something?

1:38:59
He's totally lost.

1:39:00
And how can you trust this guy? Like, he's supposed to give us some profound Dharma teaching and he can't even find his own way home. So, the next day they wake up and he says, oh I know, it's not west, it's north. And then they go walking north. And then it's supposed to be from there a 10 hour walk. After 10 hours they go, what is going on? I thought you said it should be about 10 hours. Then he starts looking around going, oh, we should have taken a left five miles ago and and then like a couple of them just lose it and they're just like you know what we're going back to Kyoto later this guy obviously doesn't know anything so then so then they walk on a little bit, they have to camp again. And the monks are just like, this is getting ridiculous. And they're like, if we don't get there tomorrow, giving up. They start going, this guy doesn't know what's going on. He's clueless. The next day, it's like, oh, I know. It's eight hours from here. They walk another eight hours. They're out in the middle of the forest, there's no temple to be found. And they're like, what now? And he says, oh, maybe we should go that way. They're all, that's back towards Kyoto. And he's like, or that way. And then four more of them just say, you know what, forget it. And then they go, you don't know what's going on, this is crazy. And they walk away so then they wander some other place have to camp again and then you know the monks are just sitting there going this is gonna last forever we're wandering in circles with this old man and he doesn't know what the hell he's doing so they're just discussing it and then a few more monks decide to just leave in the morning. They wake up and go, bye. And then there's just a few monks left. And then the old man looks at them. And he says, all right. He says, I think you guys are ready. And he says, my place is two hours this way. And then they walk two hours, and they get to this nice little hermitage. And then he teaches them this profound teaching. And the four monks who hung around, they all had a samadhi, a satori experience in that experience. And it was profound and wonderful. So doubt just grows. Sometimes doubt is not never a good thing.

1:42:03
So Buddha, he talked, he had a simile

1:42:08
for the five hindrances. He said, and it's an interesting thing because it's kind of like a feeling. And it's a feeling that opens your awareness to the hindrances. And the first one is for desire. He said, when you feel desire, it is like being in debt. So just contemplating that really gives you an understanding of what desire does and what it feels like to be free of it. He said of anger, anger is like being ill, like being sick. Achoo!

1:43:15
I chew once.

1:43:16
Anger.

1:43:17
So anger is like being sick. And being free of anger is like being free from an illness. So these are wonderful similes because they give you this, like, some insight as to why you should get out of, direct your mind away from hindrances. He said, laziness is like being a prisoner. It totally is. Laziness is like being a prisoner. Restlessness is like being a slave. I love these similes because you can feel something. It shows you something. Buddha was smart. Speaking of restlessness, doubt. He said doubt is like going on a dangerous journey. You're going on the journey looking there could be thieves or dragons depends what dimension you're in you know all sorts of stuff but going on a perilous dangerous journey that's what doubt feels like What I'd like to do is one of Buddha's meditations on the five hindrances. Buddha, you know, his ears, that simile is just so amazing. You can like feel, oh, I don't want to have any desire. I'm gonna pay off my credit cards. And then he has these meditations on the five hindrances that also give you a feeling and insight. So, let's go ahead and begin. Just close your eyes and envision what I'm talking about. The meditations on the five hindrances. You can, in the pool of water, see clearly. It's a clear pool. That is unobscured awareness. It's bright, it shines, it's clear. That's your true mind. The mind of desire is like a pool with many colors floating on top. Colors of glass that float just on top. So green, blue, red, yellow, white. You see these colors floating on top. When you see those colors, you no longer see the mind, remove those layers of color that are on top of the water, those plates of glass, colored glass, that are on top of the water. You remove them. And in removing them, again, you see the clear mind. Next, we imagine, we see in our mind's eye, the pool of anger. The pool of anger is bubbling, right? It's boiling and steaming. And because of all of the bubbles and the steam, you cannot see the mind clearly. What is necessary is to remove the heat. When we remove the heat, the bubbles subside, the steam goes away, and again, we see the clear mind. We clearly see. Next is the mind of laziness. The mind of laziness has a layer of little pieces of algae, or really small little pieces of pond scum, just on the top. That's right, that's a good one, pond scum. So these teeny little pieces, they all accumulate at the top, and when you look into the pool, there's no reflection. There's only pieces of algae and ponds come. So what you need to do is mix the water. There's activity in mixing. When you mix the water, all of those little pieces, when they're diluted into the water, they just disappear. You don't see them anymore. When they're all concentrated at the top, you can't see anything. But when you mix the water with activity, energy, then they just disappear. And again, you see the pool of water in perfect clarity. Next is restlessness. Restlessness is like the pool of water being blown by wind. You look at the surface of the water and there's lots of waves. And there's so many waves that you can't see clearly in the water. So the wind blows and the wind blows and the wind blows. What's necessary is to still the wind. And when the wind is gone, it's very simple. The water is again clear and perfect. The pool of doubt is a pool that's muddy. It's got lots of dirt floating around in it. And what you do with the pool of doubt is you just be still. You don't touch it, you don't mess with it, and what happens is the dirt and the water eventually falls to the bottom. All of the mud goes to the bottom and you see that the water becomes completely clear.

1:51:32
Okay, good. So this is Buddha's meditation on the five hindrances. And by just going

1:51:35
through that mental process of envisioning that, it informs your awareness is informed about the five hindrances then you start to take account of them in your mind and in your life. You start to look at your mind and you say, hmm I see that there's some gunk. Buddha also said that the mind is like gold, but maybe when you pull the gold out of the ground there's a bunch of dirt and other minerals kind of polish it, clean it, clean off all the gunk, like in the pools of water, all the obscurations, and then the mind is pure gold. And it shines. These are the similes and meditations of the Buddha. But in Vajrayana, we have another consideration. It's what I call anything goes spirituality. And anything goes spirituality has its own considerations and techniques that are beautiful, powerful, wonderful. Anything goes is cool. It's kind of like drunken kung fu. It really shouldn't work.

1:53:49
But it does.

1:53:50
If you ever watch Drunken Master 2, you can tell.

1:53:52
It's one of the rewards. It's just one of those things, you know.

1:53:57
It's like if you get drunk and you get into a fight, you'll just kind of be wailing, and you'll lose your skill, and you'll just be wild. But no, this is a way of technique based on something that should make your fighting wild. So anything goes that works, if it don't work, then it don't go. So for example, some people get things wrong. Let's say there's a Buddhist monastery where there's all these really good Buddhist monks, and then they say, we follow all the rules of the Buddha to the letter. And so, the Bhikkhu Vinyana, which has got like hundreds and hundreds of rules in it, they're like, we follow it to the letter. You know, Buddha didn't say anything about playing video games, nothing. So then you go to the monastery, and then all the monks are sitting there. We follow all the rules, but he said nothing about this.

1:55:21
And this is really fun.

1:55:23
So, you know, that's something that don't work. Now, now we get into the, you know, when it when it's anything goes, it start we start to get towards Tibet, Kanchra, Vajrayana. There was a Tibetan teacher. He went through, studied with someone, then ended up with his own temple. And he seemed really stern, but somehow a lot of monks, he was near a town, so a lot of people joined and became monks. So, you know, it's like maybe a hundred people came and joined his monastery. And what he would do is he would get very angry every once in a while and beat his student up. He'd be like, he'd be like, you're, ah, mm, ah. He'd just start, start wailing on them. And he'd beat them badly. So some of them that got beat badly, after the second or third beating, they just said, out of here.

1:56:40
And they left.

1:56:42
Some people feared that they were going to get beaten, and so they left. And he didn't change when they left. He just kept beating up his monks randomly.

1:56:53
Your meditation's bad.

1:56:54
Ah, psh. I told you, you know, clean up after yourself. And eventually all of his monks either got beaten out on their own, or they just left out of fear. So then he was sitting there in the monastery by himself. He's like, hmm. He's like, hmm, boy, they just don't get it. So he goes to a famous enlightened teacher that everybody recognized as virtuous and beautiful and wonderful and like one of the most famous in the land. And he walks over into the big, giant ashram, big meditation temple where he's got thousands of monks and everyone knows he's totally legit enlightenment and stuff. And he goes over to this Buddha. He says, I don't have any disciples. I was wondering if I could borrow some of your arts. And then this Buddha says, oh yes, of course. He says, just let me give you the right ones. And then he looks at his thousands of students and he picks the scrawniest, littlest, weakest ones. And then he says, this teacher will be the best teacher for you. And they're all, but we love you. You're our Buddha. And then he's like, well, this teacher is better for you than me. And I tell you go. So like, okay, we go. And then they follow him back. And pretty soon he starts whaling on them. He starts fighting them, beating them up. And they are besides themselves. They're like, our enlightened teacher told us to go study with this guy. He was supposed to be enlightened too, but he gets angry and beats us. And they stayed. They got beaten many times, but they stayed. And then after some period of time, a number of years, all three of them became enlightened. So this is a story of anything goes. See the thing about anything goes is if it works, it goes. Even if it's something that is weird to us, like computers and enlightenment. It's weird, but if it works, it goes. Martial arts and enlightenment sounded weird with the Buddhist community when Bodhidharma started it. You know, when he started the Shaolin temple, everybody was like, what? You're teaching monks to fight? But guess what? It sure worked. And now they're renowned Buddhist monks and martial artists. So if it works, it goes. Martial arts is like this too. I love it. You know, the truth is not an opinion. It either works or it doesn't. It is or it isn't. So it's like people sitting there going, I don't like this. Who cares what you like?

2:00:31
Don't be an idiot.

2:00:33
If you want truth, then even if it's something weird, if it works, it goes. So like martial arts, you go into a martial arts class, they teach you a kata, you decide instead of doing the kata the way they're teaching it, I'm going to throw in a couple dance moves. You can do that. And that would not work. Because after years of training, if you got into an actual fight, and this is where truth is not an opinion. When you get into a fight, if you have practiced the martial arts properly, then you see the truth, which is you win. But if you practice it incorrectly because, oh, you know, I wanted to throw in some dance moves because I thought it would be cool. Because of my ego, because I didn't see truth, because I had an opinion. Then what happens is you get beaten up. So in martial arts, there's that lovely truth. There's the truth in a reality, which is a fight. And in spirituality, there's a truth that is that real. Win the fight or lose the fight. It is that real in spirituality. Sometimes strange methods, right? So you might go and learn martial arts from a drunken master. You learn a strange method, but it works.

2:02:23
If it don't work, it don't work.

2:02:25
But if you go to one of these drunken masters or the guru who beats you up or whatever, or all sorts of weird things that can happen, if you have an opinion and you cannot see the truth, then you miss it. You miss it. You miss the anything goes, which means it goes. And then you choose self, which is definitely no-go. Self is definitely no-go. Truth is not an opinion. You have to align yourself with a structure of truth that you can see is authentic and that works, even if it's weird, even if it's and weird things. So there are... You know, letting go of the five hindrances, it's hard. It's not an easy to do. Spiritual people, monks, they always have this problem. They are always struggling with it, even though they want to do it. I want to let go of my desire and the whole universe of hell, about my desire, but it's hard. I want to let go of my anger. For me, letting go of anger was so hard. It was so difficult. But you know what Buddha says about it? He says, anger is very harmful, but relatively easy to get rid of. And I was like, what?

2:04:13
What?

2:04:13
What do you mean?

2:04:17
So that's a good encouragement from Buddha. I thought it was so hard for myself, but it's actually easy from a Buddhist perspective. I love that. So like a Buddhist monk might go to the monastery and say, yeah, I'm going to wear robes and giving up my job and not going to pursue a family and all that stuff, and really letting go of lots and lots of desires, right? But the Buddhist monk might have these desires. Desire to be enlightened, it's a desire. Desire to be above other people. I'm the one that people look to and think I'm cool. All sorts of subtle desires. And if you don't uproot those subtle desires, then they ruin everything. You still, in your life and in your meditation, are being hindered by desire. So, you know, for you it might be pizza. I try and stand, especially if you're in Rome. So, you know, for you it might be like, I can't shake the desire for pizza. And it's like, wow, you know, you really gotta let go. Try the lasagna. Be open minded. But a desire, of course, when we say desire is a bad word, as a hindrance, is a desire to have something that you feel will make you better. It aligns with self. The desire to be enlightened might be a completely selfless desire. The desire to help people might be a selfless desire. A lot of times, the desire to help people is something that boosts your ego or boosts your sense of self. So, even a Buddhist monk who's helping people and all this stuff, they might have something in them which is a desire. So you have to be careful to get away from desires.

2:06:49
For anger.

2:06:51
One time I knew this Buddhist monk. He seemed like such a harmless, beautiful fellow. And then I was driving somewhere with him and I was driving and we got stuck in traffic, and then the road rage came out. Someone cut us, someone cut us off,

2:07:21
and he's all like,

2:07:22
ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah.

2:07:24
Lost it, so upset.

2:07:27
And I was like, oh.

2:07:29
So, you know, he was a Buddhist monk, and he was just always a nice, sweet fellow. But as soon as we got into like, crazy traffic, people cutting us off, he lost it. He was pissed off for an hour until we got out of traffic. Then he's like, okay.

2:07:50
And I'm like, who am I to say anything?

2:07:55
Laziness, now I love this.

2:07:58
One of my favorite stories.

2:07:59
So I was just talking to someone who came to one of my introduction classes. And I'm like, hey, have you ever meditated before? And she's all, yeah, I just came back from a vipassana retreat. And then I was like, oh, how'd that go? And she said, I don't know, you know, it was 10 days long and we slept a lot. And I said, what do you mean? Well, you know, because we're supposed to meditate eight hours a day. I said, wow, really? And she said, yeah, so, you know, we would sit there for like 15 minutes, but then everyone would just kind of like fall asleep. And even the Buddhist monk teaching the class fell asleep. sleep. Well, at least you got a lot of rest. So this is something that definitely happens. Some people have a real hard time meditating. They get tired as soon as they start meditating. And it happens. So this is something Buddhist monks definitely, definitely face. And it's like, you know, they want to get past that, but it's such a challenge. And let's see, with doubt, that's a good doubt one. Buddhist monks, you know,

2:09:22
oh no, restlessness first, right?

2:09:24
So with restlessness, you know, a Buddhist monk, and this happens a lot, probably happens to some of you sometimes, you're like, yeah, I really like meditation. I want to do it. And then you're like, oh, maybe not today. I want to sit for the hour of meditation, but I woke up 10 minutes late, so I might as well just get ready and go to work. So restlessness for Buddhist monks is that they just can't sit down and do what they really, really want to do. They're a little too restless to be still. So it happens. And without, here's what happens to a lot of Buddhist monks. They like a lot of things that their teacher says. Buddha said this and this is really good. Buddha said that and that's really good. In fact I was talking to someone in Thailand who was like, Buddha said these really good things. This guy also, he hated Catholicism because he grew up Catholic. Then he's like, the thing about Buddha is he doesn't talk about all these different worlds, and he doesn't talk about doing all this magic. I was like, wow, you really haven't read a book about the Buddha. The stories of the Siddha powers that Buddha's done, turning invisible, flying across the sky, making colors appear, making multiple doubles of himself appear. You know, like, this is one huge documented aspect of Buddha. And, you know, so like, if you start saying that stuff to this guy, he's like, oh, that just brings me into my doubt. So it's like, I really love all these beautiful things Buddha says like about the five hindrances. It makes a lot of sense. But if you start telling me that Buddha's talking about the heaven of 33 and going to hell, which he talked about a lot. If you're a bad monk, you're going to monk hell. And he talked about it a lot. Heavens, hells, and also magical powers. And he demonstrated the magical powers. So, this guy just heard the nice things like the four noble truths and the five precepts and the five hindrances and things. And those are really good, they're solid, they make a lot of sense. But you agree with some things, but when you hear about the other things that you, for whatever reason, don't agree with, you have doubt. And when you have doubt in that one thing, it starts to cast doubt on the other things. So you don't need to have doubt. You just need to go, all right, so I hear a story of something that I don't know about. I don't have to doubt it. I can just accept it as information that I don't know about. Buddha did a bunch of magical things. I didn't see it. But if you go, I doubt that. I really doubt that. Then you start to doubt the Four Noble Truths. Did Buddha really, I mean, can I trust this guy?

2:12:49
Because he's talking about heaven and hell

2:12:50
and I don't believe in that. So can I trust this guy? How do I prove heaven and hell? How does he know? So when you have doubt about, this is what happens to monks and other spiritual folk. They have doubt about some teachings and it casts doubt on the rest. So it's just like, I think I have doubt. The gulfed out. Now Buddha had specific antidotes to the five hindrances and along with those antidotes there are the Vajrayana antidotes the anything goes antidotes

2:13:26
So for

2:13:28
for the sensual desire. Buddha would say, this was a big one for him. He said that sexual desire specifically was the biggest obstacle to his enlightenment. So he would teach the monks, hey, you know, he'd teach the boys, hey, when you start to feel like you want to be with a girl or something, then imagine her looking really ugly. And imagine her, you might think of a girl who's like 20 and hot, imagine her being 80. And imagining her drooling and barfing. And then the guy's all, ooh, no, whoa, whoa, whoa.

2:14:35
I don't want that.

2:14:36
Then you go over to the girls and do the same thing. Yo, you want a guy?

2:14:41
They're nasty.

2:14:42
They're like dogs.

2:14:45
And he would just describe, imagine him all ugly and stuff like that. And then the girls are like ugly, smelly, hairy, monobrow. Everything.

2:15:04
I won't go on.

2:15:11
And this was a real big thing for Buddha. He was having a big party in his castle, and then he woke up really, really early in the morning, and then he saw some of his hot courtesan babes. And he was like, so they're all wasted because they were up drinking wine and stuff. And then he looks at them and he's like, oh there goes that white... She's all like sleeping with her mouth open. Her hair is all messed up. And he looks at another one and she's like drooling. So he's just like, he's just like looking at them. He's like, well they're really not, they're not pouring on the second chakra here. And when they're sleeping and just like totally wasted and passed out after a huge party, they don't look so good. So he's like, this is my chance. I'm not spellbound by my desire anymore. So he's like, I am out of here. And that's how he ran out. So this is a really good antidote to desire. I'm just starting to imagine some nasty things. And so Buddha talks about that a lot. But there's also the tantric way, which is to understand it, but not be trapped by it. It's more sophisticated. That can manifest in so many ways, depending on if you can do it. If it goes, it goes. If it doesn't go, then what are you doing? So there's a story of a, it's actually a Taoist, a Taoist whose last thing was desire. He's like, I still really like women. And he's like, I meditate really, really well, I've got all these other virtues, but that one last thing is, never had a girlfriend, I don't know what it's like, I'm drawn to it, he still has that desire. So one of his friends says, hey, friend who already became liberated, says you're very close, but you need to get over that thing. And, you know, he, oh, another thing that happened, he just came into an inheritance. So his parents died, and he got a lot of money. He's like, I don't care for money at all, it doesn't matter. But see, I'm not stuck on that, it's just the girls. So his friend says, hey, now you got some money, why don't you like move into that brothel over there? That way you can get the information that you need to get, but because you're so advanced, you're not going to get stuck and go down. So his friend was already liberated, so he said, okay, I'll trust that information. So he goes and lives in a brothel for a year. And he doesn't have sex, he just observes. Looking in. Hanging around all the girls.

2:18:28
And he's paying for it, so they're pretty happy.

2:18:30
Yeah.

2:18:31
And then of course they tempt him and all this stuff, but he just comes to understand

2:18:39
what the whole thing is about.

2:18:40
And then he says, all right. So he actually ended up becoming enlightened while living in the brothel.

2:18:54
Yeah. So that is a way that it's like,

2:18:57
that's an anything goes thing. But it's something that worked. Now for a lot of people, it won't work. You know, for a lot of alcoholics, if they wanna like, you know, really beat alcoholism, hanging out in a bar is not a good idea. But you know what? For some people, for someone, it could work. It depends on if it's truth or not. So, this is the funny thing about Anything Goes. Anything Goes must be real, it has to be true. And if it's not, it's just a horrible mistake. Yeah, it's like, you know, tantric sex. So in tantric sex, it probably started with some enlightened person who did it and it was enlightening. And then like in California, everyone's like, oh, tantric sex. And then what happens is they just start having sex. And it's not really pulling them away from their sexual desire. It's just enforcing it. So if it ain't real, it doesn't go. The antidote for anger is Maitri, loving kindness. This is a great one. So if someone comes over to you with anger, you just give them loving kindness. And that works, and it's totally amazing and fantastic. In Vajrayana Buddhism, in our school, and now there's some Chan Buddhism and everything, there's another way to learn about anger. And that's to get into an intense field where there's anger and violence. We call it martial arts. It's interesting, but it's true. A lot of people who just can't control their anger, loving kindness is one way to learn about it. But they're like, no, no, I wouldn't want to do martial arts because martial arts is all hurting hurting people and dealing with people trying to hurt you, yeah, but you can't control your anger. If you can control the force of death, and if you can defend against the force of death, then you gain a power and a control that is aligned with anger. It's a control over power and a control over anger. So one of the big aspects of our school is control, control, control from martial arts. And in martial arts, a lot of people learn martial arts and they get more angry. Because they learn how to, they go, oh now I can push people around. It's like Cobra Kai and the Karate Kid and all that. But we have an enlightened aspect, the same way Shaolin had an enlightened aspect of martial

2:22:37
arts.

2:22:38
And in our school, when you do martial arts, you draw upon these dimensions of control and understanding as an antidote to anger. So that's a really cool one. Then there's laziness. So for laziness, Buddha said stuff like, you know, if you're getting lazy, if you're not like, you know, dozing off, he said, open your eyes. Well, you know, sitting there and meditating, open your eyes. Because that kind of snaps you back into the physical, and you're not so kind of spaced out. My teacher talked about that, too. Don't space out. Open your eyes if you have to. And Buddha also said, you know, get up and walk around. If you're just sitting there going, not engaging a moment, kind of falling asleep. He said, get up and walk around.

2:23:44
Come on.

2:23:45
That'll wake you up. You'll get you back into being awake. Do some jumping jacks. He didn't say that, but it'll wake you up. So that is very simple, good advice for reasons to start being awake and in the moment. Open your eyes, get up and walk around, then sit back down and meditate. So those are cool. Doesn't seem to work so good for my students. We have other means. It's important to know what laziness is. So if you're like super lazy, and you're just like, oh, I could work, but I'm just gonna lay around, lay around, lay around, and then finally, you get up inside to do something. But it's really good to do this as an experiment and understand laziness. When you're awake and sharp and you wanna do something, sit down and be lazy, and see what it is. So you'll be sitting there, laying there going, hmm, wow, this sucks, I want to do something. And not in a restless way. You're just like, I'm not being productive, I'm just being lazy. And then you'll say, okay, now I get what lazy is. And lazy is that, if you're feeling lazy or not. So if you're not feeling lazy and you give yourself the laziness treatment, then you say, okay, well, laziness is this thing and it's not a good thing. But if you're feeling lazy and you're lazy, it is also not a good thing. So it kind of go in fast forward. So you're like, okay, I'm lazy, so now I'm going to push myself and fast forward. So that means if you're feeling physical laziness, then you get up and run around.

2:26:03
Not walk, Buddha's like, walk.

2:26:05
I'm like, no, you better, we're in the Kali Yuga,

2:26:06
you better run.

2:26:07
So, there was a, this happened in Tibet, this one student, he just kept on falling asleep during meditation, and finally, you know, like the master comes over to him, and he says, OK, get up. He's like, all right, run around the meditation hall 100 times. And he's like, OK, OK. So he runs around, runs around, runs around. And it gets him awake again, gets his muscles going. And he's like, OK, now I'm awake. And he sits down to meditate, and his body's alive with energy. So he's not just sitting there, falling asleep in laziness. There's also this other, it's also in Tibet, where this master had this idea to get his monks to be not lazy. He had this epidemic, like one monk would start falling asleep and then it was like psychically contagious, and like everybody's falling asleep in meditation. He's like, you guys have to get over the lazy hindrance. So he said, all right, here's what we're gonna do. In our evening meditation, I'm gonna have your dinner put in a bowl on top of your head. And if that bowl falls off, the dogs get the food, and you get no food. And they only ate once a day. So, that monk's wrong, okay. So, you know, the first couple months, the dogs in that monastery got a bit chubby. They couldn't eat that much.

2:27:55
Their food would fall off their head.

2:27:58
So, you know, they eventually learned that they wanted to eat and they had a desire to eat rather than be lazy. So now I want to have my food. I got to make sure I'm here, make sure I'm present in the moment, you know, not going alone. And that taught them not to be lazy. So I say, know what laziness is, and then run around, if you've got to run around.

2:28:25
Get your body going.

2:28:26
Do some push-ups before your meditation. But most of all, just really push your energy to be awake. That's laziness. That's another aspect of laziness. Sometimes, laziness is a good thing. So, for restlessness, sometimes laziness is good. So, with restlessness, yeah, the Buddha just said, calm down. If you're restful, calm down. And don't try to go from super, you know, restless. Yeah, if you're restless, calm down. And don't go from super restless to trying to like stop immediately, because it won't work. This is what the Buddha said. Buddha said, take it step by step. Just like if you were running, and you were gonna slow down, you'd start running slower. Then you'd start walking. Then you would sit down. And then you would lie down. So Buddha said, with restlessness, you want to take it step by step by step. So this was Buddha's antidote to restlessness. However, restlessness can be seen in an interesting way where laziness balances it. This is the Buddhist way or this is the Vajrayana way. When you're restful, when you're restless, you need to find a way to be restful. Otherwise, the restlessness makes you stress out. And if you're so stressed out that you can't stop being restless, you need to somehow chill yourself out. So there's a story of Renzai. Renzai, he became one of the leaders of one of the schools of Zen. But at first he was studying with, I think, Hakuin, an enlightened teacher. And he was in the monastery. They were meditating. And during the meditation, Renzai slouched down, you know, started going like this. And this is one of those Zen schools where the Zen master goes around with a stick and hits you if your posture goes down or if you're thinking. And so, you know, so he's falling asleep it looks like. And the guy next to him is like, kind of hits him and says, wake up,

2:31:24
the master will hit you.

2:31:26
And then Renzai looks over at the master, and then, oh, whatever. And then he starts falling asleep again. So, after that meditation, the master is scolding them about how bad they meditated. He said, there's only one person here who meditated perfectly. And then he says, it's Renzai. And everyone's like, what? And the reason why is Renzai found a balance. Renzai, his problem was that he was totally restless all the time, stressing out like crazy. And then finally, Renzai just let go of that restlessness and he found balance by falling asleep. And it's also in the story of the Buddha, right? So Buddha was, you know, he was doing all these ascetic practices for six years. He was like not eating, and he was like doing all these amazing, powerful meditations where he had a lot of internal personal power and all this stuff, but he wasn't becoming enlightened. And he was like restless in his pursuit. And then finally when he did, he just said, Oh, I'm going to start eating, you know, and I'm going to stop these intense, crazy practices. And he called it the middle way. But when he stopped being so intense about his practice, and he stressed out, and he stopped stressing out, and he found the middle way, the way of balance, then he became enlightened very quickly. Then he's all, okay, enlightenment. Poof. So it's a delicate balance. It has to be, it has to work. Otherwise it's a no-go. So if I see my students on Monday morning going like this in meditation, I'm gonna pull out my Zen stick. Unless it works, then I'll pat you on the back. So for doubt, Buddha's antidote is you tell yourself, no, I shouldn't doubt. I'm on the pathway to enlightenment. And this is a good thing. And I can do it. You start giving yourself positive statements against the doubt, and that's a good antidote. So if you're like, I can never do this, then you start saying, wait a minute, sure I can.

2:34:16
And that's a good thing.

2:34:17
In Vajrayana, we start to doubt the doubt. If you have a doubt and you start hearing yourself saying, you know, like, this is weird, I don't like this, what's going on? Then you start, then you go, oh wow, I'm noticing some doubt. So then you start doubting the doubt. You're like, well what's your problem? Or you think, oh, this is never going to work out. I can never get over my desire. Then you say, why do you say that? Because evidence A, B, and C. I doubt that statement. I doubt it because of this, this, and this that I've seen. So you start doubting your doubt and coming up with reasons why to doubt your doubt. And that's the Vajrayana method. Okay, to conclude tonight, we shall have special meditation. In this meditation, I am going to demonstrate to you in direct spirit the letting go of hindrances. We're going to do an open eye meditation. So just steal your thoughts and just look up towards me. And in direct spiritual awareness, you will see, experience, and learn the ability to let go of the hindrances and direct your mind away from them. Just for one song.

2:37:09
So, I'm going to play a little bit of it. the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. You You Okay.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
