0:00:00
Do you guys notice this is an even nicer spot? Yeah, I like this spot. The thing about it is you have to walk up the hill. But now we have done it and we are here. We still might hear noise from down the hill, but we were too much close to their energy lines, and they were utilizing not the right dimensions, not the kind of dimensions we want to intermingle with. So it looks like there was a group of five people who followed us up the mountain. They wanted to join us, and security thwarted them. Good job security. You don't want to have a bunch of spacers here. I mean, besides you guys. All right, let's try it again. Let's notice how how it's different when we don't intermingle with those kinds of dimensions. Let's begin with a focus

0:01:24
on the navel chakra

0:01:31
and bring the focus to the third eye.

0:01:43
Okay, very nice.

0:01:50
Alright, so, as we had discussed yesterday, lights off when you're ready. I still see the light on. Put it away or something. As we discussed yesterday, we have to be able to deal with the suffering in our lives in a stronger way. And that means that when suffering arises, a person gives you a hard time, you're stuck you to really rely on the practice of Dharma, especially the practice of bodhicitta. It's very important. Your knee-jerk reaction needs to become bodhicitta instead of self. The The moment you find yourself reacting in self, guaranteed you're kicking off a bunch of karma. So, you need to observe your mind. And when something happens, your knee-jerk reaction has to be bodhicitta. Once you can get that to happen, like the first thought that you have when you start to get hurt is bodhicitta, that's when you start to have proficiency in bodhicitta practice. Before that, you're not mindful enough. You're not strong enough in mindfulness. So it's very important, very important. You can walk the path and do it and take on the difficulties that occur in any endeavor. And be happy. Be strong. Be powerful. Not feel like you're a victim. Not feel like everyone's always doing something to you, there's always something wrong, there's always some problems. Yeah, there's always some problems. Yeah, someone's always doing something to you. That's never going to change in life. What's going to change is your ability to deal with it. Did Buddha never have problems? Did nobody mess with Buddha? No. Buddha had more problems than all of us combined. And he had many, many people trying to mess with him. People trying to kill him, people trying to destroy his organization, people trying to do everything bad. So, the reason that Buddha was able to deal with really intense adversity was because he was very, very, very strong in practice. And he was very positive and happy and blissful. So, we want to be like Buddha. We want to be able to deal with the hardships that are inherent in life and on the path and in any endeavor. And we want to be able to deal with it in a way where we're strong and we can keep a positive mental attitude. You know, you have to be a happy, strong, positive warrior. A happy, positive, strong person who succeeds. A victor and not a victim. I want to see this change in the way that you deal with trouble, deal with difficulty, deal with suffering. We've identified last night in our seeing the way out of roadblocks, the way out of suffering. And we have not only done a seeing about it, which we do from time to time, we see subtle physical things, but this time I started to ask you more about the meaning. What does it mean when you see a mountain disappear? What does it mean when you see gold light surrounding the mountain? Or beams of gold light coming down the mountain towards you. It's like, yes, that is something that's happening in the subtle physical, in the astral, in the causal, but what does it mean? It does something. It triggers something. There's something that's real about it. When you see something like a mountain disappear, it changes your understanding of life. Things that are impossible become possible. If a mountain can disappear, you can make a sale. If a mountain can... if gold light can stream down a mountain, you start to see the world in a different way, with greater possibilities. It literally changes the way you see life. And it has a powerful effect. So, we were looking for the meaning, and we heard a lot of people explaining the meanings and their seeings. And I think that, to a sufficient degree, we can see the things that were similar in the seeings and in the understandings. To a point where you can say, okay, this isn't just kind of like random, everybody seeing their own thing. It's like, oh, I saw Ronald McDonald on top of the mountain, offering me a hamburger. It's not a bunch of random stuff. There's definitely similar themes. And by discussing and talking about what we saw and what we understood, we come to a consensus in our understanding of life. We say, whoa, a mountain can disappear. There could be gold light coming down from the mountain. And we all say, okay, I pretty much get that that's happening, even if I didn't see it. There's just so many people who saw it. Apparently something's happening like that. Then we start to say, okay, things can be different. Things can change. So this is very good. You saw the way out. You saw the way beyond the roadblocks. But as I said, I would really, really like to see your first reaction to be bodhicitta. Bodhicitta is definitely aligned aligned with your visions, automatically. So, with your vision of success, consider Bodhicitta. Consider Bodhicitta a vehicle to produce that result. Very important. And, if you didn't see anything, that's okay. If you didn't see anything, don't worry. You're not like a retard or something. Some people don't see things for years, but then they eventually do. And, you know, even though we do practice mysticism, even if you don't get it, or it's just not something that you're very strong in or fluid in, that's okay. You just open your mind to possibilities. You just keep an open mind, you just meditate, you just focus on the things, and then see how it goes. Yeah. It's not a big deal. Don't worry about it. This is the story of the Sorcerer's Explanation. So Don Juan takes Carlos, and Carlos is a very physical person. And over a certain period of time, Don Juan teaches Carlos to see the world in magical ways, to see different dimensions and to be able to utilize those different powers, to shift his attention, to gain power and stop losing power. So he teaches him this whole different view of the world through mysticism. And that is what the sorcerer's explanation is. The sorcerer's explanation is the sorcerer's way of seeing life. And when you see life that way, then you just have that power and that awareness. So, the reason we do these exercises is because this is a way in which you learn these dimensions, you're able to access these dimensions, and you're able to utilize the power of these dimensions. If you have mastery and seeing and understanding and all that stuff, then you come to understand these dimensions and be able to get to them anytime you need to. If you don't see it at all, then that's what I'm here for. I connect you to the dimensions, and I make sure that you have access to that energy, and that energy, those powers, are things that operate in your awareness, even if you don't get it. So that's why we're all mystics. That's why we all do mysticism. Because whether you're a talented mystic or a very working relationship with you is a way of mysticism. I extend my aura to include you. You might go through a month all like, you know, just dealing with the stuff you got to deal with. And at the same time, there is light from me going to you. And you are using and operating with that light. And sometimes, you know, you might spend a month, you know, meditating, thinking about a wonderful power trip, and just filled with light, thinking about the yoga, the Sangha, the Dharma, and me. You might be filled with light, thinking about all of these things, and you are connecting to me. So this is a very strong aspect of our connection. The way that I work with all my students, is through this practice of mysticism, a way of mysticism. So, even if you don't see, you don't get it, you don't believe it, or whatever, it's still happening. And that's okay. Just let that be. Just let it be that way. It's alright. Alright. Yeah. So, this is why we do these exercises. It patterns your awareness. And little by little, you start to see more. And little by little, you see that life's a miracle. think it is, life is actually completely fluid. You know, you can look through the physical and see light. You can look through the physical and see love. You see that beyond this heavy, boring, hard physical stuff, there's great beauty. If you could just look beyond the surface, you can see that the universe is filled with miracles. So, I'm going to do a meditative exercise for you. A mystical exercise. With this exercise, it's going to be very simple, unless you guys are sitting too close together. We're going to lay down on our backs and look up, relax. Or if you're in a chair, you can just put your head back. Or if you're sitting up, you could just put your head back. But if you can, lay down, relax. We're just going to keep our eyes open, blink when you need to. You don't need to focus on any star in particular. You don't have to focus on any chakra in particular, okay? You can if you want to, but it's just looking up into the sky, and we're just going to sit looking up into the sky for just a couple minutes or a few minutes. Let's begin. Okay, now choose the brightest star that you can find in the sky and just look at that star. Okay, very good. Please sit up.

0:18:30
Not so cold tonight, huh? Not yet. Alright, so what did you see? What did you feel? What was your experience? Go ahead.

0:18:40
I felt the whole sky turn. So when I looked up, the sky started turning.

0:19:16
Turning?

0:19:17
And then, yeah, like it started moving.

0:19:20
It was solid, but then when I did it, it started to move.

0:19:26
Okay. Alright, that's good.

0:19:29
No? No, yeah, yeah.

0:19:31
It does. Yes. So, first... A little louder please.

0:19:41
First I've seen all the stars have had a little bright aura, and they were all kind of like vibrating and moving. And then when the second star is focusing on the specific bright star, then that star, the sky and all the other stars kind of like dissolved in light and they disappeared.

0:20:06
Okay, good. So that's very similar to what Raja said with the other stars going away. But you said that when you looked up into the sky, you saw concentric circles.

0:20:41
It's very physical, it's like a feeling of order, sort of. It's like star charts that you see when you see a circle. Okay, so this is where you're going too much into the self.

0:20:58
Okay.

0:20:59
Did anyone else see concentric circles? I saw a grid with circles.

0:21:16
So the stars were there but then they were like little holes of the same size.

0:21:21
Just for a brief second.

0:21:24
Okay. Circles. Yes.

0:21:27
I saw a circle.

0:21:28
A circle. Okay.

0:21:30
Alright, alright. So some people saw the circle. I just wanted to... Since you mentioned circles, I just wanted to see if other people had also seen it.

0:21:40
I can feel as I'm describing it, but I'm imagining it heavy. I don't know how to describe it.

0:21:49
Okay, so, it's okay. I mean, saying a circle is okay. What you said was fine in the beginning. The more you try to describe it, the more you start going into a mental model. We just want to know what your experience was, what you saw. We don't want it explained.

0:22:08
I saw something a little different. Uh huh. At first, there was a lot of bright light rising up from the mountains, like around all of us. And there was a vortex, just like in the center of where I was looking, and then when we looked at the brightest star, there was a different kind of vortex around it, but there was a line of light coming from that star down directly towards us.

0:22:40
Yeah. Who else saw that?

0:22:43
Yeah, me too.

0:22:45
accurate. Yes. And the first thing that you saw, which you call a vortex in the sky, is similar to what other people would call concentric circles. Yes? A little louder.

0:22:56
fireworks like all the stars were starting to move like in 3D so it just like fell down and when we're focusing to one star, the bright star then it felt like that star is moving very fast and I am moving very fast as well to catch up and the rest of the stars were just like, matting in.

0:23:40
Mm-hmm.

0:23:41
Okay, that's very similar. So there's one thing that you said, you said that when you looked at the one star, you felt like it was moving very fast.

0:23:49
Yes.

0:23:50
Okay. Anyone else? Yeah, send it back.

0:23:54
the sky kind of, like I can see kind of like a swirl almost around the sky and the stars kind of bright and when I looked at the brightest star I can see on a focus on that all the other stars in the sky disappeared Yes, yes. That's absolutely right.

0:24:14
Yes?

0:24:16
Mine was very similar to what he just said Sounded weird

0:24:21
I saw something very similar to what he just described. All the stars disappeared and for a moment everything including myself disappeared.

0:24:34
Oh nice! There you go. I like that. That's what it's all about. she saw the star moving, she felt that it was moving very fast, and she felt that she was moving very fast. Yes. No, oh wait, sorry. No, I'm first. Wait, louder, I can't hear. Okay, so, so when we were looking at the one star, we were spinning around it?

0:25:19
When we just went up all the other stars in the air, it was just that one star, and we, everything was spinning around that star in two directions.

0:25:29
Yes, that is correct. That's like also seeing like the movement and the vortex. Okay, wait, Nav, what were you going to say?

0:25:39
I don't see it, but I felt beauty and symmetry in the first one. And in the second, the star, it seemed like it was falling towards me. But because I was also moving, so it didn't get any bigger, but I felt a connection to the star, but we were both moving.

0:25:58
Okay, good. So, another motion with the star thing.

0:26:07
Similar to what Raja saw at the beginning, I saw a lot of vibrating energy at the beginning. But then when we focused on the individual star, I saw it actually moving, like kind of going like a worm. Just like moving in little circles and little figurines and stuff like that.

0:26:25
And then all of a sudden it jumped.

0:26:26
Uh-huh. Anyone else see that?

0:26:30
Yeah.

0:26:31
Yeah.

0:26:31
Mysterious.

0:26:32
I'm just curious. All right, I think you guys described just about everything that there is to see. So no one had an incorrect scene. But you know, so it's kind of like there's a vortex, and things seem to kind of like disappear. And when we look at the star, you know, there's also a vortex around that star, and it moves, or there's a feeling of moving. So, you know, these are all completely normal, as you can, you know, see from yourselves and other people, you guys experience similar things. And this is a really cool thing. I remember, you know, like, doing this with my teacher and just watching like... He would do it with the moon a lot. It's just like, there's watching the moon bounce across the sky, is how I perceived it. And what happens is we sit in a place of power, and there are certain mystical dimensions that I'm opening up, and they have very specific things, vortexes and lines of energy, and it creates these perceptions. And as a lot of you pointed out, you felt like you had motion with the star, or motion with the vortex of energy. The dimensions that we're opening up are not actually moving stars around in the heavens. They're actually dimensions that are opening up your perception. They're dimensions that are acting upon you, the energy happens upon you, and then when you look at the stars, you see them literally disappear, move, and things like that. So it's a very, very, very cool thing. And it's actually, you know, it's a very transformative experience. Even if you don't know what's going on, even if you didn't see it move, it's something that gets your awareness to change. And then you could always look and see stars jumping around, and the sky turning to gold and things like that. You could always come back to these dimensions and it's really beautiful. So this is another one of those mystical experiments that tells us that things can change. or move. And that's like a... it's something that informs us at really a spiritual level that life is not so fixed. We can do more. We can do more. This is a wonderful and beautiful thing. And the one thing that I want you guys to understand through these mystical things is that you could totally deal with the hardest things in life, the most fixed things in life, you in an amazing way, in a way of Bodhicitta. And if a mountain could disappear, or cough up gold light or something, if the sky can disappear and you can see and feel, you know, spinning around with the stars, you can deal with the hardest of the hardships of your suffering with bodhisitta. And bodhisitta is something that really transforms and addresses your suffering. And it's totally something that works with your seeing. It's funny, I was talking to Ajna last night, and he's like, oh, the mountain told me this one thing but I don't believe it. You know it's like it seems like there's something wrong with it. And then he told me it and then I said, no that's you know, I was like that's completely in line with the Bhagavad Gita. It's exactly completely in line with the Bhagavad Gita. And then he's like, oh. So then I said, I agree with the mountain. And he's like, gosh damn it!

0:31:39
Oh god damn it!

0:31:40
I wanted to get my way, but the mountain had its own ideas that happened to be the dharma. Alright, shall we take a break? Do we need a break? No break? Okay, no break. No break! We keep going. So, when we are considering enlightenment, we consider the enlightenment of the bodhisattva as being a higher ideal. And that's why we practice bodhicitta. really, totally focused on our personal enlightenment. And he really didn't want us to go off and do a lot of selfless giving and junk like

0:32:39
that.

0:32:40
He was just like, be impeccable, be an arhant. And he definitely taught us bodhicitta as well, but the majority of the time when he talked to us about enlightenment, it was about us becoming enlightened. Very similar to the Buddha. The Buddha was all about, you know, you become enlightened. You follow the Noble Eightfold Path, and you become enlightened. And the Noble Eightfold Path doesn't have right compassion in it. It doesn't. It's all about the way you look at life, the way you handle life, the way you deal with life, the way you meditate through life. So Buddha's teachings were geared to teach someone to get out of suffering, and Rama's Rama was very, very disciplined, militant, focused on his individual students experiencing liberation from suffering. So that's a really cool thing. And I don't think that anything that we do in our practice deviates from that. I think that I draw out a little bit more than Rama did something that I find to be an accelerator. And the accelerator is Bodhisitta. And the ideal in Bodhisitta is selfless giving in a ultimate spiritual sense. And you know, for me, when I was a student of Rama's, I didn't give a rat's ass about anyone else. I was really, really just like, yeah, okay, me, I've got to get ahead. I'm in suffering. Yeah, I really want to have my enlightenment. So my motivation was definitely for my personal enlightenment, and everything that Rama said about, go for your personal enlightenment. Yeah, I was totally and completely into that. But by practicing bodhicitta, things changed for me. So I was impressed with one student who Rama was yelling at everybody, giving everyone a hard time, except for this one guy. And he paid him a compliment. So I went over to the guy and said, Hey, what are you doing? So that you're not messing up like the rest of us. And he said, Oh, I'm just practicing Bodhisitta. You know, that book that Rama told us to read twice. And I was like, Okay. I'm like, You're really doing that? He's like, yeah, he's like, yeah, I'm practicing that. I was like, oh, I kind of like toyed around with it. But I didn't think of practicing it. So after that, since I was impressed with that result, you know, because Rama was a very kind of, you know, intense teacher. And he was also like, you know, the kind of guy who was wrathful and stuff. And when his wrath is flying around, and then he goes to this one guy and pays him a great compliment, then he's like, you alone are harmless. And then he goes on yelling at other people. I said, there's something that that guy's doing that I want to be doing now. So I started to work on bodhicitta a little bit. And then, after the advanced teachings, I worked on it more. And then I started, after the advanced teachings, I started really getting into bodhicitta. I just started practicing it a lot more. I just was diligent, I practiced it as mindfulness, I practiced it in sitting practice, sitting relative bodhicitta, and I started just realizing this is the best fricking thing! You know? Like, just for me personally, to be more mindful and to not suffer, bodhicitta for them. And then I didn't get mad and I didn't feel bad. And I recognized, wow, that's amazing, I'm really happy about that. But then I started to, because of that, I started to actually have a genuine care and compassion for other people. It just happened because I was practicing earnestly. And then my awareness really grew, and I changed from a person who was just interested in their own enlightenment liberation from suffering. And that is a... it is a higher way. It is a brighter way. And that is the reason why, even if you're, you know, just into yourself, if you feel you're very selfish, that is the why we practice... the reason why we practice this. Because you do transform to a higher ideal. You do transform to a higher path, the Mahayana, the great path. So in Buddhism, they had this whole big issue that came up. There was this group of people who got all mad at the original Buddhists and then they made up their own thing called the Mahayana, the great pathway. And then it was kind of like, the Mahayana would be like a big sumo wrestler, because he's the great path. And then the Hinayana, or Theravada, which is called the small path, that would be like a little ninja or something. He's got skills, but he's little. So it's like the ninja against the sumo. And then everyone's all, what's better? What's better? Buddha taught us to be a ninja, but then the sumo thing seems to make a lot of sense. It seems to make a lot of sense. And I guess in the end, the truth is they're not opposing each other. The way that it went down was, after Buddha died, I think it was like about 200 years later, there was a king, I think his name was Ashoka. King Ashoka was like a very, very, was like the most powerful king in India. And he loved Buddhism. And he built all these amazing ashrams for the monks. He gave them beautiful robes, silk robes to the arhants and the abbots and stuff. And nice little bowls for food, and then he made sure there was really good food for them all the time. So he really promoted Buddhism in a beautiful way. And then the Buddhists started to become very distant, the monks, because they no longer had to walk into the community to ask for food. This rich king made sure that they were taken care of. And they became distant from the people, and they kind of were in like the ivory tower kind of thing. But they were really, you know, they were meditating and practicing the Dharma, and they were carrying transmission. So there were arhants, there were enlightened Buddhist monks. But then a couple, you know, after a couple hundred years of heading in that direction, there were some Buddhist monks who really got a different idea. They were like, hmm, they're like, you know, we should be like, like the Buddha before his enlightenment That's the way we should live our lives We shouldn't be you know You know like in this ashram. That's so beautiful and in all these robes and everything We should we should do things a little bit differently now In the Theravada teachings about Buddha, the only time they mention the word bodhisattva is when they're talking about Buddha before he was enlightened. They call him the bodhisattva Shakyamuni. And one aspect and understanding of a bodhisattva is that they do something.

0:42:31
Right?

0:42:32
And our hunt doesn't have to do anything. But a bodhisattva implies that they're doing something for enlightenment. Now, in the Mahayana, as we have learned it, we have come to understand that to be the practice of compassion. But it doesn't have to be. There's a story of a Theravada teacher telling a monk to practice like a Bodhisattva. and this comes from the time where they're considering, hey we need to make up our own religion, our own new branch of Buddhism, we need this Sumo branch, the Maha, great way, the great pathway of liberation branch. And so this monk, this teacher, he was in our hunt, he tells this monk, you know, you gotta put your life on the line. You gotta put your life on the line. So he says, here's what I want you to do. I want you to go meditate in that field over there. There's this field over there. There's a big rock. Meditate in front of that rock. There's a rock and a tree. Meditate in front of the rock that's next to the tree. So he says, okay, yes master, I will. He goes over there, starts meditating. Meditates for a while, meditates for a while, and then all of a sudden he feels the ground shaking in front of him, and there's an elephant stampeding towards him. So he runs up the rock. He's sitting in front of the rock. He runs up the rock, and when he gets to the top of the rock, he finds that there's a bear sleeping on top of the rock. And then he wakes up the bear, and the bear lashes out at him. He runs down the other side of the rock. The elephant starts running around the tree, I mean, around the rock, and then he goes up for the tree. He runs up to the tree, and then in the tree is a leopard. And then he runs down the tree and barely escapes with his life. And then he runs back to the master, and then he says, Master, this was horrible. I went to meditate, like you said, and then I did this and that and this and that. And then the Master's like, good! You put your life on the line for your meditation. He's like, now, here's what I want you to do. See that rock over there next to the tree? In the field? I want you to go back over there and meditate. And he's like, but there's an elephant lurking about, and there's a bear maybe in the tree, and then there's a leopard in the... you know, the bear in the rock, and the leopard in the tree. And he says, yeah, yeah, man, that's right. He's like, we're not fooling around here. Like you go and get your, you know, your meditation going, right? Put your life on the line for this meditation. Be a bodhisattva. So, he goes down there, sits down, meditates, and becomes enlightened. Then he probably got up and ran back over to the roster. But this is a story of his enlightenment, by putting his life on the line. And this is when these enlightened people, these arhants in the Theravada school, started thinking, we got to make a change, right? Things are getting stale here, we got to make some things shift. So they were thinking of being an arhant in a different way. Then they started getting into the compassion-y part. Compassion! So, with compassion, there's a story of a monk who was meditating, you know, under a tree, and then, while he's sitting there, he just feels this thing brushing up, climbing up him, a cobra started to climb up his body. So, the cobra climbs up his body and is hanging around his neck, and he wakes up from his meditation, and he sees the cobra. And he's like, whoa, okay. And he's like, why is this cobra doing this? But he sees that there's a cross on a lower branch tree. There's a hawk that is hunting the cobra. And the cobra just got away from the hawk, and the hawk is preparing for another attack. Now the monk was sitting so still that the hawk is not bothered by the monk. He doesn't see him as an animal, just thinks he's like a tree. So then, the monk is put into a situation where if he does nothing, the cobra will get killed by the hawk. The hawk will come over and snatch the cobra right off of him. So that's what's going to happen. But then they've been talking about this whole new thing, about being selfless in their practice. That compassion for all sentient beings is more important. That you should take this vow to care for the suffering of all sentient beings. So they're talking about that in the school, and he's confronted with the situation. Because if he would shoo away the hawk, the cobra will bite him. That's what's going to happen. So this is his choice. This is his choice. So I want you to just ponder this for a second. If you were that monk, and you practice Bodhisitta, you practice compassion, you practice the Mahayana, what would you do? What would you do? And let's say that there's no variation, there's only one way or the other. You know, like, I don't know, Vajrapani to appear and solve all the problems or something like that. You can't wish it away. You can't call a Shasta fairy to come and make everything nice and pretty. So, the choices are that that hawk is either going to kill the cobra or you're going to disrupt the hawk so that it doesn't come after the cobra, but the cobra is going to bite you and kill you. Bite you on the neck and kill you. So I just want you to know and think about what you would do. What would you do? It's interesting. It's interesting to consider. Now, I'll tell you what the monk did. The monk decided to practice compassion. So, the monk raised his hand and shouted at the hawk. This startled the hawk, who thought he was a tree, now saw that he's a big animal, and the hawk flew away. The cobra got freaked out and said, whoa, what the hell is going on, and bit him in the neck. Okay, and then after he bit him in the neck, then the cobra squirms off. got bit and the monk said Well, I'm gonna die might as well die meditating and continued meditating and attained enlightenment and then died But this monk was really like nowhere like near enlightenment before this moment and And this monk did a very selfless thing and was following the teachings, these new ideas of the Mahayana teachings. So it's kind of a special energy that got him to be liberated. But he did physically die. But once you become enlightened, a physical death doesn't mean all that much, because your spirit is awakened. Your spirit knows, is aware, even beyond death. Your spirit goes into an awareness of eternity that transcends death. So it's worth it. Let me tell you. That's it. Just telling you, it's worth it. It's better, right? Better to be enlightened and be bitten by a cobra. Yeah. So, this new Mahayana idea became kind of popular and interesting and there was a lot of energy around it. And then finally, this movement within Buddhism completely separated out where they created their own little ashrams and everything and they created what they call the great pathway to enlightenment. The Mahayana. Mahayana Great Pathway. And then they started calling Theravada Buddhism, that which Buddha started, they started calling it Hinayana, which means the small path. So the small path is enlightenment just for yourself, and the large path is enlightenment for many people, because you are bringing other people into enlightenment every time you practice compassion. So they went from understanding the bodhisattva, the way that Buddha was out there putting his life on the line, being an ascetic, living in the jungle, not eating, stuff like that, and then they're all, yeah, if you put your life on the line, that's what they really were like, go out there and be out there, do some crazy stuff, but meditate, you know? And so they went from that to, you know what, a better way, a much better way to put your life on the line, is compassion. And so then they started letting cobras kill them. Later on they've refined it to what we do, which is really focusing on the most spiritual level, not physical levels of compassion. And then you get right down to someone's, like, self, the spiritual suffering. You get right down to that. And that's where things are powerful. That's where things are beautiful. So this is the, this is a practice that we work on. We work on this great way. The great way, it is a smart adaptation. Kaizen, yes. easily added to the path of an arhant, because it was arhants who created this path. And they said, hey, you know what, when I focus on compassion for others, I get higher, I get brighter, I get stronger, I see that it's a higher dharma. So they followed it. They created that. And for us, it's something, you know, even if, you know, it's not the normal thing for you, it's okay. You know, Buddha said that there's three motivations, right? And all three are good. What's your motivation for enlightenment? It could be for yourself to get enlightened. And he had students who had that motivation. They wanted to teach, they wanted to help, they wanted to care for others. And then the third motivation is the motivation for enlightenment for yourself and enlightenment for others. All three motivations work really well. And all three motivations work with bodhicitta. So that's why when I first start teaching bodhicitta, I call it selfish selflessness, where you work on recognizing that when you practice bodhicitta, you feel better, and and that with bodhisitta you can solve your suffering. And then little by little, you start to learn about how to solve the suffering of others. So, any of the three motivations are just fine. So, Buddha said it was fine. So, the Mahasumo Bodhisattva and the Ninja Arhant, they don't really have a beef. Maybe back then when they were creating the separation in the Buddhist Sangha, maybe they had Buddhist debates. But nowadays, these are paths that are completely congruent. And we focus on Bodhicitta as our mindfulness practice. So right mindfulness for us is Bodhicitta. Because it is such a higher, brighter way. You know, you're not just deflecting, you're transforming. You're accepting. And it's very, very, very powerful and very, very spiritually uplifting. So this is what I want you to put into practice. This is what, you know, when something hard comes up, this is the first thought that you got to have. And you got to see that the seeing for your success, for your personal success on the mountain is the seeing of Bodhisitta. Yes, that sounds good to me. Okay, now we're going to take a look into yoga. But shall we have a bathroom break first? Yes. Okay. So the reason I wanted to come here tonight, the reason I wanted to come to Shasta for this power trip

0:59:32
is because there are powerful dimensions here

0:59:35
that are helpful for yoga. They are helpful for the success of yoga. Now, in order for us to be able to use these dimensions, we first had to sort some things out about ourselves. We had to figure out a higher way of dealing with hardship. Which again, I recommend as Bodhisitta. This is why I'm talking about Bodhisitta so much. We had to be able to see how to get past our suffering, how to get past our roadblocks. And again, I refer to Bodhisitta. We have to be strong, happy warriors. Strong, happy, successful warriors. So that we can use these dimensions that can help our yoga succeed. This is what we're here for. Let's start again with what we ended with last night. We're going to focus on the third eye and we're just going to see a gold light. We're going to sit for a few minutes. Bring the attention to the third eye. Let's begin. Okay, very good. Okay, very good. And again, like last time.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
