0:00:00
A very good symbol for the second chakra is the lotus. You know, we have that saying, Om Mani Padme Hum, which is, you know, enlightenment is within you. And it's good to have the consideration of enlightenment is within you in your feminine energy body, in the base of your divine essence. So we are going to do a, what I call, a safe meditation on the second chocolate. So until you have balanced your sexual energy, it's not something that we meditate on. We don't meditate on the second chakra because it can lead to imbalance. That's why we focus on the third chakra. We pull our energy, we pull our power up to the third chakra and by doing that we actually get the balancing of the second chakra. So it pulls the energy from the first chakra to the through the second chakra to the third chakra and where those energies in the first and second chakra are really really really a bit too intense where have it balanced out, figured out, and a lot of mastery in your meditation, those things could be a little bit too intense. So we work on a more balanced area to develop our power, which is the third chakra. So for this meditation, this is a meditation that you can do on your own anytime. And this is a meditation that uses the dimensions of the second chakra, but in a very, very, very balanced way. divine feminine energy, your feminine power. In this meditation we're not going to focus on a chakra at all. It's going to be a visualization. So we will visualize a lotus. The color of the lotus is orange. All the little lotus petals are orange. So in your mind's eye you will see a beautiful orange lotus. That's all you have to do is visualize that and instill your thoughts. Please translate. Let's play one song for our meditation. Let's take the last song in breathless.

0:03:23
Just one song still your mind

0:03:27
So so

0:03:47
so the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the Okay, very nice. So this is an esoteric teaching. giving you a connection to specifically a certain dimension of the second chakra that you can come back to and practice on your own. So at any time if you want to really if you feel the need you say I want to really focus on my feminine

0:06:01
power I'm going to get in touch with my femininity or I want to try to balance my feminine energy, then you could do this meditation and it is magical. But as I said, in the normal practice that we have, which is focusing on the navel, the heart, and the third eye, that also is a very very balanced practice for creating balance in the second chakra. If you're going to practice this, you can practice it just during the day at any point, or you can practice it after a meditation session. So let's say your morning meditation, you begin with the navel, heart, and third eye. But let's say for the last song, you say, ah, for the last song here, I'm going to do the lotus visualization. That would be the way to do it. I wouldn't start with the focus on the lotus. So you can do it as part of your morning and evening meditation or you can do it at any time during the day. Please translate. Next we're going to talk about life cycles and how different aspects of your lives have an effect on your aura and your second chakra. The first cycle that we're going to talk about is menstruation. Your period. Now, when my teacher talked about this, he would always make jokes. I'm not going to make jokes, I'm just going to talk about the structure. So the period is a weird thing. Most people just think it's uncomfortable and a pain, a nuisance, or dirty or something like that. But actually, the period is a time of power. So after I became liberated, I started really getting into periods.

0:11:05
I did.

0:11:10
Because in a woman, there's a cycle. It's a natural cycle, and it's a cycle that has, you know, different qualities, and a quality of power during the time of the period. So, we study cycles of power, and women are a walking cycle. Guys have a cycle too. But the time of the period, the whole cycle is a system, a cycle of energetic shifting and it's powerful. So the same way we talk about equinoxes and solstices as times of power or the full moon as a time of power, and we've even talked about the times of day where it's easier to meditate, but where it's more power, it's important to recognize that the menstruation cycle is a cycle of power.

0:12:19
Okay.

0:12:20
All right, so in the cycle of menstruation there's an aspect of inward reflective energy. So generally we say it's like a week before your menstruation where the Yin aspect of reflective energy begins. This is where you know you might be going through PMS or that that's what really triggers that beginning of the Yin energy and that goes and the Yin energy rolls through the time when you end menstruation. So this is a time where your aura becomes very open. And during this time it's very, very easy to pick up bad impressions from other people. So this is what we call, you know, and this is what I call the time of power. This is a time where meditation can be deeper, where when you go into good energies, like you go out to the forest and nature, you go into the ocean and the water, or in the river, I don't know, or the lake. These are times where your aura is really open picking up positive vibrations. And it's necessary for you to have a focus on, during these times, take advantage of that receptivity, that power of your aura to be open to these natural energies. So this is the time to practice bodhicitta. This is the time to meditate deeply and to really honor this cycle of power within yourself. The second part where you have the extending energy, the action energy, that's when your subtle physical body is stronger and more outgoing. This is the time where you can focus your energy on accomplishing things. This is the time to pick your battles. You know, the time to go out and deal with people that you have to deal with people you know you have a job or you're in a city or whatever right but you have an inner focus on when to do things this is what we learned with the moon right there's a moon when there's when it's waxing that's the time to be constructive and to go out there and do more and then when it's waning, that's the time to try to cut off things, things that are not healthy. Well, in your own personal cycle, you have more of an attention of, this is my time where I go out and achieve and push, and push my personal power. So, you just want to have a sensitivity to that, an awareness of that. But it's not like you say, oh, you know, I'm having my period, I'm not going to do anything, I'm just going to meditate. I'm not going to go to work because work sucks and people are mean. You know, as a warrior, you have to definitely do things. But you just start to have an intuitive sense of when at work you kind of get through it, you don't like fight with your boss or whatever, you say, I'm gonna wait. I've got a week to wait before I come back. But now is about the time to pick this battle. So, you know, so just this information is something that you start to attune to and then you'll start to use your energy and attention in an appropriate way. And it will foster a greater balance for you. Thought, your subtle physical body changes with age. So does your second chakra. And as I said, you know, a woman's second chakra is much more connected to the physical body. So when your physical body ages, you go through different subtle physical changes even at the causal level in the second process is that when you're 12 to 20 something, that the focus is primarily the focus of sexuality in the second chakra. This is natural. You're trying to feel out, you know, your sexual energy. But as you move from your 20s through your 30s, then the kind of greater power of the second chakra starts to come out. So that fluidity, that receptivity, it starts to open you up to stronger creativity. For a lot of women they put that power into having children. They take the stronger creative energies from the 20s through the 30s and they make babies and grow them. They put a lot of energy into that. Some people put it into work. Some people put it into just relationships. People put it into all sorts of different things. But that is the period of time of creation. Then, in your 40s, you go through what's it called? Perimenopause? Which is where you don't have menstruation anymore. So this is for most people a very difficult time because they start losing the cycle of power that we've been talking about. And the cycle of power starts happening at different times and it's not things that you can rely on. This cycle of power you start to lose like the foundation of your feminine energy cycle. So this is for a lot of people a difficult time going all the way up until your menopause. Then the cycle of post menopause for people, most people, is that they have less energy because they've lost that physical cycle of power. Now there's more enlightened ways of understanding these cycles. So if you were, you know, if you're in your early 20s or 18 to 20 of my students then what I would say to do is don't focus on sexuality because even though it has a natural cycle it uses a ton of energy and you can start being creative right away and make a strong career or whatever your dreams are, you can start focusing on those dreams. During the 20s and 30s where creation comes in, I would say really think highest and most noble goals and then create those things. Don't find yourself creating something that you know your spirit doesn't want. Don't find yourself getting stuck in some karma and just creating it because it was there. Really say, you know what, I want to succeed in this, this, and this, and put your creative power into doing that. So I usually say job, right? Make a strong career. That is a really powerful thing to put that energy into. It really, really helps your personal power and it helps your life. So So a lot of times someone will come to me in Hungary and I'll say, hey, I'm thinking of having a baby. And I say, oh, OK, tell me about your job. And they go, I don't know, I have a horrible job. And I'm like, tell me about your husband's job. Well, I don't really have a husband. I was just thinking of getting a doctorate. And I'm like, hmm, make a strong job first, then come back and talk to me. So I would say it's more important to create a foundation. Even if you want to have a kid later, it's fine. But make a strong, put that creative energy first into making your life strong, to tone out the financial aspect of your life very strong. Now when you get to your 40s, perimenopause period, this is a very strong time. For most people, they have weird difficulties with it, but if you understand it right, then it's great. What happens is you start losing the physical aspect of the cycle, but more subtle spiritual dimensions begin to open during that time. So this is where you're making a shift from a physical experience of the cycle to a more profound and deeper spiritual experience of the same cycle. So it throws you off a little bit because you get so used to your cycle. Even if your cycle is weird itself, you're used to that physical contact to those dimensions. But when the physical aspect starts to go away, when the second chakra starts to redirect towards deeper spiritual dimensions, it can make you throw off because you're like hey how do I connect to those dimensions you have dim place like something's happening but I'm not getting there that's what happens to most people so you have to when you when when you start to think you know when you start to say I'm getting thrown off in this situation that's when you go into the post-menopause area, then you should, if you meditate and are aware of things, you'll have a stronger connection to the spiritual dimensions. And you won't just lose power, you won't lose that cycle, you'll actually be open and aware of that cycle in its spiritual context. So that's a different way of looking at it. And there are meditations that we're going to do for each of these considerations of this cycle. And this is something that you guys can come back to, or not, because these energies are something that are always present in these teachings. They are always present, but I want to draw them out right now so that you can see them clearly. Please

0:26:47
translate.

0:26:48
a number of meditations one at a time the first song that we're going to meditate to is from the City of Lights album, Sacro Co. and I just dived away while you were translating. I'm going to direct us to a dimension that is conducive. It's a dimension that's always open in our study and that many of you have already been working with. But it's a dimension that is conducive to understanding how to support and have greater clarity and effectiveness in the outer reaching action-oriented aspect of the menstruation cycle. So to do this meditation it's going to be of red light coming up and kind of a white gold light coming down. So if you're standing the red light starts at the bottom of your feet. If you're sitting the red light starts at the bottom of your seat. And the red light fills your aura all the way to the top and really even through and beyond the crown chakra and we're going to go to the eighth chakra. So the eighth chakra is again that feminine enlightened chakra you could say. And then from there, the red light from that chakra turns into a white gold light and comes right back down. For the period of the song, we'll just be going up red, down with the white gold light until the song's over. You can feel free to go as fast as you want or as slow as you want, just as long as you're mindful of the red light coming up filling your aura to the top reaching the point of the chakra a chakra wherever you feel that to be and the white light coming down

0:29:30
A white gold light. You know white gold?

0:29:37
An ambiguous light. Okay, let's begin with the meditation.

0:29:44
Thank you.

0:29:51
So, I'm going to go ahead and get started.

0:29:58
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, All right. Well, for a lot of you, older students, a lot of people in the US, that's probably a very familiar dimension. Just a different way of focusing on it. Because that's something that we do a lot. Because I'm all, go ahead, do something! I'm all, whoosh, whoosh, whoosh. all right let's move on the next one so for the reflective part when you're going to get that section is an important time very important time to menstruating, you don't want energy going out, you want to bring energy in. So this is a meditation for that. Again, this is something that's already in use. These dimensions are there, but this is just bringing our attention directly to it. focusing on the navel chakra and we're going to envision the navel chakra being yellow, the color yellow. As we inhale, inhale to the navel, yellow. Exhale to the

0:31:31
navel, it turns from yellow to white. As you inhale, it turns yellow. As you exhale, the navel turns white. Simple. I'm going to use the song Light on the Sun. Light on the scent, so for the whole period we're just going to be breathing with the yellow and white light. Are you ready?

0:35:57
Let's begin.

0:35:58
Thank you.

0:35:59
so So the the the the the the the the the the the the so Oh The next meditation is going to be for that difficult period of perimenopause. It's a time of transition and therefore there's a focus on grounding. we will do kind of a mini microcosmic orbit. Mini orbit. So we're gonna focus on the navel chakra and we'll start with an inhale. As we exhale, we're going to exhale with the focus of the energy going down the front meridian. As we inhale, we're gonna focus on the energy going down the front meridian. As we inhale, we're going to focus on the energy coming up the back meridian to the, it's called the ming men, the back part of the navel chakra. Then as we exhale, we bring the focus back to the navel chakra and down the front. And then as we inhale, we come back up the back. So we will do that for a period of meditation. And the song that we'll meditate to is Month Mark Morning. Let's begin. the the the the

0:39:34
so the the the the so the the the the so

0:41:00
I'm going to go get my phone. so Alright, that's good. There's the meditation for post-menopause. This meditation is on the third eye, and for this meditation we will focus on the third eye, and we will see a pulsing white light. Please translate. The rain in Paris is gone. Alright, let's begin. the the the the the the the the the the the the so I'm a man of my word the the the you you Very nice. American sangha did good. You guys were like, you guys were all pulsing. It was kind of neat, so I was like, I opened my eyes and I was like, watch this. They're like, boom, boom, in unison. And of course this is one of the things that we learned in one of the basic teachings is women working together

0:50:05
in unison, meditating in unison.

0:50:08
It's beautiful.

0:50:08
There's literally, I don't know, hundreds of dimensions to support all of these phases of life for women in our study,

0:50:22
in our lineage.

0:50:23
our study and I use I use about maybe a dozen of them per phase that you're in very often so these these things should feel familiar. Okay now we're going to take a break. A lot of especially a lot of my Hungarian students have damaged auras and are drained because of the energy lines that they have. So what we're gonna work on is breaking free from draining energy lines so that you don't get oracley drained so you can't do anything or be happy. And then we're going to also work on healing. So a lot of my, especially Hungarian students, have broken down the So a lot of my, especially Hungarian students, have broken down the auras and we're going to work on healing the aura. Okay, so translate and 15 minute break.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
