0:00:00
All right, so one of the reasons why we're doing this and making sure that we go through the translations and taking the time and doing this together is because this was this teaching is really initiated by the Hungarian Sangha. So a teaching. Oh my goodness, this class might go longer. Okay, so let me tell you the reason why. A lot of these teachings that we have here are teachings that are subtle and not so explicit. So when my teacher was teaching these teachings to his students, he would teach them in ways where he would hardly say a word about it. They would be taught psychically through transmission. However, he was teaching Buddhist monks, and in America, we have primarily Buddhist monks who learn these lessons. So if it was just the American Sangha, I wouldn't have these teachings explicitly. But since the Hungarian Sangha is a Sangha of lay practitioners, it's necessary to create a stronger tonal for these teachings, so that it addresses the conceptual mind more, so that they can have more of a handle on these considerations. Additionally, because the Hungarian sangha is a lay sangha, these considerations are, I think, I guess, very important right now for the consideration. These considerations are very important for the Hungarian Sangha to pay attention to. And it's also wonderful for the U.S. Sangha. It's really important. These teachings today are important for the Hungarian Sama. Okay, please translate. So in our lineage, meditation and mindfulness is the foundation of all of our discipline. However, there's three unique features to our practice or our lineage's considerations of enlightenment. One is martial arts. So just like the Shaolin monks, we have a focus on martial arts. Whether you take martial arts or not, it's advantageous to take it, but there's a culture of martial arts in our lineage. And I do a lot of teachings even in talking about martial arts. So that's one unique consideration in our lineage. The other is career success. So in our lineage, we're always working on some kind of career success, getting balance in our job, or working on job yoga, or a yoga project, always developing ourselves in career. That's also a very unique thing, because a lot of Buddhist schools, they don't have the focus on right livelihood in such a progressive way. The third unique aspect of our lineage is the enlightenment of women. So in our school, just like I talk about martial arts all the time, we're always talking about career success, there's something that maybe I don't say all the time, but it is something that is one of the three unique focuses in our school. It's the enlightenment of women. This was a very, very important statement that my teacher had in the beginning. And he took it very seriously. He promoted and developed a lineage or a practice that was a very, very strong program for the enlightenment of women. And the considerations that I'll be talking about today are considerations that I learned from being his student as a man, observing what's going on with the women, but then after After my liberation, I came to understand those teachings so that I can teach others. And that's why a man is teaching the women's class. Because even though I'm a man, and my manifestation is physical male energy. When you become enlightened or even very, very advanced, your energy becomes balanced between the male and female aspects. So when I am because I have a balance of my energies. Just like when you become advanced, you will be able to teach men. You'll be able to teach men on their terms, according to their energy bodies, according to a male understanding. And it is because when you come to a balance of your male and female energy, process information, and have an attention that is balanced. Or, if you want to be more feminine, you can, or if you want to be more masculine, you can. So it gives you balance and diversity. All right, very good. So this is a esoteric teaching and this is kind of like what we call those secret teachings or teachings that open your awareness. It's not just information. I can give you an example for martial arts. So if I tell you, let's just talk about street smarts, right? You need to be aware when you're walking down the street in the city, you know? You can't just, you know, you got to have your purse under your arm and close. I remember my teacher was showing us that for when we were moving to New York. You know, if you're walking down the street and you see a bad character, and you're afraid of him, and you think that person might be a mugger, and want to rob you or something, what you do is you look at them. So initially what people want to do is they want to look away. If someone's really scoping you out to rob you, What people usually do is they look away. They're afraid, they're just like, I don't want to be in this situation. And if you do that, then you show the other person

0:08:37
that you're an easy victim.

0:08:38
So it's always best to look at people. To look around while you're walking down the street. And if you see someone who looks like a shady character, look directly at them. Look at their nose. That way they think that you're looking at their eyes. And then what that tells them is this is not an easy victim. When someone wants to rob someone, they're always looking for, they don't want a lot of trouble. They just want to go over, pull a bag out, pull a purse away from someone or something, and get away. But if you bring your attention to them, they're going to feel, I cannot mess with this person easily. And that is a way to protect yourself. Now, if someone does catch you off guard, and they're robbing you or hurting you or something like that, you attack their eyes. Don't push. Don't push. If you're a black belt, yeah, maybe do black belt stuff on them. But in general, it takes not a lot of physical strength to take someone out if you go for their eyes. And I'm not talking about punching their eyes. I'm talking about getting your fingers in their eyes. So you actually get your thumb and grab the side of their face and thrust the thumb into their eye. And then you grab the face so that they, so that you won't let go. And even if the guy, I've done this. Even if the guy's much, much bigger than you, much, much bigger than you, they do a funny thing. They go like this. They stop swinging and punching and fighting as soon as you start putting your fingers in their eyes. And you gain control. And then you can walk away because once they have a finger that's gone in their eye, they sit there and cover their eye and bend over and sit there for a while, waiting for their eyes to get better. So people have this weird sensitivity to their eyes. It doesn't take a lot of physical strength. It's something that you can do with focus and determination. Don't do stupid things. Don't try to push. Don't start punching a guy in the chest who's twice as big as you. Go for the eyes. Don't do stupid things. If you're walking down the street, be aware. If someone's looking at you and they look like a shady character, look at them right back. If someone's attacking you, go for the eyes. So this is my martial arts example of how from some information you can gain, it shifts your power in awareness and capability immediately. So I think all of the Americans and most of the Hungarians have gotten the first teachings on this subject, which I call the tantric sex teachings. And the tantric sex teachings are don't have sex. Or there's a lot of difficulty if you have sex. A woman's aura is more porous, the man's aura is a lot more cactus-like, and when you have sex your aura gets damaged. You create energy lines to the person you have sex with, and that is an attachment in the subtle physical. You know, the basic considerations that we've talked about. So this teaching is, you know, I don't know, it's not building on that, but it's additional information. I will teach that again in Hungary because we're getting new students in Hungary, but this teaching is going to be about, I guess, energy lines. Yeah, working with the different types of energy lines you have subtle physical connections to. And then also, it's very important that we have a focus on healing. So these are the three aspects of the teachings today. All right. So to begin, we'll talk about the Yin chakras are the feminine chakras and the Yang chakras are the masculine chakras. And this is really important for some reason.

0:14:12
Which I'll explain.

0:14:13
So first of all, the Yin chakras are the second chakra, the heart chakra, the third eye, and there is a chakra right above the crown chakra called the tiara chakra. I don't know what it's called. I don't know what it's called, but there is a chakra above the crown chakra, which is like feminine enlightenment chakra. And of course the male chakras, the yang chakras, start with the root chakra that goes to the navel chakra, throat chakra, and crown. So this is interesting because of where they start. So with With men, a man is rooted in the first chakra. That's where his Kundalini resides. And the whole, like, all of spiritual practice, I don't know, is kind of, for most of the world, is kind of based off of that. a woman's kundalini actually resides in the second chakra, not the first. And based on that, everything's a little bit different. So if you read all of those spiritual books and stuff, and the Indian books and Tibetan books, they always say, oh yeah, there's a symbol of the snake that's coiled up in the root chakra and then you do certain practices and it shoots up to the crown. And in the condition or the consideration of a woman, it's actually different than that. It's like the kundalini is not there. Sure the kundalini is there, but also the kundalini is The second chakra in a woman is actually, I would say, rooted in the first chakra. So there's a connection, there's access, there's no separation. So I like to think of it as the second chakra is a lotus, and it has its little roots going down, and it's a total connection.

0:16:51
And this is important.

0:16:52
This means that women are one step closer to enlightenment. It's true in a way, because if your Kundalini comes up to the third eye, then you're like a seer, master, all this stuff, right? If your Kundalini comes up to your heart, then you're like emotionally balanced, and all you experience is love. So, you know, there's a... so it is actually a tremendous spiritual advantage. It also has its difficulties, and it is also part of the power chakras. It's the second of the third power chakras, so it's still mired in power. But it is a step up from the male's considerations. And that's why teachings for women have a different path than the teachings for men. And there is a subtle energetic aspect of practice, the esoteric aspect that we have in our school, which is a The stem of auric damage and toxicity for a woman starts in the second chakra. So we're going to be talking about the second chakra. We don't talk about the second chakra a lot because the main thing that comes to mind when we focus on this, or when we talk about the second chakra is sex. So when we say, oh, second chakra, we're always like, oh, second chakra,

0:19:00
which sounds like sex.

0:19:01
And I want to tell you a little bit more about the second chakra. Because the second chakra, a strong relationship to the physical body. So the chakras are at a very, very strong connection to the physical body. Physical processes affect the second chakra, and the second chakra affects physical processes. So it's something that's related to reproductive organs, ovaries, urinary bladder, so it has a connection to your body. The second chakra, it also has a connection to energies, sexual energies. So not only the reproductive organs, the physical part, but also energies. And sexual energy is something we talk about a lot, but it's also just sensual energy, you know, like feeling good positive feelings, having flowers or incense or a nice cup of tea or a beautiful view and enjoying that. It's also your fluidity, your adaptability, your receptivity. So these are extremely important aspects of your energetic connections to the second chakra. Fluidity, receptivity, and when you are focused on these aspects, receptivity, then what happens is you gain a tremendous creativity. And that is, you know, one of the main things about the second chakra is it creates things.

0:21:42
And

0:21:44
it can create things that are babies, it can create things that are dharmas, right? It could create jobs, you know, it can create world peace. You know, it can. So there's a tremendous power when we have that receptivity to light, when we have adaptability and openness and flexibility for creating tremendously powerful things. So that's the kind of energetic things. The second chakra is also the place where you have a lot of lines connecting to other people. So if you ever had sex, you have a line to the person you had sex with, unless you were very, very advanced at cutting it. And we'll talk about that a little bit later today. lines for other things. Sometimes you're using sexual energy as part of your relationship with, like, let's say someone at work, and you'll have a line to that person because you're using that energy to get what you want. I have no problem with that. As long as you're using that energy intelligently, and it is getting you what you want at work. So sexual energy, and according to social conditioning, sexual energy is all about, I mean, the second chapter's all about sexual energy and a lot of women just are completely over-focused on sexual energy and lines go out to anyone. Walking down the street, they shoot sexual energy lines out and they just want people to look at them. They get this thing where I like attention, and it just gets me excited, so I just shoot out all the sexual energy, and then people, you know, and you'll just throw lines out here, there, everywhere. Boom, boom, boom, boom. Yeah, it's kind of funny. Some girls are horrible at it. Like, they'll shoot a line out from the second chakra to a guy, get some focus back, and then they'll keep that one guy walking down the street, they'll keep a line to him for, I don't know, could be a year, it could be five years, it could be 10 years. And then what happens is this girl who does that has all of these lines, all of this energy going out from her second chakra to all these different people for no reason. And then it's really real when you when you're over sexual in the second chakra then you lose a lot of energy and you get really like you can't tell you have bad discrimination you can't tell what's what you get unbalanced and emotional. The second chakra is also a place of emotion so all emotion that comes out of you in terms of power comes out in the second chakra. You process emotions in the second chakra. Not the heart. The heart is a place more of balance and discrimination. When we're talking about emotions, feelings, that happens in the second chakra. So it's more than just sex. It's also the place, you know, we're gonna have some... I'll also talk today about considerations for mothers, because there's, yeah, there's important things to talk about. But when you have a kid, you have a lifelong connection that, unless you're very, very, very advanced, it just doesn't go away. And that is a connection from the second chakra of yours to your child's third chakra, whether it's a boy or girl. And there's ways to manage that connection so that it's very productive for you and your children. The second chakra is also the place where there's power for healing. So all healers, not all, but most healers who actually use energy to heal, they use energy from the second chakra, even if they say they don't. If you see what happens, that's what they're using. So the second chakra, you know, and as I said, it's the base of the Kundalini. And in a... the feminine expression of Kundalini is called Shakti, and that resides in the second chakra for a woman. So it is really the place of the feminine divine power and energy. So, not just about sex. The thing is, in our world, in our culture, with conditioning as it is, sex really messes up the second chakra. And it squashes healing power, it squashes creativity, fluidity, receptivity, adaptability, it squashes all that because with our social conditioning, people use their sexuality wrong. They put way too much energy into that one aspect of the second chakra. And then also the feedback that they get from men and other women also goes and hits the second chakra and gets one confused. So it's very important for us to focus on how to come into balance with our second chakra and how to focus on the most elevating, enlightening aspects of the second chakra. When I am teaching in English and when the Hungarian Sangha is waiting for the translation, you shouldn't let your attention dip down. You should actually have a meditative focus. This is a time where you can connect to the actual spiritual teaching, the esoteric teaching, the teaching in the second attention, and it should be very bright for you. Same with the American Sangha. When we're just sitting here waiting for them to translate, I'm still teaching in the second attention, and this is where you can just be meditative and connect to the light, and it's really, really bright, so you don't have to just be like, meditating. So, please translate that. And then, what we're going to do is we're going to take a 15-minute break, and we're going to go over time just a little bit, going to go over time just a little bit,

0:30:10
because when we come back, we have a




Transcribed with Cockatoo
