0:00:00
We shall begin with meditation.

0:00:04
Okay, three songs. Let's begin. I'm going to go ahead and get my camera. the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the So, I'm going to play a little bit of it. the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the the the the the the the the the the the I'm going to play it again. the the the the the the the the the the the uh the the the the the the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the the the the Oh the the the the the All right, very nice.

0:14:59
Not really. Not really very nice. So, let's see. When your, uh, when your consciousness is in a small, dark, limited state of mind, then It seems to be filled with great suffering. When your consciousness is in a open, bright, free, large state of mind, then your whole life seems like there's endless opportunities, happiness, enlightenment is everywhere. So the trick is to really start taking command of and change and direct your consciousness to higher states of mind. You simply start to be mindful, aware, think positive thoughts, spend your attention doing positive things, and then you end up in a higher state of mind. When you're aware that you're unhappy, that you feel limited, that you're struggling, you're in a bad state of mind. The first thing that you want to do is change your state of mind, and then deal with whatever problems appear in life. Because when you're in a low state of mind, things seem impossible, but if you can get yourself simply to a high state of mind, you can look at the same challenges, the same difficulties that are physical, real And you'll see many opportunities to overcome those difficulties. And you'll see that it's not so bad, because that's the truth of life. The truth of life is even the greatest sufferings in life. And it's not so bad. And in a way, even though it's suffering, it's powerful just very precious, precious teachings of Spirit. So last week we talked about the higher self. So tonight we'll talk about the higher states of mind and that you direct your mind at all times to that which is higher, brighter, conducive to truth, powerful, enlightening. And then that way, if you're mindful and you direct your mind, your mind will always be in the light and it will be better. However, if you don't take responsibility for your mind, if you lack mindfulness, then in limitation and everything is just like difficult, hard. You have to break out of this. You guys look at things in such fixed ways and you don't direct your mind to the higher truths. You don't practice bodhichitta deeply enough. So this is just basic mindfulness. Tonight we're going to talk about what we call the higher states of mind. My teacher used to call it the supra-consciousness. Supra. Okay, so the the Dhyanas and the Samadhis. When Buddha taught the Eightfold Path, Right Concentration, he taught in Right Concentration that Right Concentration is, in fact, Dhyana and Samadhi. So, the practice of meditation is to go into these higher states of mind. And these higher states of mind are extremely powerful and positive. They're experienced primarily in meditation. It's something that you won't be walking around experiencing the dhyanas or the samadhis while you're going about your day. It's not about mindfulness. It's very, Buddha said that dhyana is, there is no wisdom without dhyana, and there is no dhyana without wisdom. So it is the Buddhist practices that lead to dhyana, and through these wise practices we gain this wisdom. And in Samadhi the wisdom becomes even more profound. But all spiritual insight, all wisdom, all first in dhyana, second in samadhi. Everything else is just conceptual learning. And then when you know, you know, like, I like this, every once in a while someone will have a meditation and they'll go, I just realized that, you know, I should be humble. Oh, I just realized I don't have to be afraid of something. Like really simple things to figure out, right? But it's just conceptual ideas until you experience it in your spirit. When you experience the ability to go beyond desire or go beyond depression or fear, when you experience that, that comes from spiritual practice. This comes from higher states of mind. The spirit goes, aha, I realized it finally. It's a basic idea, but it's profound, it's life-changing when you experience it, when you figure it out. And that wisdom comes from Dhyana. So for example, Buddha himself figured out enlightenment because of Dhyanas. So, because he was a Bodhisattva for many, many, many incarnations, very, very, very high enlightened being, but he didn't attain full Buddhahood. But because he was such a high spiritual being, even when he was a child, he was just hanging out with his father. His father was doing some little prayer for the fields or something. So they went out of the castle and they were in the countryside. He was sitting under a tree and then just while his father was doing a little prayer, he went into the first dhyana, second dhyana, third dhyana, fourth dhyana, and then into samadhi. body. And then, you know, when you go and, well, we'll explain what those things are. But it was very happy and spiritual. He went into the higher states of mind, just as a child, right? And then, and, you know, he's like, wow, that was really, that was great. Now later on in his life, when things got more complicated, and he was trying to solve the problem of death and suffering, he went to look for the most advanced teachers that he could find. And he found these ascetics who practiced crazy things, like lots of fasting, a lot of breath-holding, all sorts of really physical and subtle physical practices. Strong meditation, but meditation on dimensions that gave tremendous powers, but not spiritual liberation. So he mastered what they were he still didn't find satisfaction. He couldn't find liberation, spiritual enlightenment. But he had tremendous powers and strengths from those practices. He's just like, oh, it's not enough. And then he just remembered, hey, when I was a little kid, I was sitting under that tree and I went into some really beautiful state of mind. Now, the ascetics said, it's got to be hard and tough and rough, this enlightenment business. It's like, oh man, you can't eat anything forever. You have to develop that set of power where you can't eat anything forever. All sorts of stuff, right? And then Buddha said, yeah, but when I was a kid I had a really beautiful, really spiritual experience that actually seems more spiritual than this. It seems higher. And then he reflected on it, having some more that the Dhyana was the pathway to enlightenment and not the ascetic practices of powers and siddhas and different yogic accomplishments that didn't bring true liberation. So he was able to see that Dhyana was higher. So then, what he did is he started to go into the Dhyana practices. He said to himself, those are so happy and bright and beautiful. And he said, should I shun those? Should I push those away? Then he said, no, I shouldn't push those away. That is actually, truly the pathway to enlightenment. And then he created, and that was his first step towards the middle path. The middle way that he called it. So from there he started to eat food, he made a little cushion to sit down on, and then And then the teachers of the little sangha that he was with, they all got mad at him. Because they were like, you can't do that! And he said, yeah, yeah, no I can. This is a much better way. It's like, you know, you could be comfortable when you're practicing enlightenment and you can also, instead of it being hard and difficult and scary and rough and tough, it could be blissful and beautiful. And this is the whole beginning of what we call Buddhism today. So it's just a realization that Buddha had. He said, Oh, I get it. Simple thing. I figured it out. It's an amazing, beautiful pathway to enlightenment. So Buddha taught again and again and again the enlightening nature of the Dhyanas is the path of wisdom. It gives you the insight for liberation and without the Dhyanas there's no liberation. So in many of the sutras Buddha is emphasizing this. Buddha also talks about how awesome it is. He says you know, the most wonderful thing. And most people say, oh, you know, these monks, they live such an unhappy life. They don't have possessions, they don't have the comforts of family, they can't do anything fun. But Buddha was like, no, you know, the thing is when we live this way, we actually get to experience the most amazing thing, which is the dhyanas. So Buddha said that it's so important to have that experience and to, he would say, be saturated in the dhyanas. He talked about it like the lotus has water going all the way up from the roots at the bottom, all the way to the top. There's the water. So Buddha would emphasize the importance, above all things, was to experience the Dhyanas directly. So I'll tell you how to reach the Dhyanas. There's only one way. It's simple. It is. You have to survive the self. Now, when you're on the spiritual path, going for enlightenment, you will face these three obstacles to the dhyanas. The first and the main and the big one is what's called the lower self. Then there's the five hindrances, and then there's the senses. So when your lower self, five hindrances, and the senses are present, then there's no dhyana. There's no ecstatic meditation that brings spiritual wisdom, light, and liberation. So therefore, and when you start to meditate, you have the lower self, the hindrances and the senses just all over you. So it's like, that's what you're mostly aware of, and then eventually you just have to get through it. So I remember my teacher was always talking about the profound ecstasy of meditation. And I was like, what? Not my meditation. My meditation was garbage. It was lower self, five hindrances, and five senses. So, I heard of this idea of the dhyanas and also of the samadhis, but it was very far from me, and the senses. And when you survive these three obstacles, then the Dhyanas come extremely naturally, easily. So you just have to survive. So it's When you enter the pathway to enlightenment, when you set your intent, you put yourself in the proper place with the proper teachings, then you're set up to go towards enlightenment, but then you're immediately set up to see the lower self, the hindrances, and get all confused about the senses. It's like immediately you start to face that. And you know, it's kind of like the film that we watched, Unbroken. You know, he joins the army, so he's a soldier, a warrior, he has a cause to do something, right? Then he gets caught by Wontanabe, right? Officer Wontanabe, I think they called him the Birdman, right? Alright, so this is what you can see your lower self to be. You enter the path, and when we enter the pathway to enlightenment, at first we think, oh yes, this is going to be easy. I've got a six month plan for enlightenment, and everything's going to be awesome and wonderful, and then voila. But then you find yourself caught by your inner birdman, and you're stuck there going, this is not what I want it to be like. But you find yourself truly stuck there in suffering, facing, this is what we call the lower self. So that bird man that catches you in a concentration camp, beats the crap out of you, you know, gives you a hard time, that's you. That's the ego. That's the essential It doesn't want enlightenment. It is like the part of the self that wants to fight against enlightenment. It wants to just break everything, screw everything, forget everything. It wants That part of the self is something that each of you face when you sit down to meditate. It's a very, very deep and difficult aspect of your self and your consciousness. Now, just like in the film, it was like a spiritual battle, right? He had to face this guy who had power over him, who made his life tough, difficult, painful,

0:38:12
horrible, right?

0:38:13
But his spirit was unbroken, and he eventually survived the situation. This is what you have to do with your spirit. You have to face that difficult, evil person inside, the dark side of yourself. And you have to face it with a very strong, bright spirit. And ultimately, if you do that, if you face it with Bodhisitta, with Dharma, then what happens is, eventually, you survive it. Not that you defeat it, really, that you survive it. an automatic liberation, automatic freedom. The Dhyanas come very simply. The Dhyanas are not an attainment. They are what is natural when there's the absence of interaction with the hindrances and the absence of interaction with the senses. So it's not like it's an attainment. It's actually just natural states of mind. But we start off with these very, very, very difficult obstacles. And then there's the five hindrances, which we've talked about before. The five hindrances are not exactly as deep as that lower self, but they are constant obstructions that derail making forward progress. So they're just things that just, you know, you say, okay, I want to get ahead in my spiritual practice. Oh, then I have this desire. Oops, this anger came up. Oh, I got lazy. Oh, I'm anxious and nervous. And oh, I doubt everything. So you So, they are not as deep, but they are the things that just come up every moment that just distract you, that hinder you from making spiritual practice. So this is something that we all experience in our lives. We just say, okay, I want to meditate. Oh, but you know what, I'd rather go do something else right now. Or you get the teachings and then you go, oh I doubt it will work for me. All of these things just come up all the time. Angers and frustrations. These things are the five main things that Buddha said, when you're trying to get ahead and make progress in your spiritual study, these are the things that just come up and take you off track. So we again have to survive the five hindrances. And this means that we start to recognize where we get angry, what our desires are, where we have doubts, where we're anxious, you know. And we say, okay, you know, I understand these patterns, and you have to be patient, and you have to redirect your mind.

0:42:38
And it's gonna happen,

0:42:39
the five hindrances don't go away easy. They just keep coming back again and again and again and again. And you just say, gosh, you know, I thought I figured this out, but I found myself getting thrown off track again. You have to survive the five hindrances. They are hindrances. They are something that will stop you. They'll throw you off. And they'll come back again and again and again. You just got to, you know, you get knocked off, you got to get back up and keep going. And that's how you survive it. And then eventually, you figure something out. Eventually you figure out what the pattern really is, how not to be taken out by the hindrances. But really it's very much surviving. It's kind of like in a dojo. You know, like if you go to a tough dojo, like in New York we used to go to this Bronx dojo for karate. The Bronx, it's a tough place. Everybody at the dojo was tough. And then we had, you know, when we did sparring, they were very strong. And it was an intense place. fighting someone who is really good, they would knock you down. And you were constantly getting beaten down. This didn't happen to me, but it happened to other people. Just telling the truth. So I saw some black belts, you know, who were, you know, Rama students, just totally getting knocked down, beaten down. And I was like, oh wow, that's pretty tough. But you know what they did? They just got back up, just kept fighting, just kept at it, kept at it, kept at it. And then eventually, they didn't get knocked down anymore. They just, they were able to fight at that level. They were able to hang in there. So they survived just getting pounded down, until they had enough personal power, enough awareness. This is what happens with the five hindrances, too. Five hindrances run you over, left and right, until you have enough experience, awareness, personal power from following the teachings of the Dharma, so that then it doesn't knock you down anymore. You survive it. And then you get to the easiest part, the five senses. So the five senses are still an obstacle to the higher states of mind, because if you're in the physical senses, then you're not in the higher spiritual senses. So, you know, that's why Buddha, when he sat under the tree, after he found the middle way, he made a cushion for himself. So, he's like, oh, I have to be comfortable. I can't be in pain, because if I'm in pain sitting on the, you know, the pokey roots of the tree hurts, and then it distracts me from meditation. See? Brilliant! It took a Buddha to figure that out. But, you know, you have to come to a physical sense balance, right? So, when we sit, we close our eyes, usually, and we cut off our awareness of the visions of the world. But sometimes, you know, you're like, oh, sitting there, my back hurts. That's why I like to sit in chairs, be comfortable. But it's still something, you know, where you have to sit up straight. It's really important to keep your back straight for the Kundalini to go up. So you have to develop sort of like back muscles or something. But this is much better than when I was in Nepal. In Nepal, they sit on stone floors with no pillows up in the Himalayas. It's no fun, and they sit there for hours. I don't know how they do it. I'm sitting there going, ouch. So it's like, you have to, and that's a big thing for people, Americans who practice Zen Buddhism. Because Zen Buddhism, the focus of how to meditate is a lot about proper posture, breathing, and focus to the navel. And Americans are like, I can't sit like that. So, you know, it's like, then they're all, oh, I suck at Zen, you know. And I'm like, just sit in a chair. They haven't figured that out yet. That's the secret to Zen. Zen master sits in a chair. So, you know, there are things you've got to figure out. Some people are very bothered by noise. They'll be meditating and a dog barks or there's some loud noise, it should intensify your focus. That's how you get past that confusion. So you've got to come to some balance with the five senses. There's going to be physical pain, there's going to be things you hear, things you see, maybe smells. I mean, you might be like, you know, you might be learning meditation in like India. So it's going to stink. And somehow you have to come to the balance with that. You'll have to, in India, you'll have to like take some flowers with you, put them right in front of you. And then you come to balance with that. There's always ways. Yeah, there was this Buddhist monk who was, he was, he had, he was having trouble with his meditation. So he goes to the, to the teacher and he says, yeah, you know, there's just, there's something off with my meditation. I know what he was doing. He was, so in India they have these horrible, terrible sweet things. They take some kind of terrible green leaf and they pack it full of nasty things that are sweet. Disgusting. And then they put it in their mouth and just suck on it and chew on it for hours. And when I was in India, I tried one of those things and I was like, I almost died. So, and it's a sweet thing. They like it. So, the master's like, okay, so, you know, I'll meditate with you and we'll figure out what's going on." So he's all, okay, sure. And then he's just like, all right, so let's meditate. And the Master's all like, what are you doing? And he's all like, oh, I just, I always eat this stuff. He's like, when you're meditating? He's like, yeah.

0:50:09
So the guy was just sitting there trying to meditate like there's fucking nonstop

0:50:10
work. And the Master says, oh, easy, that's no meditation.

0:50:12
Don't eat that stuff.

0:50:13
And then it took his awareness. And he's like, I'm not going to eat that stuff.

0:50:15
And he's like, I'm not going to eat that stuff.

0:50:16
And he's like, I'm not going to eat that stuff. And he's like, I'm not going to eat that stuff. And he's like, I'm not going to eat that stuff.

0:50:19
And he's like, I'm not going to eat that stuff.

0:50:20
And he's like, I'm not going to eat that stuff. And he's like, I'm not going to eat that stuff. And he's like, I'm not going to eat that stuff.

0:50:23
And he's like, I'm not going to eat that stuff.

0:50:24
And he's like, I'm not going to eat that stuff.

0:50:25
And he's like, I'm not going to eat that stuff. And he's like, I'm not going to eat that stuff. And he's like, I'm not going to eat that stuff. And then it took his awareness out of that physical awareness. Then he went into the dhyanas. So you gotta figure out, you know, don't chew gum while you're meditating. I guess that's the Western way. You know, like, put a flower in front of your nose if something stinks. Or if something doesn't stink, don't put a flower in front of your nose because you'll be all like...

0:50:56
That's so...

0:51:00
Right? You gotta... I mean, basically, you gotta figure out your balance. To me, the thing that's the hardest is just physically sitting in a comfortable position. So, you know, if you're sitting on a cushion or if we're out in nature, you've got to make sure that you are sitting comfortably so that you can meditate. You guys need to have back muscles, like, so that you're just not like sitting there

0:51:25
going...

0:51:26
So you're sitting up straight, because that's how you have to meditate. That's how the Kundalini goes up. Okay. I thought of an analogy for the five senses. So there's this lady coming home from work around 6 o'clock. She's just bringing her stuff in from the car, opens the door, and as she's walking in, a dog runs in her house from behind her. Just brushes by her and runs in. Now this dog, let's say it's a Scotty dog. It's a pedigree dog. It has a collar with a name on it, but no address. And the dog just comes in and then the dog quickly goes over to a very nice little spot in the corner of the living room, curls up and goes to sleep. So the lady goes, whoa, this is kind of strange. She's like, well, I like dogs, so I'll let the dog sleep, and then I'll try to figure out what to do with it later. And then after a couple hours, the dog wakes up, goes over to the door, and goes, rup. And then she goes, oh, she opens the door, and the dog sleeps.

0:53:11
She's like, OK.

0:53:14
The next day, same thing happens. She doesn't even see the dog. She just opens the door. The dog comes right in, was hiding somewhere, just sneaks in, right? She's like, wow, that's so funny. The dog's doing this again. And then this happens for a few more days. And it was a very pleasant dog. It was well-trained, well-groomed, beautiful dog, but it just always sneaks in and just takes a little nap. And then after a couple hours it always leaves. And then the lady says, you know what, I'm going to, since there's no phone number or address, I'm just going to write a little letter and put it on his collar. So she said, so she wrote a little letter and she said, hey, I'm just wondering whose dog this is. I live at this address and the dog just comes over every day around 6 o'clock and takes a nap for a couple hours and then wants to go. And I like dogs and it's a great dog and it's cute, it's just kind of strange. I don't know why this is happening. So she just puts that little letter on his collar. Then the next day he comes back, the dog comes back, like 6 o'clock like usual, but has another little letter, a response letter. So then she opens it up and then it says, you know, my name is Tammy, I am the owner of the dog all the time and then at six o'clock the dog just had enough and runs out of the house somehow. So I guess the dog is coming over to your house to take a nap. And then she says, can I come too, next time? So, this is an analogy of the five senses. Five senses are always bombarding you, like five little children jumping all over you, right? So you're like, oh, I look at something.

0:55:36
Oh, I heard something.

0:55:37
Oh, what's that? I'm hungry!" So, it's constantly, you know, just activating awarenesses in your mind, but physical awarenesses. Like little children jumping over the dog, and then at some point, you got to be like the dog and get away from the five senses, so that you can have some peace. So, I'd like to tell you the story of the three survivors in Buddha's time. True story. I figure these are all true stories. I mean, that's what I like about the Buddha's teachings. Like all the Buddha's teachings, like we read the Dhammapada, right? But every single lesson comes from a story. It comes from this happened and then Buddha taught some Dharma about a situation that someone was in. Someone did something stupid and then Buddha said, oh, here's what you should do. And then it becomes this profound teaching for all of us. It's true. So, where should I start? We'll start with the senses. There was a woman, an old woman, her husband had died, her son had grown up, she lived alone in a house. One day there was a fire in the house. And, you know, she woke up coughing and the house was burning. And as she was trying to get out of the house, the house started to fall down and a big beam hit her in her back, breaking her back. And then a wall fell down and broke her legs. And everything was on fire, but she somehow crawled out. But her legs were horribly broken, and her back was broken. So then after that, she spent a lot of time recovering. But she had, like, you know, it was so much pain. She was just that like tremendous pain all the time. And she could barely walk because her legs were broken all incorrectly and stuff. So she suffered physically. Okay, she's the first one. Second one was a courtesan. This courtesan, she was very fiery. So she loved to party. She really loved sex, had sex with many men. And she quarreled with women like crazy. She would just always yell at women and get in fights with them, too. And then she was deep down very insecure about herself, extremely lazy about doing any work, never wanted to do any work, and doubted she could do anything useful with her life. That's the second one. And then there was surviving the darkest sides of the self. There was a woman who, she lived in the jungle with her husband and two children. There was a baby and a toddler. The toddler was maybe four years old. The baby was a baby. And one day, her husband was bitten by a cobra and died. And then she was like, oh, this is horrible. So she decided, and she couldn't provide for her kids by herself, so she decided to take her children to her parents' house. So on the way to the parents' house, they had to cross a river. So she had to figure out where she could cross, and it would be too dangerous for her to carry them and try to figure it out. So she said, she put the baby down, you know, in a safe place by the side of the river, and the four-year-old, and said, stay here, no matter what, just stay here until I come back. And then she was, she took a stick and she was trying to figure out her way across the

1:00:39
river.

1:00:41
And she wasn't too far from them, but she was a little bit of a ways. And she hadn't found the best place through, but she was kind of, you know, up to her waist in the river water, and it was running too fast. She hadn't figured it out yet. But what happened was a hawk came down and grabbed her baby, picked it up, and was flying away with it. And then she was like, oh my God, that's so horrible. So she started waving to try to scare the hawk to drop it or something. But the hawk didn't. The hawk's going off. But then the toddler sees the mother waving and goes, oh, mom's calling for me. And walks into the water, gets caught, carried away, drowns. The mother is like, oh my god, beside herself. Her husband just died of a cobra a couple days ago. Her baby got taken off by a hawk or something, and then the other baby, thinking she's calling him, comes into the water, drowns. And she's devastated. But then she continues on to her parents, how she's all, at least I can go home and have some relatives to help me out, give me some support. And then she gets to her parents' house, and there had been a storm a week before she got there, and a tree had fallen on their At that point, she went crazy. She was like, just really, just lost it, talking to herself, just like, she went into the most horrible states of mind. That's the third one. So it just so happened to be that Buddha had come to a large village and he was teaching outside of the village. The old woman with the broken back and legs was in the village shopping and she came across the Buddha and the Sangha. Buddha was giving a discourse on the Dharma and she was drawn to it. She came and then the monks in the back were all, no, no, no, you can't be here. So they were trying to get rid of her but she just kind of was staying for a while. She wanted to get in. And then the crazy lady, the lady whose whole family got killed, who went, who totally lost it, was crazy. She was just wandering the jungles for a while. She shows up and she wants to walk in too, and the monks are all, Oh my God, no, stop. And then the courtesan hears that the Buddha's there and she's drunk and she decides that she wants to go and try to seduce some of the monks. So she shows up too. They all three show up pretty much at the same time. And there's a huge commotion in the back because the drunk courtesan is going, yeah, no, you're kind of cute. And the crazy lady's talking crazy. And then the woman with the hurt back back, probably just maybe moaning because her back hurts. And there's this commotion in the back and the Buddha says, what is going on back there? And the monks are like, we're trying to get rid of these three crazy ladies. And then the Buddha says, no, no, no. He says, let them come forth. So the monks are like, oh my God, this is crazy. So the monks bring them in front and Buddha says, all right, I want them to sit right in front. So they sit down and and Buddha gives them the teaching about the Dhyanas. He's like, beyond the ego, beyond the five hindrances and beyond the senses, there is higher states of mind called Dhyanas and in that teaching, the crazy lady experiences the first Dhyana, which means that she actually becomes uncrazy because of that. She experiences the first Dhyana and then she's no longer crazy. She's in a very, very, very high, powerful, balanced awareness. And then the courtesan experiences the second Dhyana. And then the woman with the hurt back and legs experiences the fourth Dhyana. So from the teachings of the Dhyanas, these three women who had really difficult problems, they experienced the Dhyanas. And this started them on their path. They subsequently became Bhikkhunis, you know, Buddhist nuns or monks, whatever. And then they ended up, all three of them, becoming Arhants. And the Dhyanas helped them with their problems. We'll discuss exactly what the Dhyanas are a little bit later. But this is what we're going to work on tonight. These are the teachings of the Dhyanas, and we're going to be exposed to, and hopefully experience the Dhyanas tonight.

1:07:17
All right.

1:07:19
Let's take a 15-minute break. We will come back and talk about the Dhyanas are considered the higher states of meditation. So once you start to practice meditation you just kind of figure out the basics, right? So it's like you figure out how to sit up, how to start focusing, but then the dhyanas are like, you know, how you get somewhere important. So kind of learning meditation is kind of like learning to drive the car, right? You push the gas, then the brake, and turn, and signal, right, but then the dhyana is a destination that you get to in the car. The first dhyana is called vitaka-vicara. And Vitaka-vichara describes the dhyana. It is the setting of focus. So, the Vitaka is where you have appropriate concentration. So, it's actually very strong concentration. It takes energy, it takes strength to have that level of concentration. This is how I always talk about how to meditate. With strong concentration it creates vittaka. Once you have strong concentration, then your meditation becomes easier. Do you guys ever notice that? If you sit there and you focus on the chakra, very strong mind, it's like pushing, fully awake, then the Kundalini starts to rise and then you start to say, ah, now my mind is more still. Now I'm experiencing greater greater stillness. That's vichara. So in the beginning, strong focus, and then it becomes kind of pleasant, pleasurable, more still. Vichara. So the Buddha talked about it being similar to a bird taking off. Right? So the bird is on the ground, and then the bird has to exert energy with its wings to get up into the sky. But then once the bird's flying in the sky, it just kind of soars, that it might not even have to flap its wings for an hour. It just soars in the wind, in Vittaka is that effort, the appropriate strong effort to get that lift off. And vichara, the first jnana, there's an examination and a reflection of an active mind. So this means that you're focused, you've concentrated to lift off, and now you're kind of going with it. But you're observing that your experience is good, that it's a strong meditation. You very often experience a lot of light, so you start to see a lot of luminous dimensions, white light, gold light, and you feel very luminous. You're like, yes, this is great, this is wonderful. It's a lot of energy and it's a lot of light. You might say, you might see that you're concentrated. You might say, wow, I can see that I'm very concentrated on my chakra. Like I can tell I'm not running off and thinking this and thinking that. I can tell that my mind is still and that I'm focused. So there's the observation and examination of your experience still. But it's still a very, you're observing that you're having a strong, beautiful, bright meditation. So this is still a very, very, very important and high state of mind. So I know a lot of times when some of my students go into the first dhyana, they feel guilty. They're like, oh I had a good meditation but I was I was still noticing that I was meditating. And I say, good, that's good. That's appropriate. That's a good first dhyana. So don't feel bad about that. That should be a good thing. In the first dhyana, you're observing that you're meditating, and that it's a good meditation, that it's bright, that there's a lot of energy, it's luminous, that you're focused. You know, you're not noticing, you know, what is not dhyana, what's inappropriate is when you're noticing that you're thinking about, what should I do at work tomorrow? Oh, wow, I should make a poppy seed ratish. Or something like that. You know, when you're sitting there thinking all these mundane thoughts, you're planning your, you know, the future, you're thinking about the past, you're thinking about a person, place, a thing, any kind of noun. So when you're going through that, that's inappropriate. That's where you actually haven't concentrated enough. You haven't done the vittaka. And then you're not experiencing, you haven't gotten to the level of vichara. So that's not a strong meditation. That's not a higher state of mind. You're trying to survive your thoughts and yourself to get through to the higher state

1:14:07
of mind.

1:14:08
All right, so we're going to do a meditation. We're going to do the first Dhyana meditation. So go ahead and cough. song, eyes closed, focusing on the heart. You should start with a very, very, very strong focus, right? So extremely strong concentration. Then, as you notice that your concentration stills your mind, then you feel like, ah, everything's kind of quiet and still. That's the vichara. And then just experience the vichara. If you find that you start thinking again, then you go back to the effort, the concentration, the vittaka. I'm going to play a little bit of it.

1:15:11
the the the the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the the the the the the the the the the the Oh, Oh the the the the the the the the the the the Oh, the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so Oh, the the the Very nice. See, the first dhyana, not so difficult. Not so difficult. All you have to do is apply concentrate and then magic starts to happen. Whoa, stillness and light. Good, so you did very well. Now we're going to talk about the second dhyana. The second dhyana is where we take a turn into the more magical.

1:20:39
So, the second dhyana is called Pitisukha. Pitisukha is a step up from the vichara. So vichara, you're floating around, you're still aware that you're meditating, but it's a good meditation. But then you all of a sudden go higher into the second dhyana and you go into pittisuka which means bliss and joy. Now pittisuka is where it starts to get awesome. Yeah, pittisuka is good. So you're sitting there, you know, concentrating, going, yeah, it's getting really light and stuff and then you just enter into Piti, which is bliss. And the bliss is blissful. This is where you actually experience a kind of ecstasy. It's very, very, very, very, very, very beautiful. And then Sukha is joy. So at the same time where you have this very kind of physical, you feel lots of energy flowing, like extremely strongly blissful. You'll also have this deep beautiful joy in your heart. So there's a bliss of the body and the mind and then there's a deep joy of the heart. This is the second Dhyana, you should try. You should focus, right? And then you should try. And then you just experience it. But for the second Dhyana, you can't try. That's the secret. If you try, it won't happen. So what we're going to do is we're going to do the vittara where we focus. Then after the vittara, we'll experience vichara. And then when we experience the vittara again, we'll be like, okay, my mind is still, I know I'm focusing, but it's really bright and nice. And then from there, don't try to do anything. All you do is observe your mind. And what will happen is you will come up into this feeling of bliss. Don't expect it. Don't try to get it. Just observe your mind. So we will do another meditation where we do the Thaka Vichara just like we did before, you guys did perfect and then, just when you're in Vichara just observe your mind, just be like everything's cool don't have to worry about anything don't expect anything, don't try to do anything and then that's perfect Alright, again, we're going to focus on the heart chakra. One song.

1:27:48
Let's begin. the the the the the the the the so so the the the the the the the the the so so so so so the the the the so so the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the the the the the the the the the the the the the

1:33:36
Very nice. I see some of you cheated and went ahead. But actually it's very difficult to hold the second jnana without going into the third or fourth jnana. Because the bliss, the piti, is so awesome that it really, like for me it's always like a real strong launching point for samadhi. a third jnana and some of you already did the third jnana. After you feel that the bliss, then you enter, then the bliss actually goes away and then you enter a tranquil joy. So It's called the third jnana, but we're going to call it sukha jnana, which is absorption into joy. So it's considered after this extremely energetic bliss of the body and the subtle physical to a very tranquil, peaceful joy. This is the third dhyana. Okay, so we're gonna go through the same steps. Strong focus, very strong focus, which leads to brightness, stillness of the mind, and then leaping into the pity, the bliss, the ecstasy, and the joy. But then we go into the third jnana, where we let the ecstasy go away, because it's too hyper. It's very active. You're just like, ahhh! It's great, but it's very active. So you let that go, and then you have this very peaceful, tranquil stillness. You're still aware that you're there, but you're aware that you're very, very, very

1:37:50
still.

1:37:51
So the the the the so the the the the the the the the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Oh Oh Oh the the the the the Very nice. Now, a little correction for many of you. You must hit pity. Otherwise your

1:40:46
sukkah is a sucky sukkah. I don't know if that's going to work. So a lot of you didn't really get to the second or third dhyana properly. But we have another chance, because we're going to go into the fourth dhyana, which is emptiness. This is a profound dhyana because you stop thought. This is the one where you actually stop thought. The other ones are still reflecting on really high, beautiful, tranquil or ecstatic states. You go from, you know, strong focus to vikara where you're like, ah, yes, this is nice, I'm still and focused. Then you go to the piti, the ecstasy, you've got to extremely push yourself to hit that ecstasy. And then you feel the joy, you come down into the tranquil experience of the joy, and then don't try to do anything and thought will just come to an end. So the real trick that you guys got to do is you got to hit the pithy. You have to hit that ecstasy because that generates tremendous Kundalini. reflect on consciousness and ride it into the tranquility and then don't even try anything and you'll ride it right into no thoughts.

1:45:46
No thoughts at all.

1:45:47
so so the the the the the the the the So, I'm going to play it. so the the Oh, the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the so so the the the So I'm going to be doing a lot of that. the the the the the the the the the the the the so Oh, the the the the the the the the so so the the the the I think it's cool stopping thought while there's like rock and roll guitar going on. It's like going crazy and you're just like so tauntriff. So tantric. Okay, so, observing the dhyanas, these higher states of mind, it's kind of

1:57:06
like observing, let's say, in martial arts. At a certain point, you're going to start beating black belts and sparring. At a certain point, maybe you'll learn advanced techniques, like a weapon, like a bo staff. So it's like, there's certain things that you'll notice as you progress. But on the way there, you learn all sorts of kata's and techniques. So you're like, oh, you learn to do this punch, I learned to do this kick. And it's in a very structured way, but at some point you're like, wow, I'm beating up black belts. Or, wow, I'm breaking boards. You notice that there's certain significant markers. So the jhanas are significant markers, significant states of mind to observe. But what we focus on is we focus on light. We focus on a chakra, we focus on dimensions of light, and we'll automatically kind of follow the dhyanas because that's the structure. But I wanted to point out, you know, just specifically these markers.

1:59:09
Alright, so...

1:59:11
By the way, a lot of you did very, very, very well.

1:59:14
It's pretty magical.

1:59:16
So, these are the four Dhyanas. We work on them in a very particular way, with particular awareness, so that it's successful. There was one time where in ancient Japan where the samurai came over to the Zen monastery and they were really interested in the Zen monks because the Zen monks had something about them. There was some power. They saw it. said to the Zen master, why don't you demonstrate to me a teaching of Zen? And then so the Zen master said, okay. So he said, we'll set up a target and we'll have one of your archers shoot first and then I'll have one of my monks, who's never shot a bow and arrow before, do a better shot. And then the samurai was like, no way. Okay, let's give it a shot. So he sets up the target, good and far away, and he gets one of his best archers. And his best archer shoots and gets a bullseye. And then he says to the samurai, you can pick any one of the monks. And the samurai says, okay, because samurai could tell who's a martial artist and who's not, and he knows that none of them are, but he chooses the silliest, goofiest, lamest one anyway. And then the monk is like, I have no idea what to do. And the Zen master says, okay, stand here. And he says, okay, so you're just gonna pull it back. He starts explaining to him how to shoot it. The Zen master doesn't know very much either, right? He's not a martial artist, didn't know how to do, you know, the art of the bow. So he just says, okay, focus, all right? And he's like, okay, so you're going to do this? He's just coaching him. And then he says, now let go. And the arrow flies, and it splits the other arrow that was in the bullseye. So it had a bullseye on the bullseye. So this is because the Zen master was a Zen master. And while he didn't know anything about archery, he had a perfect state of mind and he could convey the perfect state of mind to his student. And so the student, just by listening to the Zen Master, was able to do a perfect shot. So this is how we practice the dhyanas. It's like I Point them out to you you follow you hit them right on the mark and if you didn't you keep practicing But a lot of you did very very well better than I thought actually Okay Okay now we're going to talk about the higher states of mind, higher than the dhyanas. They are called the samadhis. So actually this is where our school differs from Buddha's original teachings, the Veda Buddhism, because we do things a little different. So actually in Buddha's direct teachings, after the four Dhyanas, there's four more Dhyanas, which basically are Samadhi. So we go from the four dhyanas into salvakopasamadhi and nirvakopasamadhi. Just two distinctions. In some yoga schools they talk about all sorts of levels of samadhi. But basically, just generally, we classify two. Salvacopa and Nirvakapa. So Salvacopa Samadhi is where you stop thought completely and then you go into an awareness are one with everything. And that's a tremendously profound awareness. Not just like, oh, nature's cool, yeah, yeah, but you really actually have an intimate awareness of the unity of So, in the Vedas, they call that God-realization. And it's very often just associated with Satori or enlightenment itself. And then there's the Nervic Alpha Samadhi. Nirvikalpa Samadhi, once you experience Nirvikalpa Samadhi, once, that's where it is said that you are liberated, the first level of enlightenment. So every time that you go into Nirvikalpa Samadhi, it's even beyond Salvakalpa Samadhi. Salvakalpa Samadhi, even though you stop that and you have an awareness of being one with everything, you still have an awareness that that one with everything is self. That's why they call it God realization, because you're like, oh, I'm God. And then, but that's still an identity. There's still a self there. which is way beyond Salvacopa, you even let go of that sense of the self as everything. And it's very hard to talk about, but it is where the aggregate of attention of self, the ego completely disappears and is gone. And then it comes back. But it comes back totally connected to enlightenment and totally, let's say, no longer fixed. So that's the first level called liberation. And like they say, you know, the crown chakra is a lotus with 10,000 petals, right? And every time you go into nirvikalpa, one of those petals opens, and then another one opens and then it keeps on opening forever until you become Padmasambhava or something. So this is Salvakopa and Nirvikalpa Samadhi. So the Dhyanas are the intermediate dimensions. Those are the dimensions that you guys should be reaching if you're an intermediate student all the time? It's not that difficult. Just do it right. And it's just slowing down thought and then stopping thought. If you do that all the time, you get very, very powerful, a lot of momentum, a lot of light in your aura. And then once in a while, if you're lucky, you can have a Salvakoppa Samadhi, which just will come out of nowhere. Boom! In the advanced teachings, then you learn how to do Salvakoppa Samadhi all the time. So, you know, it's kind of interesting. In Theravada Buddhism, they don't like to teach about the jhanas, the dhyanas, because they can't do them. They can do the first one, probably, like, you know, if you read the Pali Canon, it just says, yeah, so, you know, you're supposed to like have pittisuka. That's what it says. Have some pittisuka. And then let the pity subside and only experience a tranquil joy. So that's what it says. But there's no one to transmit the teaching. There's no one who can do it who can show it, or very few probably. I've never seen one. And this is something that means, it shows that Buddhism kind of got lost. Buddha said that would happen. He said the, you know, he said the Sangha is over. But Buddhist monks now are like, hey, that was 2,500 years ago, we're still around. You know, we're still around, doing things not so strongly. It would be kind of like, remember the monk with the oppo and arrow? Instead of the Zen master right there, right in his ear, showing him and transmitting how to do it, the attention, it'd be like he has a book. Zen master said, still your mind and shoot at the target. Okay. So these teachings are transmissions and as intermediate students you should be going into the dhyanas, you should be recognizing these markers of the dhyanas and you should be experiencing that every day in your meditation. This is so important what Buddha taught that it was actually his last teaching and his last demonstration. So when he was on his deathbed he was in Nirvikalpa Samadhi. And then he went down from Nirvikalpa to Salvakalpa. Then he went down to Sunyata. Then he went down to Sukhaviyana. Then Tirisuka. Then Vichara. And then he went back up into Nirvikalpa, then he died. So the very last thing he did, and he demonstrated that to his students because he said, this is the pathway to enlightenment. Similarly I'm going to show you this same pattern. So we're going to do our final meditation where you just sit up straight, focus on your third eye, and look towards me. I'm going to go through the four dhyanas. I'm going to go to salvakoppa samadhi. And I can't do the dhravakalpa samadhi, because there's way too much structure going on. But after salvakoppa samadhi, I'm going to do the wind horse, because it's very important for me to have in the conversation of enlightenment, compassion. So that's why when we talked about the higher self, we ended with Buddha nature, you know, recognition of our Buddha nature, our enlightenment. But not only that, but using it as a practice of compassion for others. So here also, when I go, after I go into the Salvakopa Samadhi, then I'm going to do Windhorse. Right out of Salvakopa Samadhi, from Salvakopa Samadhi, the Windhorse. Then I'm going to go back down to the first Dhyana. And I'm going to go back up and do the same thing. I'm going to cycle through it. Because what I want you to just see is I want you to see the dhyanas. I want you to see those states of mind. And I want you to feel and go on the journey with me. But I just want to demonstrate it again and again and again and again. Just so that you get the feeling. This is how you start to learn these very well. It's just the impressions, seeing it, feeling it.

2:13:19
the the the the the the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so the the the the the the the the the the you It's kind of fun. All right. Very good.

2:16:04
So, I want you to start observing, not only meditation focusing on light, like we always do, but where are you getting? What marker are you getting to? Don't be so weird about it, you know, just meditate. You can't try to do the dhyana past the first one. You can't get to the second one by trying. You have to just feel where this is coming from. There's a place, there's a way. It's simple, it's not trying, it's just going with the dharma. You just reflect on the mind, see where you're at, be open, and then you'll go up the dhyanas, focusing on light. All you have to do is focus on a chakra, sit up straight, focus on light, don't worry about anything else, and then afterwards say, how did I do? Oh yeah, I kind of got to the third Dhyana that time. Start to observe where you're getting in your meditation. Alright, so these are the higher states of mind, and this will also support your mindfulness So instead of finding yourself mindlessly going into self problems and thoughts, you'll be able to observe it and say, oh, let me direct my mind towards Dharma, towards something bright, happy and constructive. Don't let yourself be angry. Don't let yourself go into negativity. Don't let yourself go into negativity. Don't let yourself go into enmity. Redirect your mind. Take responsibility. Okay. And, thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
