0:00:00
Yeah, this is close to the microphone.

0:00:03
Oh, OK.

0:00:04
Maybe we should just have him stand.

0:00:06
I'm going to take off my shoes, not for holy reasons, but I just like to wiggle my toes. It's a little little known sitter that you can do with your foot. Thank you very much. I have been teaching in this lineage for about 30 years. I was the beta test. And my... It's an interesting thing here, because next... Not this Saturday, but a week from this Saturday I'll be in San Diego speaking at the Dharma Center, 16th anniversary, on enlightenment and they've given me 10 minutes. So it's good that I've been up here with Sambara because I've seen enlightenment manifesting Sogna here, his group, are just amazing. I can't use any other word but that. I'm watching these kids, of course at my age, at 68, everybody is a kid to me, right?

0:02:49
So I'm watching these kids put together businesses and learn new skills

0:02:55
and create amazing lives for themselves. But that's not all. I'm watching them go into spirit. And that's my black belt. It's the only one I have. He has three or four, five, six. I have one. And I'm going to give you a work out in the heart. The heart is an interesting place. It has a mantra, and the mantra is because it's located between these two billows of

0:04:10
My teacher, our teacher, gave us a technique that began with the heart. The heart is so interesting. It's where your soul is. It's the seat of the soul.

0:04:35
It's where you exist in your consciousness, really. You have your experience of the world and your power of the world from the heart up. But this is your center. And Sambara was talking about your heart being burned out. How sad. I was kicked out by my teacher for doing nothing. Really. I did everything right. I wasn't angry. I wasn't doing any of the things that the other people were getting kicked out for. He booted my ass right out. After just one year of study. And he said, don't see me I'm studying. And he said, don't see me or have any contact with any of the students for at least a year. And I went home and I was hurt. But I got the letter actually a couple of days later and that's what the letter said and it devastated me. I felt my ego flared up. I didn't do anything wrong. And then I thought, did I trust him before I got the letter? And what has changed? Nothing had changed.

0:06:53
I'm a really weird guy, you know.

0:06:56
I love my teacher, incredibly. It was one of those things that he hated. I was a devotee. Devotees are the scourge of a spiritual teacher because they lock you in, they don't let you change. They don't change, at least in this lineage. But I'll tell you what I was studying with. teacher. And I never lost that connection to the Dharmakaya. I never got angry with my teacher. I didn't. I didn't discount all of those desert trips and all of those times that we went out. That connection was there. And then I lost him a second time when he died, for some unknown reason to me, I shaved my head for a year. I didn't know why I did it. I found out later it's kind of common in Tibet, but I didn't know why I did it. But that's the only thing he would allow me to do. He would not allow me to get angry. He would not allow me to cry. He would not allow me to do anything. If I did, he would be right there inside of me saying, Feel it.

0:09:18
It's why you started the journey. This is why you started the journey. It's this. All of the other stuff is just stuff, but this is why you started the journey.

0:09:33
This feeling of spirit, deep in your heart. Don't turn away from it.

0:09:42
Just stay with it a second.

0:09:43
Come on. Don't turn away from it, just stay with it a second. Come on, it's okay. I know it's hard to open your heart because every time we've done that in our life we've gotten hurt, right?

0:09:56
I mean, it's hurt.

0:09:57
It's a painful world out there. And people hurt you. They betray you. They do terrible things. And so we've closed our heart. But come on now. So we've closed our heart. But come on now, this is just friendly Oshiba up here, seeking to do nothing but destroy you.

0:10:35
You're having a better friend around.

0:10:40
So, just a second here. Compassion. If your heart's been broken, you have compassion. You don't have pity, you have had that too, and now someone is in front of you with that same feeling. When you meditate, do you start in your heart? Do you seek the spirit of the divine as a beginning place?

0:12:19
Watch, I'm going to stop.

0:13:17
I'm a little strange in that I love God, and I'm not talking about what most people consider God, I guess for me it would be this Dharmakaya stuff. It's that purity, that power that dissolves all hatred, that dissolves anger, that dissolves fear. And in its place is this light and this love. Everybody hurts. Everybody has doubts. I've been there. But once you open up to the divine love, it's just hard not to smile. There are good days and bad days, but the worst days are still the day in paradise. You can get everything that you dream of, but if you don't have this love, it's going I spent some time up in Bodie Woods. People are pushing their careers and doing great jobs.

0:15:19
They're learning.

0:15:20
in martial arts, meditating like crazy. But there's love, real love there. They can't do enough for each other or for me. That's been my experience. I've had spiritual communities. I've never had one this successful. I've never had a community like Sambara has.

0:16:10
It's a thing of beauty.

0:16:13
It's a priceless treasure, just as he is. I'm just a wandering old monk that comes in, eats a few meals and leaves. But my God, what he's done.

0:16:31
And it's all changing. Things go.

0:16:34
They built a dream here and work it for a while, and then they build another dream. That's what life is. You don't stay still. So, when you're meditating, start on your heart, just for a second, just take a couple of breaths,

0:16:50
and remind yourself why you began the journey.

0:16:54
You began the journey because you wanted God, you wanted enlightenment. We get caught up in practice. We think we do the mantras so many times, or go through the prayer beads. When we get so caught up in our practice, we forget what we were starting out to do in the first place and that was just to find God. The first night I sat with my teacher I could not believe it. The last night I sat with my teacher I could not believe it. Everything in between was just one amazing experience after the other. I have lots of friends of the Dharma, studied with my teacher in the room. They all express this lineage in their own way, and they're all growing in their own

0:18:23
way.

0:18:24
You can be enlightened in this life. And the reason I say that is because you're in the room. You're interested in enlightenment. Why else would you be here really? And so all this between here and there is just waking up. Because enlightenment is in you. If you can see enlightenment in me, if you can see enlightenment in Sambara, that means enlightenment is inside of you. And the only thing that's between that and this lineage is you waking up. Letting go of your fears, letting go of your insecurities. Letting go of those dreams you have of how it has to be. Maybe this little fat man coming along in a little raft says, Why don't you get in the boat? If he doesn't, maybe you've got the captain coming by here with a bigger ship.

0:19:54
ah Don't be afraid. The best is yet to come. You're eternal. You're lucky. Don't be afraid about what I'm going to say. So here it goes.

0:21:13
And I love you because I see God in you. And I love God more than anything. If you see it in me or if you see it. What this being next to me has done for his students is something that I am He has great compassion. He has integrity. But most of all, from my point of view, he has love. So, I'm going to go ahead and get started.

0:23:12
The heart has three areas. Low heart has conditional love. It's human love.

0:23:33
I'll love you as long as you don't cheat on me, as long as you don't beat me up. Then you have center heart, the middle heart, which is Guru heart. It's the heart of your grandparents. I will love you no matter what, but I think you need to improve. But I'm still going to love you. And then you have the divine love. And this is one that most people don't feel very often, because it has no conditions. And to feel this divine love, you have to let go of your life and sail into spirit, and as far and as high or as deep or wide as you can go, until you've let go of everything, all of the tethers. You've just surrendered yourself totally in the Spirit, and this love fills you. It fills your being. And you, your egoic part, feels guilty and ashamed because it's been so far removed from that. But that divine love does not judge you. It does not make demands on you. It is unconditional. And the more you open up to it, and it starts to fill that center heart, and you become a wonderful teacher. How beautiful. But if you can bring that divine love all the way down, all the way down into all of your chakras, and pull all of that junk that you have below, all of those prejudices, fears, angers, disappointments, and just pull them up into the heart where that divine love will just dissolve them. It's the tantric maneuver. It's taking the high, bringing the divine love all the way down into the root, and then taking all of that root sexual energy and all that stuff and bringing it all the way up into the crowd. It's until the body. You're not the same, but you have to be in the world, so you come up with some caretaker personalities real quick.

0:27:43
You have fun with it.

0:27:45
I'm having fun with myself now, watching myself grow old. It's an interesting experience, one that I hope you get to experience. But it's transitory. Everything is transitory. But if you get love in your heart and throughout all of your being, when you drop this body, you step into the next one, imagine what that incarnation is going to be like. If you have gotten rid of all of your angers, if you have forgiven everyone that's ever hurt you, I mean really forgiven them and just see them and pray for their enlightenment, because they wouldn't have done that to you. And then forgive yourself. Sure you made mistakes, you hurt people. We all do that. You just got to forgive yourself. Stop feeling guilty about shitting your pants when you were one. Really. You're not that anymore. So if you're not going to feel guilty about crapping your pants when you're one years old, why should you feel guilty about what you did in high school or even last week? If you have transformed, would you do it again? And if the answer is no, then you learned. Let go of it. If you're feeling pain from the past, let go of it. You don't want to carry that. If you hate somebody, and you just refuse to forgive them, then they'll become your sister or your brother in the next life. It's true. It's true. Or you'll marry them. But, you know, that's why you end up with these horrible relationships, because in the past life you didn't forgive them. We're about purity here. I mean, that's a terrible thing to talk about when you're talking to a bunch of occultists who belong to a cult. But this is about purity. It's about feeling your life and your being. was the Dharmakaya, to have the Kundalini flow through you.

0:30:32
And it's about having compassion.

0:30:43
Heal your heart. A burned out heart is a terrible thing. You don't want to die with it. Go away. Your next incarnation would be just awful and end up in Dauphur or someplace.

0:30:58
Clean up your life.

0:31:00
Anger and hatreds are so toxic. Feeling self-righteous, judging. The Bible says self-righteousness is as filthy rags to the nostrils of God. Clear yourself out. You have a teacher right here who has done that. And he is here for you. He asks nothing from you except all of your money and everything you have. A very small price to pay. No, you can't pay him enough. I don't care what he's asking. You can't. And I'm certainly coming cheap. I can tell you that. It's called yoga, folks. This is union. Come on. Come with me here. Come with us. This is the lineage. This is yoga here. This is the Dharma. This is light.

0:33:17
It is who you are. Wow. Just remember why you started this journey. Martial arts is good, programming excellent, making the money I can't recommend it enough. Meditation is always good, gets your practice down, but don't forget why you started the journey.

0:33:57
I'm Shiva. I take the creation and bring it all back to the Creator. Well, somebody's got to do it. I'd like to thank you, and I'd particularly like to thank Sambara.

0:34:23
He has inspired me.

0:34:27
He's a treasure, a true treasure. And what he's offering all of you is so precious. So precious. So, I'm trying to think of a joke.

0:35:25
The hard part about that is that you have to have thoughts. Oh, you guys are so funny. I love getting dirty jokes.

0:35:43
I've got some real doozies too. Well, interesting evening for me by the way. I guess it's because I've kooed many students here that I showed up in a dress. I've been at the ashram up there and they've been feeding me. Ah, this food. The lady that prepares the food. It tastes really good. So when I put on my suit I couldn't button it. I happen to remember that I had this. This was given to me as kind of a joke. But it's all I have. Here I'm sitting next to a guy that's got this incredible suit on.

0:37:24
Wearing a dress.

0:37:27
Oh, remember this?

0:37:30
Oh, it's, oh, ooh.

0:37:33
I do. And I thought all this power was just from you. Super suit. So, do you have any questions?

0:37:49
Just I can entertain three questions. Yes. So if you are in this situation, the burnt out situation, I understand you already mentioned that you said go back to your tent when you were in

0:38:10
a state. How do you prevent the burn out at all? You know what Christ used to do? This is true. He would do this. And then when he would answer the question, he would open his mouth to speak. Lower his hand to speak. So you're burned out. What was your question again? I'm really trying to think. Would you repeat it please?

0:38:42
The question was, so if you are in a situation of the burned out, right? So I've already addressed what you need to do to get back on track. How do you prevent being burnt out in the beginning?

0:38:56
It's because you're doing something you don't want to do.

0:39:00
You've lost sight of the vision.

0:39:02
You think that doing the software is an example. Doing the software is what it's all about. And you've forgotten that it's the intent while you're doing the software that matters. but to address you more directly. You really need to meditate on your heart and as you're meditating on your heart just breathing, and this goes for several people in here, with every exhale you ask your higher self like you're begging for another cookie from your mama, just give me love. Show me love. Give me love so much that it's just flowing out of me all of the time. And then, later on, when you're going into Samadhi, you really do want to get burned out. It's true. We build these structures, we build all of this, we've got this structure and this structure, and then you reach a point where you just set all of those structures on the altar in front of you and you set a match to it. Just take it all. I don't care. I just want God. It's the only thing worth having. But you don't know that until you've kindled the fire, the little flame of love inside your heart. One of the nice things I like about this community is they're really big into selfless giving. Like God, you know, would you like some coffee? And I'll say yes. There it is. There's coffee. But before that, there's a little table magically appears right next to me. Where did it come from? Ninja table. Put the coffee down and I say, could I have a little Splenda? It's just like they're doing everything they can to serve, but it's not just me. I watch them work with each other. I watch, you know, caring is a really big thing, and if you're burned out sometimes, it's because you feel pretty alone. Like there's nobody there that helps you. You're just struggling and doing it all by yourself. That's why we have a community. We need each other. We love each other.

0:42:13
And something I can't remember the rest of the words in that painting, but it said that.

0:42:17
Right? Yeah. You're going to be fine. You have too many past lives going toward enlightenment to let a little thing like

0:42:32
this get in your way. Any other questions? Yes.

0:42:51
Have you ever been burned out in your life? Yeah, I have been. That's why I could talk to him about it. That's what compassion is. you can if you never I was in a motorcycle accident about four years ago nearly died I was the body for a little bit and they kicked me back because I wasn't done but I had four broken ribs and a punctured lung in addition to having half my face scraped off it was a pretty terrible time. And up until that time, when somebody would say they had a broken rib, I would remember something from a movie where a guy gets a busted rib and then he ends up carrying the woman up three flights of stairs and jumping off buildings and stuff. Well, it's not quite like that. When you break a rib, you can't do anything without pain. You can't breathe, you can't have a bowel movement, you can't piss, you can't roll over, you can't cough, you can't do anything without it feeling like somebody is stabbing you with a knife and twisting It's the most painful thing and it goes on for about 3 to 4 months. So now, when somebody comes up and they say, so and so broke a rib, I have compassion. I've been there. I had a student of mine in Tucson 20-30 years ago, a long time ago, time meaningless to me now. Anyway, she was jogging along, she was a college girl, jogging along, and this guy leaped out from behind the bushes, dragged her down into the gully and raped her viciously. And she comes into my little center that I have there at Peacehawk, and she's crying, and she says, why did this happen to me? Was I an evil person? Was this something that I did in a past life? And I said, oh, you wanted to help women who were abused.

0:46:05
So now you know what it feels like.

0:46:08
You can talk to women who have gone through this in ways that nobody else could. Not everything that happens to you that's really painful or terrible is a result of your bad karma. It could be the result of a very good intention to help someone who's going through that so that now you know what it's like. All of the pains in your life, all the heartaches, all of the times you've been betrayed or hurt or abandoned or bullied, allow you to have compassion when you see someone else going

0:46:56
through that.

0:47:03
And in this life, there's a great opportunity to learn about compassion. Yeah, just the way it is. to learn about compassion. So don't feel sorry for yourself. Quit being a victim. My teacher said he could not work with a victim and he didn't know anyone who could.

0:47:36
So think about it.

0:47:37
If you're a victim, the dog is always eating your homework. Are you going to get anything done? No, no victims here. You never were a victim, you never will be. You're either burning off karmas for things you've done or things are happening to you to give you an experience so that you can show compassion. Quit moaning about your lot in life. If you're going to moan about your lot in life and cry and complain, just do it to some bar.

0:48:07
So okay, one more question. Yes?

0:48:11
So when I'm meditating and I'm trying to open my heart, it feels very lovely and warm. Yeah. And like everything's going to be okay, but when I'm in a group, or when I'm at work, I have this tendency to want to protect. Yeah. And when I'm, when I want to let go, I feel like I'm at the precipice of something very, very scary. Yeah.

0:48:53
I just want to let it go already.

0:48:56
It's just...

0:48:57
When you're in a group of people,

0:48:59
and let's say you find yourself, you know, in a group of Ku Klux Klan members, right?

0:49:07
Ku Klux Klan members.

0:49:10
And you say, I don't want to open my heart to these people. I mean, they'd hate me.

0:49:16
They'd hate me.

0:49:17
They don't like me. They would like to kill me. There's this hatred that's going on. And not for anything that you've done, just because you're there. What did Christ say about love? He said to love your enemy.

0:49:43
To love those who spitefully use you.

0:49:48
He said the heathen can love their friends, but we are more than that. We can't love from lower heart or even middle heart, we have to love from this higher heart. And the only way you can love from that higher heart is to touch it and to have it flow into your whole being. To have the light of Christ or Buddha or whatever you want to call it, come in and just fill your being with love. When your being is full of love, no matter who is around you or how they hate you, you'll be okay. Next week I'm going to go speak to some of my fellow students about enlightenment. They hate me. Some of them do. They really do. Why not? What a mess I am. What am I to say? But you know what? This is my chance to test my love. I'm not too sure. I think it might have been Thich Nhat Hanh, but there's one of them Buddhists that was beat every day for a year, was in prison, they'd just beat him senseless every day for a year. And when he got out, they asked him, they said, what was your worst day? And he thought a bit, and he said, well, there was one day where the beatings were so severe, I almost lost my love. That's the bar. If you love God, I love God, and God is in everyone not where do I put my balance? Now that doesn't mean I'm foolhardy and even I wouldn't go into some Ku Klux Klan members, unless maybe I had another hat to go with this. But you know, you've got to use a little, you know, tempt not to bore by God. You don't need to put yourself in harm's way to test your love, but it will be tested anyway. There will be people who will curse you out for no reason. There will be people who will accuse you. But if you have that deep-seated love, and it has to come from a high heart, it can't have any conditions. It can't have any conditions. But when that love enters you, then you can smile a little bit. Then you see God in everyone. Why do you think I want to hug you guys so much? I mean, some of you are kind of weird looking, but... I'm kind of weird looking too, you know. Why is it that I like to touch you? Because I see God in you. I really see God in you. And why wouldn't I love you, if I love God? You don't have to have sex with me. Anyway, and you don't even have to love me back. It's not predicated on that.

0:53:59
There you got it.

0:54:00
You actually got it. Very good. You'll have to work on it though, but you got it. It's all making sense, all that stuff you were taught as a kid in Sunday school, huh? Yeah. Christ was a good guy, it's just his disciples screwed it all up. It's true. Go back and read the New Testament, with just the red print, that's what Christ said, just read that. He was a tantric mystic teaching in a very primitive land. Oh, come on now, there you go. See I mentioned Christians and people immediately, Better love you anyway.

0:55:13
Just one. Ah, you were first. Yes. Can you tell us a little bit about how you reached enlightenment?

0:55:25
How I reached enlightenment? Everybody has a little different path.

0:55:37
I started kind of young because of some previous life stuff.

0:55:42
I actually went into Samadhi when I was five. And it was in a church and everybody thought it was something else, but it was Samadhi. It was Samadhi. And it changed me. And throughout my life, every year, two or three times I would have you know, one of these epiphany things, one of these satori things I would like to be in spirit for like several days and then it would just kind of go away and I'd be back in the world as a little kid wondering what the hell's going on and this just kept going on and on and as I grew older I started searching, I did all kinds of things, I studied all of the religions, I went to meditation workshops, I went to human potential workshops, I really searched hard. In fact, I searched so hard, and this is a fact, that one day I got a honorary PhD in awareness psychology because of all the things I had done. I actually have one of those honorary doctorate degrees. I murdered them all. It was there. I'm not lying on that one. And the worst day of my life was when I got it because I realized that even though I had done all of these workshops, I had stacks of certificates, that it had eluded me. And within a month of that, feeling really depressed, I saw this ad about this where he was putting on a meditation at the Miramar Sheraton in Santa Monica and he listed all of his past, about 8 or 9 of his past lives complete with dates and occupations. So I figured any guy who does that, I'm going to have to go see him. there I ran into our teacher. And the Samadhi started almost immediately. Every time I sat with him I went into Samadhi. And when I was booted out, the reason I started teaching is because every time I talked I went into Samadhi. If I had gone into Samadhi doing tiddlywinks, I would have done that. But I had to teach. It was the Dharma. And after a thousand Samadhis, in my case, more closely, most people do it in a thousand. I think with me it took a little longer. One day it just kind of slipped. Everything Everything since then has been a caretaker personality. When did it happen? I don't know. I can't keep track of time anymore. I don't care. When Buddha became enlightened, he realized that he had always been enlightened, that he was enlightened, and that he would always be enlightened, and that everyone and everything had always been enlightened, was enlightened, and would always be enlightened. So the only thing that really is all about is just waking up. You're already enlightened, you just have to wake up. Enlightenment is all there is. God is enlightenment. God is everywhere. So it's not a big thing of attaining, it's waking up. And what's causing you to go to sleep is what you need to look at. What are you afraid of? Where are your angers at? Why are you afraid of light? Why are you afraid of letting everything go? And I'll end with this. My teacher said that the only thing you should, the only feeling you should have in meditation is the feeling of letting go.

1:00:56
There you go. You just went into lower samadhi. Congratulations. Namaste. God aren't they wonderful? Yeah.

1:01:11
Well, they were scammed. Yeah. Thank you. It's been an honor for me.

1:01:21
True. Thank you. Let's all stand up. We're going to take a stretcher here. Then we're going to conclude.

1:01:24
We won't take a break. Just going to have a little while longer. all right now I have to musical chairs with you well he's got the magical chair okay now have a seat now that we stretch a I just had the best seat in the house.

1:01:59
It's real beautiful.

1:02:03
Yeah, so, so do you guys see how the light was different? Yeah, so it's really beautiful. Shiva's light to me has always been so remarkable. I remember sitting with my teacher and seeing so much light and then when my teacher was gone, I didn't see very much light anywhere. And then I went to one of Shiva's seminars and it was like all that light was back. The light fills It's beautiful. Yeah, so we do this at Bodhi Woods. Yeah, we sit with everybody in meditation, and right in front of the altar, next to each other, and the Buddha on the altar behind us. And it's amazing. There was one time sitting with Kundalini, Sananda, Samadhi and myself. So all of them were enlightened and so was I. And we spent a weekend meditating together. It was the most amazing, remarkable thing. So just like now, I'm just sitting next to Shiva, and I just reflect the light, and it's just a beautiful thing. Wonderful. Anyway, what I'd like to talk about now, very simply, is just to give you some information about my school, the programs in the study in my school. So we have a very, very, very, very strong focus on career. We learn how to do our careers without burning out. We learn how to do our work in a way that makes us happy, bright, and powerful. So we develop ourselves primarily in computer science. We have a school called the Golden State Institute of Technology, where we train you, and you get a certificate in web development. We have a very strong track record in success. Everyone who sticks through the school six months for the first certificate, six months for the second certificate, gets a job. And we really focus on teaching the most cutting-edge technologies and the technologies that are the ones that are most marketable, where you can get the highest rates. So that's what we focus on, because that's what we do. So my students make the highest rates in the country, in the world. I mean, we're in Silicon Valley, right?

1:06:19
Yeah.

1:06:20
And that's what we focus on. Not only being a good technologist, but really making your career extremely successful. So there's training, and there's also coaching and direction for understanding how to make your career strong. We also learn business acumen. So we have a business course and a set of business books that we work with. And this is how we develop our lives, develop our careers, and develop our businesses. So once we're strong technologists, then the next thing we want to do is make the next Facebook. We actually, after work, do something that we call yoga projects. And our yoga projects are software companies where we build software and we're trying to make companies that are very successful. And we have a successful company and we have a few others that are up and coming. We're working on it. But we have one that's, yeah, this one's going to be a home run. And we do this, we work hard, but we do it in a really fun, powerful, beautiful way. So I teach lots and lots of things about how to do yoga right. I run a successful sangha. I'll tell you why. The sangha with my teacher, Ram Rinpoche, was a sangha that was very focused on power and occultism. And to me, I was like, what's going on here? It was weird. Like, people were strange to each other, mean to each other. I was strange and mean to them, too, because why not?

1:08:12
That's what we were all doing. You know?

1:08:17
So it was like this weird thing. I'm like, we have this lame teacher, and we're all weird. What's going on? So this is not what our teacher wanted. It's just that we were just struggling. So it's like Don Juan didn't want Carlos to be a weirdo. He just was. He was teaching him how not to be a weirdo, but he was a weirdo. So I was on the security team for my teacher. I was his bodyguard with a group of other Black Belts. And we worked together for years, we trained together for years, and we worked in the service of keeping our enlightened teacher alive. And Ramana Maharshi told us several times, this is what the Sangha should be like. He's like, all that stuff going on?" He said, that's not what I'm teaching. He said, this is how it should be. So I was a part of a successful sangha, a successful team. I created this team in this way. So this is a sangha that actually, as Shiva pointed out, has selflessness and love for each other. And it's a good thing. And it's fun. So this is very important that we always come from this place of selflessness and compassion. and compassion. So the other thing that we work on is martial arts. So I'm a fifth degree black belt and I teach jujitsu. And a lot of my students are black belts in jujitsu. We do physical things, karate and stuff like that. A lot of people do karate. We also do an art called Li Chuan. And in a moment we're actually going to end with a demonstration of martial arts. And the reason why is because there's a power in martial arts. Most of my teacher's students would say, Ram Rampose taught us meditation and mindfulness, martial arts, career success, kind of in that order. There's an amazing dharma and all sorts of magic in martial arts. Sometimes at our black tie events, in the beginning, he would do demonstrations with black belts where he said, OK, we're wearing tuxedos. He'd say, come over here. And he'd say, I'm going to just knock this person over. And he had power. And he would just touch them very gently and it would fall over. And he did many demonstrations like that for us. And it just looks like, wow, you know, he's got these amazing powers of martial arts that are really beautiful and cool, powerful, but there's a there's powerful Dharma in understanding martial arts. So we have a very strong focus on martial arts. And there's magic in it. We learn control in martial arts. My teacher used to say, Blackbelt's life is all about control, control, control. And when you learn martial arts, you learn to control yourself. If you're wild and angry, you've got problems in your head, learn martial arts. You'll learn control. This is an amazing experience. It's wonderful to have Shiva visit. I hope he'll visit more often. It's really, really wonderful. And my Sangha also has connections to other enlightened teachers. So Agni Kala, who is a true Siddha, Siddha master of the desert. So, you know, a lot of the things that our teacher, that Siddhas and powers that he would show in the desert, Atikala has powers, man. It's incredible. So from time to time, we work with him. And also Mandala, who was the tech yoga trainer for my original students. She comes by to work to do meditations with women. So we have cool experiences. This is the lineage, right? So, you know, it's really beautiful how we kind of work with amazing friends. We also have our own rock band. You know how there's the other was Vazen. We have a band called VAYU. And we've got five, six, seven albums, something like that. Nine, 10, 11 albums. And, and, you know, Maestro Mudra, who was a direct student of our teacher. He's a musician, a professional musician, and he plays with us. We have this wonderful, beautiful, fun time in the magical Yana, who was one of the original students of our teacher. He is our Li Chuan teacher. So Li Chuan is very, very powerful, beautiful martial art. It's a martial art of enlightenment. and we're going to have a demonstration of that now we have classes every Saturday at noon right the first class to okay the first class is that is that to this class is open to everyone up at Bodie Woods and I recommend you come and even if you're a guest today come to Bodie Woods tomorrow It is amazing. You'll see. And really, I really want my students to take this class because there's so much movement of energy and power and attention and light in this martial art. the epitome of what our teacher taught in martial arts. And then we're going to have Yana come up and show you these things where even if you're really strong, a small light touch, you fall over. Alright, so, is there anything else about our sangha? Oh, scuba diving. You all received a book called Mystic Scuba tonight and our teacher was into scuba diving and then you know check it out read it yeah we do scuba diving that's amazing so we used to do all these desert trips, and then we sort of switched over to magical ocean trips. So you can check out that book and read about the mystical journeys. But we're gonna go ahead and switch over to the last demonstration of the evening, which is going to be martial arts and turn it over to our, I call him Yana Sensei. He's all like, oh, don't call me Sensei. Okay, Yana Sifu. She's come up and thank you all very much. He's all like, oh, don't call me Sensei. Okay, Yana Sifu. She's come up and thank you all very much. I'm going to bow out now.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
