0:00:00
Take two meditation will play take two

0:00:05
All right, let's be the the so So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. so So, I'm going to play a little bit of that. so So, I'm going to play it. so so So, I'm going to play a little bit of that. the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the So the the the So So so I'm going to play a little bit of it. the the the the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Oh, Oh, the the the So the I've always had a good relationship with tea, unlike most of the people in my generation. when I was around six years old with my Kung Fu teacher, Sifu Wai Lee.

0:12:09
So when I was six, I started doing Kung Fu studio in Chinatown. And whenever we would go up to talk to him, it was always tea. And we would sit down, and it was quiet, and it was like this powerful, sacred space, and tea filled the atmosphere. And so I would sit there with a little glass of tea and he would just talk about martial arts. I didn't understand most of it because it's all in Cantonese way of saying tea. So I always had a really magical experience around tea. Of course, I was also six and drinking caffeine. So, it was kind of fun too. And then as I grew up, I kept doing Kung Fu and I was always around the Cantonese culture. And then tea became also this very, very festive thing for me because Cantonese always, one of their favorite things is Yum Cha,

0:16:18
tea time basically.

0:16:20
And when they have tea time, they go to the tea house and they all sit around, filling the restaurant, drinking tea, and eating something known as dim sum. So whenever you have dim sum, it's actually coming from yum cha, comes from tea. It was all about tea, and then the Cantonese came up with these little dumplings to go with the tea. So, you can get some dim with your tea. So, for me it's always been this sacred and joyous experience. But recently I've experienced a much more spiritual side of tea, the Wu Wei side of tea. And it's enlightening. I'm like me. So I was reading about this Zen master, Zao Zao,

0:17:25
1,500 years ago.

0:17:27
And whenever, again and again and again, monks would come over. Layman would come over and say, what is the way to the Tao. And then he would say, go have some tea. And he meant it. And that's the way. So, tea is a, you can, you know, having tea, you can consider to be like a spiritual ritual, like a puja. But not one that is dead and kind of like just in the mind. It's one of experience. But it's a spiritual experience. It's a time where you can be reflective, meditative, where your spirit is reinvigorated, where there's a great peace. It's a beautiful puja. Shiva and I were sitting around today having a cup of tea. And now whenever I have a cup of tea, I go into Wu Wei. And Shiva was, of course, in Wu Wei. It was very beautiful. Oh, that was yesterday.

0:19:06
So it's all one moment.

0:19:09
Yeah, so tea is a beautiful experience. And then in the Japanese tea ceremony, it's such a precise, elegant form of the ritual. Have any of you seen that? It's beautiful. You could... It's on YouTube. We should put it on Vodabo. Yeah, but it's really very elegant, very high aesthetic. Yeah, tea is an aesthetic. Buddhism is an aesthetic. It's a way of spirit. And it's a beautiful way. Then there's the Japanese coffee ceremony, which is very much like the American coffee ceremony, which I've done in Tokyo. You go into Starbucks, people cramming in trying to get their lattes so that they can get caffeine in them to go to work, to work way too long, then go out for drinks, and then dinner, and then drinks, and then go home, get three hours sleep, and start it all over again. That's, see, that's like the mentality of coffee. It's a different mindset. But tea, that's why tea is a a experience of quiet and spirit. And coffee is like the American, got to get things done, got to be awake to get through this imbalanced life. And you know, there's lots and lots In spiritual studies from Taoism to Buddhism, Hinduism, the Vedas talk about tea, Buddha talks about tea. So tea's pretty magical. There's jokes about tea. And jokes about tea are really good. I mean, you've got to have a sense of humor about tea. You have to be careful with tea, otherwise it might get mugged.

0:21:43
And then of course, I've already told a couple of stories about tea. There's lots of stories about tea, or where tea is in the story. Tea is floating around in these spiritual stories.

0:21:59
There's one where a man comes over to a Taoist master, what do I have to do to attain the Tao? And then the Taoist master said, once one of my clay students asked me that question. And then the man says, what? He says, yeah, so my clay student came over and he asked me, what do I have to do? And then I said, well, I can't really tell you, but I could show you. Do you want to do it? And my clay student said yes. So he says he took the clay student and he started working him. He started making him into a different form and that it was uncomfortable. The clay student was like, whoa, what are you doing to me? I'm changing. This is how it hurts. And then he turned him into kind of a bowl. And then he started smoothing him out, making him grow, reshaping him. And the clay student said, wow, what's going on? This is so amazing. And then he puts him into a kiln.

0:23:44
And then he's like, oh, it's really hot.

0:23:47
And he takes him out and paints him, puts him back into the kiln. So the clay student is going through this whole thing. And then he ends up a teapot. And so the Taoist master takes out the teapot, pours the tea, and then he says, this teapot is my clay student who has attained the Tao. And then he says, as a human student, you know, there's things you have to go through that I can't even explain to attain the Taoist master. So there's a Buddhist monk who's meditating all day and drinking tea all day. That's the one thing that they do. They don't talk about eating Kentucky Fried Chicken during the day and then meditating. They just talk about them sitting there, drinking tea. So if they're doing some specific practice, they're just doing pujas or something, there's tea involved in pujas, of course. In the ceremonies, they pour tea. Very often, tea goes on the altar. But they're just doing that, but when they're alone, they've got their tea. If they're meditating, they've got their tea. And in Nepal and Tibet, they have a very strong yak butter! So tea is right alongside meditation. And also in Taoist alchemy, they have tea practices, where they focus on drinking the tea and becoming aware of the chi, the energy of the tea, and bringing the energy of tea to the navel chakra, to the dantian. So they have practices of meditation, mindfulness, focus, and meditation... Meditation is wu-wei. Meditation is wu-wei. If you're trying, that's the mind of effort. That's the self. And you gotta try, right? You gotta focus. And if you're not trying, then there's wu-wei. But it depends. See, wu-wei is not a doing or a not doing. It's a non-doing. So sometimes, you know, something that you have to be careful of is not paying proper attention. So remember I said if you're high enough you have to do less, if you're lower you have to do more, but you have to do the right thing. So there was a cat and a bunny talking about how, about Wu Wei, drinking tea and talking about Wu Wei. For the period of meditation, Wu Wei or whatever, the cat climbs up a tree. And the bunny says, wow, you're spending all that energy to go up a tree, and they just sit there, doing nothing. And then a fox comes out and eats the bunny. Sorry, bunny. sitting around is easy and fine if you're high enough. So if you're high enough, you just woo away. You just go bing, woo away and everything. Meditation is nothing and simple. Non-doing, right? But if you're sitting on the bottom of the tree where the foxes are, then you are not doing the right thing. And then you're in trouble. So there is effort that you have to make depending on where you are, but you Non-doing. So sometimes, you know, when you're going through your meditation, you're like, I'm trying to do this. And then sometimes you'll have a thought, and you'll say, oh, I'm trying not to do that. Both are doings. Wu-wei is non-doing, not-doing, which is not trying to over-focus, not struggling, not sumo wrestling a thought. It's just perfect Wu-wei. Sometimes we try to make our mind do something, we try to force our mind in meditation. In meditation you say, mind do this, and you never get to where you want to get. You never experience the stillness you want because you're forcing the mind. Wu Wei is finding that wave and figuring out how to ride it. And that's meditation. Sometimes we're like, hey mind, I want you to do this, this, this, and this. Kind of like, you know, you call up a friend and you say, hey, we're gonna go have tea together. And they go, oh, okay. You're gonna drive over to the tea place near me. We're gonna sit inside, because I don't like to sit outside. You're gonna drink the tea I want you to drink. You know, it's all gonna be the way I'm telling you it's gonna be, and it's gonna be awesome, because that's the way I want it. And you can just keep on going. This, this, this, this. Oh, you know how you like those crumpets? No crumpets for you! You're gonna have the orange chocolate cake. I know you don't like orange chocolate because it doesn't make any sense. But you're gonna have it. You know, and then just like, you're sitting there telling your friend, what's gonna happen if you go out for tea together? And guess what you've done? You've ruined the tea experience with self. And then what happens is your friend says, oh, you know what? I was just thinking maybe instead of going to tea with you, I just would maybe rather go to the dentist. So when you're sitting there telling your mind, you're going to focus and you're going to go into nirvana, your mind is like, I'm going to go call my dentist. Because I'd rather go, I want to get away from you when you're sitting there saying, it's going to be like this. Imagine a tea master just shoving tea at you,

0:33:23
taking it away.

0:33:24
Right, it's too much, you don't force the mind. He joined the monastery and was meditating and trying to have the perfect meditation. Trying to go into samadhi. Just trying and trying and trying. Worked hard, meditated a lot, really wanted it, but didn't experience it. So he quit. He gave up. He tried for years. He said, I just can't get my samadhi. And now I'm frustrated and this whole spiritual thing is not working out. I'm upset. I'm out of here. So he left. And he walked down the mountain to a river, was waiting for a ferry to come to cross the river to go home. And while he was waiting for the ferry he had some time to kill. So he's like, might as well just meditate. And this time he wasn't trying to go into Samadhi. He had already given up the idea of going into Samadhi. So that's the thing. In meditation, you have to practice Wu Wei. And then there's a way to climb up, you know, to ride the wave, which is the proper attention, and then the wave takes you. And plus, when you're telling the mind, go to samadhi, you're limiting your experience. What the mind will do if you carry the wave, if you catch the wave, it will carry you beyond what you're trying to tell it to do. What you're trying to tell it to do is from the place of the most limited sense that you are at the moment. The wave in meditation brings you beyond that. Beyond any idea. Beyond any concept. to a beautiful, powerful, unlimited experience. In meditation, you have to be kind of patient. The Will Way, you could say, is a way of patience. Because self always wants to act. Self always wants to take over. Exert the will. And when you do that, when you start to exert the the self, you start to agitate the mind. The mind becomes bothered. But when you than experience brightness. So patience is almost synonymous with wu-wei. When you're patient in anything, patient with your meditation,

0:37:24
patient with other people,

0:37:26
patient with business, Then you start to see more opportunities. Because you might say, Oh, I just got some information about business.

0:37:40
Now I want to react. I want to act and do something.

0:37:43
You might be making a sale. I got an email from the customer. I want to do something right now. But wait a minute. Be patient. When you're patient, you see a bigger picture. That's where you can let go of self and catch the wave of wu-wei. More opportunities. When you listen to music, we listen to music We don't take a song and say, you know what, if I listen to it twice as fast, I'll get through it faster. I'll speed it up 80% and I'll easily get through it really quick. It's not the point of music. The point of music is that you listen to the music, you go taking that journey with the song. You don't try to cram it into your head faster, because then you lose it, then meditate, we're not trying to get more faster. Okay, gonna focus on the navel. All right, now good focus. All right, now go to the heart. Yeah, let's get this through. Okay, all right, focus on that heart. Now let's go to the third eye. Yeah, all right. There's patients involved. Hospital patients and mental patients. And there was that song where that like MC yoga or something like that. He's all like I went to a 45 minute minutes. Meditation with practice. Patience. All right, so there's one more way of the ancient Taoists. It's the way of Xuanzi. So Xuanzi's idea of wu-wei was forget about trying, forget about not trying. Not don't try, not try hard so that you can then stop trying, and not try enough. He just said, just forget about it. Go with the flow. If you forget about it, and you go with the flow of life, then you experience it perfectly. Then you'll go with the flow, you'll just do the right thing, and you won't do too much, you won't do too little. A very intuitive way. So he'd say, you know, if you're thrown into a river, and you're going down these rapids, when there's a rock, you will... when you come up to a rock, you'll just flow around it. When there's a way to get out, you'll just flow to the edge and get out. Not that you'll sit there and swim against the stream. Not that you won't do anything, because then you'll miss the exit. But you go with the flow until you get what you need. It's a very high way. And this is what we do in meditation. We don't think about trying too much. We go with the flow of the meditation and then we do things, like focus and things like that. When there's a thought, we let go of it, bring our focus back. But we end up in this flow where we do the right things. We're in the flow, the Tao. Now he had always had these teachings of the thing that you got to do is break your conditioned attention. You got to get out of conditioned attention and you have to look at truth. Conditioned attention will always fix you in incorrect effort. But if you have the awareness of truth, then you always do the right things. So he had a story about talking to, I think it was a student of his, visiting a student, and his student was growing gourds. Now at that time in China, gourds were used for two things, spoons or vessels for liquid, like a canteen basically. So he grew these gourds, he's like, these can't be spoons, these can't be canteens, they're too big to carry around. So he just smashed them, smashed the gourds, left them in the field so that they would become part of the soil and then he'd grow more gourds the next season. So what happened was, Chuang-Tzu comes over, sees the smashed gourds, and he says,

0:44:06
"'You did the wrong thing.

0:44:08
"'You could have used those gourds.' And he says, "'It's impossible. "'The gourds were too big.' And then he says, "'Now I gotta go run an errand. "'I have to bring this rice across the river pushes the wheelbarrow over and he loses his rice. And then Swanza says, you should have used the gourds because they float. And you could put your rice on the gourds and it would not and bring it across the river and you wouldn't lose it, it wouldn't go under and be ruined. And so Fong-Tzu says, you had an idea of possibility based on what everybody thinks, but the truth is bigger than that. There's more possibilities. He also talked a lot about how you interact with life and difficulty in a natural way. It's called being drunk on heaven. So he'd say, well he had a story of a, there was a cart driving from, you know, one town to another. And there are people in the cart, horse-drawn wagon One of the guys is totally wasted. He's totally drunk. And the other three people were not drunk at all. And at one point, they have an accident. The cart turns over and crashes. The three people who didn't drink anything are injured badly, broken arms and cuts. And the guy who was totally drunk is completely unharmed. And he says the reason why is because he was completely relaxed. He was so relaxed that when he fell against the ground he didn't tense up, that he didn't even get a scratch because he interacted with difficulty in life perfectly being so relaxed because he was drunk. So he says, you want to interact with life like you're drunk but you have to be drunk on heaven, it's not just falling out of a cart, but it's doing the right thing when anything comes up. So in your meditation, when a thought comes up, you don't even think about it. You just go right around it. You're just like drunken style. Drunken style meditation. That doesn't mean do shots before meditation.

0:47:42
No.

0:47:43
No.

0:47:43
No.

0:47:44
No. No.

0:47:45
No.

0:47:45
No.

0:47:46
So this is the way of meditation. So wu-wei is a very, very powerful practice. It's a practice that we use in the foundation of our practice, meditation. It's a practice that we use in our yoga. Yoga is impossible if you try to do yoga from the position of self. Because you might be impeccable, but you won't be selfless. And yoga is the practice of impeccability and selflessness. So wu-wei is where we find that balance in yoga of impeccability and selflessness.

0:48:46
So you do your drunken sales call. When you're dealing with your customer, when you're dealing

0:48:49
with the market, you deal with it perfectly. Perfectly. No resistance, falling in the right direction, no harm.

0:49:14
You move down the stream perfectly.

0:49:16
This is the practice of wu-wei. Wu-wei also is the way, it's the trick to overcoming any limitation of self. It's the trick. So you have to say, you know what my problem is? My problem is that I get angry sometimes, or a lot. My problem is that I get depressed 90% of the time. So you guys have these certain problems. Or some of you, my desires are crazy. And you start to recognize these problems. But wu-wei is a trick to get around the self. The self is filled with obstacles, pitfalls. But wu-wei is that drunken method of just running into the wall with your attention, I'm going to be mindful. Ow! I'm angry and mindful. I'm depressed and mindful. You could be using a lot of attention, you could be using your mind, but you're running into the wall. But wu-wei is that secret. To run into the wall and then turn right around. We learned this in Wu Wei Do. So there's a story about this. There was a Taoist monk, this is a great one, this Taoist monk is filled with desire, he can't shake his desire. He just longs to be with a woman, to lie with a woman. And he's just so tormented by this, he goes to the Zen master, I mean the Taoist master, and he says, you gotta help me. I am totally filled with desire. It's tearing me apart. I can't meditate. I need to get past this. So the Taoist master says, OK, sit down. I'll be back. Goes out. He goes over to the Taoist nunnery next door. And he goes to the head nun, who's an enlightened nun. She's in her 80s. She's old.

0:52:02
She's like, ugh.

0:52:05
But she's enlightened. So she's sitting there with her stick. And he comes over and he says, so I have this problem with this monk. And then he says, you know, I've tried everything. But he's not responding to the teaching. So what would you do? And she says, OK, here's what we're going to do. She comes up with some plan. So they both go back. She stays on the outside of the room. And then the Taoist master comes in and he says, Okay, here's what we're going to do. I want you to close your eyes and I want you to bring up all those visions of what you want. What do you desire? What would be the fulfillment of your desire? And then he says, oh, but you told me I shouldn't think of those things. Well now think of them completely. So he closes his eyes and he starts envisioning women and sex and all sorts of stuff. And he's like totally like, oh I want that so much. And then the old lady comes in. And then she takes her clothes off. Sits right in front of him. And then the Taoist master says, Now, open your eyes. So he's sitting there, generating all this energy and desire, going completely into it. Then he opens his eyes and he goes, ahhh! Because he faces his great yearning and lust with, oh my god, there's the enlightened lady from next door, the 85 year old, old lady with no teeth. And then he's shocked and then from then on he has no more. His desire is gone. Any time that he looks at a woman and starts to feel something, it's gone. He could try forever, hitting that wall of desire, and never get past it. It is Wu Wei that overcomes all terrible defiance of self.

0:54:40
All right, we'll take one more break.

0:54:43
We'll come back, talk a little bit more, We'll come back, talk a little bit more,

0:54:47
and then we'll get into something very interesting.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
