0:00:00
All right, so I'm going to introduce Mudra. This is Mudra. So Mudra is going to chat with us about the music. And when we actually are going to meditate, we're going to meditate to the songs on the album. He'll talk about the song a little bit, tell us some cool things about it, and then we'll meditate to it. Now we're gonna do open-eye meditation, and we're going to have a presentation of Tuscany. So when we were going through Tuscany, where we had the inspirations for these songs, for this album, we took pictures and we're going to just have a look you know some of the pictures that we took. So let's be looking at the place while we're listening to where it came from and the music. Does that sound fun? Alright, sounds fun to me too.

0:01:09
And then Mike Sparrow-Muller.

0:01:11
Thank you.

0:01:12
Whoa.

0:01:13
Oh, if anyone can't hear me at any time in the presentation,

0:01:21
let somebody know.

0:01:22
I believe there's someone prepared to run up with a microphone. Most of you already know me. My name is Mudra and for the past seven years at Samvara's request I have been assisting with the Sangha music program. The aim of the program being to create meditative music, music specifically designed to aid with our meditation practice. The music itself serves two purposes that I can think of. One is that it sort of screens out the outside world because you're listening to another stimulus so that it's a little harder to think about your dog or you're paying your bills. And the other is the more esoteric purpose of the music which is as a direct vehicle or carrier of higher frequencies of spiritual consciousness. This is the trickier part of the music and where it's sort of the yogic consideration comes in. In this this lineage in this school we all do some form of applied yoga or tantric yoga or karma yoga in which we take an activity that is normally mundane such as writing a computer program, making a sales call, designing a business plan, something normally mundane that is not particularly spiritual. Making music is also one of these things. And we spiritualize it. We turn it into a spiritual practice. We infuse it with the energy of our meditation, with what we learn about mysticism and the true structure of the hidden world through our spiritual practice, through sitting with our teacher, through our various encounters with enlightenment. And so we turn whatever it is we're doing, again writing a computer program, working on a startup company, or creating art, that for us becomes a spiritual practice. It becomes an expression of our continuing quest to connect in deeper and deeper levels with the divine. to integrate these normally mundane activities with our growing sense of the divine consciousness and our growing attachment or connection with enlightenment. Our ability to perform those activities in an effective but also in a spiritually bright way increases over time. So if we're doing our meditation and our mysticism properly and say we're writing computer code, over time maybe our code gets a little sharper. Maybe we become a little more efficient at the work we do and maybe some of the spiritual charge that we experience more and more in our lives due to spiritual practice actually comes out in our work. So in this way the creation of art and music as a spiritual practice is no different. The interesting thing about music is that where the spiritual charge that you might infuse into a business activity or a computer program is subtle, in the case of art and music, the spiritual charge or the state of attention that you infuse into what you create is much less subtle. It's very obvious. When you listen to a piece of music, whether or not you're consciously aware of what's happening, you are completely absorbing the state of attention of the artist. So if the artist is coming from a very high spiritual place, if they are guided by high meditations or by the instruction of a genuinely enlightened teacher, then that music carries the charge of enlightenment. And so in addition to being a great avenue for personal spiritual for the artist, it is also a way of communicating with others and spreading the light in a very direct and powerful fashion. Because art and music are such a powerful conductor for consciousness, this lends to the practitioner or the artist a very interesting challenge. Because while you can write a perfectly effective computer program while you're in a relatively bad state of mind and have the computer program work perfectly, you can write a technically perfect piece of music while you're in a way, myself and the other music yogis on Bars team, we're sort of putting ourselves out there, do the best we can, and pray that we're doing it right. So this last summer I was very privileged and happy to join Samvara and the Small Entourage through a magical journey through the Tuscany region of Italy, which is one of the most beautiful and interesting places I've ever been. Now traveling with some Samvara, if you haven't done it, is pretty much the best thing in the universe. I am not kidding. It's like yourself. Most of us in here are not very enlightened. We're trying to be. Sometimes we have good days, sometimes a good meditation magically happens. Wow, what was that about? But when you go on an extended trip with an enlightened person, such as Invara, especially when we leave our home state of California or wherever it is we call home and go somewhere completely alien and new, we find ourselves in a world of lights and hidden dimensions and energy that we normally don't experience unless we're really really good at spiritual practice. So part of what the music team has been doing over the last seven years that it's been active is that after some of these magical trips with Simvara, he's been asking the music team, sometimes individual members, sometimes the entire team, to use music to codify and transmit to the degree that we can because we're you know we're all imperfect but to transmit these magical dimensions of consciousness in mind. And you know sometimes we get something right and then we there's a little bit of sparkle and that's worth sharing. So hopefully there's some of that in tonight's Specifically about Tuscany, I'm going to talk more about sort of the first attention, like musical stuff now, now that I've done a little bit of kind of the occult, spiritual underpinning. I found that Tuscany was a really different place as compared to the other power spots that we've done music about before. Like Hawaii, which we did an album before about maybe five years ago, is an extremely powerful occult energy. It's very mystical, it's very strong. And so when we did the Paris album, we were challenged to capture the beauty of the place and the grace that we experienced there and the artistic flowing dimensions, but also there's an undercurrent of power of pure raw mystical occult power under everything in Paris. And so even when we're writing something we were writing songs about Paris that were hard chakra they were very beautiful and flowing and lyrical there for me was an undercurrent of kind of the navel chakra energy of a deeper mystical dimension under the city. So the challenge for me when Sinvara asked me to start work on an album capturing our experiences in Tuscany, was to try and capture this place, Tuscany, which was almost all heart. It, you know, Whereas Paris does have kind of that undercurrent. I mean they had this crazy French Revolution which is insane. I mean they cooked the most awesome food and they have all these beautiful monuments and then they go do crazy things. I don't get it. But Tuscany for me was very much a heart chakra kind of place. Everywhere you went, there was beauty, there was an openness, and there was less of kind of the darker or the trickier occult dimensions as we traverse through the Tuscan region and Florence with Sombara. So as I sort of started thinking about how to put this album together, I wanted, I definitely wanted to capture what was different about it. And I also wanted, like, when you create an album of music to add to a catalog that's already very large, the Viyo has eight albums already, part of the task is to create a contrast, to create something new that doesn't bore everyone. A lot of really popular bands release three or four albums and by the third or fourth album you're listening to the same song, written with different lyrics. Some far I mentioned Little Wayne before, actually Little Wayne does change it up a little more often than Little Wayne. But you get the idea, a lot of bands kind of repeat themselves. You know, you hear the ninth album by U2 and you immediately know it's U2 and usually there's only one or two songs in the album that are significantly different from the rest of their catalog that you feel like, oh wow, that's a new thing they're doing. So part of my challenge, at least as an artist, to challenge myself was to try and come up with new sounds. And also because Tuscany is such a different place and a different energy from those that we've been exploring in the past eight albums, I really wanted to capture it both energetically, but also in terms of the place and by extension the character of sort of the people who reflect the place in many ways, I really tried to extend sort of the tonal palette. I used a lot more acoustic instruments, like real instruments like violin and guitar and bass guitar and real percussion that we hadn't done in previous albums because it's so easy to use the canned samples in the software and the synthesizers and you know you can once you sort of figure it out how the software works you can write a song in two hours. So I definitely want to challenge myself in that way and I also wanted to capture the fact that this place had an important historical significance. Like 500, 600 years ago during the Medieval period, during the Renaissance, Florence and Tuscany were basically the center of the Western Universe. And so a lot of what that energy is, is very tied up in the expression of that culture through that period of time. So I deliberately went back to the styles of music that were popular early in earlier centuries and tried to quote from them as much as possible. So I use a great deal of classical instrumentation and a lot of classical syntax. So you'll see you'll actually see classical harmonies and classical forms come through in the music. It's kind of cheating, I guess, because, you know, as an artist, you're supposed to, you know, not use your mind and pull from the heart. But really, I kind of, I did a lot of cheating. I used every tool in my kit. I used it like I was a very deliberate about the compositional techniques, about trying to stretch my palate, about trying to do things I hadn't done before, and about trying to incorporate sort of cultural and temporal quotes into the music that would sort of remind people of where is Italy. That's enough of me rambling for the moment. The first song that I'm going to show you guys is called Arno which is based on the Arno River which is the river around which the city of Florence sort of accumulated in Peru. Bodies of water and rivers are awesome conductors of levels of consciousness and they sort of conduct and carry the level of consciousness of the surrounding land. So the cities that tend to spring up around those rivers and bodies of water tend to really reflect in their culture and in their human inhabitants and their history the underlying energies of the region. So I think it's a great place to start. For this particular song, because there's that old saying that you're never in the same river twice because the water is flowing, I created sort of a backdrop of chords and instruments and tonalities and percussion without any melody. And then for the album I actually improvised a violin solo over it. So the violin solo you're about to hear in a minute is not going to be the one on the record. You're never in the same with the voice. So I'm about to start. Hope it works.

0:17:56
the the so so so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so so so so Oh, I'm so sorry. the the the One of the definite highlights of our trip with Zimbardo through Tuscany was the day that we took

0:21:42
a car and left Florence to travel through some of the surrounding region. And of that for me, the highlight of the trip was reaching the city of Siena, which is a gorgeous ancient medieval walled city that unlike other walled cities in the region, which are usually built on plateaus or on the top of the hill or on a piece of flatland, Siena is actually built on a series of hills, so the topography is extremely hilly. And as you take a short walk through Siena, you're actually climbing these miniature mountains and going up and down in elevation quite a bit. So as Samvara's little caravan of monks walks through Siena, it was actually, even though it was only a very short walk, it was actually quite a quite a big adventure for us. So I wanted to capture that particular journey in song. The song in question being called Journey Through journey through Siena. For this one compositionally I sort of challenged myself by using as the primary instrumentation a pizzicato string orchestra sample which then I use sort of semi classical sounds around it to capture sort of the ancientness of the city and then to sort of make it sound more acoustic and real because I want the whole I wanted the whole Tuscany album to sound sort of more natural and acoustic than previous value albums. I actually played a real violin pizzicato on top of the orchestra and played some real percussion underneath. So here's Journey

0:23:39
years, Journey Through Seattle. the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the Next on our tour is a place called Zaza. Zaza is a restaurant in Florence with some of probably the best pasta in the universe. Salvara actually took us there four times. After the second or third night, it became a running joke with the restaurant staff. It's those people again. Zaza is a little bit of an anomaly in the world of great restaurants, because in my experience, really good restaurants tend to be small, with very small menus, so that the chefs backstage can focus on a small number of specialties. Zaza was exactly the opposite. It was a sprawling complex with multiple dining rooms and an outdoor patio. And it had a gigantic menu of food. Of which we probably in the four nights we were there, I ordered everything. So for the song to capture this special place, I wanted to depart from sort of the classical music references that festoon the rest of the album and create something a bit more contemporary sounding. I also wanted to refer refer to what I think is a stylistic element that's really common in contemporary Italian pop music. Which is that whenever I was in a store or in a restaurant that was playing Italian pop music in Italy, while we were in Italy, I noticed that a lot of the songs actually had choruses without words but which without words, but which featured a bunch of guys or guys and gals singing pop songs with the wordless choruses actually invade into Western popular culture. It's not that often, but some of you might be old enough to remember a song called Tarzan Boy. wanted to write something like that. Pop song, not with words, but with like a bunch of people singing at the end, you know, in a big melody. So I had help from Jackie and from Chi on this one. And rumor has it, Pava might be helping us. All right. So this is sort of a pop song So this is sort of a pop song set to a sort of a massive attacky kind of beat. so so

0:31:37
so

0:31:47
so so so so so so The repetitiveness of the choruses on that song is kind of a reference to the fact that we just kept going back there.

0:36:29
Happily of course. The food is quite something. The next selection is sort of inspired by the central San Lorenzo market in Florence which contrasting with a lot of these very soft, gentle, heart chakra type of places which basically are most of the album is very much a market where people are buying and selling stuff and haggling over price and and being kind of aggressive and obnoxious. But it's a great market with you know awesome products. It's probably the best place in the world to buy leather goods such as jackets and handbags as well as fresh organic produce and those mysterious ingredients that Zaza apparently uses to create pasta. Writing this song was also an excuse to get one really aggressive song under the album. I don't want people to be falling asleep too quickly before, you know, while they're meditating. Whereas a lot of these previous value records actually have, they usually have like three or four really kind of up-tempo aggressive songs. This album, because of the nature of the inspiration, I had to kind of reach to find energy lines that reflected a more kind of up-tempo aggressive energy. And this place is one of them.

0:38:04
kind of up-tempo aggressive energy and this place is one of them. the the the the I'm going to be a good boy. the the the the so so so the the the so I know to what Hemsa the next song is likely to be louder than the next song is based on a very

0:40:25
intriguing place we visited outside of Florence called il paradiso di Fasina which is a winery. It is actually a world-famous winery that's gotten a lot of press in recent years, not just because it has some pretty tasty wines, but because of the way in which they actually grow the wines in this winery. The story behind it is that the person who founded the winery somehow got it into his head that playing classical music to the grapevines as they were growing would improve the quality and quantity of the crop. So this winery, which we visited and tasted the wines thereof, actually has loudspeakers on the, I don't know, the structures that are holding up the vines playing classical music apparently 24-7. In addition, this place just has gorgeous, awesome views. So in deliberately used almost entirely classical music techniques. I use a technique that's called a canon, which is basically a musical composition that is based of one long continuous musical line that is played by multiple instruments. The trick being that these multiple instruments start at different times. So this single line actually overlaps with itself like a you know sort of a time traveler meeting themselves back in time in such a way that the line will interact with itself. So in composing a canon sort of the trick is to write this long continuous musical line in such a way that it interacts with itself in a harmonious rather than a random sounding way. So I definitely wanted to use that classical form to pay homage to, you know, the classical music that plays there, but the fact that there are modern loudspeakers hanging in a vineyard is a little jarring, a little different. So on top of this very classical and probably properly composed canon, I introduced some other musical and textural elements which definitely do not belong in classical music. See if you can guess what those are.

0:45:10
you So, I'm gonna go and get my car, I'm gonna go and get my car I'm gonna go and get my car, I'm gonna go and get my car I'm gonna go and get my car, I'm gonna go and get my car I'm gonna go and get my car, I'm gonna go and get my car I'm gonna go and get my car, I'm gonna go and get my car the the the so So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. By the way, the music team has grown in the last year. We've recently taken on another high-volume composer, Chi, who is responsible for quite a bit of the Napa album and we've also taken on a

0:49:41
professional recording engineer who has already mixed some of the songs that you'll be hearing tonight. So if you notice that some of the songs sound a little sharper or boast of more clarity that would be largely Carolyn's doing doing, including the last song he was doing. We are now moving into sort of the official heart chakra portion of the evening. The next composition is based on a very famous landmark in Siena called the Piazza del Campo. It is one of the most beautiful places made by man on earth that in my opinion and probably in the opinion of many architects who consider it to be an architectural gem and a model of you know how public spaces are supposed to be designed. The place for probably many centuries now has been sort of a public meeting place for the citizens of the city, a political space, a space for sporting events and also just a really beautiful place to hang out. There's something about the place that struck me as being very romantic and on top of that it's also when you're actually in the place and I doubt that any photos will be able to do it justice. But there's a great sense of spaciousness. When you're actually in the plaza it's just astounding but not in an intimidating way but in a very welcoming way. Like you know one would imagine metaphorically entering into the arms of you know the Divine Mother so to speak. So to capture the sort of romanticism that I felt from the place, but also the sense of space, I wanted to write something very much in sort of the romantic classical tradition, or at least taking it because I'm not quite that good, but also with very limited instrumentation so as to make the spaciousness very clear. So there's actually only two instruments on this song. One being the piano which carries the bulk of the material. The other being the violin which serves as counterpoint. So I'll be playing the violin part live. This recording is likely to be much less loud than the other ones so you might want to

0:52:26
Much less loud than the other ones you might want to boost it so you you so so so so so so so so so So So Oh That's to figure out how to write a song using only one instrument. Next place we're looking at is Ponte Vecchio in Florence, which I believe is the oldest bridge over the water in Florence and probably one of the oldest bridges in the world. I think it's close

0:57:39
to 600 years old. So it's definitely a very memorable landmark that has seen a lot of history and through it all has remained standing. As with many places in Tuscany and Florence, I really got a strong kind of heart-shocker kind of vibe even though the place is basically crawling with tourists and people taking photos and there's actually shops on the bridge. So it was very interesting to sort of feel that dichotomy of the outward reality of you know tourist hell but then feeling that underneath it all there was something energetically very interesting about it. So to pay tribute to this place, which we visited actually a couple times and watched the sunset from it, I wanted to capture both sort of the romantic or romanticism or that romantic vibe or feeling, but also it's in some way evoke kind of the ancient or medieval history of the place. So what I did was I composed a sort of a 19th century Brahmsian romantic melody, but I orchestrated it for an ensemble that sounds like it comes from a much earlier time.

0:59:08
Thank you. so so the the the the the the the the the the the the the the they came back. So on the Tuscany trip with Silvara during the day where we took the car

1:01:18
outside of Florence and started driving around in the surrounding area. We visited Siena, which you've seen. We visited the winery. And we also had a picnic. After visiting the Mozart Winery, we basically drove around until we could find a nice secluded grove where no one would bug us. baskets of, I think, food from Zaza. And we had a great time. So the next tune is called Tuscan Countryside. For this one, musically, because the album contains so many, like, you know, kind of attempts to go out on a limb musically from what we've done before and things I didn't know were gonna succeed or fail. I also wanted to include a couple of tunes that were very conservative. So I wanted to create at least two or three tunes on the album that really referenced the music of my teacher's yoga project, which was Zazen, who created extremely beautiful, bright, perfectly composed music. I don't know that our stuff is perfect, but we try. But I wanted to really quote from that catalog, specifically their Enlightenment album, track number 10, called Brushfire. So I deliberately, for this tune, evoking the Tuscan countryside and the picnic with Sambara, I really wanted to sort of borrow from the Zazen vocabulary. You know, to make up for all the jokes and all the little Easter eggs that are sprinkled throughout the rest of the album.

1:04:24
the rest of the album. so so the the the the I'm sorry. so so you We may have had some wine. So, Sambar is a very big fan of Botticelli, the painter. And in the legendary Uffizi Gallery, which is one of the oldest museums in Europe,

1:08:55
is not the oldest, there is a room on the top floor dedicated entirely to Bodecelli paintings. There's something about Bodecelli paintings, which is both anachronistic because it seems ahead of its time. There's a realistic depiction of faces and there's also a luminous or surreal quality to the faces and to the landscapes. And also something very mystical about them, which is something that I sort of tried to capture in the next piece. This next piece is probably the most experimental of the album. It's based partially on another classical piece about an exhibition of pictures called, pictures at an exhibition, by Mussorgsky, who's a famous sort of romantic classical Russian composer from roughly a hundred years ago. That piece by Mussorgsky is basically not one long form, but it's actually a collection of smaller sort of miniature tone poems, each representing a different view of a different painting. So as sort of the point of view of the composer moves from painting to painting, you get a different sort of musical flavor. So this piece is a bit like that. The way I composed it is also quite experimental. What I did was I set up my computer and a microphone and I just played into the microphone making stuff up for about seven minutes. So you hear on the violin completely improvised, not planned at all. Now, so after I had basically seven minutes of just like, what the heck is this? I went into the handy-dandy digital editor and I cut out the especially lame parts. And then I composed music around the parts that were left. So what you're hearing very soon is sort of a combination between composition and complete free-for-all chaotic improvisation.

1:11:26
And here goes. So, let's go. Oh, my love, oh, my love Oh, my love so the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the Oh Oh Oh Another highlight of our trip outside of Florence into sort of outer Tuscany was a really cute little town called San Gimignano. Cute is probably an understatement. There's a philosopher, you know that Greek philosopher Plato who had the idea

1:16:28
that for every object that exists there is an ideal form somewhere in the ether. You know there's a perfect apple somewhere in the unmanifest world. There's a perfect chair, there's a perfect you know human form. San Gimignano is sort of the perfect cute town. It's one of these very ancient, particularly small walled cities in Florence. And it's just everything about it just sort of sparkles with cuteness. The entire town could probably fit into an American parking lot. But it was a really nice place to visit. To capture the energy of the town because it's somehow, despite it being, you know, a big tourist trap, it somehow manages to keep its authenticity. And so the experiment for the San Gimignano song, for me, was to try and create a song, the first one in the value catalog, catalog with absolutely no samples, drum machines, or electronic instruments at all. So everything you hear on this track was played like for real. Which is why you'll hear like little squeaky things and like, you know, fingers slipping on the guitar and all kinds of stuff. But I think for this song, having all the little quirks in it sort of lends to the character. And I'll be playing the violin part live.

1:18:10
So, let's get started. so so so so so so so so so so so so you We now move on to the third eye portion of the universe. The next tune is called Florence at Night. Since we spent

1:22:09
quite a few days in Florence, we were often there at night. And there's something, like some places go dark at night, like not just dark in terms of the physical light, but like energetically dark. You know some places are just they feel a little creepy at night and Florence is not like that. Florence just for me always feels nice and there's something on a hot summer day you know after you've been sort of scorching in the heat and walking around and when it cools down at night and you're walking on these cobblestone streets there's really the peaceful sense of sort of experiencing Florence at night is something pretty special. It's a bit subtle but I definitely enjoyed it. Another thing that helped to inspire the song was that on one of the nights we were there, rather than go to Zaza and eat, we got takeout from Zaza. And we camped out on sort of the roof garden of the hotel we were staying at. And it was just a beautiful night and a wonderful experience. So this tune, which is actually not quite finished, is sort of the spirits of the Florentine past kind of like walking by your window and waving and being very Disney.

1:23:47
the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, That one's still kind of being worked on. It'll probably end up being quite a bit more orchestrated and thicker and you know, some of the drums moved back. We kind of get a vibe for trying to capture. The next tune in our Ferdinand collection is based on a town in Tuscany called Volterra.

1:27:45
Now Volterra is one of these ancient walled cities. It is known for being haunted. And the other thing that it is known for it is that it is also the setting for a very large part of the fictional Twilight vampire series. So as we sort of drove into Volterra at night of course, I was kind of lame. So, but because it was a stop on our trip and I felt like it had an energy signature that provided a nice contrast to the rest of, you know, this very romantic heart-stopper music, I felt it was worth trying to capture in music. So I deliberately set out to create a song that was on the surface very interesting and busy and sort of engaging but underneath it sort of substanceless and really kind of interesting. So the kind of thing where you listen to it once or twice and it would be kind of like, yeah, that's cool, and then on the third listen, you'd be like, all right, this is getting old. So, I know it's terrible. So I actually wrote that song, and I made the mistake of passing it off to our mixing engineer, Carolyn, who basically ripped out all the lameness that I deliberately put into it and basically made it ten times more awesome than it was ever actually supposed to be. So now the song is actually quite awesome, despite my best efforts to make it not awesome.

1:29:54
I'm going to play a song. so so I love that mix. It's so much better than the actual song. Next up is the Duomo in Siena which is a really beautiful church that we walked by and spent maybe 30 seconds outside of. But during those 30 seconds Savar made it a point to say this is a cool place. So in sort of the spirit of experimentation which is actually kind of a Florentine thing because back in the Renaissance, you know, Florence was actually sort of where Leonardo da Vinci did a lot of his tinkering. This particular experiment, oh yeah, this is another vocal experiment. So

1:31:32
I wanted to have on the album sort of a Gregorian monk choir. So I first started composing the song, I started out with the canned sort of monk sample, monk singing sample, that came with the software that we all use. It's actually a very good sample of a large choir of manly monks singing one note, but the problem with samples, especially vocal samples, is that it sounds great if you're only having them sing one note, but the moment you have them change notes, you immediately know it's like a canned computerized sample. So it goes, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah. But I composed the song starting with that, starting with Gregorian kind of chants using this cheesy monk sample, and then I sang over it. I sang over it like 12 times so there's like 12 of me. So me on top of this can sample. And the net result is actually, it sounds better than the sample by itself and it sounds better than me by myself. So it's in one of those cases where a half times a half is actually more than a quarter. So after composing that part and sort of creating sort of a rudimentary backdrop for it with percussion and chords and things like that, I sort of ended up with something that sounds like Dead Can Dance, which is a popular sort of 480 experimental rock band from about 20 years ago. But I like it, I think it sounds cool. Also, for this and for Zaza, if any of you are singers and would like to literally join the chorus for this song or for Zaza, and if you have access to a microphone and a computer with some rudimentary recording software, talk to me, we can make it happen. Talk to me. We can make it happen.

1:37:14
Oh Oh so so so you You gotta go back there. The next tune in our third eye collection is the next to last tune and it's inspired by the Uffizi Gallery in Florence, which is, as I mentioned before, one of the oldest museums in the world. This place is probably like over 500 years old. It used to be a royal palace of some sort and not

1:38:40
only is it full of probably one of the greatest collections of Western art in existence, but the walls and ceilings themselves are art. They are, in some rooms, completely covered by paintings. So you know you get these like, a bit like the Sistine Chapel in Rome, where you look up and it's just panels and panels of hand-made paintings. So it's really quite an impressive building with a long history and just like the building itself is quite a bit of a work of art. This is one of the tunes where I deliberately did not go experimental. I wanted to have one or like two or three tunes that were conservative within the context of the music yoga. So on this one, I deliberately quoted and borrowed elements from Canyons of Light, which is a Zazen album from about 20 years ago, and from Ecology, which is Joaquin Miemo's solo album, the second one. So if you're sort of keen to things like that, don't accuse me of plagiarism, and you would be right in doing so.

1:42:23
I'm not going to do it. so the the the the so the the the so Oh, I'm a fool for you I'm a fool for you I'm a fool for you I'm a fool for you I'm a fool for you I'm not afraid of the dark I'm not afraid of the dark I'm not afraid of the dark I'm not afraid of the dark I'm not afraid of the dark I'm not afraid of the dark It was going to be and I borrowed James sitar specifically for the purpose but if you've ever actually handled sitar, it's kind of a pain in the butt.

1:47:18
Unlike a modern kind of Western guitar where the frets are basically nailed down, you can't mess them up because they're just in there, right? The frets on a sitar are movable. They're tied on with string. I'm not kidding. So you can actually slide them around. And to make matters even more complicated, it's kind of arranged like a guitar but with random frets missing. So in order to get the sitar to the right tuning so that it would match with the guitar and the other instruments, I would have had to do some serious wrangling and I was afraid of breaking this rather fragile instrument and having Jane kill me. So rather than risk death, I use this instrument. So we're about to conclude. This last tune, called Florentine Sunset, is actually the first tune that I wrote for this album. So when I was first given the assignment to start writing music for Tuscany by Sinfara, before I started actually composing this song, I gave a lot of thought to the kinds of elements, as I discussed before, that I wanted in the album. I wanted a lot of acoustic instruments, I wanted a lot of classical references, I wanted a lot of Renaissance references, I wanted a lot of jokes that hopefully weren't too overt, but I managed to get some in there. And so this song, Florentine Sunset, was sort of like my trying to prove that I could sort of pull it off. And so it includes a lot of elements, a lot of sort of quasi-Renaissance or pre-classical instrumentation. Had to throw some hip-hop references in there, kind of way in the back. Oh, this is a running joke. I don't know if I've told most of the people here, but my job, my day job is actually listening to music for Pandora and my particular specialty is actually hip hop. So I listen to a lot of rap music. And including Lil Wayne who believe it or not is actually by far one of the better ones

1:49:59
out there.

1:50:03
stuff. But you know everything you listen to kind of stays in your head in some way or another. And for me it's musical ideas and compositional techniques and patterns. So for the last seven years in the work that I've done for Composing for Value, I've actually borrowed very, very, very heavily from Southern hip-hop drum patterns. So if you're one of these connoisseurs of, you know, sort of the ratchet style of Western hip-hop, you might have noticed that it's been sneaking in. But hopefully, you know, on this next tune, it's more of a background element, you know, you won't suddenly burst out in tears.

1:50:55
the the the the the the the the so so so so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so the the the Thank you. Wow, that was really, really, really wonderful. So this is a beautiful way of introducing our albums. I think we'll try and do this from now on. Okay, I just have a couple announcements. Let me find them. Can I ask you a question? Yeah, sure. About the photographs, were those all taken on as you know, people on the trip or no other sources? Yeah, some of them came from the trip. Some of them came from the film recommendation which has to do with something I was talking about in the

1:54:03
previous seminar, some of the things I was talking about there are to be seen in this film. Pacifica. Move to Pacifica. So, Vistamar is going to be constructed soon. So we are expecting next winter that a whole bunch of us are going to be moving into the Vistamar we're also going to be building now an even larger meditation hall. So everyone who lives in Pacifica. So it's a good idea to start moving there. I already live there. I already live in Pacifica. So, Pacifica. Now, if you have an apartment and you're renting, when your lease is up, move to Pacifica. Rent over there. So don't stay where you're at and say, I'm saving up to buy a house. You could live there, renting, and continue to save up to buy a house. Buy a house.

1:58:36
In Pacifica.

1:58:37
All right, that's it.

1:58:38
Thank you all very, very, very much.

1:58:40
It was a wonderful, lovely evening.

1:58:42
Thank you all very, very, very much. Thank you all very, very, very much.

1:58:43
It was a wonderful, lovely evening.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
