0:00:00
So they're running around looking for him. And then they came across the Buddha.

0:00:06
And then they were like,

0:00:08
Oh, um, hey Buddha, um, did you see some like, shifty-eyed fellow around here? Because someone stole all of our money.

0:00:17
All of our money in the world,

0:00:18
we had it on us, and they stole it. And now we're upset. And Buddha said, Don't be upset when you see that things don't go well for you in your design of desire in life. Be humbled by life. And then they went, oh, okay. And then they became humble. Then the Buddha said, and towards the person who took your money, feel generosity. Then instead of enmity. And then they said, that's a much better way to look at it. So then they were just like, OK, we gave that money to that guy who I guess needed it. And then Buddha said to them, Humility and generosity is for our good mental equipment. That's the term you use. Good mental equipment. So then the Buddha said, so would you rather find the thief or would you rather find yourself? And they said, we would rather find ourselves than the thief. Now being humbled by life and feeling generosity to the thief. So then they became Buddha's monks, straight then and there. And the Buddha sat down with them and started telling them about their past lives. They had actually been, not students of, but related to the Buddha in some ways in past lives. So the Buddha talked to them about their past lives.

0:02:15
And I don't remember what else happened to them.

0:02:16
But that was something powerful. I mean, who's going to do that, right? You're running around looking for a thief. And they're like, oh wait, I'm going to feel humble and generous. And they become a bit of smart. Because I don't have any money anyway. We often look at ourselves in a very fixed way. We say, oh, I'm this age, this is the conditions of my life, and from a certain state of mind, that's just stuck. It's just that way. It's kind of like looking at a tree. You go, ah, it's just a tree. The same green thing. However, you can consider a tree to be a process. First it's a seed, then it sprouts, then it grows, and then eventually it falls, becomes soil, resinous seeds, grows. So, life is a process. Self is a process. You're not a fixed condition. You actually have changed and keep changing. The Buddha called people, stream. He called people, oh, this stream came over to me in Kolkata. And it is a stream of consciousness. Stream of awareness. So not one fixed thing, but a flow of awareness, a process of life, not a state. So each of you are a stream of consciousness originating in enlightenment, you go through all untold experiences and end in enlightenment. Your origination is the same as your destination. Enlightenment. But on the way there, you have many transient experiences even in this lifetime. But Buddha described the stream of consciousness going through these different lifetimes. Same stream, past lives and future lives. From enlightenment, through lifetime, to enlightenment. In understanding your higher self, it's very useful to understand your past lives. Very useful for you to look at your past lives, look at some of the places where you've had great strengths, great powers, great awarenesses, and to bring back the awareness of those lifetimes. Because the future changes depending on your evolution that you can experience now. But the past has already occurred. And since you have that stream of consciousness going through it still, there's a connection to that past. You can bring back awareness of past lives in that stream. So it's very important in Buddhist mysticism to bring your attention back to past lives, see where there was power, and to reconnect to that power. So we wish to become conscious of the powers and the awarenesses that we've had in previous lifetimes. Maybe in a past life you practiced fasting. So if in a past life you did a lot of fasting, there's a certain power in fasting. Maybe you developed a power of fasting for a long, long, long, long, long period of time. There's a certain power in fasting. So maybe you did months of fasting, or years of fasting. People do. And by doing that, there's a certain feeling, a certain power. And if you bring your awareness back to that lifetime, you feel that power. You become aware of that energy. And then that energy, that power, that feeling, becomes present. That means that that power is something that you connect to. You've done it before, so you're like, ah, cool. You know, and this could be also in this lifetime. Let's say when you were in high school, you ran a lot. You went running. And you went running, and you loved running, and it was really healthy, it's great, now you're too busy and your life's changed and you don't have as much time to run, you know, things like that. But you can remember, yeah, back in high school, we used to run all the time, five miles a day or whatever, maybe ten kilometers a day. So, you know, you could remember, even in this lifetime, times where you had power. And by remembering it, by bringing it to mind, you feel the power again. But imagine a lifetime where you spent a whole lifetime sitting in a cave meditating. There's a certain power to that whole lifetime. And then when you remember the awareness of that lifetime, it brings back a lot of power to your life in this moment. So this part of Buddhist mysticism is connecting to those places in the past where you have had power, where you're able to bring it back or become conscious of it so that you are whole and complete in this moment. So we're going to do a practice, a practice of seeing past lives. Now, when we see past lives, we are going to be actually connecting to an attention of past lives. The attention that you had in past lives where you were powerful, We are going to seek out with our seeing those times and when you connect to it, then it brings back the attention to this lifetime. When we practice this seeing exercise, sometimes you might have a feeling. Sometimes it will be a feeling of something about self. It might be a feeling about a country or a river or a hill. You might have a vision. You might see, you know, a Swami or you These impressions of feeling, awareness of places, visions of a scene, are connections to those past lives. A lot of times you'll just say, I've got this little vision of this thing and I don't know

0:11:30
what to think about it.

0:11:31
Don't think about it. When you have the vision, simply accept it. Clear your mind. Just accept whatever feeling, impression, or vision that comes. impressions or in the vision, there is the connection to the past life and there is a transference of attention or awareness from the past life. It does happen. And you don't have to worry about it. Just be open to the experience, open to what you see. So to practice this seeing exercise, you will focus on the third eye and you have a focus like you're looking through the third eye, but you're kind of looking to the left. Your left.

0:12:40
It's a simple practice.

0:12:45
You don't think about it too much. You just focus on the third eye, feel like you're kind of looking to the left through the third eye, and just be open to whatever feelings, impressions, or visions you get. So we're going to practice this task-like seeing exercise together by meditating to one song. So we'll close our eyes and focus on looking through to the left and the third eye.

0:13:22
the the the the the the. The. the the the the the the the The. the the the the the the the the the. Very nice. You all did very well. So, you all had the right tone, the right awareness. So, you didn't make things up. You didn't make these things up. So the impressions that you saw are true. It's important to enter the theme in a proper way. And you entered it properly. So the things you saw were not made up. Very important. Some of you, everyone saw it was there. The dimensions of past lives were open. The stream pointing to the past information was open in your awareness. Some of you don't know how to interpret the information.

0:16:59
You look at it and go, I don't know how to understand. If you don't understand what you perceived, don't worry. In the next 24 hours, it will become completely evident. Because right now, some of you are like, what was that?

0:19:11
I don't know.

0:19:13
But in the next 24 hours, in your dreams or just driving home or when you wake up in the morning, you'll just start saying, What is all this Japan stuff? So you'll start to understand the information. When you make a connection to a past life, that was a whole lifetime, a whole bunch of information. And when you make that connection, you might just get a little feeling or a little vision. But that's what I call a foreign key. So in technology, there are tables of information and there are objects that hold information and also methods. And these objects can connect through ID. So when you get that little ID, that little number, you can connect to this object that has all this information and all of these methods that means something. So your PathWise are all these objects. You do PathWise, you gain information and you gain certain methods, powers. And so, in this being, you look across to these objects, and some of them, you went, ah, and you got a little ID here, a little ID there. And that means that you can now use because you have the connection. So, even if you don't understand what the idea is, all of a sudden you have this connection. It's there. It's in your consciousness. And it comes through.

0:21:05
And you start going, oh, samurai swords. Stuff like that.

0:21:12
So, some of you have a feeling that is very good. Some of you have a vision that's very good. But what's important is that your mind, your spirit, is open to the awareness of that past life to connect with you now. You have an assignment. So, on our last night on Sunday, you are to come to our meditation movie, Turkish food night, like we've been doing for a while, right? Dressed up in a past life costume has to be the past life or one of the past lives that you saw in your scene tonight. So, you have to get creative. You know, in America, in San Francisco, we have the Japanese store, the Chinese store, the Indian store, Viking store, you know. You can go out and get your costume anywhere. But maybe here we don't have Chinatown, Japan Town, and India Town, and Viking Town. So, you have to be creative. So, creativity is important. You can do a lot with a white sheet. And some pens. But you're going to have to make a costume. You can also use a lot of props and things like that. But you're going to have to be creative. And it's going to have to reflect your costume as your first attention that reflects your seeing in the second attention. So we did this exercise on the equinox with the American Fonda. And the American Fonda on October 31st, which is Halloween, is going to have a seminar in San Francisco where they have to come in their costumes. But it's really great because they can walk around in costumes. Because that's what we do on Halloween in America. So they don't look like freaks, but you guys will look like freaks. Okay, so in seeing the greater self, the higher self, it's important to make these connections to powerful past lives. powerful path lies. But there's another way of understanding the higher self. And it's really the highest way. And this is the way of wind horse. So this is the way of the recognition of your Buddha nature. The origin of your being is enlightenment. The nature of your being is enlightenment. You're a bucket of enlightenment. So when we recognize our lives, these are all small aspects of our true nature, which is our enlightened nature, Buddha nature. We then direct that awareness of that, seeing yourself as a Buddha, you direct that awareness immediately into compassion. You say, wow, I see my ultimate nature. And we don't just revel in it, say yay! We say, ah, yes, but others suffer. And immediately we use the power of the wind horse from the awareness of the enlightened nature. The power of the wind horse, which is the recognition of your enlightened nature. But then, you bring to mind the person who is suffering and seeing that enlightened energy of your Buddha nature, go to them and help them get beyond their suffering. Let's begin. So, let's get started.

0:26:47
so the the the So, the the the the the the the the. the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the

0:30:04
That is a perfect reflection of the higher self, awareness of your Buddha nature, the enlightened heart of your being, and the direction of compassion from that Buddha nature. speaking to you this night and walking through an experience of the higher self. I have a question. Yes. Can we practice this best life seeing alone without you?

0:32:08
Yes, yes you can. Yes, yes you can. Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
