0:00:00
We're going to begin with meditation.

0:00:02
Three songs. One song on the navel, one on the heart, one on the throat.

0:00:06
You guys can hear it?

0:00:13
Alright, it didn't connect to the right. These are our Bluetooth adventures. Alright, so...

0:00:28
It doesn't appear to be there. I turned it off and he turned it on. I've learned to do that in computers.

0:00:43
Oh wait a minute, it's appeared.

0:00:46
Out of nowhere. Wow.

0:00:51
Okay, let's see. All right, it says we're connected.

0:00:55
Otherwise, we're going to install it up to you. Take two. I think too. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Oh, so

0:01:32
Thank you. the the the Oh, the the the Oh, Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, So Oh, I'm Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, a. Thank you. In the ancient civilization, the hidden secret city of Shambhala. alliance of spiritual seekers who lived strong, powerful lives. Their lives were balanced in terms of having a thriving, kind of abundant life. Their lives were powerful because they were spiritual warriors.

0:17:19
Their lives were enlightened because of the practices and the many enlightened influences that they shared in this alliance. And some beautiful new teachings came out of Shambhala. Teachings we've been talking about. The pathway of the warrior, the alliances of the warrior, the allies, the wind horse and drala. talking about.

0:18:01
So after Shambhala was

0:18:05
established it created a an inner new dimension and It was noticed by other seers other spiritual high spiritual beings. So a few years after Shambhala was established, a teacher from the Far East came to Tibet. He was from China and he brought all of They just show up. They're like, we're here. So this teacher had seen this place. He was a master of seeing and mysticism. So he showed up and said hi to the Tibetans. And then they got along. So he moved in. And shortly after, there was a woman from India, and she was enlightened. And she was a practitioner of devotion, bhakti yoga. And she came up from India with all of her devotees. And they come into Shambhala, say hi to the Tibetans, and then they're all hanging out together. So that's when Shambhala started to become enriched. The founder was the student of the Buddha who specialized in the tantric teachings, but then mysticism from the East came in and devotion from India came in. And then Shambhala was an enriched, enlightened sanctuary because of other positive influences joining the alliance. So, I like to look at our influences in our alliances. So recently, in the Sangha, we Beautiful teachings, beautiful dimensions of awareness, dimensions of love, dimensions

0:20:52
of mind and enlightenment.

0:20:54
They bring this to us and it's enriching for us. spiritual development, stronger, brighter. In the Alliance, these teachers come in and they bring us all of this wonderful excitement, all these great things. So, we've been looking at Shambhala for a while, and we've been looking at the teachings of the warrior, but also the teachings in our little shambhala, mini Silicon Valley shambhala. One way of really characterizing it is Wu Wei. Wu Wei has been the kind of profound influence from this alliance. And it's kind of a new thing. We have wu-wei dou, which is martial arts. And wu-wei dou really is a physical manifestation of wu-wei. Physical, but also very subtle physical. And it reaches directly into the spirit of Wu Wei

0:22:54
You guys are all like wait, what's Wu Wei Do again?

0:22:56
And

0:22:58
We also have

0:23:00
the

0:23:02
amazing influences of tea for example. And Cha Dao, the way of tea, the Daoist way of tea, is also an expression of Wu Wei. We have had these amazing, beautiful influences, teachings, that have created these new dimensions of wu-wei. So what's wu-wei? What's wu-wei? So wu-wei, that wu-wei dou is named after, it means non-doing, or as Alan Watts would say, not striving, which is interesting. Buddha kind of taught it as right action. You could see in the Buddhist teachings the foundations of wu-wei. do things efficiently, with no waste of effort or attention or energy, that are harmonious with life, so that you're more successful, so that you're stronger. So that's, that is, way from our alliances new dimensions of making spiritual progress wasting less energy and being more successful at it now you might ask wait how is tea Wu way I'll get into it, but I'll tell you a little story about Ti. There was a general in China and he had lost a battle and he was retreating. He was trying to find his way back to his kingdom to get more reinforcements. But the enemy was close on him. As he was retreating, he happened to be going past his Taoist master's little hermitage. So he said, you know what, this is the perfect time to go to my master and ask him what to do. So he goes over to the Taoist master's hermitage, which is really like a little shack. And the Taoist master is like, oh, it's so good to see you. He's like, the enemy is like chasing us. They're so close to us. And we are, you know, we might get caught and this could be horrible. What do I do? And the Taoist master says, Okay, let's just kind of chill out, relax a little bit, everything's going to be okay. And then one of the scouts says, The enemy is on our left. The enemy is on our right. The enemy is behind us. They're going to walk right through and find us and engulf us. The only thing we can do maybe is run, but if we start running they're so close they could run us down with their horses. They're in a fairly open place. There's not a lot of places to hide. There's some trees around and there's the little hermitage that kind of sticks out. So the enemy is a giant army all around and then there's a small little remnant of the defeated general. So he says, what do we do, O Taoist Master? And then the Taoist Master says, if you could do something, you could do something. If you can't do something, then he can't do something. And then he says, I don't know what to do with that. We're going to get this is horrible. We're going to get caught. And then the Dallas master says, so, you know, like everyone's sitting there with their weapons and have tea. And the general, having complete faith in his master, says, Okay. Everyone, drop your weapons. Tea time. So, you know, they can see the enemy on the ridge and all around them. And they sit down and they start having tea. And they have this beautiful experience of tea, a very beautiful experience of the moment, because they're sitting there with an amazing Taoist master. And they're just like, wow, this is really wonderful, this is so peaceful and beautiful. And while they're having tea, the enemy walks right by, without really noticing them. They see some people, but they're just sitting around having tea. They don't really recognize that they're warriors. They're looking for an army that they're chasing. So the ones who saw them were just like, I don't know who those guys are, but I'm chasing someone who's running or going to fight or something. So the enemy walks right by, they finish their tea, and then the Taoist master says, okay, it was nice of you to come by for a cup of tea. So this is Wu way, doing something successfully without so much striving, so much effort, looking for the easiest way, the lazy programmer way. Yeah, Wu-Wei is the lazy spiritualist way, but not lazy. Right, lazy programmers, smart, not lazy. They shouldn't call it that. So, in wu-wei, there is the way, the way of tea. But wu-wei really just means, don't try so hard. When you think about doing stuff, you're going to like try really hard and do lots of stuff, a lot of effort. But you you want to get a you know the proper effort. So this is a true story I heard. There was a an American who went to a three-year spiritual retreat in Nepal. And he was like, yeah, I'm going to totally push my spiritual practice. And he's like, I quit my job. I've left my bad relationship. I'm just going to go for it. I'm going to go for enlightenment. And I'm going to meditate like crazy. And this person had a lot of willpower, a lot of enthusiasm. So he gets to Nepal, he gets to his meditation retreat, and then he starts his daily meditation. Now, he was going for it like crazy. So he's sitting there meditating for hours and hours. And then the Lama comes over and goes, Hey! He's all like, why are you still meditating? Why don't you kind of like get up and do some things? And then he's like, no, no, no, don't interrupt me. I'm meditating. So the Lama says, okay. And then he sits for more hours. This is his first day of meditation. So he sat for a few hours and a few more. The llama comes over, hey, he's like, you're sitting... no, no, we don't do that. Which they don't, but um, he's like, you know, there's all this other stuff to do. Walk around, have some tea, stuff like that. And then he says, no, no, no, I'm going for it. I'm just going to keep meditating until I'm enlightened. He's like, because I read lots of Zen books where people did that, right? And then the Lama says, No, you shouldn't do this. And he goes, leave me alone. I'm going to meditate. And so he meditates and meditates all through the night. In the morning, Lama tries to stop him. He doesn't get up out of his meditation. Now, he's actually going through excruciating pain. Because you know what it's like to sit in half lotus for a long time. But in Nepal, when you sit in half lotus, you don't even get a cushion. They don't have cushions there. They have stone floors. So it makes it even more authentic. And he's going through the pain, but he's sincere. He's like, I'm gonna go through this pain until I'm enlightened. And that doesn't make any sense to me. I mean, can you really, like, if you're going through so much pain, are you really stopping thought? I don't think so. It's kind of like, you know, if you're unpracticed in peeing in your wetsuit when you're scuba diving. You know, you drink water, and you're diving, and then you have to pee, and then you're just like, you're holding it in, and you're swimming through the whole dive, and you're like, when's it gonna end? I can't wait till the dive's gonna end. You're missing the whole beauty of the dive, because you have to pee. That's what it's like meditating when you're in pain.

0:33:56
Make yourself comfortable.

0:33:58
Anyway, he meditated, this is what I heard, for four days. And then after the fourth day, he's like, okay, all right, I got to sleep and get up and stuff. And when he tried to get up, he realized that he had like done some serious damage to his knees and what he had to do was he had to get carted down to the airport, flown back to America, and have like knee surgeries. So his retreat didn't go so well. And that's because he was striving to get somewhere that he wanted to get, to do something that he wanted to do, but he was kind of doing it in the wrong way. So that's what a self will do. A self will mess things up, do things wrong, and just, you know, kind of like put up a lot of barriers to accomplishing what you actually want to accomplish. So we always try to look at the woo way, where we are able to do things in the highest, most intelligent way, the way where we are flowing with life. They call it flowing. So when you are practicing Wu Wei, when you're doing something in the right action, the effort that you're putting forward just doesn't seem like that much. It just comes out of you. You're just rolling with it. You're flowing with life instead of going against the currents of life. So sometimes when you're trying to do something hard, like make a successful software company, sometimes you feel like you are going against the current of life. You're just fighting and fighting, and it's you trying to do something, and it's hard. But sometimes when you're doing it, when you're doing it with wu-wei, then all of your effort flows out of you. It doesn't seem like you're pushing against life to make something happen. You've put yourself in the flow of life, so that you're flowing in the direction of success. It's a much better way.

0:36:55
Yeah.

0:36:56
When you're flowing with things, you automatically will shift your mind in ways that are beneficial. So if you're driving and you get stuck in traffic in your physical body, but your mind, instead of being caught in traffic and being bummed out, worrying about being late, your mind is like water. You never get stuck. Physical things might come up, but you flow around it. Wu-wei is kind of like... flowing with Wu-wei is kind of like surfing. And surfing, you know, you have to do something, but it's like the major part of what happens while you're surfing is that you're riding the wave. You're riding this power. You're not doing what the wave. So what we look to do in life is we look to the places where there's waves. And there's waves everywhere. The waves are everywhere, for everything. So we say, oh, I want to do this. Where's the wave? How do I ride the wave? Because if I can ride the wave, then life is going to bring me, and the flow of life in that direction very successfully. And I don't have to waste energy. I use my attention in an intelligent way. Unlike that guy who was meditating, it's a big struggle. He struggled, he sat, he pushed his willpower. Self-willpower doesn't get you very far. When you push self-willpower, it's much weaker than finding the wave. Buddha had a story of a mango tree. The mango tree was tall and had beautiful ripe mangoes. And somebody, this guy, it's a simile, he says this guy wanted to get a sweet mango. So he went over to the tree and he tried to rattle the tree, nothing came down. He got a stick and tried to knock a mango out of the tree, nothing would come down. He even, I think, tried to climb the tree, but he just kept climbing and climbing and climbing, and it seemed like the mangoes just kept going higher and higher. He couldn't get the mango. And finally, he just sat down and stopped trying, and then a mango fell down into his hands. way, the right effort, not to strive, just to let go and things work. Yeah, it's kind of funny. There was this Stanford research where they were trying to see what was better. They sent some people to a Zen meditation retreat, and they sent some people to a spa. And they wanted to see which would make people more relaxed, meditation retreat or spa weekend. So they go to their things, and they test them for stress before they go. They come back and they test them again. Now, of course, the spa weekend won. They were much more relaxed, happy, and it was great. Now, I think it was just a bad Zen retreat. I honestly do. If you've ever been to a Zen temple, it's very militant. Wake up! Now go over here! Now do this! Now do that! Even meditation. You sit there for like 20 minutes, and now get up and walk around and shut up. Now sit down and meditate again. Okay, it's time to eat. Are you done? So I can see how that works. But that's why spas are good. That's why we have our spas of light. Spas of light trick. That's kind of funny. So wu-wei is the way of not doing anything, to do things. That's why whenever you come over to me and say, Oh, Sembar, I have this idea for this thing in yoga, or we should do this thing, or that thing, And I say, there's nothing I'd like more. Then you say, oh, great. Wait, are you saying that there's nothing else you would like to do except for that? Or are you saying that you'd like nothing more? But people have gotten confused. No, it's the woo way. I like doing it. It's a nothing way. Woo way. So it's a paradox, right? Wu Wei doesn't make any sense. You want to do something, but the way that you accomplish it is by not doing it. This is so very important to keep in mind in yoga. Right. So. But for for attaining enlightenment it works to suppose. There is a story of a Buddhist I think is a Buddhist. He goes over to his teacher his master Zen master and says I want to attain Zen. I want Satori. What do I do? And the Master says, I'm too busy right now. I have my meditation to do. So why don't you ask one of the other students. There are in this sangha a couple more enlightened students of the master. So he's like, why don't you ask Dharma brother number one? And then so he goes over to them and he says, hey Zen master told me to ask you how do I attain Zen? And then the guy says, um you know I have a headache so maybe yeah don't ask me. Why don't you go to the other enlightened guy, Dharma, brother number two, and ask him. Okay, so he goes over to him. He says, so, yeah, Zen Master asked me to go and talk to brother number one. Brother number one asked me to come talk to you. How do I attain Zen? And then he says, oh, um, yeah, I'm busy, and I have a stomachache, and I got stuff to do. Go back to the Zen master and ask him. So he comes back to the Zen master and he says, oh, that's it. And then he experiences satori.

0:45:40
So that's the paradox, right?

0:45:43
We always have that. Like, I want to be enlightened, but I can't try to be enlightened. I want to stop thought, but how do I stop thought? It's a paradox. And in Taoism, they have figured out lots of ways to get beyond this conundrum, this thing that seems impossible. But there's ways beyond it. There's ways beyond impossibility, for sure. is called cutting and polishing. Cutting and polishing. This is the way where you try hard not to do anything. So this is where they say, look, we're like a block of wood and what we have to do is we have to, you know, to make it an amazing beautiful thing we have to carve it and polish it. And then we carve out the messed up things and then we polish it and become smooth and beautiful and then it is Wu Wei. So that's the first idea. That's a good idea. In that idea, there's a lot of ritual and a lot of learning. So they say, oh, you have to read lots of texts, you have to do debates, and you have to practice lots of rituals. So those Daoists tend to be very scholarly. And they also practice rituals that are supposed to make their emotional awareness stronger. But I like their... I think of their rituals more in terms of etiquette. They do little funny things where they have little altars and stuff like that. But when it comes down to action, what they do is some cool stuff. And what their action is, is they will, like for example, there was this one Taoist master who was called to go to this town in the north, because the people in the north were really angry at each other. They had all sorts of reasons. has a tree that's dropping peaches on my land, and I don't like peaches.

0:48:30
I don't know.

0:48:31
I don't know.

0:48:32
I don't know.

0:48:32
I don't know.

0:48:33
Like, you know, somebody in,

0:48:35
I have a shop, and then, I have a tea shop, and then someone in the town opens up a tea shop right next door to mine, and I'm out. So they had all these things where they were just upset at each other. So the Taoist master comes over and says, OK, how am I going to fix this? I know how to fix this. And the Taoist master started to learn everyone's name and greet people. Good morning, Mr. Yang. Very nice to meet you. I hope you have a wonderful day. And he started saying that to everyone, learned everyone's names, and he would greet everybody extremely politely. And then people said, well, that's kind of nice. And then they would start to greet other people, usually their friends at first, the same way. How that Daoist guy did it is really cool. Let's do that. But then eventually, the upset neighbors started to greet each other that way, and the upset business people started to greet each other that way, and then there was no more enmity. Isn't that lovely? So this is what comes out of ritual, is a wisdom, a deep wisdom, how to solve problems. So when we practice bodhicitta, for example, we go through steps, we practice... you could say it's like a ritual, we think certain things to practice compassion. But what comes out of it is drala, a above enmity. So this is our... And then we have this etiquette and things in our lives become brighter and more successful. The same master got called down to a city in the South. And in the city in the South people were depressed. They were sad. Something happened and they were like a war went through or something and everybody was, oh, the saddest little town. And then he came over and he looked at the town and people because of their sadness, they started to, you know, like leave things unrepaired, have a lot of garbage around. So then the Taoist master comes over and with the same kind of wisdom, he starts to mend fences, things that were in disrepair, and he'd start to clean up. And people would say, oh, this poor Taoist master is coming here to help us with our depression, but all he's doing is cleaning up. Why don't we help him clean up? Why don't we help him fix that fence? You know, whatever, paint that fence. And he, you know, whacks on and whacks off. And then everyone in the town kind of starts making the town better, more beautiful. And while they do that, they go beyond their depression. And they find themselves in very high spirits. So this is a kind of etiquette that draws a very powerful wisdom. So this is a way. You try really hard, right? So fixing the fences and stuff, you know, doing a lot of things. You have to learn through your rituals how to gain that wisdom. But it is a way. It is a Wu way of Lao Tzu. So Lao Tzu had a different idea. So in Taoism, he had lots of cool ways, different Taoist masters, but Lao Tzu had a really cool way, and his way was, don't try. So instead of trying hard to not try, he said, forget it, just don't try. Not trying is the Wu way. He said that the best way to do something is by not doing it. And this really gets to the essence of Wu Wei. He was wise. He recognized that the, let's say, the second attention, that's the part of the mind that is at one, or that is the Tao, is much stronger than the first attention. First attention, your physical mind. Second attention, your spiritual connection to eternity. He said, hmm, what should I use here? My physical mind to solve things, or my connection with eternity, a second attention. So that's what he really recognized, that second attention is the way to do things. And he often would teach to see that by being in nature, to see and experience the second attention by being in nature. He thought that the idea that we were a piece of wood, that it didn't need to be carved, it was perfect the way it was. And then he would say, why do I have a piece of wood anyway? pondering a problem, like how to make your business successful. This is all about business. This is all about making your companies wildly successful and becoming enlightened. So he would have a problem, you know, you forget, you just stop trying to solve the problem. Go out into nature, and through his way, you start to access the second attention, Everything works. So, there's another tea story. There was a tea master in China who came to a new region, a new city. And in the city, yeah, people liked tea, but, you know, they were busy, and they didn't care so much to learn too much about it. So he was trying to get customers or tea students or people to come to his tea house. And so what he started doing was, he put little signs up and posters around town and nobody came. And then he started going door to door, knocking. And he's all like, have you heard about tea? Have you accepted tea as your personal tea drink? He would just go around telling the benefits of tea. But people are like, I'm not interested, not interested. And then finally, he came across this Taoist master, of course. And he says, do you like tea? Would you like to learn about tea? And then he's, and the Taoist master says, sure, yeah, okay. And he says, okay, I go to your tea house, you make tea for me. So he's like doing the tea beautifully, impeccably, and the Taoist Da. This is an important concept I'll come back to. You have da in tea, but you don't have da in talking, in promoting your tea business. And then he said, so they had a nice cup of tea, and then he said, the Taoist master said, here's what I want you to do. I want you to put your tea table outside on the street and perform your, make tea there. And don't try to get any customers. Just do your tea perfectly. So don't try, I know you want customers. Don't try to get customers. Just do your tea. Focus on your tea. And even if people come around, don't let them distract you. Just focus on tea. So the tea master says, okay, goes out and he's doing tea perfectly. And then all of a sudden, all these people start to come around. They're crowding around, watching, and then after he finishes tea, then many people are interested in learning about tea. So this is the don't try. What do you want? Don't try to do that. But this is very important. Is the power that is transmitted when you do wu-wei, this energy comes up and it's called da.

0:59:18
Okay, good. So for example,

0:59:20
the surfer. The surfer catches the wave and the surfer... it's a giant wave and the surfer is just standing on the board and the wave's taking them, right? And then what does the surfer experience?

0:59:40
Duh.

0:59:41
The surfer, if any of you guys have ever surfed, has this amazing feeling, an amazing feeling, going, wow, I'm just riding the wave. And that's the feeling of duh, it's actually an energy. And when you're working on your software company, and you make sales, and you figure out how to code with effortlessness, you start to experience Da. That guy who broke his knees meditating? No Da. Da is very important. Very powerful. Very powerful. This is how I talk about, you know how I was talking about in Wu Wei Do, it changes your subtle physical body, and it is because of Da. Yes it is. In Cha Dao, there is Da. You sit there, and in the perfect, pristine stillness of a cup of tea. What happens? You're riding a wave. Duh. So, it's quite beautiful. I'm going to check the time. There's another famous Taoist technique of Wu Wei, and that was by the Taoist master And his way was the way of trying but not too much. It's like effort, but the right effort, and not too much effort. Which makes a lot of sense, because you can even see that in surfing. There's some effort, right? If you're really good, you get in the right place, the big wave comes, you paddle, you jump up. You don't try to like, if there was no wave there, you'd be paddling all over the place, spending a lot of energy, you miss a wave, you get, you know, crashes, you ender. So a whole bunch of bad things that happen if you don't catch the wave right. But if you catch the wave, there's something you gotta do, but then you catch the wave. So he's kinda like, yeah, you gotta do the right thing. And you have to use some effort, but you don't have to use tons and tons and tons of effort.

1:02:58
Yes.

1:02:59
So he would say that there are seeds of Wu Wei in all of us, and that all we have to do is cultivate them and then they will grow strong. He had a story about a farmer. The farmer is growing his, let's say, wheat. And he says, now, the farmer has to do things, spend the right amount of energy to water, to plant them properly in the right soil, water them properly. So there's things that you have If the farmer does too much, then it doesn't work out. So Menchus says, if the farmer wanting to grow the plant faster starts pulling the plant up a little bit,

1:04:03
he's like, come on, I want you to get bigger.

1:04:05
So pull the plant up a little bit, and then finally you pull the plant up so much that the roots aren't in the ground anymore, and it falls over and dies. So there is something you gotta do, but the greater part of what happens is done by nature, not by you. Surfing. So, this is a very, very high-woo way. high vũ wèi, the awareness of the right thing to do. And you know, Lao Tzu said, don't do anything. But Mencius said, you have to do something. And it really depends on how high you are, let's say, spiritually, in seeing exactly the truth of everything, the less you have to do. So, the Zen master could sit there, or the Taoist master could sit there and go, just do something very slight to make something big happen. But if you're not the Taoist master yet, then you kind of have to go out there, make sales calls, computer program, new products, and things like that. You've got to do a lot of other things, but there's still a proper Wu way to do either. But the higher you are, the better. So Lao Tzu must have been very, very, very high. Ventus is like, let me tell most of you guys how to do it. I think Ventus is kind of practical. Ventus had another story of a butcher. And the butcher, once a nobleman went to the butcher and said, hey, I want to get stuff from you. And then the butcher has the cow carcass. And he does the fastest butchering with no wasted effort. And then he's like, here, here's your cow leg or whatever. And the noble was like, whoa, I've never seen anything like that. And he says, because I practice Taoism, I practice the way of Menchus, which is, I have to do something. There is effort I have to make to accomplish my job. But I do it perfectly. I just let the knife follow the contours of the cow carcass. Isn't that a beautiful analogy? Let's say it was a guy who cuts turnips. I cut the turnip amazingly fast and perfect. He'll dice a turnip with a very sharp knife. Just perfect movements. See? All right, we're going to practice. I'm going to demonstrate Wu Wei. We're going to demonstrate and experience Wu Wei in its ultimate form, the high part of Wu Wei. Doing something powerful without doing anything. It's the Lao Tzu method. Now, to do this, you're going to sit up straight and look at me. Quite simple.

1:08:34
Okay. Now, so we're talking about wu-wei, the way of doing something.

1:09:18
And there's something specific that I'd like to do.

1:09:21
Of course, I'll leave you to guess it after you experience it. All right, so we're going to just sit, open eye, looking up here, and I'm going to demonstrate

1:09:39
Wu Wei.

1:09:40
The.

1:09:40
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so

1:09:57
so so so Very nice. Very nice. What I wanted you to experience is, duh. And in meditation, in wu-wei, we catch that wave. You were on it. All right. Very good.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
