0:00:00
Alright, now I would like to clearly recapitulate, let me tell you again, the Tantra teaching. So that you're clear on what the structure and awareness of Tantra is in the school. These are the teachings that I teach and these are identical to the teachings that Rama taught all of his students. So first of all, in our school, this is the school of Tantra. But my teacher never taught physical tantric sex. He always taught Tantra, the union of yin and yang, male and female. The union of the opposites that bring you to an eternal enlightened awareness. He taught all of that in a spiritual way, not in a physical way.

0:01:22
Did the Americans get that?

0:01:24
Okay. Just want to make sure.

0:01:30
Okay.

0:01:31
Okay, good. Alright, um, Rama, like myself, recommended to the students that they don't enter sexual

0:01:47
relationships.

0:01:48
That was his recommendation.

0:01:49
That is my recommendation. The main reason why is because sexual relationships tend to drain your personal power for most people. The main reason why you lose energy is because of attachment. So you might notice, if you've had a girlfriend or a boyfriend before, or currently have one, that when that person pushes your hot button, that you get really upset, you could be really depressed, or it drains so much energy. Or you see that you're putting so much energy into that person. Women do this a lot. They put, they're like, oh, this is my man, I'm just going to put all of my energy into that relationship. Right? And for men, it generally is that when you have a sexual relationship relationships that your meditation practice goes down. Your personal power goes down. Your yoga goes down. Your mindfulness goes down. Just because you're spending subtle physical energy in other places. Your flora and your subtle physical energy has to be mindful, and to do yoga well. To do spiritual practice well, a man has to have high spiritual, subtle physical energy. For a woman, a woman can have sex and keep her energy high much more easily. But a woman tends to put so much energy and focus on the relationship with the man, the relationship to man, then there's no room for spirit anymore. Rama said the number one reason why women don't become enlightened is men. And this is true. It's especially because women see that a man is their power. Women say, my husband is what could make me powerful in this life. Not me. Not me going to get a job to be powerful to do all this on my own. That's what men do. I'm going to do this and build this and this and this. They build personal power. They don't say, oh I'm going to marry some woman who's going to be successful and take care of me. Men don't do that. Most. Most. But women put their power into a relationship and a man because they want to get their personal power in life from that man's success. very very spiritually defeating for a woman. So this is what I mean, all of these factors are factors of attachment. Additionally for women, men have a very coarse, dense aura. Women have a very porous, open aura. When you have sex, it damages the woman's aura. It rips it and puts bad energy into it. So, this is something that is also damaging. If a woman's aura is damaged and broken from sex, then she can't practice because her energy body is not strong enough. So in summary, men lose energy having sex, so it's hard to meditate. Women's auras get broken in sex, which makes it hard to meditate. Attachment for men and women is where people lose personal power. So that is why Rama recommended no sexual relationships. Now, the way that we learn about Tantra is, you know, like monks would look at these pictures, right? They'd look at these pictures, these tantras, they would have meditations, visions of, you know, vision of the Bodhisattva with his consort having sex. So the Buddhist monks in the Himalayas would visualize these and paint these. And through this visualization, it was not something that the monk would get sexually aroused about, physically. It's something that would raise their Kundalini. It's the way that you would learn about Tantra, not having sex, but the spiritual vision of the feminine and the masculine in unity. Brahma, like me, like Agni Kala, like every teacher in our lineage, we do teach Tantra in physical sex. I teach Tantra using sexual energy for women and for men, but it's not a physical sexual

0:07:24
energy.

0:07:25
Ajnikala did this when he had the women get up and do the drumming together. This was a kind of Tantra teaching for women. And then he had the men dancing around. And that was sexual energy for men. So I do this as well. I teach my students with sexual energy, not physical, but it is a sexual energy that creates that union for them. And I do it for the women, I do it for the men. Has nothing to do with physical sex, it has everything to do with that spiritual unity. So now you're clear on the teaching. The teaching in this school, the teaching as Rama taught it. However, Rama also said there are no rules. And he said it's fine if you have a sexual relationship. So it's important for you to know what works for you. So if you are in a sexual relationship and it works for you, then okay. You know, you kind of figure out where you want to be, right? You know that if you're by yourself, you're going to have more personal power. But, because of reason 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, you're in a relationship, maybe you've got family, kids, and all sorts of things, you just do the best you can. You get these teachings for greater awareness, right? And you get the recommended way. But, if you find yourself, you know, oh, but I really want and it's a desire I can't shake, well then have the relationship. Because it's better than being a hypocrite or sitting there thinking about it all the time and struggling with it. So you do what you've got to do. You do what is going to happen. But you always temper it. Is this just a desire I could drop or I understand that this isn't good for me so is this something I could let go of? And sometimes no. Sometimes you say, no, I want a relationship, I'm going to do it, but you have to do it in a way where it works best for you. So if you find that it really doesn't work, that your energy is so low that you're really getting hurt, that you have no personal power, that you can't meditate, all these things, if you find that it's so low, then you'll probably want to get out of it. But if you find it's in a place where you can moderate it, where you can work with it, where it's okay, and that's what you want to do, then that's fine. So if you are in a relationship, you don't have to freak out and get a divorce or something like that. You should just start observing your personal power. You should be seeing that every month your meditation becomes stronger. You have to look clearly at how you're doing every month. Is your meditation getting stronger? If it's not, chances are you're losing energy from your relationship, which means your meditation won't get very good. Some people are okay with that. I'm not, personally. I would personally want my meditation to be very good more than have a relationship. But, people are different. So, um, you have to see that your bodhicitta becomes stronger every month. You can watch month by month by month. Sometimes it looks horrible, but then the next month, you see that it actually works out to get higher. So this is over a long period of time. I don't suggest any rash decisions. Watch things for 6 months. See how it goes. And you should see that your yoga is stronger and more successful. Month after month after month. And that shows you that if those 3 things are going in the right direction. Your relationship is working. It's okay. If you see that your medication is bad or your yoga is bad, if any one of those three things is bad, then you are losing energy from your relationship. That's the first and foremost place where people lose energy. So you go, okay, I've got to fix my relationship. So if you see where it's broken, try and fix it. But, if you cherish that relationship, if you want that relationship, you could also summon more personal power and say, okay, my meditation is bad, but I like my relationship. I'm going to really work on my meditation really hard so that I can meditate and be in this relationship. It's like a martial artist, right? You might get a horrible knee injury, and it messes you up, but you can say, I'm still going to be a good fighter, because I'm gonna work on certain techniques that I could be very strong in without having the mobility or techniques that I could have if my knee was working properly. So you can adjust and change by summoning more personal power. But always look at is your meditation strong? Is your mindfulness and bodhicitta strong? Is your yoga strong? Because if it isn't, most likely you're losing energy in the relationship. Very very very very often when someone was having a problem who was in a relationship, who came over to my teacher Rama, and he might not even know that they were in a relationship, he could just see. So they'd come over and go, I'm having this problem at work, or I'm having this problem with my medication. And he says, your boyfriend's draining all of your energy. He was very, very severe about it. So if you went over and asked him a question, you better be ready to change your life. If you're married with children and he says, get a divorce, leave that person. If you didn't follow the teachings, he probably wouldn't teach you again. I really want you to understand that in a relationship that's where you lose a lot of energy, but if you observe your meditation, mindfulness and bodhicitta, and yoga, that's where you can use personal power to moderate so that you can be successful on the spiritual path. I want to give another correction that's important for everyone to understand. And this is about places of power. How to work in a place of power properly. So there was a failure on this desert trip in this place of power. It's a very dangerous place if you have a failure of attention. And my US fonga has failed. So, to begin, I told you and I told my American Banga. So working with the benefactors, you cannot get confused about my teaching and the experiences you have with them. That's one. Number two, when you're with them, since their teachings are different, you must have an impeccable attention. So those are the two things. Don't get confused and have an impeccable attention. And on the last night in the desert, my American Sangha, the attention of the group broke. This is the first time I've seen this happen and it's not a good thing. We went out, sat on the ridge, watched the moon come up, meditated. It was so beautiful and happy.

0:16:40
It was great. I loved it.

0:16:42
And then we went and had our drumming, what happened is about a third of the sangha got tired, they lost their attention and they decided to just go like sit down and space out. So we were in a place of power, Agni Kala had a very specific teaching which was drumming music and people checked out of it. They lost their focus, they lost their attention. And there was a big group of them. They were just sitting around. Some of them decided to go take a nap. And this broke the group. This broke the Sangha. In a place of power, when you have a bunch of people checking out like that, it does not work. So I was very, very disappointed to see this in the American Sangha. I was sitting there, because of this, broken attention. I was in a lot of pain because of it. So then finally, I don't know, someone told Ayanokala, I wasn't feeling well. So then he decided to make a change. But I wasn't feeling well because the group's attention was broken. You don't go into a place of power and then start like being like, oh, I don't really want to be here. When do we go home? You know? And you have to go there and you've got to be focused. Whatever the teacher's teaching, focus. If you're too tired to do drumming, meditate, right? Or just put your attention there. Watch the people, listen to the people, but bring your attention up. Be strong in your mind. Otherwise, you start to pull your energy out of the teaching and the whole group becomes unbalanced. So, you know, Avni Kala said, I got to him about it, and he said, yeah, you know, it's natural to get tired after a period of time. And he said, so, you know, you can rest, but you have to stay engaged. And I said, yeah, they did meet, they engaged. So this was an error in a place of power. It's unacceptable. It will never happen again. So you cannot make mistakes in a place of power. That mistake created an imbalance in the whole Fonga, in the whole US Fonga, that I am now correcting. This was bad etiquette and it was not following my teaching of how to work with a benefactor. The two things, confusion and non-impeccable attention is what you guys did, right? I said, don't be confused about my teaching. They got new teachings and they go, yeah, we're gonna get all crazy and do that. Jumping split kicks, yeah! And then we go out and you couldn't keep your attention on the last night at the most powerful time. And so what happened? Non-impeccable attention, the attention of the group broke. So you broke both of the things that I taught you about how to deal with benefactors. This is not a good thing. So, Diana Sensei and I conferred about this. So, Diana is a very, very good seer. And he sees very, very accurately. It's really wonderful to be able to talk to him

0:20:40
about his insights.

0:20:41
But I very much agreed with him. One of the things that we did when we were playing our drums, especially that night, was my sangha lost the refinement of attention that is required in spiritual practice. It became not such a sacred drumming experience, but it became like a party out in the desert. And I had a lot of students commenting about that, out in the desert. They're like, wow, this is like a party, like Burning Man or something like that, a rainbow gathering or something like that, right? I was like, yeah, this is bad. You don't come to the desert for a party. A sacred drumming experience could be beautiful. But Jan pointed out that while Aki Kala started out in a very sacred feeling, then it just became second chakra. It became unbalanced sexual energy and violence. I mean, people were even breaking drumsticks over their drums or mashing them in half. It got wild. And it's inappropriate, unaccessible, to be that wild in a place of power. It's a bad attention. You become unbalanced. So, rather, you do your drumming, but you keep that sacred attention. And you feel a unity in rhythm with everybody drumming. When the girls got up to do drumming, there was a beautiful unity in that. But then the guys came over and fucked it all up again. Additionally, in a place of power, you must be impeccable. You just assume Agni Ta is going to take care of everything in that physical place, where there's all these dimensions, where there's not good ones, where there's other beings in other dimensions that could really cause trouble for you, right? You assume he's going to take care of it. He may not. Okay? So a place's power is like scuba diving, right? When I take people scuba diving, we might go down to 70 meters. We might go into places where there's a lot of current. And I do my best to be a good dive master, to lead. But I cannot do the whole dive for you. You must be impeccable so that you dive well. So I take you into a difficult dive because I want you to be impeccable. I've had to save students because they were not impeccable. And fortunately I was able to save them. But you go into a difficult dive, and if you're not impeccable, then, you know, if I've got five students not impeccable, and they all have, you know, uncontrolled offense, I can't save all five. I can save one. So you assume you're going to this tremendous place of power, many dimensions, you assume that ugly colors can be able to keep everything perfect, you have to be impeccable. And the There was bad energy flowing through Vahyu's cave.

0:24:54
Bad energy.

0:24:55
I did not like it. The dimensions that were opening up, bad dimensions.

0:25:03
The group broke. Not impeccable.

0:25:07
Bad attention. Not really respecting the power of the desert. This is unacceptable, it cannot happen again. So as a result of this confusion and lack of impeccability, I'm not sure if I'm going to have the opportunity to see Agni Kala again. I'm just not sure. It depends on how you accept this teaching. If you can pull it back together, then great. And don't make a mistake again. Learn from the mistake, move on. We can do that. It depends on if you learn from the mistake and move on. Or I might, you know, so Agnepala wants to do another trip with us on the equinox in

0:26:07
America.

0:26:08
And it will be, sounds really amazing and wonderful. However, what happened can't happen again. So I'm thinking maybe I just bring, you know, the yoga rank black belt because I know that they're stronger. They could probably handle it. Or we have other groups. We have the 100K group. We have gratitude, adventure groups. So maybe we use different groups, smaller groups that are stronger in their attention so that the group won't break, so that they won't get confused. And then they get to see Adi Tala and go on these amazing trips. But the whole Sangha might not be able to if you don't fix your attention now. Learn from the mistake and move on. Of course if you learn and we can move on, then that could be a great thing. But it really depends on you, the American. So this is an important lesson for the Hungarian Fonga as well because you guys are going to be able to have teachings from Azni Kala and teachings from Shiva and you cannot make this mistake. So this is improper etiquette that my US students did. So what I did was I raised their tuition by 30%. Actually, I raised the tuition for you guys, too,

0:27:44
by 30%.

0:27:44
30% is zero. So you guys have to suffer because of what the Americans did to you.

0:27:51
But I have a tuition. I created the tuition in the very beginning because of etiquette.

0:27:53
There was bad etiquette. It was a difficult time. Our first yoga project was ending. And my students were struggling. So then I said, alright, you just have to pay me $500 a month. But tuition is a means of proper etiquette. And raising tuition, this is the first time I had to raise tuition, is because it gets you to refocus your etiquette to be proper etiquette. So I remember when we were with Rama, for a while, for a long time, our tuition was $50 a month. And then one day, it went up to $500 a month. And a lot of people who didn't have the right etiquette, which means that they didn't listen to the teaching, follow the teaching, they left. They didn't have the money. They didn't feel their personal power in their careers. So they couldn't pay that much money. So a lot of people just disappeared when the tuition higher and higher and higher. Most of the time when I was in the intermediate study, the tuition was $1,200 a month. So tuition is a way of etiquette. And by drawing your attention to, oh look, now you have to pay more, it gets you back to, okay wait, I value this teaching. So that's why I raised the tuition. And it's very important. For the Americans, for the seminars, you must pay your tuition or you do not get in the seminar. There has to be formality. an adherence to the etiquette for your access to the teaching. And you have to realize for some of you who are just barely, you know, on the bottom level of tuition, I have some new students who just pay, now they pay $65 a month. You have to get your personal power together and become strong. Because if I raise a tuition on you and you don't have your career together, then that's it. There's nothing. You've got nothing. You don't get access anymore, which means you're not in the sangha anymore. So, take this tuition seriously. And I do not want anybody paying anyone else's tuition. Sometimes there might be a student who's got a lot of money and say, Oh, you don't have enough money to make it to the seminar? You don't have the $65? Don't worry, I'll pay it for you. Don't do that. That does not help that person's personal power. That person must get their shit together. So your benefactors and your teachers, we do not disagree. I would never say Agni Kala is wrong. I would never say Shiva is wrong. I would never say Jnana is wrong. Mandala is wrong.

0:32:17
Never.

0:32:18
And they would never say that I am wrong. Because I'm not. We all studied with Rama, an enlightened master. We all learned his basic teachings, but we also all had direct personal teachings that he gave us that are different from each other. We were on certain adventures with him where he taught certain things. He taught different things to the SD2, the younger group, and the older group. So, for example, Yana probably has the most teachings. He was with Rama the longest, and he is the one who is most clearly capable of cleanly telling you Rama's teachings. He just will specifically say, this is what Rama said, this is what Rama taught. He'll never add anything to it. So, um, everybody else adds stuff on, or they heard someone else say something about Rama, and they say it like they know Rama said it.

0:33:46
Things like that.

0:33:47
So, uh, so for example, um, when Rama was teaching the ST, one, to teach, he said, in front of a group and meditate. The way that he does, the way that I do, he said, never do that. So if Yana was addressing you, while he's talking to you, he's talked to you, but then if he was going to meditate with you, he'd pick up his chair, put it right there, and face the same direction as you. Because he's not going to break one of Rama's teachings. So then when he sees, when he first saw Agni Kala or maybe Kundalini or me sitting in front of a group teaching, meditating, he probably was like, oh my gosh, Rama could never do that many times. But Rama also taught the ST2s how to teach meditation. And he never told us not to do it. He was like, fine, yeah, so you sit in front of a group, you explain things, you meditate. So he taught us how to do it, but this wasn't a problem. So Rama had many different types of students and he taught them all perfectly the things that would work for them. And he gave individual teachings, he gave small group teachings, he gave 51 teachings, 52 teachings. So we all know Rama's teachings, but we all know that there's changes in teachings. Agni Kala got a lot of special teachings that no one else got. Rama really liked Agni Kala too. He gave him very special teachings. So you know, all of these things, they're just, they're different. We respect when someone else has a teaching that we don't have. We say, oh cool, yeah. And it might be like something that Rama taught, you know, Agni Kala or Rama taught me or Rama taught Jnana specifically for me or him or her. So we recognize that there's differences in our Sangha. Different teachings, different experiences and expressions of enlightenment. And we never say that another person is wrong. We just say, oh, wow, okay, no that's cool. It's just that Rama taught me this and this is what works for me. So I don't see anything wrong about what Agni and Kala taught. I just want you to recognize how it works with the structure of this school. So there's a very, very deep and profound connection with you and your teacher. And if you get confused, then it, if you get confused by other teachings or other impressions from other enlightened teachers, it doesn't serve your enlightenment. One great thing, one great lesson I had was I never got confused about my teachers teaching. Never. And I was totally, spiritually focused on learning those teachings. I didn't, you know, look at some YouTube video about some other teacher and go, Wow, that's really cool, I want to do that. You know, I didn't find some book in some bookstore and start like going, Oh, that's cool, I read about Foxy, I want to do that. Or something like that, right? I just focused on his teaching, not confused, and because of that I've been very successful. I've been successful in martial arts, meditation, mindfulness, yoga, and enlightenment because

0:37:56
of that.

0:37:58
If you start thinking things like, well, you know, there's this other teacher that I learned from and that's good and some of the things that Samara teach are good, then I hope it works for you.

0:38:13
I don't know.

0:38:14
But I know that if you cannot be spiritually 100% connected to my teachings, that it's not as powerful for you. Now, if you say, wow, you know, I like the consort relationship idea, and now I hear what Sombara is saying, but I think I'm going to go with the consort thing. You can do that. I just wanted to tell you what the teachings are, and that it's really, really, really a blessing if you can be 100% connected with the teachings of your teacher. But sometimes you get confused. So, talking about the consort relationship, or contraceptive. or a tantric sect. Bhakti Kala gave an authentic advanced teaching. But he mostly opened up the second attention. And then he said some things in the first attention that really couldn't get you to connect all the way with the second attention. So, it's information to you that is like a little almost, but you feel something very powerful, but you can't use it. It's like, there's a story, at some high school campus, these football guys, they got three goats and they spray painted on the sides of the goats the number one. On the second goat, number two. And on the third goat, number four. And then they let the goats run around the campus. So the school officials see these goats running around and they go, oh look, there's a goat. And they go, oh, it's goat number two. And they find another goat, goat number one. And they find another goat, goat number four. And then they spend the rest of the day looking for goat number three. That's how it is for you guys. It's kind of strange, like, what's going on? So I'm going to assign the Americans, I think it's only in English, I'll explain it to the Hungarians later. I'm going to assign the Americans our final book in the Tibetan cycle of teaching. It is called Highest Yoga Tantra and in this book it describes tantric sex, the actual yoga of tantric sex. So not the basic new age stuff that everybody hears about. That stuff is, you know, Agni Kala was being nice here trying to give you guys ways to understand tantric facts that were easy and accessible. But this book talks about the actual use of Kundalini and attention to attain enlightenment in facts. Tantric facts. So, this book describes the first attention. And it's not about sexual position. It's all about energy and attention and meditation. But it is about sex. And the reason I want you to read this book and to understand the first intention about it is because then you will see that it is actually an advanced practice. Not that new age, like, oh, I met my soulmate and then we had sex for a week. And it was amazing.

0:42:21
That's great. That's amateur bullshit.

0:42:23
This book describes the real way to do it. And the thing that I want you to realize in reading this is that you don't even have enough Kundalini to experience the first drip. first basic experience of how to generate enlightened energy in tantric yoga. And you probably won't even understand what a drip is. I don't think you have a personal power to know what a drip is actually. So I want you to read this book so that you understand the tonal, that it is an advanced practice, and that you trying to do a split jumping kick doesn't make a lot of sense. But it's also good information. So, is this advanced? I don't remember. Yeah, I think, no. This is advanced intermediate, but this is not advanced. This book. This assignment was given to us before the Istanbul Teachings. So it's fine for you guys to read as well. Okay. So it's very easy to integrate Yana Sensei's teaching because Yana Sensei worked very easily easily in the structures that we have set up already, which is martial arts. So because Yana Sensei and I have done all of the structures that Rama taught, including martial arts and technology, all of these structures to develop the mind and attention and power, it's very structured, very helpful, and teaching us amazing things about martial arts. And it's something that fits easily into my structure. So that's amazing. Mandala also. So Mandala used to be the yoga teacher. Fits into the structure perfectly because martial arts, meditation, career success, computer programming, so she also just followed, you know, teaches the Brahma, fits in really easily. Now it got more confusing with Agni Kala and Shiva. Shiva never did yoga, never learned computer programming. He was there in the early stage and then way later I came back. And then Adinikala, although he was a computer programmer and everything, he's just an enlightened expression of woo way of the flow. So it's harder because those energies don't naturally fit into what we're doing. If Shiva was a master of technology, he could fit in and help with technology. But he was very good at the battery business, he could come into the battery business, something like that. But he doesn't have that training. And Adhikala is like a new expression of enlightenment. it doesn't really fit in exactly to what we're doing. But he talks about the same things just in a different way. So, you know, it's really easy to see how someone like Mandala fits in and how Jana fits in. But it's those enlightened influences of these other teachers that it's harder for you guys to integrate. But you must integrate it. You know, sometimes, you know, I had the Americans reading about Tibetan yoga, like all these really lots and lots of strange Tibetan yoga practices. And they didn't get confused. They didn't say, oh, am I supposed to be doing all of these meditations and all of these yoga practices? They just read them, understood that there's different practices that you can become enlightened through, that at different times they work for different people. So, that's the way to understand that. No confusion. So, when you see someone talking about a different enlightened practice, you don't have to get

0:47:04
confused.

0:47:05
You just say, I understand. This is a beautiful, new thing. I see a new way of enlightenment and that works for some people at some time. I would never go to Agni Kala students or Sheba students and say, you know how to do it this way. Don't listen to him, listen to me. I would never do that. If they asked me or if I had to present to them, I would tell them what I know. Not only do I say, listen to your teacher, but here's what I know. And hopefully it's inspiring to you. Maybe it's, yeah, maybe it benefits you. Fantastic. But I'd always say, listen to your teacher. I have no idea where my kids students are at. Right? He's teaching them different ways, different things, and I don't know their structures. So I wouldn't interfere with their structures, but I would show them really cool light, my, you know, city of enlightenment, and then I'd say, see, that's cool, right? And they say, oh, that's pretty cool. And then they say, oh, gosh, we've got to learn computers or something like that. And then Agne Kala might say, oh, no, no, no, no. You guys, don't worry about that. Stuff like that. Although he says, okay, I want my students to learn computers now. So, that's a positive influence. So, Agne Kala and Shiva's teaching should be positive influences where we can take positive things from it but not get confused by it. We can see differences and not like throw ourselves out of balance because of those differences. It opens our mind to seeing that enlightenment is bigger and broader, that more than one person can be enlightened, that many different types of people can be enlightened, that enlightened expressions happen in different ways. See, that's what I really like about it. You guys can see me and say, wow, okay, that's it. Oh, but, and then there's Sheila, and then there's, there's Yana, and then there's, you know, let me call it and say, wow, well, these are all different things, but the light comes through in different ways. And that's wonderful to see because it tells you that enlightenment can come through you. You don't have to act like me. You don't have to talk like me. Eventually when you become enlightened, you'll talk like you.

0:49:25
But better.

0:49:28
So that's why, you know, and the more enlightened people, the more light that you have the right etiquette for. Okay, so, Americans. Learn from this correction. This will make your technique more effective. Just like, you know, martial arts class, you're punching wrong. And make this correction, then you punch correctly and then you're stronger because of it. You don't have to feel bad, just fix it. And Hungarian Sangha, learn from the mistakes of Americans. Do not get confused. Do not lose impeccability. we interface with our benefactors is a way where we're clear on our teaching and we deal with them with impeccability. So finally, the fourth pillar, right, the pillar of emotion, the way that we address this pillar is through bodhicitta.

0:50:53
Not through fucking.

0:50:55
Fucking doesn't do it. It doesn't do it.

0:50:59
You let your guess. But...

0:51:02
Okay. So we do it through bodhicitta. So bodhicitta, there's a tremendous release of emotion in compassion and care and pity for another's suffering. That is very effective for enlightenment. It's a way that you transform your mind itself to open mind and care for others. It's a release of the ego. And it is an emotion. It's a deep care, a concern. This compassion is my recommended teaching for how to have that emotional release and emotional balance. And with that, Americans, I'm going to say good afternoon and go do yoga. And with that, Americans, I'm going to say good afternoon and go do yoga. Okay, bye-bye!




Transcribed with Cockatoo
