0:00:00
Alright. Let's begin.

0:00:03
the the the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, So Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, You're a good man. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Oh, so the the the the so the the the the you the the the the the the Oh, so so the the the the the the So, what's up? How's the war going? Yeah, the war that you're waging. How's it going? Well, you have to recognize you're a spiritual warrior. A spiritual warrior has the courage to face the battle.

0:13:39
Most people try not to face the battle. They try to retreat from battle. And this is the battle of spirit. Most people try to get into a safe spot, hunker down, and make it through the incarnation. Just to be thrown into the battle of the next incarnation and to flee again, right? So to be a spiritual warrior, you have to be courageous. You face the darkness of your mind. You face the pull of your desires. You face your fears. You face your negativity, the spiritual warrior faces the limitations and delusions of the self. So how's the war going, warriors? So then you look at your life and your mind and you How am I doing? Am I filled with light? Brightness? Excitement? Joy? Yes! Then that's good. Are you filled with negativity? Reaction? And enmity? Ooh, that wouldn't be so good. You You know, the pathway of the enlightened warrior is the pathway of compassion. Yeah. The warrior's way is the way of compassion. There was once a general. He goes to a Zen master. This is in China. He had been going to the Zen master many times to learn meditation, to ask advice, and things like that. But he came into a situation. He was going out to battle the next day, and he just found out that the enemy had reinforcements and that they had an army twice the size of his. So he said, I have to go see my Zen master because this might be my last time. And you know, is Zen useful at all? Because now he needs to get something out of his Zen. I gotta get something out of that Zen. So he goes over to the Zen Master and says, Zen Master, how am I going to win this battle? And the Zen Master says, a warrior's victory is the way of compassion. And then he says, uh, okay. He's like, but Zen Master, tomorrow I'm going into battle, you know, that the enemy is coming and You know, I'm gonna I have to stand against the enemy I don't know how I can be compassionate and just let them kill me or something, you know So he's so he he ends up reflecting on the Koan, right? this is a magical, mystical teaching from the Zen master. And there's truth in that teaching. And he knew that, because he knew his Zen master was enlightened. So he said, OK, I'm going to follow my Zen master's teachings. And then he just thought through it, thought through it. He first thought that he would position his archers so that they could, you know, shoot arrows at the opponent and try to level the numbers out, but in all of his estimations he knew he was going to lose, even with that idea. And then he said, that's not even compassionate. So what is compassion? What is compassion on the battlefield? So he reflected, he meditated, and then late in the evening he came up with a strategy. And the strategy was tactical. I mean this comes from the stories of the army. And then he would take his elite troops with long spears to retreat and hold back the onslaught of the whole army. And when he cut off a small portion, maybe 10% of the army, he could surround it with the greatest amount of his soldiers and then take them hostage. He'd say, okay, you guys got to give up, you're totally outnumbered. And then he would just continue that plan, just taking the cavalry and cutting off certain sections. And then he would wait for them to give up, and then he would take them off the battlefield so this was his way of Compassion Right makes sense

0:19:22
And he was actually

0:19:24
Successful doing it. So he ended up winning the battle through this consideration of compassion So for a warrior, as it is taught also in the art of war, we always seek a compassionate victory. And this is, you know, in dealing with real physical life situations. This is apparently a true story.

0:20:02
So

0:20:04
when we are dealing with difficulties in our lives, like real hard difficulties, right? We're like, oh, I can't be compassionate here. Someone's being mean to me or something like that, right? You really have to start to broaden your mind and look at the way to be compassionate. A warrior seeks victory, and victory for a warrior on the pathway to enlightenment is freedom. And when we have freedom, we have peace in our heart. Our being is just in spiritual balance. So this is what we seek. This is what we have to experience and find. Every day, every moment, you know, the battles come all the time. The battles are your thoughts, your mind, in any moment. So you say, all right, well, you know, walking down the street, thinking about something I'm mad about, that's your battle. Can you find freedom from that? Can you find peace? That's where you win the battle. So you have to be, like I said, courageous enough to admit that it is a battle. It's a battle for light. It's a battle for brightness. It's a battle for freedom from bad karma, from negativity, from darkness, and from suffering. So this is our sitting relative Bodhicitta practice and our mindfulness practice, we start to become aware of others and our relationship with others, and what it is for another person to have suffering. We understand our suffering, but then we start to go beyond our own awareness of self to look at another. When we start to do that, when we start to learn and grow. The world's not just about you and your problems. Other people have problems. And just by being aware of that, you mature. You gain a greater balance of dealing with your own suffering. It is a process, the practice of Bodhicitta, it's a process of learning, it's a process of understanding, of growing out of a self that just defends powerful and balanced. An old friend of mine, some of you have had him, his name's Howard, passed away a couple years ago.

0:24:02
He was

0:24:04
telling me about what he had learned in 60 years of marriage. He died in 96. And he said, He died at 96. And he said, marriage is an amazing teacher, because it's not just about you anymore. It's about dealing with another person. He was humble, compassionate, to be patient. He learned forbearance and loyalty. So he learned these beautiful things. And then he said, oh, and I also learned a lot of other qualities that you never have to learn if you're single. And it's kind of cute, I mean, it's kind of funny, but it is in relating to another person, that's where you learn these things. These qualities are qualities that make you happier, that make you brighter, that make your life more full, that bring you greater balance. So, this is what we seek in Bodhisitta when we have consideration for other people. I know that things are difficult sometimes. From time to time things are painful. And the measure of a warrior is not getting out of pain. Right? First Noble Truth, life is pain. Yeah, so not going to get out of that. Even Buddha had pain. But the measure of a warrior is, how do you take the pain? Do you take the pain and react and go into self-defense mode? Blame everybody else? If you do that, you will recognize that you go into dark states of mind. You follow poor karmas and that is a pathway to suffering. However, if when you feel pain, you start to broaden your mind, you apply the practices of Dharma, Bodhisitta, but there's light. There's a way out of the limitations of the self. There's a way out of that negative awareness, limited awareness of self-reaction. And in the practice of bodhicitta, when you really practice bodhicitta, something comes down on you, someone's mad at you, you're mad at someone, I don't know, whatever is happening. When you really practice bodhicitta, all of that dissolves. You end up in light. Bodhicitta goes from a bad thought to luminosity. So this is the pathway of the enlightened warrior. So sometimes we don't want to have anything to do with anybody.

0:28:06
We want to just crawl into some cave somewhere and meditate.

0:28:10
The cave has to be in our castle, on our private tropical island. And we're like, no, no, I don't want to deal with people at all. Dealing with people sucks. Yes. However, I think you might have noticed that in your life you do deal with people. Yes. And on the pathway to enlightenment, people help you. Teachers, sangha, co-workers, senseis. People help you on your path. So you can't avoid people. We all have that initial initial thing, oh other people, right? And then if you learn basic mysticism and stuff, it's learning how to understand your mind where you're like, oh I'm gonna stop trying, I'm gonna try to stop thinking in thoughts, so I'm gonna focus on rainbows. That guy's looking at me weird, rainbow! I asked for she's on that. So you know we learn the basic mindfulness but when you're an intermediate student you learn compassion. It's a higher way. Now even Padmasambhava, the founder of tantric Buddhism in Tibet, a famous Buddha, he just kind of appeared in a lake one day and he's like, yes I'm a self-born Buddha and he was fully enlightened and then people said to him I don't know that doesn't mean anything to us so he said I have to learn to relate to people so he's like okay you know I got to do something so he learned everything you guys remember reading that book about him he learned everything everything that there was around so that he could relate to people. And then everyone said, oh wow, okay, yeah, yeah, you know how to cook a mean chicken soup? And he learned how to cook, right? And then uh, and then they're all, oh, you, you, you wove a beautiful basket. He also learned, you know, all the magical things, too. So, you know, even a self-born Buddha has to learn to relate to people. You have to learn to relate to people, like in a positive way.

0:31:22
And that's the practice of compassion, because the way that you...

0:31:26
like your karma, your normal reaction, it's not good. It's self. And compassion is the way where we let go of the self-reaction. Compassion is the opposite of ego. Ego is like, it starts, the pain comes, and ego closes. You close your mind, you notice that all the thoughts that you think, and all the ways that you're thinking about dealing with pain, it makes your consciousness smaller, it makes your mind darker, it makes you more unhappy, and it forces you down a path of suffering. But the moment something hits you and it hurts, if you practice compassion, you open. The ego opens. It lets go of self. And then that's where you're a the pain. You take the pain but then you have more options, more options of light, more options, more opportunities because your consciousness is open, your awareness is open, you start to say, oh maybe I don't have to punch that guy. Maybe I could buy him a ham sandwich and shake his hand. There's a million ways to solve every problem. There's always a solution that leads to light and brightness and peace, but when you follow the way of the self, you don't see that. You get stuck. The big thing, everybody is so upset with mean people, right? Someone's doing something mean to me. Wham! Yeah, that guy has said something bad about me behind my back. I'm gonna say something bad about him. I'm gonna Twitter something about him. So a warrior recognizes that enemies promote you. We don't say, oh it's an enemy, I'm mad at them, I'm going to fight them. We say, oh, it's an enemy, this is my way, this is my lesson. When you have someone doing something bad to you, being mean to you, whatever, harming you, causing you pain, don't fall down to their level of enmity. You say, oh wait, this is how I get promoted in my spiritual practice. Right? I mean, yeah, enemies make you. They make you powerful. Because you're dealing with something that's difficult, and when you deal with it in the way of Dharma, you shift from where you were to becoming powerful in truth. So enemies are not a bad thing. There was a good story about the Gang of Six. I talked to you guys about the Gang of Six before. So Buddha had these six monks, the Gang of Six, because they always go around together. And they were mean. They were bad monks. Or, you don't know if they were mean, but they gave people a hard time. So, the Gang of Six went up to Deer Park, this one area where Buddha was teaching. And there was a new monk, and he was just inspired by Buddha. He loved it and practiced and he was like really on fire. And then they went, hmm, you don't like him very much. So they go over and he's sitting in meditation so they go over and sit next to him. And then they like start doing things to mess with him. Like they go clapping his ear really loud and then he goes, oh, oh, and then they're just sitting there. And then he's like, what was that? And then they hit him in the back of the head and he's all, huh? And he comes out of meditation, he's all, huh? And then they throw a bucket of water on him. They're just messing with him, right? And then he catches them after they threw the bucket of water. He's all like, why did you do that to me? I didn't do anything. You're holding a bucket!" And then they keep messing with him day after day after day, but they eventually just say, if you can meditate well, then it wouldn't bother you. And they keep bothering him every day. Yeah, to keep things clean, I won't tell you about some of the things they did to him. Those great monks. I mean, I always like to get a little toilet humor in it, but that was my toilet humor. Okay, so they would mess with him like crazy, and they put bugs on him and all sorts of stuff. Eventually, he was just like, I really want to meditate. So I'm going to just ignore them. And they kept hitting him, splashing him, pinching him, all these things, right? And eventually, he made his meditation so strong that he would just immediately go into samadhi. And then they did all this crazy stuff to him, and they couldn't bring him out of them anymore. So then they left. But he became very strong, very quickly in meditation, because the Gang of Six messed with him. We hear all these things about the Gang of Six. You know, Buddha might have kept them around because they would do things. They would promote people by being their enemies, right? So you never know the Gang of Six. Now, in Buddhism, on the pathway to enlightenment, there's a very, very important consideration of other people. And this is the consideration of the ally. So we create an allegiance on the spiritual path. We create a fellowship where we work together. We work together towards enlightenment. So this is called the Sangha. And this is a very very very powerful spiritual construct. That's why they call it one of the three jewels of Buddhism. There's the Buddha, the Dharma, the teachings of truth, and then there's the Sangha. And I always thought that Sangha was kind of lame. I was like, Buddha's cool, and the teachings are amazing, but then who are all these losers I'm hanging out with? That's what it seemed like to me. However, the allegiance, the spiritual fellowship is very important. Without the spiritual fellowship, you would be very ponderous and slow in your development. Your yoga would go very, very, very slow. Your meditation would be very ponderous and heavy. So you have a sangha because in the structure of a sangha, there is a reflection. You can see more clearly how to make changes, how to move forward, without the reflection of others of like mind, you don't see it, and you're just stuck in the way of self. A Sangha helps you to be balanced. A Sangha helps you to be inspired. So it's necessary, we must have an allegiance. Without creating allies, then it's easy to defeat you, right? The small army must ally to a larger army. The to the larger state. Sun Tzu, the art of war. Otherwise you're easily defeated by the difficulties in life. So it's a very important awareness. We have to look at our Sangha in a positive way. I remember in my Sangha, I was like, why is it so weird here? Why are these people so strange? And then I was being strange. So I was just kind of, what was going on? However, later, after I went through a number of years of being weird about it, I recognized that these people who I was meditating with have all gone through as much difficulty as I. So on my spiritual path I struggled with the negativity of my mind, I struggled with reaction, I struggled with success, I struggled with everything that we struggle with. Trying to find brightness, trying to get out of suffering. So I was like, oh man, this is so hard, so hard. And then I said, hey, everyone here has been through the same stuff as me. And that made me recognize that these people are committed to enlightenment, to ending suffering, like I was. And then I said, wow, I guess I can't be so bad. But I saw a power in each of them, and that opened me up to be able to be aware that being together in a group is strong, is powerful. You know, if you are the only karate guy at the dojo, even if you've got the sensei, the sensei is teaching you, you'll just be like... But if you have a whole bunch of black belts, or even white belts that are like really going for it, then there's a powerful energy and you learn more, you become stronger, you learn faster. That is the power of the allegiance. Now there was a very famous allegiance called Shambhala. One of Buddha's arhants, he had a lot of advanced teachings from Buddha. So at the end of Buddha's life, Buddha taught a lot of the Tantra teachings. So he learned he decided he was going to make a huge powerful change, a place of power called Shambhala. So he went to a place in the Himalayas and he used these powerful teachings to create an energy in a place. And that energy drew people. People who were of like energy or like interest. And this was a place of warriors. And everyone who would end up there would become a warrior and would learn in the way of the warrior and were drawn there to be warriors. So he used really strong Siddha and it became a town, a village, eventually a city-state unto itself, where there were many enlightened masters, and where everybody who went there was drawn there to follow the And then after a little while, people had families. You know, little kids would be born, and then they would start learning the way of the warrior. So it was a place where it grew out of this place of power into a whole city. And everything was based on the way of the warrior. So that was one of the most remarkable allegiances. Yet Shambhala, some people say it's still there, hidden in the Himalayas. It's kind of like when you go to Mount Shasta, they're like, hidden in Hidden in the mountain is Telos the city of the last city of Lumeria or something like that, right? so I

0:46:33
Don't know

0:46:35
Yeah, but at least whatever happened to it some people say it ascended into a higher dimension shambhala Which could be true Yeah, or everyone got bored and moved out. But coming together in an allegiance like Shambhala is a very powerful thing. Bodhi Woods was an allegiance where everything was based on Bodhisitta. And in that way we were able to figure out how to be neighbors. So, being a neighbor is a good thing. That's what we seek to be a good neighbor. Like a good neighbor, State Farm is theirs. You know, it's the golden rule, right? Do unto thy neighbor as you would have your neighbor do unto some other guy. Or a neighbor, I mean a good neighbor, is someone who listens to you attentively

0:48:06
through a wall.

0:48:13
We seek to be a spiritual friend to everyone in our allegiance. That is the ideals that we hold up. So in Tibetan Buddhism, they have teachings on how to be a spiritual friend. To be a spiritual friend, you lead with compassion. That's the first and foremost step in being a gentleness Right, so you you're not harmful A spiritual friend knows the Dharma and practices the Dharma Spiritual friend doesn't get caught up in transient samsara activities activities like going out and partying with freaks. Because when you do that, you become a freak. And when you're a freak, you're not a very good spiritual friend knows karma. You know, if you do something stupid, it's going to mess you up. So you say, oh, okay, well, let me do something intelligent so that it advances me or others. And then the last one is skillful means. Skillful means is you learn how to do it, and you learn the techniques and you do it. So, skillful means learning how to practice bodhicitta. It is a technique, and if you practice it, if you learn how and you practice it, it's liberating. Skillful means also technology. technology, you have a technology career, a powerful career that helps your life. It gives you personal power, it gives you foundation for you to kind of develop yourself so that you don't get drained in the world and all that. So all the practices that we have, martial arts, skillful means, so in Yana's martial He teaches you how to use your energy in powerful ways that change your subtle physical experience with the world, so that you can deal with difficulty, subtle physical energies that

0:51:06
are negative.

0:51:07
So these are skillful ways for you to be successful in life. So, you have to consider who you make alliances with. Do you make alliances with people who are negative or people that are positive? See, the problem is some of you make alliances with negative people where you get drained of energy because they're not focused on the same things as you. You can't have that alliance. You can't engage in those kinds of activities because what they'll do is they'll draw you off. You'll lose personal power. So you have to focus on your alliances. What is your alliance? It should be with people who are good spiritual friends. Yeah, because if you really consider it, you just go, I don't know, that guy's my friend and I do weird things with him or whatever. But if you consider the war that you're waging, and you say, am I gonna go into battle with freaks? People who are just fulfilling desires and who are all weird and who spend their time and energy doing things that are unproductive, that do not develop personal power. If that's your alliance, then that will be a very difficult experience for you. You won't have the strength from the alliance to get out of the darkness of your own mind. alliances with bright, powerful people, people who focus on meditation, compassion, who are seeking the way out of the limitations of self, then you have that support in your life, in your mind. You'll find yourself getting attached to karmas. A lot of it is desire fulfilling. You're like, oh, I want to do this weird stuff because it's desire fulfilling. And then you get stuck in that. Your desires hold you back. And you might not think it's a big deal, but you probably won't be on the pathway to enlightenment for very much longer. Because those things are places where you lose personal power, you're not cultivating your connection with light, you're cultivating a connection with desire fulfillment, and you're not going to get ahead in your career, and your personal power will go down. It's a mess. So consider it. There was a story of a woman during Buddhist time where she was just into desire fulfillment and what she was was she was a noble lady and her desire fulfillment was looking like she was like all awesome. She's like, oh, yes, I throw parties and I meet with other nobles, and I also meet with politicians. And she would hold all these functions, basically parties. And so she was always doing that, always doing that. And then Buddha came to town. She sat with Buddha, and she experienced the direct awareness of truth. And she saw it and she said, wow this is amazing, a wonderful thing. And then she went home and the next day she was having a giant party with famous people, you know, rock stars, you know, politicians, whatever. Yeah, this is a big, big, big party that she was having. And she said, oh wow, I saw the light and it was wonderful and now I got to go do this party because it's already set up and this is what I do. Now, halfway into her party, and she was the gracious hostess, right, and halfway through her party she just realized this is useless. This does not lead to light. There's a lot of activity, a lot of people having a good time, a lot of people to talk to, all sorts of situations to get into and stuff like that, right? But she said, it's all empty, it doesn't bring me anywhere, it's garbage, gotta get rid of it. So, she walked out of her party.

0:56:44
She walked out of her life, right? She left her home, her family, and she went to Buddha.

0:56:46
And she became a bhikkhuni, which is a monk. Yes. And she ended up being one of Buddha and she was able to just let go of everything. No more desires. So you have to be careful about what you do. You have to start looking at when you're doing things that are fulfilling your desires, you have to start saying, Is this

0:57:44
bright?

0:57:46
Where is this leading me? There's plenty of bright things to do that are fun and happy. It comes from a wholesome place. But when you start doing things that are toxic, it's not good for you. So you got to be careful. Now, in Shambhala, they would always say, alright, so, you know, you meditate, you're mindful, but what is your concern for the world? What is your giving to the world? What is your help for the world? Everyone was compelled to seek in their lives a way to make the world better. Sometimes it was just, you know, cooking for someone. Sometimes it was practicing bodhicitta. In any way, in every way, this was a concern. They always focused on this. And in Shambhala You're never off duty. You're always anything, in every moment, ready to take life, the universe and everything, and look for a way to be concerned for others, the world. How can I take this moment and see compassion for others in this moment? I posted something on Votable today. Some of you might have seen it. Jim Carrey was doing a commencement speech for some university. And he said something interesting interesting that goes along with this ideal of what can you do for the world, what's your focus for the world. He was a stand-up comic for a number of years, and he realized something, something spiritual while, through his experience of making people laugh a lot. But he realized that when people came to see him and he would perform and they would laugh, that they would have freedom from their worries. For a period of time, they would just sit there and laugh and be bright and happy. And then all of their worries about everything, their busy lives, complicated lives, it would be gone and they would just be sitting there happy. So he said, he realized this, recognized it, and he said, that's my intent. He's like, I'm creating the church of freedom from concern. And he said, you know follows the teachings of Shambhala. So what's your ministry for the world? Bodhisitta, compassion. Maybe you have something special. Warriors, in an allegiance, in an organic fellowship such as ours, we have secrets that hold us together. Little things. They're really feelings and awarenesses. We just have these magical things that hold us together. And one thing that a warrior will have, if lucky, we have a warrior's anthem. So an anthem is a song or a set of songs that create a group, a greater group unity. And that's what we have. We have a greater group unity through a set of songs. It's our it's our rock band. No wait, it's our punk band. It's our band, it's our band, Vayu, right? So my teacher had a few musicians that created music. And we meditated to the music, just like it was this music we meditated to earlier. And anytime I listen to that music, what happens to me is I go into an awareness of my allegiance with the Sangha, the people who I was meditating with at that time, or still. I go into an awareness of my teacher, as I would meditate with my teacher. I go into of light and luminosity. And it's all about the three jewels. I see the Buddha in listening to that music. I see the dharma, truth, in that music. And I see the sangha, the power of the sangha, not the petty stuff. I see the brightness of the sangha in that music. So, I don't know, is that an agreement? So, we have that in our music, we and we have that in Vayu. It is the set of songs that we have that we meditate to. There are dimensions of light and power that we write into our music, that we bring out, that is all little secrets of light and power and beauty that we're all connected with. So having a Warriors anthem, this is what we meditate to. It creates a whole beautiful dimension that creates unity for the group. It's so beautiful. So my teacher used to say, it's so important what you listen to. So for a while he got all the students not to listen to anything but classical music and then their meditation music. So, cause he was like, don't mess up. If you're listening to certain kinds of music, it really draws your attention into those dimensions. So if you're listening to romantic music, or rap music, or heavy metal, or Nazi hate music, it kind of rubs off on your attention. And when you listen to the Warriors anthem, it brings you into light. and there's a great part where there's a Beethoven sitting there, he's showing some girl his new violin piece. So there's a violinist playing and the girl's listening to it and then at one point he gets close to her ear and he goes, when you listen to music you are seeing the mind directly, the direct mind of the composer. So that's what music is. Think about that next time you want to listen to Lil Wayne. No. No.

1:06:31
No. No.

1:06:33
No. No. No.

1:06:35
No. No. No.

1:06:38
No.

1:06:39
No. No. No.

1:06:41
No.

1:06:42
No.

1:06:43
No.

1:06:44
No.

1:06:45
No.

1:06:45
No. No. No. No. No. No. No. It's music yoga. So instead of the mind of the composer, because we're doing yoga, we're opening, we are reflecting higher dimensions, dimensions of light and dimensions of power. Just like in meditation. So when we compose music, we come from a place of meditation, in a structure of yoga. And it is bright, and it is luminous. So even though there's a few of us who are writing the songs and playing the songs and everything that are unenlightened people, because we're in this beautiful structure of light, because we approach it as yoga, there's a power to it. There's a brightness to it. It's special. It's magical. That's why it works as a warrior's anthem for us. I write songs for the albums. Some of the songs are mine. I just wrote a song very recently about a tortilla. It's more of a rap. My teacher the desert to meditate. He used to be so funny. It'd be kind of scary out in the desert and he's like, don't go wandering off, you'll get attacked by the So, recently, Mudra has completed the Tuscany album. So, the Tuscany album, which he's going to talk to us about tonight, we have a special performance tonight. When I'm done talking, Mujer's going to get up here and he's going to talk to you about the yoga of music. Maybe not. But he's going to... But no! That's what he'll talk to you about. He might not say that. But he's going to talk about... Oh, you know, he's going to introduce the album, talk about the inspirations that he experienced to create the songs. So on this album, this is the album where he did all of the songs, which he does sometimes. So he's going to talk about the music, where it comes from, maybe tell you a little bit about the composition of it or performed it. And this will give you insight into what this whole Reuters anthem is about. These powerful dimensions. We just listen to the music, but it comes from places sometimes. So, because it was the Tuscany album, it comes from Tuscany. It comes from Italy, right? But it's not just any Italy. It was our experience of Dharma in Italy. So when we went there, it was the 15% trip. And the 15% trip was where I said, we're going to have a special trip to Italy. If you increase your rate by 15% by this time, then you can come on the trip. So then we had a whole bunch of us who increased our rates just to push our power. And as a celebration for everyone doing such a great job, we went to Tuscany and we had an amazing time. We went there so high, so bright, there was a dharma for us there. Very beautiful dharma. And in our experiences going around the region of Tuscany, everywhere we went was filled with brightness and light. Now, if you go there yourself, and just say, ah, I'm just going to go on vacation, it won't be like that. I kept on having to tell Dharma this in Japan. We used to go to Japan to do yoga over there,

1:11:47
sales yoga.

1:11:48
And we go to Japan, and it was so bright and beautiful and amazing and fantastic. Dharma's like, Japan is way better than America. I said, it's not just Japan. It is the Dharma. The Dharma, you can go to Las Vegas. And if you're doing the Dharma, Las Vegas is going to be bright, it's going to be light, and Buddhas and Bodhisattvas springing up everywhere. The Dharma is everywhere. But it's not just in the physical, right? It's in your mind. So when you're going somewhere for a reason of Dharma, then you have amazingly bright, beautiful experiences. Yes. So, we're going to have a beautiful experience of experiencing Tuscany. Now I've just listened to the Tuscany album, meditated to it, and to me it's like an experience. It's like this really beautiful journey through all these amazing beautiful dimensions. So we'll have... Mudra will share that experience with us in a little while, but I have more to say. More to teach.

1:13:03
Now,

1:13:05
the tricky thing is, about compassion, it's really to start having a greater awareness. The self is like a wall. You're limited. There's no way out. But you have to break a hole in the wall so that you can see the universe. You can see farther. And then eventually break down the whole wall. And the problem is that when you're just surrounded by the wall of self, you don't see. You don't see others. You don't see life. You don't see out of the self. So the magic in learning compassion is to have an awareness of someone's suffering. Seeing outside of the self. If you can, you know, practice bodhicitta, which is really understanding someone's suffering practicing taking the suffering and giving them your life. That is an experience where you break a hole in the wall. You see beyond the self. That is vital. If you don't do that, you're just stuck in self. And then all the karmas in that stuckness of self just keep you in the self, keep you limited, and keep you in suffering. So the magic of compassion is that it is when you practice taking and sending, having a care for another, wanting to help them, wall and the limited self and then you see all of a sudden a vast view. Your life transforms. You go from selfishness, negativity, to brightness. I'll end with a There was a man who lived a selfish life. He worked for himself. He wanted to make money so that he could have stuff. He would go to bars. He would hire prostitutes. And he was pretty unhappy with his life. He said, I'm being pathetic. He's like, I'm doing all this stuff to fulfill my happiness and I'm not fulfilling my happiness. So he said, you know what I'm gonna do? I'm gonna become a monk. And at the time there was this little place called the Shaolin Temple. So he said, I'm gonna go to this famous monastery and I'm gonna join up, become a monk, try to become enlightened and all that. He's like, I'm done with my boring, horrible life. So he goes to the Shaolin Monastery, and he says, he goes over the gate, and he's all, hey, let me in. And then some monk looks over the gate. Right, so you couldn't just join the Shaolin Monastery. They only have so much room, and some people might just walk in and say, hey, I'm really interested, and then have the yellow belt syndrome. Like, oh, I'm really interested for six months, and then I quit, because I'm bored, or because I just wasn't actually interested. So, you know, they said, no, no, no, no. Now, the good thing was, it was a winter, so there was snow out there. And he's like, hey, I'm cold, can I come in? No, no, no, no. And then, so he just sat there. He just sat there, and then, you know, the whole day went by. The night came, he got very cold, but he stayed there. And then the monks would look over the fence the next day. And then he just sat there a whole other day. The next day, a few more monks look over. And then the abbot comes the next day, and he's all, oh. They're all just all, oh. Looks like he wants to come here. Maybe he'll go away. It's cold, right? So this is what I'm doing for my Hungarian students. I have a number of Hungarian students in Hungary who want to come to the United States. And I'm like, oh yeah, yeah, it's great. There's a lot of opportunity here. There's a very strong, powerful song here, so that would be very good. But I want to make sure they're very, very interested. So I'm making sure that they have the right level of turnout, the right level of skills, English, which takes them months or years to develop. Because then, once they come here, they'll appreciate the opportunity properly. They won't just be like, they won't be like, hey I just showed up, I'm here and then they'll, you know, not do so well. They're going to come here very, very, very strong. Because I make them sit out in the snow. So finally on the sixth day the abbot says, all right, come here, you know, come in. He opens the door and then he brings them inside. They sit down, pours them some tea, and says, I've lived a useless life and now I want to experience a holy life. And then the abbot says, well can you do anything? Like, you know, are you, how can you help out? And he says, I'll do anything. I could sweep or whatever. He's like, no, that's not useful. We've got the kids who can sweep. He's like, you've got to be able to do something. And he's like, no, I don't really have any good skills. Well, you're going to come to the Shaolin Monastery, and you're going to just be a useless person. You know, everybody here has to work. So when I let people in, they have to have skills. Then he's like, I don't have any skills. And then the abbot says, are you good at anything at all? Then he says, yeah, I mean, I'm pretty good at playing Go. Go is kind of like, you know, we know Go. We know God. So he says, oh, is that so? Then he said, all right, well, I'm going to give you an opportunity. And then the man says, great, thank you. I always wanted to be a monk. This is going to be great. And he goes, no, no, no. I'm going to give you an opportunity. You have to pass the opportunity, and then you can be a monk. And then he says, okay. So the abbot pulls out a go board And he calls for his attendant asks for something the attendant leaves and then this old monk walks in Long beard

1:21:28
bald head and the

1:21:31
the old monk sits down at the go board and then the abbot pulls out a sword and then he says whoever wins lives and may be a monk but if you lose I collect your head and the Ha ha ha, right?

1:22:01
Are you serious?

1:22:02
And then he's like, yes. He said, I only have room for, you know, I don't have room for any extra monks here. So this is your opportunity. And then the man says, really? And then he says, yeah. So then the man says, you know, I'm not that interested. I'll just go." And then the abbot says, uh-uh. He's like, the only way you leave this room is if you win and go. Otherwise if you try to get out, I'll cut your head off. If you lose, I cut your head off. And then the man says, man, these Jalad monks are crazy. But he sits down and says, I guess I have to play Go. So he's a little nervous, starts playing, but he's really good at it. And then, as he's playing, he realizes that this old monk that he's playing against is really good. So he starts to freak out. He's like, oh my God! He just got the best Go player in the whole Shaolin Temple. He wants me to die, right? So he starts really coming up with the best strategies, he's really focused, and he's like, okay, how am I going to beat this guy? So he works it and works it, and he eventually gets the edge. So you know from playing Go that there's a certain point where you're like, I cut him off and I know I'm going to win here. So he's like, yes, this is awesome. So he's putting the pieces down, he's like, I think I got this. This is awesome. And then he looks across at the monk who starts to realize, uh-oh, I think I might lose, right? He's like, hmm. And he sees that the monk starts to recognize that he's losing, but the monk just accepts it. He's like, hmm, put down the piece, I know what's going to happen next. Put down the next piece, I know what I see where this is going. And then he goes, he's like, yeah I'm gonna win. Then he says, wow that guy is taking it really well, you know, he's gonna get his head cut off. And then he said, man, you know, this monk is a holy man and I've just been a jerk all my life. And I'm gonna beat him, and he's gonna get his head cut off, so that I can get ahead. Just so I can get ahead, and get what I want. So, as he was pondering this, he just started to think about the other person. And then he started to say, well, why, why do I get what I want? And this, this person is, has been, you know, a monk for a while, probably. And I don't eat and and I think that if it's me or him, I messed up again. And then it turned the tide of the game to the point where he would lose. And while he was turning the See, that's so important in bodhicitta, that you're happy doing it. And then, when it was certain that he would lose, he was filled with light and joy. And then, right before he was going to lose, the abbot knocked the board over. Then he said, you've learned concentration, which is okay, he said, but the reason you can stay is because you've learned compassion. So then he shaved his head, gave him an orange robe, and taught him kung fu. bottom Kung Fu. So that is the path that we take in compassion. It's recognizing other people, recognizing their situation and putting their well-being ahead of ours. And every time we do that, there's... we're happy, we're bright, and yeah, you know, it might seem like, but I'm gonna die. No, you don't die. You live. But I'm gonna be hurt. No, you don't get hurt. You get enlightened. This is the pathway of the Enlightened Warrior. And now, we're going to take a break. We'll take a break. We'll come back and talk. Oh, we'll talk a little bit more. And then, after I say what I have to say, And then, after I say what I have to say, then we'll have the performance.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
