0:00:00
So it's wrong.

0:00:03
I'm going to go ahead and get my laptop. Okay. Just a couple seats up front if anyone in the back needs it. Thank you. All right, let's kill the lights. I hate these lights. I know, I was just commenting, they're all super bright. Yeah, I know. I need to put some LED's on. All right, we're going to talk in the dark. All right, so that was lovely.

0:01:15
I'm really glad that we got to sit outside before the rain or mosquitoes descended on us.

0:01:21
Because it's nice to be out there and just feel the nature, feel the wind, feel the water. The wind and the water are two things that are going to have the strongest impact on you in this mystic scuba diving trip.

0:01:37
So it's just nice to take a moment to start to get in touch with the wind and the water.

0:01:43
Feng shui.

0:01:44
So Feng Shui. So this is important. This is important. And we're going to talk tonight about the mystic scuba exercises that we're going to do. I've developed a program of practices that we're going to do throughout the week and I think that it'll have a very beautiful effect. Very nice. But before we get into the Mystic Scuba, we have to talk about the problem. The problem is that you're a bunch of battered warriors, and you're battered mostly by yourself. You go out to battle and you start snatching yourself in your armor. And this just won't do. This just won't do. This is a bad habit. A lot of things that come up are irritations, angers, stress. So you have to be able to deal with So you have to be able to deal with irritations more positively, more harmoniously, and also you have to be able to deal with stress better. A lot of you are dealing with stress in very poor ways. So on this trip, we want to, through our mystic scuba exercises and adventures, we want to really be able to get past suffering where we get stuck. And this is suffering and stress, and this is suffering in angers and irritations. These are two primary areas. places where we get stuck. We got to get past these. So with Mystic Scuba, it gives us an opportunity to meditate, to practice on breathing exercises, relaxation exercises in the water. And a lot of the Mystic Scuba exercises are actually adaptations of qigong for healing. Healing the physical body, the subtle physical body, and the emotional body. So that's why these are very, very good. This is a very good time and very good exercises for us to actually work on some of these places places where we get stuck. Because being a self-battering warrior just doesn't make sense. It's not okay. So the problem is with your stress, with your angers, your irritations, and your poor ways of dealing with them, is that you've been given clear teachings about how to deal with them correctly, but you're not doing it. You're not listening, you're not getting it, and you're not putting it into action. So that's a problem. You have awareness of what the teachings are. You hear them plainly and clearly. It's just that you're not doing it. And that's a problem. So in scuba diving, if I say, alright, first rule of scuba diving, always breathe. And if you just say, I'm going to hold my breath for a little while to get a better air consumption rate, that would be bad. Your lungs might explode, right? So it's the same with the Dharma. When you get instructions in the Dharma, and you recognize them, you have to start figuring out how to put them to work in your life. Otherwise, what happens is something horrible. So, for example, I was talking to somebody who was like, ago, because I'm just too busy. And then, well, first they come over to me with all these problems. Problem, problem, problem, problem. And then I give them a lot of advice. And they go, okay, yeah, I can work on this. By the way, I quit meditating six months ago. And I think I'm just fine. And these are problems that if you had insight, like I could tell you very clearly how to solve the problems, but your mind is a mess. It's dark and confused because it's unclear. So you got to meditate. This is the foundation of all practice. And when you find yourself skipping meditations, you're really not committed to your enlightenment, not committed to getting out of suffering. So this person knew the teachings, just figured it's not that big of a deal. Didn't work on cultivating discipline, spiritual discipline. And that's what we all must do. We all must cultivate our spiritual discipline. We have to. We have to be very disciplined. We have to be very strong, very powerful in our meditation and our mindfulness. Oh, another gal I was talking to recently, she said, I just don't understand Bodhicitta, so I don't practice it. And I'm like, what do you not understand? And she's like, well, I guess... And I went through all the considerations step by step, you know, breathing in the dark, can you imagine that? Yeah. Can you imagine breathing out the light? Yeah. And she's like, yeah, yeah, but, you know, I just don't get it, so I'm, you know, it's just alien to me. And I'm like, yeah, because you're not trying. And then I sat with her and we did a Bodhisita session one-on-one and then she had this amazing right experience and then I said you need to practice I'm like what are you doing every time we're practicing wind horse and everything she's just like I'm just saying in my head nah I don't get it it's not for me and that's why we practice it, because it's radical. It's radical to the ego in a way that eradicates the ego and opens you up to light and the way out of suffering. So again, this gal came over to me talking to me about a great suffering. And whenever you come over to me and tell me about your suffering, I always tell you what? Bodhisitta, right? Compassion, wind horse, drala. And she's just like, oh no, that doesn't work for me. And guess what? It absolutely did work for her. But it has to be, again, this is something that we have to cultivate, we have to develop. Because if we don't meditate hard, then we're going to have weak minds. If we don't practice compassion with great diligence, then it's just lip service. Just some fancy idea that doesn't mean anything. But if you practice it earnestly, it transforms your suffering. Instead of being a battered warrior, a jerk, an asshole slacker, then what happens is you end up experiencing light, this beautiful light of compassion, in the face of your suffering. So you know the teachings, but you have to follow the teachings. And you know, when I tell you Dharma and you just go, I'm not going to meditate, I'm not going to practice bodhicitta, whatever that is. Then you're doing yourself a disservice, because you're the one who's stuck. You're the one who has the hardest time. The teachings of the Dharma, these basic teachings of our practice, are tremendously powerful and uplifting, but you have to adhere to it. You have to adhere to the teachings. Another gal, you know we've been talking about financial turnout for a long time. Another gal was all like, oh, I have no money. And I'm like, what? How do you have no money? She's like, well, I'm like, well, what's your financial plan? What's your budget look like? And she's like, I never made one. And I'm like, what? I mean, didn't we like go through this? And we've read books on this and we, and I said, all right, make that plan. I might need to do a financial review with each of you because your plan might be bad. I don't know. This, you know, this person totally didn't even have a plan and ran out of money. Had to borrow money from people. And this is someone with a good tech job. So it's just total lack of financial turnout. And this is unacceptable. I mean, this is like one of the basic things that we teach. So you know, why would you do that? All it does is hurt you if you don't plan, if you don't focus, if you don't know what's going on. But by reading the books that we read, by making your plan and living your life in a balanced, moderate way, you know, then you end up being stronger because of it. There's another gal who

0:12:39
just

0:12:41
refuses to go for a tech career. She knows as much as everybody here. Well, not everybody. I mean, she doesn't have experience on a job, but anyone who started a job, right, when you've started a job, she knows at least as much as you. But she just will say, no, no, I'm not doing it. Obviously, she's not on this trip. She can't afford it. But she's just like, won't go there. Her life could be, she can make twice as much money, she could be much stronger, much happier, but she just doesn't want to do it. And I'm like, alright, don't do that. You know, it's like, just follow what we all do. Because we all become extremely strong in tech. That's what we do. We're the top of Silicon Valley technologists. That's what we are. This is a black belt school. We all get a black belt, right? That's what my first karate teacher used to say. He's like, this is a black belt school. Everyone... Like, you might be a white belt right now, but the mentality is that this is a black belt school where everyone here is gonna be a black belt. So even if you're a white belt, you're not just screwing around going, oh I don't know what's going on, I'll try in a little bit. You're like, I'm a white belt, but I'm gonna be a black belt. So this is a black belt school in technology. And we are the top of Silicon Valley. And if you're not there yet, you need to get there. And you need to get with the program. You need to start being stronger in your focus, in your tech. Now I know it's Matt's first time here, in Grand Cayman. Welcome to Grand Cayman. It's an amazing place. Snaps from Matt for making it. But Matt, you're not a white belt anymore. You got a tech job, second tech job, third tech job. I don't know what it is. You're a young man, but now you need to start becoming mature. You need to start to go, all right, I need to not just be able to get a job. I need to master my technology. I need to be the top technologist. You got good energy, a good mind, but you need to focus, and you need to develop more personal power. You lose personal power because you don't focus. So you got to focus. This is a transition for you, this trip. This is a time of power, place of power, where you're going to hit some amazing energy lines underwater. Even this house is on an amazing energy line. I love love this place. So this is a time where you transition. Everyone can do this. This is where you make a transition. For Matt, he needs to just be powerful, right? He needs to focus so that he can cultivate personal power, so that he doesn't get blown away every time he's trying to become stronger. So you have to have a stronger mind so that you don't get blown off track. Other people are blowing themselves off track. They're just all like, oh I'm stressed, I'm angry. You're not doing that, so congratulations. But you need to be My warning for you is once you're strong, you have to continue to develop yourself in humility and personal power, because you also have that karma that Hanuman had, which is like, you're gonna get strong, you're gonna be great, right? And this is what's gonna get you there. Transitions during power like this. But then you're like really egotistical. You'll find it. It'll come up. But I'm telling you now so that when you see it happening later, you can do something. You could say, wow, this is what Simbara told me I was going to do. What you would do is you would pretty much do what Hahnemann did. It's like, you're like, well, I could program. I'm the top technologist in Silicon Valley now.

0:17:18
I know everything.

0:17:19
And so what do I need? What do I need to, or I can meditate on my own. I could do yoga on my own. I don't need a school. I don't need a teacher, which is true, maybe for some people, but it wasn't for him. And really what you want to do is you want to be able to get higher. And getting higher means succeeding in yoga. And succeeding in yoga starts with selflessness and impeccability, right? So the selfish thing, the most selfish thing I could think of one doing in yoga is saying, oh, I don't need to work with anybody else. I don't need to work with a teacher who knows yoga better than me. I can just do yoga on my own. I pointed that out to Han. I was like, don't you see? That's not selfless. And that's what yoga is. And he's like, yeah, but I can do it. So that, and also I told him, I'm like, you realize you're like an orange belt. Who's who's like, leave, leave in a dojo to go start his own dojo. And he said, whatever. Yeah, I guess. I'm like, OK, as long as you understand those things, I wish you the best. So this is a pitfall that he fell into. And he was like, so gung ho on his yoga. And I was just like, it's never gonna happen. And it never happened, of course, right? So it's a pitfall that you wanna look out for, that point where you're that orange belt or green belt, and you think, I could do anything on my own, my own way. I did it my way. Right?

0:19:10
Right?

0:19:11
So that's something to look out for as you develop in power. So a green belt in karate, it would be ridiculous for them to say, I'm going to go open my own dojo. They do, it happens. And then they self-proclaim themselves, you know, 10th degree masters. It happens. But it misses spirit. They might have some techniques, they might have found some cool techniques on YouTube that they've put into their martial arts. But it lacks the true high spirit of martial arts. can learn from. So you have both a challenge and a pitfall for your next round of practice. From you going to... what are you on the yoga rank? Like an orange belt now? Yeah, okay. So you got to get to black belt on your yoga rank. That's your aim. When you get to black belt, you've gotten to a level of personal power that everyone in the school should be at. And that'll be like, all right, cool, nice. Don't pat yourself on the back. Because then it's just about refinement. We've got lots of black belts. But then it's refinement. Refine your meditation. Become much stronger in mindfulness and bodhicitta. Getting a black belt, like Rama always said, it's just the first step. It is just the first step. Once you're a black belt, then you're a serious student. Then you can start to go, all right, I've reached... I have some awareness of all the disciplines. Now, I'm going to really become stronger in trying to get my technique better or my fighting better. So that's the way we have to look at it. We can't look at your yoga rank as being the end. Got my black belt, it's over, graduated, I'm still an asshole.

0:21:31
Yeah.

0:21:35
So yes, yes, yes. Now, the other thing that I've seen is I've seen, guess what happened? Agni Kala came and, confusion time! And what it, there's, I have two rules for any time that you guys get to see an external teacher. If it works, great. lack impeccability while with that teacher, that if you get confused by your experience with that teacher, bad, right? So you fortunately were impeccable! You did it! So when we're sitting around, you know, beating on drums and going crazy, you know, I was like, I was like into it and it's fun. And then, then he's all right, all the girls get up and get in line. And like, the first group of girls got up there for like 15 minutes. There's this other long line of girls. And then some people start going, Oh, wow, this is going to take a long time. How long is this going to take? And then I saw people, I saw people think that, then some people just got sat up and started meditating and some people just played their little drums I got into it and then you guys didn't go into a bad Checked out state of consciousness and I'm like, this is fair and just fine. Very happy with that Okay

0:23:06
Result

0:23:07
All right And that night it was fine, but then as I looked at the results going forward, I saw some problems. So first of all, Agni Kala loves to talk about Tantra and he experiences dimensions of Tantra that are super cool and really high and bright and they obviously work for him. It's very beautiful. I don't think it works for you guys. I really don't. Because I see when you guys go into those dimensions, that you act poorly. You don't act in a very high enlightened state, you act in a very like lower chakra human state. So guys, you've made improvements, thank you. You're like, oh I shouldn't just like be a dirty rotten scoundrel. So that's good. But what I did notice is that instead of outwardly doing stuff, you guys are starting to do it on the dream plane. So guys are starting to go into girls dreams and mess with them in a bad way. And it's coming from, oh I saw this energy from Akikala so now I want to do that and it's seeping out into the dreams. And that's bad. So here's what's going to happen. If girls are reporting to me again and again that you are coming into their dream and sexually harassing them oh you're gonna get it from me and you'll say no it wasn't me and I'll say oh yeah absolutely it's you and you know it's you because you are a dirty rotten scoundrel well you're acting like one so you you're good you know it's like you're like, oh, but all those enlightened dimensions of Tantra. Uh-huh, you don't do it right. You obviously, sexual harassment is not doing high sexual Tantra. So when it is reported to me, and I've had half a dozen reports, and I've had repeating names and repeat, and they've said that it's happened multiple times for them. So if it happens again, then you're gonna have a one-on-one talk in front of everybody. At the next seminar,

0:25:48
I'll be like, I've got something cool to say.

0:25:50
So really, seriously guys, you can't go there. It doesn't work for you. Obviously. Because every time that you're inspired and you act, you act like a jerk. So I don't want to see this anymore. I don't want, you know, Abhi Khalif to come and say something inspiring that works for him, that's for you guys to go, oh, I'm gonna be an idiot. It lowers the purity of our sangha. So we don't do that in this dojo. If you can do it right, great. But I just see, I don't see right happening. I just gotta tell you. So you have to say, wow, that's super bright and amazing for Agni Kala. I've got to find my own way that works for me. And at this time, it's probably meditation, yoga, career success, martial arts, Sita, that'll work for you. And girls, you've also been very poorly, I know I yell at the guys a lot, but here's what happened to the girls based on these dimensions so far. The girls got muggled out and went into conditioning. They hear about the high, beautiful, enlightened tantra, and then what they do is they start to go into social conditioning. conditioning More like of what regular people out there in the world are going through And I'm like wow how do you guys do that? How do you guys get from there to there? You know If you made a connection between the higher spiritual stuff and What you know like some some lady who's 32 and wants to have a baby. Her biological clock is ticking, so she needs to find a man. And that energy is coming through the girls. So again, this is poor interpretation and understanding of Agnikala's teaching. So I think you guys don't get it. And that's okay if we can make corrections. But if you keep making a mess out of it, with this confusion, then we can't have Agni Kala anymore. Because it doesn't work. And I find that if all of his teachings are not working for you, and him just telling you whatever is happy and right for him, and for you to just have a good meditation, and for you to hear, wow, there's all these cool spiritual things. I'm happy if that's the case, because it's super happy and bright, but you just can't say, you can't engage in the teachings and screw them up, because that doesn't work. If it works, that'd be awesome. I just don't see it working. So this is how you guys can learn some discrimination. At one time, I took all the ST3s to see any enlightened teacher I could find. Like Ganga G, Amma, Sunim, so some pretty cool people. And I was just like, look, you know, let's have some exposure to different schools of enlightenment. And the thing was, there was never any confusion. I think with Agni Kala, he's just very, he's powerful. So you guys like, oh, yeah, you like it and stuff like that. But it's important that you don't get confused. No confusion. And you know what the one that was really sad? The black belts. So we had special black belt training and the black belts came out of it totally confused. Because Adi Kala said, you got to do this, this, this, and this. And all those things that he said I've been exposed to. I actually used to do those things when I served with him on security with Rama. But in my security program that we've developed, we don't have those considerations. And I know about them. So that means that I probably don't want them.

0:30:40
Right?

0:30:41
So the thing is, he's like, you gotta do all these things. You don't do that? You gotta do that. And I'm like, no, no, no, we don't want to do that. That would make me uncomfortable. I have a different security profile than Rama. Rama was a best-selling author. He was a controversial figure. There were probably 500 bad articles written about him. So there was all this, like, there's a big difference between me. I'm nobody. I love it. Not one of my ex-students or something wrote something bad on the internet about me yet. I'm like, wow, thanks, Micah. I'm like, that's great. Yeah, that's right. But then I can shapeshift. We can hack servers. Anyway, so yes, this is the case. It's important, you guys can't just get confused. You can just say, oh cool, so there's an alternative technique. Let's discuss and see how these things kind of fit in. Just like I said many times, if what I normally teach is punching and kicking, and he comes in and shows wrist locks and throws, you shouldn't say, oh, now every day in class I have to start doing wrist locks and throws. No, no, no. You got exposed to new things. And then the visiting sensei, maybe I like something and incorporate it, but it won't be just, oh you had to do wrist locks and throws because that's what's martial arts. No, no, no. He specializes in that. But I'm teaching basic, something else. And I know wrist locks and throws too, but I'm teaching a certain way for a certain reason. Black belts. Oh my gosh, that's called confusion Okay, you guys can't get confused So, you know, I mean look like we've had black belt trainings with Yana sensei and he's he's done twice as many, you know, he's been on security with Rama twice as long and he knows all of that stuff that I mean you know, Agni Kala know, and he knows more. And do you guys ever get confused? Absolutely not. You know that there's a lot of different techniques. I mean, he's showing us like Wu Wei Do considerations and stuff for security, and you know there's lots of different techniques, ones that we've never done before, but you're able to incorporate it. You don't get confused. And it doesn't create a split. So the confusion, there's a weird confusion that you guys have

0:33:48
with Agni Kala.

0:33:49
You should fix that confusion. That would be good. And Agni Kala, I love him, I love what he does. Super fun. And it's a good pattern breaker and it's something like it's really cool where you know I sit there and go, do some freaking compassion, you son of a bitch! And then he just gets up and plays the drums. It's a good experience. And meditations, both of them are beautiful. So the thing is that he does things differently, but you guys have to have like a heart that's open for la différence. There was an arhant in the Buddhist time, who was living in the South, and he was, of course, teaching the monks that were down there. And he was teaching, this was in Buddha's later years and he learned the tantras and he was teaching everything backwards. So he just taught every one of Buddha's teachings perfectly backwards. And one of the examples that they give is the story of the rope and the snake. So you see a rope on the ground and then you think it's a snake and then you freak out and you're afraid and like you're going through all this wasting all this energy and tripping out and then you know there's a flash of lightning or the Sun comes up or something and then you go oh it's just a rope oh right and that's how you know we look at our lives and so much delusion right and then he taught the way that he taught it was he he could make some little sound, he can call the snakes, he could... what's that language in Harry Potter? Yeah, he could speak Parseltongue basically. So he would make some little sound and then a snake came out, right? And then he's sitting there with the monks and he's like, is that a rope or a snake? And it's dark. I don't know. Then he's all like, oh, it's just a rope. And then they're like, oh, okay. And he's like, so we're all gonna just, you know, walk over that thing. But then so they're all walking over, and then the lightning comes, he claps, lightning, whoosh!

0:36:15
And then they see that it's a snake,

0:36:17
and then they go, ah! How did you do that? So he teaches the same thing, but he just teaches it backwards. There's a couple other stories that he has of Buddha's teachings backwards but um you know the teaching was there the truth was there he explained it the Dharma however he just twisted everything in half and then he taught that way. And then when they heard Buddha's teachings from other people who had memorized them, they're like, what? That's backwards! Buddha's crazy! So it's okay to get something backwards, it doesn't make sense. As long as you get the actual truth in it, right? Like when Anikala was doing that thing, like teaching guys how to do protection for me. You're like, I'm gonna protect you. That was really beautiful. But, you know, when he was talking about it again at the last seminar, he said something that was kind of really just the essence of it. And I'm just like, yes, you guys are tripping out like crazy. You're out of your depth when you're thinking about it. But he's just like, just be pure in your heart and just have love and that's protection. And I'm like, good, I like that. Grabbing me by the neck and going I'm gonna protect you That is that doesn't make sense So you gotta you gotta do it, right? You know It was Naropa's Maha Mudra Where he he taught that There was a monk who came and said, I want to know the enlightenment. And then Naropa said, enlightenment, the higher mind is the higher self, is a giant white elephant. Get that elephant. You got to follow it. You got to track it down. You got to stalk it. And when you get that elephant, when you're with that elephant, then there's enlightenment. And so the monk goes, sees the elephant. First he hears the elephant. Then he sees the elephant.

0:39:04
And he goes after the elephant.

0:39:05
He says, oh, there's the big white elephant. So he's going after the elephant. And he's going, I'm doing everything right. I'm on the right track, you know, because I'm following the white elephant. And the white elephant is my higher mind of enlightenment. Right? And he's like, I'm gonna get there, get on him, I'm gonna go up into the clouds and into Nirvana. So, then Naropa comes over and points out to him. Hey, you know what? Look, that the white elephant... So the white elephant is your higher mind, but look, there's a monkey that's leading your elephant So there's a monkey grabbing the trunk of the elephant And running around like crazy Like, you know, the monkey mind, as they say in Zen, right? And Naropa came way before Zen So the monkey mind is running around And the elephant, even though that's the enlightened mind It's being led by the monkey So then the guy goes, oh wow so he's like what am I to do so the Ropa gives him a rope so like first you got you got a you know harness get a harness on this elephant and then you got to get then you can control it so that you can get rid of that monkey so so the monk or the seeker puts the rope onto the elephant and then and then he gets some control over the elephant

0:40:31
right and

0:40:32
then He's the monkey still there and then Naropa comes over and goes now What you need is you need to have a torch to get rid of the monkey So he gives him a torch and then then the the monk is able to go over and scare the monkey away. So the monkey lets go and the monkey runs away because you know he gets scared. Now that torch symbolizes purification. You got to purify yourself by scaring that monkey away. Okay then at that point, the monkey goes behind the elephant, and the monk goes in front of the elephant, still holding onto the rope. So the monkey is still messing with the tail, still there for a little while. But then a rabbit appears, a white rabbit appears, jumping around, And then the elephant gets all bothered by the rabbit. And that is... the rabbit is supposed to be like, you know, like you're not really satisfied. You're still like looking for some things. Your mind is still jumping around like a rabbit, not completely steady. So again, Naropa comes over with another torch, get rid of that rabbit. Purification gets rid of that rabbit, that mind that just can't focus. This is an important one for some of you. Some of you got maybe your monkey mind behind you a little bit, but you've got Where you can't focus you need to focus Your spirit can't focus You're chasing the rabbit down the rabbit hole and ending up

0:42:34
nowhere, so then

0:42:38
finally with the second purification the rabbit is gone and then Then the monk stands behind and tells the monkey to go away. The monkey goes away forever. And then the monk takes the rope off and just walks along with the elephant in peace. And finally, gets on top of the elephant. And then the elephant climbs this rainbow bridge to Nirvana. So the thing is, when you look at enlightened teachings, sometimes you're seeing the elephant, your higher mind, in that teaching High dimensions, enlightened dimensions But you don't know that your higher mind is being led by an elephant I mean, sorry, is being led by a monkey or a rabbit You're like, oh, you see something, you go, wow, I see some truths.

0:43:39
Cool.

0:43:40
But your monkey mind is going to take it and do stupid things. Recognition of truth, great. You acting on that, problem. You still have that monkey. You've got that monkey on your back. So it's important to do it correctly. It's important to recognize, yes, there is Correct It's important to recognize yes, there is the enlightened teaching there is Something super cool, but what's my monkey mind doing? monkey mind It's going crazy doing silly things Yeah, so There is a psychiatrist Who did you got this all see Stonehurst Asylum? who Did you guys all see Stonehurst Asylum? Yeah, if you haven't seen it see it It's awesome. I have it on this trip if you haven't seen it you can watch it Because The doctor was pretty brilliant the way that he was Dealing he seemed pretty brilliant how he was dealing with his patients in the beginning. There was this one real psychiatrist talking about dealing with psychotic people and then he's like, when I'm treating, he's like, I don't treat psychotic people. I treat the part of them that is not psychotic. The psychotic part I don't treat. I treat the other part. It's really good. I feel the same way. I don't teach idiots. I teach your higher mind. I teach the elephant. I teach you how to get on the elephant. Yeah. The good thing is that when you get... When you're mindful, when you're doing things right, you actually do an okay job. But you're just inconsistent, and you let the monkey take you off left and right way too often. But when you try to be good, all of you are good. And sometimes you don't know how to be good, you just go, oh, I'm really worried about this. I'm worried about it. See, here's the thing. If you're worried about going into a girl's dream and messing with her and then her telling me and then at the next seminar, me bringing it up in front of everyone and embarrassing you, if you're worried about that, which you should be, then I guarantee you won't do it. So if you're unconscious about what's going on and stuff's happening, because some part of you knows and something's happening, but you're not aware, you're not seeing what's going on, and you're just acting poorly, then bad things happen. of getting it perfected. 70% means you get a C in mindfulness, a C in control, which is a passing grade, right? It's not perfect. There'll still be stuff there, which you can then work on more and more and more, but if you care about something, if you're like, I'm worried about this, I'm worried about that, then you're going to be... then it's not going to be something that's causing tremendous problems.

0:47:14
So this is very, very important.

0:47:17
Important to understand.

0:47:18
All right, so how are we going to solve this problem? How are we gonna solve this problem? We're gonna solve this problem with the water. The water, we're going to open ourselves up to the water in our mystic scuba practices. The energy of the water, and like wash away. The water is really beautiful, a beautiful element. Wash away stress, frustrations, and through connection with water and practice of breath. So when we were sitting out there and we just felt the wind for a minute, wind is this natural energy, it's the energy that we experience in our breath. Water is a profound energy. I guess the breathing is profoundly powerful, but the water also has a beautiful powerful Element that we are tuning to so this is really What we're doing in this practice we are Going to practice mindful diving Mindful diving when you're diving observe your breath When you're diving, observe your state of mind. So tomorrow you're gonna just like, just dive, do the exercises, and then you're gonna say, what's my state of mind like? Like, let me just think.

0:49:02
Wait, I'm thinking.

0:49:02
No, wait, I'm not thinking.

0:49:04
So look at how much mental activity you have, just focusing on your breath, focusing on the underwater world, just start looking at your consciousness. Like underwater consciousness, underwater awareness. Start to become more aware of your awareness. Observing basic things like breathing, your exercises, the underwater world. So simply by doing, by having awareness underwater, you start to connect to this element of water and it and it really starts to help you get past a lot of places where you have stress and irritation. So this is one of the great things that we're going to be able to work on more and more over the week. It's just being relaxed in the water and letting our spirit and our being open up and be relaxed in the water.

0:50:15
This is very good.

0:50:17
And in general, you know, what you need to do is you need to cut the salt. Cut the salt. No salt. So I know we'll be in salt water but you know like so if you have high blood pressure what do you got to do? You got to cut the salt. No more salt. And if you have high mind pressure is what you guys have. You guys have high mind pressure. This is your stress level, high mind pressure. Your irritation, high mind pressure. Your inability to deal creates a high pressure. All of these like sufferings and intensities that you're experiencing, you guys have a very, very high mind pressure. So what we have to do is cut the salt. And the salt is the extra stuff you're adding. You're throwing you're throwing all this extra stuff into your mind. Now, if you don't throw that stuff in, you have a very nice, healthy, low mind pressure. So we have a little, you know how we have the Sutra from Mr. Xscuba? It's our little aphorism, we're saying, I want you to have a little mindfulness practice where when you start noticing your mind getting angry, bothered, upset, stress, thoughts, and all the things that create imbalance for you, I want you to say, cut the salt you're like I'm getting pitiful because of that person cut the salt just cut the salt so this is important this is the way through

0:52:44
yeah

0:52:47
So, let's get into Mystic Scuba. And one of the practices that we're going to do is something that we'll do right now, and this is something that you can do also anytime going forward. It is the sun, moon, hand, crapping. I said it in a Japanese accent. It's clapping. Tibetan lamas of the bone tradition, they would imagine that their right hand is the Sun with the solar energy, solar Chi, right? And then the left hand is the moon, energy of the Sun and the moon, they actually envision the Sun and the moon in their hand. And then if there's bad energy outside, or in some, you know, they would do it for someone who's going through some hard time in their head, or if they have a hard time in their head, whatever the stuck energy is or bad energy, they would go, that's it. So we're gonna practice that right now. I want you to find that stress, that irritation, that problem in your head, your thoughts, or your feelings, or your emotions. And then, we're going to make the sun and the moon, and then we're going to clap together. Okay, so just take you know about 30 seconds to to bring to mind this battered Warriors battering Ram of bad feelings bad emotions stress We're going to just clap and I'm going to clap like this and then everyone can clap at the same time and we'll do one big expellation. Expelling the stress and irritation, those heavy emotions. Okay, so just take about 30 seconds to bring it to And we're going to clap and it's going to be dispersed

0:55:36
Sun in the right hand, moon in the left hand. Woohoo! Okay, so in the Bon tradition, the llamas would go around and do that all over the place.

0:56:00
place so it's kind of like you know how like a Christian priest will walk into somewhere and if they see some problem they'll go oh right so the same way a Christian priest will do a little cross thing these guys do the little fluffy It's like, oi vey, something wrong is happening. Alright, good. So, yeah, the Jews are doing like little triangles. They're going, Jesus Christ, there's a lot of triangles to make here. Alright, very good. Mystic scuba. Okay. There's another exercise. So this, you can do at any time where you feel like it. Not a practice that you have to do, but if you notice some bad energy, give it a shot. Now, the next exercise is gonna be an exercise that we do underwater. And this is an exercise that probably some of you have done before. It is inhaling light and exhaling toxicity. Now, these exercises that we're doing now, these are, actually, there's probably some from the Mystic Scuba book, but these are the exercises that we have practiced before But it's exercises in addition to the Mystic Scuba so These exercises are specifically Qigong healing exercises They're for healing physical healing subtle physical and emotional These exercises go under the teachings of the mystic bodhisattva. Because they lead towards healing yourself and then also healing for others. Healing yourself in the subtle physical, healing others in the spiritual. So when we practice healing for others, we always practice spiritual healing. And spiritual healing is simply compassion. So we say to someone, Oh, I see your suffering, so let me take that suffering in and give you light. Now, when we're doing bodhicitta, it doesn't seem like the worst thing. I'm going to take in that person's suffering, it's going to kill me, and all that stuff. But we're working at a very, the dimensions of bodhicitta are very spiritual dimensions. They have nothing to do with your subtle physical body. So when you take in someone's dirty, dirty, dirty, unhappy suffering, it doesn't make your physical body sick. It's something that you're taking in at a very spiritual level, and you're giving light at a spiritual level. So when you give them light, if they've got physical pain or something, it's not going to make their physical pain better. It's going to illuminate their spirit. So the mystic bodhisattva teachings are teachings always of self-healing, healing physical, subtle physical, emotional, and always spiritual healing for others. Yes. Also, you know, Mystic Scuba is definitely not something that Rama taught us. He did teach us, you know, he did teach us scuba and really mystical dimensions that we experienced in scuba, but there's nothing formal, no formal practices. We would just go and do scuba diving and be like, wow, something amazing happened. You know, because you're going on these beautiful energy lines, you're in water, and Rama always said water is very detoxifying to the aura. So that alone, also your, you know, the partial pressure of oxygen, which we never talked about, but it's a huge factor. Greater chi of compressed air is definitely something that we experienced. So we just had all these magical experiences just diving. So for me, creating Mystic Scuba is just, it's kind of like an enhancement on that. It's a play on what to do with scuba, a little bit more structured, additional practices. I've done years and years of qigong, so naturally it makes sense to me. If you're breathing, if the point of scuba is breathing, if you're not breathing, there's a problem. You're dead, basically. So if the point of scuba is breathing, I'm like, well, why not do qigong in there? And then with healing nature of water, partial pressure of oxygen, greater qi of air, it makes sense and it has very positive results. So this is not one of our core teachings. We just do it for fun once in a while. We have martial arts, meditation, bodhicitta your day job and yoga You know, those are the core things that we do And those are things that Rama always taught but mystic scuba. It's just kind of a it's it's it's my way of playing drums And I hey, this is gonna do something silly But it's it's it's really fun and it changes It changes the pace and it gives us some good, it kind of falls under scuba diving and also martial arts because of the qigong. So, breathing in the dark. Wait, sorry. This is the opposite of bodhicitta. But we don't do it to a person. Like, oh, he looks pretty bright. I stole his light and I'm gonna give him my crap. So this is the opposite of Namasteeta. And it has nothing to do with another person. It has to do with focusing on healthy dimensions of the nature of the Chi of air. So when we do this practice, we envision this bright light coming in. Bright light. Why are you looking at your phone? What is it? You're taking notes. Oh, no, no, no. No taking notes. Yeah, the phone is the problem. Okay, so when you breathe in the light, this is the qi of air, and you imagine it as a brilliant white light coming in through your regulator. And you breathe it to the navel. That's the best place to breathe it to. And then when you exhale, you exhale darkness. And what you're doing with exhaling darkness is, you're feeling all the tensions in your shoulders, the heaviness in your aura, your anger, your stress, and you're just envisioning it shooting out of your mouth, or just off your body, right? Just off and out. This dark, as a dark cloud, or a bunch of dark clumps of tar or whatever, something dark and icky, you feel it and exhale it out of your aura and it's gone. Huge, powerful exercise for clearing the aura. Breathing in the chi of air, get rid of it and just getting rid of the dirty stuff. We're gonna practice this together, okay? We're gonna do eight breath cycles where we just go close our eyes, envision bringing the light in to the navel, and then just exhaling darkness. And you could go, or you can just go, you can do it silently, any way you want to do it. We're going to do eight breath cycles together. Beginning now.

1:05:18
Okay. You're welcome. Alright. Very good. So the hand sign for this is going to be in, out. Into the mouth, out of the mouth. Okay? So at some point on your dives, you're going to make a dive plan. You go, okay, maybe not on our first dive. Maybe the first dive we're just getting used to the water. Who knows?

1:06:13
Maybe on the second dive, we're going to do this at some point.

1:07:15
And

1:07:16
at any time where you're comfortable in the water, you can just do it while moving. But I'd like you to get to some point where you get negatively buoyant, you're sitting in the sand, or if you're a master at buoyancy, you can hover. And I just want you to just do the eight breath cycles very mindfully. And the cool thing is when you do it underwater, you notice a lot more profound experience because of the qi of air being in a compression and then also because you're in the water. So this is excellent. All right.

1:08:04
Now

1:08:05
we have to have a sense of our body. And we're going to be taking note and becoming aware of what's going on with our body and our aura. The first way is something that acupuncturists do all the time. They just want to get a feel of your total energy with an awareness of, it's a very intuitive awareness. They start diagnosis where they put the thumb in the middle of the palm. So either side, whatever you're comfortable with, the thumb in the middle of the palm, just holding the hand, right? Now what I'd like you to do is I'd like you to just feel that thumb in the center of the palm, that's chakra, and then I'd like you to just become aware of your whole body from head to toe. aware of how your energy feels, how your aura feels. So this is just body awareness from head to toe.

1:09:21
How does my head feel?

1:09:22
My neck.

1:09:25
Shoulders. Breathing. Arms.

1:09:26
Arms

1:09:28
Chest

1:09:30
Abdomen

1:09:32
Navel

1:09:34
Hips

1:09:36
Legs

1:09:38
Ankles

1:09:40
Feet. Toes. So this is just scanning with your mind. And you pick up intuitive feelings that are important for subtle practices. Now feel your energy feel like?

1:10:41
Good.

1:10:49
This is something that you can also check later. Not necessary, but sometimes maybe after diving you might feel, oh, that was really good. Let me just kind of do another kind of scan of my physical body, of my energy body, to see if I notice subtle differences. See if I notice what's going on. You might come out of a dive and be like, yeah, this is great. Let me see if I can pinpoint it and understand it more. So this is an important exercise just to start becoming aware of subtle things that are going to change as we do these breathing exercises. Another thing that we're gonna do is we're gonna do breath check. So this breath check is something that we're probably going to do nightly. And this is something that I want you to remember. The breath check. So with the breath check, first we're going to just sit here and observe our breathing. Alright? So just breathe normally in a relaxed way. Don't try to do any focus on breath. Just observe the breath.

1:12:09
Is your breath simple and relaxed? Is it forced?

1:12:14
Is it tight? Is it heavy? Is it light? Is it deep breathing or is it happening in the chest? Do you feel it in the throat? Back of the throat? Through the nose? Through the mouth? Does it become congested? Dammed anywhere? Does it feel like anything? Like you might say, yes, it feels like... a running river, you know. It feels like a swimming fish. You just try to get a sense of what your breathing feels like. Now this is important because we're going to write this down tonight in our dive log. So just the awareness of what your breath is like right now, we want to know, we want to make a note of in our dialogue. We want to see how breath changes over the week of practice. Okay, we're going to do another practice, or another practice, and it's to find your pulse. You can find it on your wrist or your neck. Because another important point of the breath check is to know your rate of breathing. Okay, so when I say start, you're going to start counting the heartbeat.

1:14:20
So, yeah, in this we're going to count the pulses in one minute.

1:14:29
And let's begin. This is heart rate. Okay.

1:14:49
Stop.

1:14:50
Did you guys all get your heart rate? Okay. Remember that, because that's going in your dialogue. And now we're going to count the number of breaths in one minute. So just continue to breathe normal and count your breaths beginning now You're welcome. And stop. You all know your breath rate. Okay, so two numbers to remember heart rate, breath rate, and also the feelings of your breathing. So it's very important that you that you write those things down in your dialogue.

1:15:49
Okay, a couple more exercises. Tomorrow we're going to do the healing ocean. And this is so important. You guys are, yeah, your mind pressure is really high. Your stress is really high. And you guys are doing, you know, you guys are doing a lot, striving a lot, having a hard time. You're going to bring to mind places where you want healing, or where you want to let go of stress, or you want to let go of enmity, or anger, or irritation. You want to let go of bad feelings. You can also let go of physical pain. You can say, I want to let go of a physical pain as well. or neutrally buoyant hover, we're going to bring to mind that pain, that specific thing that hurts you. And you're going to hold your arms like this, and then you're going to exhale and give it to the ocean. So this is the healing ocean from mystic scuba. One of my favorite exercises. It's a really beautiful exercise. This is a Taoist Qi Gong technique. And in Taoist Qi Gong, they're giving it to the Qi of air. They're giving the toxicity and suffering and whatever the thing is to air. And then air, of course, blows it away. But in our case, we're giving it to the water. And the nature of water is that water is detoxifying. So water takes that energy and just disperses it. So it's really important because you can't worry about, oh, I'm going to a beautiful place of power and crapping all over it. The nature of water is that it dissolves the stuff and it disappears in the water. So this is one of the ways that we use a place of power, the energy of the element to our advantage. At the same time, our meditation, mindfulness, and care not to step on the reef and stuff like that, is something that reflects positive energy to enrich and sustain the place of power. So, yeah, it's like if you walk into a warm room and you were outside and you were very cold, you don't diminish the warmth of the room, because the great. So the ocean is pure and it's great. And you're able to use its natural healing, detoxifying nature to give your horriblest suffering to. And the ocean just accepts it and it's all gone. For this exercise, this is the symbol. You guys should all do it at the same time, everyone on the dive team. It's a good exercise. Alright, so we have two exercises to do underwater already. So one is breathing in the light, exhaling the dark. The other one is the healing ocean but there's a third exercise that I'd like to do underwater and this exercise is the microcosmic orbit. The microcosmic orbit is a very very very positive exercise for energizing the whole aura, for getting your energy to move in a very, very healthy way. So where things are stagnant, where things are stuck in your aura, or there's some toxicity, once you start doing the microcosmic orbit, things get unstuck. So it's overall very, very, very healthy for the aura. So the microcosmic orbit, most of you will remember, is where we're going up and down the Ida and the Pagala. So it's not the Shishumna, it's the front energy line and the back energy line. So for example, when we meditate on the navel, we're meditating on the front energy line, the Dantian. When we're practicing Wu Wei Dou, oftentimes we're focusing on the back energy line for the navel, which is the Ming Men. So we use these energy lines, but here we actually are going to circulate Qi throughout the whole energy line. So to do that, we begin by inhaling to the navel. And we imagine our focus on the navel with white light in the navel. And then we exhale down. And as we exhale, we imagine that white light going from the navel chakra down to your very bottom point. What do they call that again? Perineum. Perineum, thank you. Yes, the perineum. And the light goes down to the very bottom point, the perineum, very important point, power. And then when we inhale again, the light goes all the way from the perineum up the back to the Ming Men and keeps on going up all the way to the crown for the top of the head and then we exhale down mindful of bringing our focus and attention with our breath that white light of attention as we breathe we're like you should feel like you're moving it with your inhalation. Attention and breath, focus and light. You don't lose it. It's all connected as you're blowing down to the perineum and as you're So let's practice eight breath cycles, starting with the navel. We inhale, white light to the navel, exhale that white light all the way down. Inhale.

1:24:45
Exhale. Inhale. Exhale. Inhale. Exhale. Inhale. Exhale. Inhale.

1:26:09
Exhale.

1:26:10
Alright, that's eight. Very good. Doesn't that feel good? Yeah. I really like that. Yes. yes inhale to the front, navel, and then down the perineum, which I think goes down to the floor

1:26:37
it's to the bottom point of your torso. root chakra area, yeah.

1:26:44
and then breathe in up the spine to the top.

1:26:46
yeah. and then what does the exhale there do?

1:26:50
then when you exhale, back to the to the root. The root. All right, so yeah, this is a really nice exercise. It's really wonderful to do underwater. Best to do this negatively buoyant, or if you have a reef line, you can use a reef line, or if you're a master hoverer, then it's so fun. I like to do all my exercises hovering now. I used to like to do them negatively buoyant, but since I'm a master hover reader, I like it this way. But know your capabilities, because you are doing slow inhalations and exhalations, so if you're inhaling, you start to have an uncontrolled ascent, that would be embarrassing. All right, so these are these are exercises for tomorrow. Three exercises. Inhale the dark, exhale the light. Healing ocean and then and then the circle circle around the fist. This is the microcosmic orbit. Very simple. Good, good, good. And then of course, you know, if you want, you've got your sun-moon hands to destroy yourself in the right way instead of battering yourself in the wrong way yeah and I think I think tomorrow will be our our first and exciting mystic scuba dive day I do want you to do your dive logs so on your dive logs yeah I mean yeah note your depth note your dive site. You can note any interesting fish that you see. But in this dive log, you gotta write down your experiences. And it's best if you can do your dive log right after your dive, because underwater awareness, right? When you're underwater, you're in an altered consciousness because of the nature of water. Then when you get out, people forget what happened underwater. It's funny, lots of divers do this. When you're underwater, you see a manta ray, and you're like, wow, that was amazing. Then you get up, and then you just forget what you saw. You're just like, oh, just finished a dive. You're in another dimension at that point. So people forget that dimensional awareness and the good things that you can be aware of under the sea, right? So it's best if right when you get out, you can get some paper and scribble down and then maybe later put it in a computer or something or if you have a dive log book, just do it. So log your mystical experiences. Log your awareness. It might be like I saw a fish and it was glowing, right? Or it might be I did the microcosmic orbit and I really felt the energy move and it was really beautiful. I felt like my aura was becoming bright. Whatever your experiences, your mystical experiences, even if they're very slight, I felt light when I did this exercise. That alone is good enough, if that's as little as you're aware of. But whatever mystical or subtle awarenesses you have, write those down. It's very important for your tonal to be able to bridge the gap of awareness. Excellent. So this is going to be fun and bright. So tomorrow, now we're going to go into diet of planning. What's that? Oh yeah, let's take a break. Restroom break.

1:31:53
Okay.

1:31:54
Restroom break, no mistake. Restroom break, no mistake.

1:31:55
We can turn the lights on.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
