0:00:00
All right, very good.

0:00:12
So I see that you guys have survived August. That's good. That's an accomplishment. But I also noticed you haven't survived yourself yet. In fact, I think the self is surviving your enlightened nature. A little too strongly. So you guys have been acting poorly. Like at the last seminar, I said over and over, especially when you're suffering, especially when you're hurt, especially when something's really difficult, that is the time to chill out from following your karma that just leads you to suffering, and to really, really deeply consider bodhicitta, wind horse, drama, compassion, mindfulness. And that went right out the window, in one chakra, out the other. Now, again, I'm here to remind you, It is the practice of the Dharma in the face of suffering that liberates you from suffering. It is the practice of Karma that leads you into greater suffering. So when you are reacting and acting, and you agree with your suffering, and you point blame, you're creating a worse situation for yourself. You're telling yourself, in life, I want to suffer more. Because I don't have the balls to be mindful. To take my experience, to take my suffering, and start dealing with it in a way of truth, in a way of dharma, in a way that's going to actually bring you to wisdom and understanding and freedom from suffering. So, you have to have more courage than that. You have to be stronger And strength is the resolve to deal with life's difficulties in a way of compassion, in a way of mindfulness, and then just drop them. Just not practice them. That would be like, you know, learning a martial arts technique, a self-defense technique that really could work, that really helps you, and then you get into an attack and you just don't do it. You say, no, I'm not going to summon the presence of mind to do this one simple attack that will save my life. I'm just going to sit here and be weak and let myself get hurt. You have to be a warrior. A warrior summons their power to succeed, to overcome obstacles, to get themselves out of suffering by using the techniques that And there's in the in the sangha there's a lot of different varieties of negligence lots of different varieties occurring now. So, you know, life is like a bunch of chocolates. You know that from Forrest Gump, right? Life is like a bunch of chocolates. You open the box, you eat one, and maybe it's your favorite one, but otherwise just be some other sweet thing that you're okay with. But I know I saw this box of chocolates, like a prank box of chocolates, and it had bad tasting chocolates. Yeah, remember they had jelly beans like that too? Like vomit flavor jelly beans. This box of chocolates does the same thing. So like it would have, and it had funny names too. Like it had, to get out of the toilet for a moment, it had Rocky Road, and Rocky Road just tasted like dirt. You know, so it was like, okay, that's funny, I like that. But it also had, you know, I forgot the name, they had funny names but uh you know like poo flavored and I think they had one called skunks ass I'm like how would they know what a skunk's ass tastes like? so anyway sometimes your box of chocolates is not sweet sometimes you get the prank life gives you the prank box of chocolates and then whatever chocolate you pick is gonna be bad. There's this movie, Would You Rather. Did anyone see it? Maybe we'll see that tonight. Would You Rather. It's either one bad thing or another. It's not a great movie, but there's a clone of one of my old students in it. But, Demir. Demir's brother is an actor and he's in movies and stuff. So every once in a while I'm watching a movie and I'm like, Demir! Oh wait, that's his brother. Twin brothers. So anyway, Would You Rather. Yeah, maybe we'll watch that tonight. Not a great film, but it gives you just, you know, it's your prank box of chocolates. So you have difficult things that come up. And that's true. And that's difficult. And it's hard. And a spiritual warrior does not indulge. A spiritual warrior doesn't just agree with the suffering and say, yes, I suffer and I'm going to just suffer. Yes, I suffer and I'm going to follow it and I'm going to point blame and I'm going to just keep going down that path of suffering. That's not what a spiritual warrior does. A spiritual warrior fights back with bodhicitta, mindfulness. If you don't do that, then you're going to always be in that suffering, always be in that peril. So you have to be a spiritual warrior. So what's your box of chocolates? One important thing to understand in your box of chocolates, in whatever chocolate It ends up being for me painful Physically painful so I Have for a while. I've had this scale of my oric physical subtle physical health on a scale of one to a hundred and And so, you know I used to be like, oh I'm at around a 75 or a 95. Right now, I'm around a 60. And it's just been slowly going down, slowly going down, getting worse. And the way and the reason that this goes down or up is always mostly dependent on how well my students are handling their shit, their candy, their chocolates, their shit. So if my students are handling it well, they're dealing with their lives with mindfulness, compassion, they're working on impeccability, they're developing themselves, they're meditating, they're doing their Wu-Wang-Do martial arts, right? When you guys are in a good spirit, then there's a beautiful flow of energy in you. And sure, you might have some hard times, but there's still a beautiful flow of positive energy that is luminous and selfless. It's selfless. You lift off, lift up above karma. And you struggle too. But there's something about your spirit that is elevating. So when that's happening, then I'm then I'm happy. But when it's going the other way down, where you attach to the self, you attach to your karmas, where you aren't practicing mindfulness, where you aren't practicing meditation, yoga, martial arts, right? When you aren't being a spiritual warrior, then you all of a sudden go into this horrible spin-out of self. And when that happens, you create toxicity. And you're toxic, and you know it, because you're all weird, so. But you and I have a very, very close relationship, an open relationship. So then I receive toxicity from you. Yes, so, you know, me being your teacher, your spiritual teacher, means that my heart is open to you, my aura is open to you, because it gives you, there's a benefit from that. In that connection, to me, you're connected to my teacher Rama, and his light comes through me. And it is a great aid in your enlightenment and your empowerment. But then if what you're sending back to me, when I'm open, if you're sending back to me negativity and toxicity, then it makes me get sick. You guys might remember a few years ago, we were on the beach in Carmel on an equinox and I said I'm about I'm around 55 54 something like that right and I said you guys doing a really bad job we had the whole equinox try to fix it it didn't fix it and then I said all right no more meditation seminars and so seminars. And so for a while I just disappeared, right? And then you guys continued on with yoga and stuff like that, but there were no meditation seminars. And meditation seminars are important. They're powerful milestones of practice and teaching. So that's an unfortunate thing. And there was a time when I was in Chicago with the SC3s where my scale went low into the 50s and I said, OK, I'm out of here. So Mondalo was there to work with everybody. We were working on one yoga team. And I had to take off. I had to be away. So there's only so much I can take. And the reason I can't take more is because it will make me sick. So I have to move away so that I can, I have to kind of disconnect so that I don't have that toxicity. And then I'm able to get better. But it takes some time. It might take four to six months, like the other cases. So I would like that not to happen. And that happens in several ways that you regard me. So some people stalk me you're stalking you you're just trying you're trying to line me out you want to know everything I'm doing where I'm going you know you're you're looking at my car to see if I'm here. You're looking at my house to see if the light's on. Stuff like that. And you do it, you know, also at a deep psychic level. So what that is doing is you're, it's stalking me. It's like a hunter stalks prey. And it's very uncomfortable, and you're shooting lines of energy out to ping me to see where I am. Where's Sambara? That's unnecessary. It's bad etiquette. You have no reason to do that. That doesn't help you in any way. You know, when I'm here, I'm here. You know, I usually say what I'm going to do. I'm like, okay, I'm going to come do meditation tonight. I'm going to be at, you know, cocktail hour on Wednesday. I'm going to do office hours on Saturday. So, those are the times where I'm open and teaching. Other times, you should kind of leave me alone and not worry and not not have concern or worry about me because that's just a pain in the ass this is for Bode Woodsy ends now this is also you know I'm gone. I'm out of there. If you guys are sitting there, because this is in a house. At least here I have my own little cabin. Little cabin in the woods. But if you guys are stopping me in my own house, I'm not going to be in that house. I will disappear. disappear so this is very important don't do it some of you get jealous of me or jealous of other people talking to me so you're like why is Sambara talking to her so long why is Sambara like talking to him that way, and stuff like that. So, first of all, bad idea, getting jealous. It creates very bad karma. So, if I'm talking to somebody, I'm doing it for a reason. And then, all of your reasoning is within your karma. But the way that I see the whole school and see everybody in the school and see the Dharma is a way, I have an effective methodology, an effective way to teach. So sometimes I might be talking to someone for a long time and you don't know why. It's none of your business. So and then if you see me talking to someone, like a lot of times I'll be talking to someone and I'll act a certain way. It's because that is the way that's appropriate to act with that person. So sometimes people get upset about that. People are like, we used to get this a lot, Sanvara, every time you hang out with Dharma, then you come back and you act like Dharma. Or like, when you're sitting there talking to Dharma, you're like, talking to him like, different. Stuff like that, you know. And I'm like, whatever. You know, I'm talking to Dharma that way because that's what works. So here's the thing. My relationship with every student is a very deep relationship. And I have an open heart and a direct connection with each of my students' hearts. So I love each of my students very, very, very deeply, and I do my best. And I know something. Give me a little credit. I know something. I know the right way to do things. I know what helps, I know what works. And I do things that help, and I do things that work. You guys might have experienced that yourself. So don't, when you see me talking to someone in a way that bothers you, don't be bothered. I'm talking to, I'm dealing with them perfectly for their enlightenment. If I'm talking to someone for a long time, you don't like it, don't get jealous. Here's what happens when you get jealous, you start creating this bad karma. And what the jealousy will do is that karma will draw you away from what you're jealous of. So if you're like, oh, Sambara is talking to that person, and I want to talk to Sambara, and I'm jealous of that other person, then what will happen is just not by anyone's doing but your own you've created a karma that starts to repel you For being able to be that close and talk to me so if you have Jealousy you have to Get rid of it. You got to throw it away And you have to start you have to start being inspired rather than jealous so this is very important you have to relate to me with etiquette it's very important now some of you don't have a direct issue with me but you have a direct issue with yourself. And you're indulging in negativity. So you're indulging in being attached, right? So attached to ideas, attached to personal history. So ideas of yourself and personal history. Those two come up quite a bit, limited ideas of the self. You're like, I am like this, I am like that. And when you experience those ideas, you directly experience suffering from them. And when you're experiencing that suffering, you're not practicing bodhicitta. You're not practicing wind force. You're just locked in to those ideas, those concepts of self. You have to make a hole in it. And the way you make a hole is with the Dharma. The way you make a hole is by practicing bodhicitta. If you take a great piece of suffering and you practice Bodhicitta, then what happens is you understand, you come to understand that suffering. You transform that suffering into wisdom. And that experience of pain and suffering and darkness becomes luminous and And when you are experiencing suffering, because it's difficult, because it hurts, then there is a strong reason for you to say, wait a minute, I don't want this suffering. I don't want to follow this way. It's going to happen again and again and again. I'm going to start to make a hole with Bodhicitta. I'm going to take that suffering and I'm gonna turn it around.

0:23:16
And some of you experience attachment.

0:23:20
Attachment to personal history. Attachment. And attachment strangles the spirit. It doesn't help anything. So if you're thinking about your personal history, the only thing that's going to set you free, make you happy, is to let go of that attachment. You hanging on to a situation, a person, a place, a thing, a noun of the past, if you're hanging on to something in the past, all you're doing is limiting yourself, strangling your heart, and it doesn't do the thing in the past any good. Zero good. So the only thing that you're doing is causing yourself suffering over it. Therefore, you you got to let go and sometimes your attachment Causes the thing in the past suffering so letting go is the way to give it the chance to grow and You the chance to grow and be free Depression so depression Depression. So, depression keeps coming up with some people. Depression is very difficult. It's very, very difficult. I remember one time I had a friend, an ST2, his name was of you know him, but he has bipolar disorder, manic-depressive. And it's actually, you know, it's a physical karma. It's a mutated gene and therefore it's something physical. But I remember one time he went over to Rama to ask for healing, because Rama was a master, master healer. And he went over to Rama and he said, hey, you know, I just got this diagnosis, can you heal me with it? And Rama looked at him and said, there's nothing wrong with you. I see nothing wrong with you. And he said, everybody experiences those feelings. Everybody experiences those thoughts. Everybody does. So it is a matter of your mind. It's a matter of you directing your mind to Dharma when you experience those thoughts. So depression is so heavy and deep and hard and painful, a way out. And the way out ultimately is through directing your mind to Dharma. Now, maybe you're bipolar or something, and in this lifetime you will probably always struggle with it. But you can learn to struggle with it effectively. Like a diet of the mind, you focus on certain things, you take in certain things, and other things you leave behind, right? And then if you do a good job in your next incarnation, you won't have that problem at all. You will beat it. And also, it's probably possible to totally beat it in this lifetime. But how likely that is, but I know absolutely through bodhicitta, through compassion and mindfulness, you can get to the point where you don't fall into that pit. See, some of you are dealing with samskaras, very, very deep past life tendencies, karmas that you've experienced again and again and again and again and again, and then it's like really, really, really, really heavy and it seems impossible to get out of. So, for those of you who have depression, this is the case. It is a deep samskara. That's why it seems impossible to get out of. But it's possible because that's what enlightenment is. It's getting out of that. Now, I have too. I just don't fall into them anymore. Like I'm walking along the path of life and then I see, oh, there's that deep ravine that I keep walking into. And then I learned how to jump over it. Now, if I was unmindful, I would fall into that ravine again and I would suffer the same kind of suffering I used to suffer. But knowing there's a deep ravine, knowing my samsara, understanding it completely, through and through, knowing the ways around it, I don't fall into it anymore. Which is great. It makes your life so much better when you don't fall into those pitfalls. So that's what you guys are doing. This is what Buddha said, you know, dukkha, suffering is like a wheel on a cart where one part of it is shaved flat. It's like you're just going along in life and then all of a sudden, ka-chunk! It's like, oh no, this really bothers me, right? You guys are walking along, fall into a pit, fall. Ah, that's just horrible. Then you climb out, you're walking along, fall into the same thing again. The way to understand the way out and through and over and beyond the pitfalls is Bodhicitta. It's Dharma. It's mindfulness. It's meditation. It's everything that we do. But I'm especially directing you guys towards mindfulness, when you start to fall, you're able to start to understand how to free yourself. But if you're not mindful, then you just fall in, and it's like, splat, ouch. Yes. Now, it. Why do you do it? You do it because you misperceive life. If you saw life in a way of truth and balance, then you'd say, oh, there's a pitfall, I'm not going to fall into it. But you look at life in an incorrect way. You have an incorrect view of life. It is a partial way. It's in the transient half, the way of half. It's like you're looking through life, here's what you guys are doing, you're looking through life the way you might look in a mirror. So you look in the mirror and you see yourself, but that's not you. Just like if you're in front of a mirror and you hold a book up. The words are backwards, right? You guys know how a mirror works? But this is very important, because this is how you see life. You see life as a reflection in a mirror, which is backwards. You're not seeing the truth. you're seeing you're seeing life in a false way and when you see life that way and it's like you're walking around like oh yeah looking through the mirror then you run into lots of trouble because you're not you're not seeing things straight you know that book through the looking glass, you know, the Alice in Wonderland. I think this was a different book, but Alice was sitting there talking to her cat in front of a mirror and she said, you know, that is not reality. That's a different world. And she said to her cat, you know, imagine if there's, you know, milk in the mirror world, maybe drinking that milk is not the same as drinking milk in this world. Which is interesting Because you know Milk is just a bunch of Formations of atoms, right? You know that make up molecules, but those formations of atoms could be considered to be like you know, if viewed in the mirror, it's backwards. So let's take a formation of atoms. Let's say that it looks like a screw or a spring. So if you take a spring and you follow your finger around the coil of the spring, you might find that you're coiling around clockwise. But if you're looking at it in the mirror, you're coiling around the other way. So in this life, you're coiling one way, but in the milk are, let's say, a coil, a construct. And then in the milk, in the mirror, it's a counterclockwise coil, which is like something different, right? Which is kind of interesting. But that's what... I mean, scientists do this. They make different particles opposite, like it's in the mirror. So they can make a electron or they can make what's the other one the opposite? Positron? Yeah, proton. I'm sorry. I did it! And I'm getting into my, you know, physics, quantum physics, which is very interesting. Yeah, so scientists do that, and actually, I read an article, there was a spearmint gum. They do that to make their spearmint flavor. They take like atoms from like the carawax seeds and then they flip it to be the mirror image of it. And then instead of tasting like, you know, carawax seeds, that's stuff they put in rye bread, then it tastes like spearmint. And they find that that's the most efficient way to flavor their gum. Isn't that interesting? It's crazy. So they're mad chemists. Yeah. So, yeah, so, you know, there's one way that things can be and then there's the opposite way that things can be. Things are really like that, you know, it's like yin and yang or the reflection of another thing. And that's the way it really, really, really is in the world. And actually, you know, so in physics, they call it left-handed and right-handed. So one would be positive, one would be negative. But they have found that all life from teddy bug to a blue whale is all left-handed. We're all on this side of the mirror. And then there's the opposite side of the mirror. It's quite fascinating. Anyway, so we are, you know, looking at our lives in a wrong way, essentially. Oh, there's an interesting story It's a it's an old an old Greek Legend, so there was this guy who looked at he went to a lake or a river or something and he looked at his his reflection and then He was looking at his reflection, and then he somehow merged with his reflection and Then when he merged with his reflection he became like a ball he became this whole ball and then he started to ascend and then he was ascending past Mount Olympus and the Zeus saw him and he was going to go higher than the gods so then Zeus hit him with a thunderbolt, lightning bolt or whatever, and then he split back. And then he was separate from his reflection again. So, essentially, it's the merging of the left hand and the negative, that come together and then that's enlightenment. That's where, and that's also like, yeah, that's no self, or that's the union. So, well, so this is your error. It is in looking at the reflection, being on one side and looking at the reflection of life and seeing incorrectly. This is where this idea of self comes, this incorrect idea of self comes, including samskaras. This is where there is attachment. This is where there is the crucial disconnection of of the unity of self. Now, you should look at things differently. And this is why we practice bodhicitta. Because bodhicitta is where it all comes together. That's where the vision comes together. Bodhicitta takes the self and the separate view and it brings them into one. So then you could become a ball of light and if you're fast enough you can get past Zeus. It's kind of interesting. Now

0:39:30
Towards me you can't

0:39:33
You can't personalize me

0:39:35
You have to really see me as a force of nature And not and not and not my caretaker personality So you should regard me the way a surfer regards a wave. There's a wave! The wave's coming in! If you catch it, it takes you somewhere and it's fun. But you have to have proper etiquette with the wave. You have to know how to work with the wave. And you can't be like, oh I want the wave to go a little bit more straight or a little more to the left, because that would be cooler. I want the wave to be a little smaller wave, a little bit slower.

0:40:36
Yeah.

0:40:38
No, no, no, no, no. You have to regard me as a wave, because I don't particularly make self-choices. So a teaching will come through me that comes through me. That's it. So I am open to my teacher, his life, and powerful teachings will come through me. And because you're my student, you'll be connected to it, and then that wave will hear you. And then you'll say, you did this, you did this, you did this. I'm like, I didn't do nothing. Of course it wouldn't happen if I wasn't here, but I don't do nothing. I don't do nothing. No, I do do nothing. I do nothing and then the wave comes but then you'll personalize it you'll say oh that was you being very kind oh that was you being a jerk that was you doing something I didn't like that's you doing blah blah blah whatever you you will you will you will look at me in a way of your karma I am NOT your karma. So when you're dealing with me, you're like, oh this is just like that thing I've experienced before with this person or that person and therefore this is what it is. Oh no it's not. So yeah, so I am NOT your karma. I'm not about your karma, and I'm not here for you to create more karma. The light that comes through me brings you beyond karma. The teachings that come through me bring you beyond karma. So don't think... You know, it's like in The in the Matrix, remember when Agent Smith was going around making people into more Agent Smiths? Trying to make Neo into Agent Smith. I'm not gonna be no Agent Smith. And you guys remind me of that scene where he's like fighting like all the Agent Smiths. I'm like, oh, that's how I feel. Eventually, he had to fly away. So yes, you know, it's important. So Shiva was always talking about, you have to regard your teacher from the heart chakra up. It's a cool way of talking about it. It's not about karma, it's not about all the physical things in the world. It's about heart. It's about love and light and wisdom and enlightenment. And even if we're eating together, even if we're cleaning up Bodhi Woods together, those are physical things. Those are things of the lower chakras. Eating would be like the root chakra. Except for I bring different dimensions to eating. So that's the thing. Any interaction with me, even if it's a physical thing or a boring thing, a involved in it. There is enlightenment in it. So if you start looking at me in the physical way, we'll be sitting here meditating, you'll just be like, we're just sitting around. Sambara's just sitting there. Just sitting, that's it. But yeah, just sitting. No, it's just sitting. When you look at things in the physical way, you get down to nothing's magic. Everything's boring. Everything's just physical world. Everything's karma. Everything's the lowest garbage I can imagine. That's where you bring it down to. But we can do the lowest garbage you can imagine and have enlightenment in it. And that's what we do. That's what a Bodhi Woods work day is. Digging in dirt. It's powerful. Digging in dirt. It's bright. So the things that we do together, the hard things that we have to do, a physical day job. That's usually to a spiritual person, how? I don't want to do that. It's hard and heavy. But we take it on and we have a whole different dimension a dimension of power dimension of enlightenment In doing something that we would normally say is such a physical boring thing right So what we do is of the higher chakras Even when we do physical things This is important Don't get confused. When you get caught up in your karmas, in the self, you start to just go, oh man, I don't know what's going on. And you get lost, it gets dark, you get You've got to come back to practice. So it's like I'm a lighthouse. I'm showing you what's around. I'm showing you what not to crash into. Again and again and again.

0:46:22
Teaching after teaching.

0:46:23
Like that light coming around. Oh, okay. I'm gonna crash if I head into that, right? But if you're so deluded and so thinking weird thoughts and stuff, you won't even pay attention to the lighthouse. It shows you where not to go and where to go. So we have got to survive yourself together. So like So, like I told you, you know, you have a really, really hard time, I'm in this with you. I'm like, you're not just off on your own, I'm in this with you. That's why I tell If it was pleasant, whatever. But, you know, that's why these teachings are important. It's important for you to follow them. It's important to recognize the opportunity for liberation from your suffering. It's important to practice that which leads to liberation, which is the Dharma. It's important when suffering comes up not to indulge, but to direct your mind to Dharma for real. the self. So, we're at a point where I want to turn it around. It's been going bad enough, long enough. Agreed? Agreed. Okay. So, I'd like to turn it around where we tighten up, practice the Dharma. When we feel suffering, we don't just get upset, we go, okay, okay, this is suffering. Let me start going through the steps of Bodhicitta. That's where the spirit lifts. You will experience that suffering probably again and again for a while, but if every time you experience it, the spirit lifts because you're practicing compassion, then you start to create space from that karma. Then you figure out every time how to get out of it right away. Or at least the spirit lifts. And how to turn your considerations of suffering into considerations of Dharma. And eventually that becomes wisdom and light. And then there's nothing else. It's like that thing hits and you turn it into light right away. That's where bodhicitta brings you. So imagine your greatest suffering, right? You're like, oh, this is so bad, oh, this is so bad, oh, this is so bad. Now imagine if you master your bodhicitta, as soon as that suffering rears its ugly head, you blast off into compassion and light. The light of compassion is so beautiful. It opens your heart and you're full of brightness. So that suffering triggers liberation. It triggers light. It's actually not suffering. You're just deluded. You think it is. So practice compassion. This is what we're going to do together. We're going to start practicing compassion. We're going to survive the self.

0:51:07
Okay. Thank you. Oh wait, wait. I have a

0:51:15
Survive the Self song. A Survive the Self song. A Survive the Self song. I'm just going to listen to some music.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
