0:00:00
Alright, now I would like to clearly recapitulate, let me tell you again, the tantra teaching. structure and awareness of Tantra is in the school. These are the teachings that I teach and these are identical to the teachings that Rama taught all of his students. So first This is the school of Tantra. But my teacher never taught physical Tantric sex. He always taught Tantra the union of the opposites that bring you to an eternal enlightened awareness. He taught all of that in a spiritual way, not in a physical way.

0:01:28
Please translate.

0:01:30
I would like to briefly summarize the teaching of tantricism for you. What is the structure and what is the kind of attention that the tantra has in our school. And this teaching is exactly the same as the teaching that my teacher taught me. My teacher, Rama, taught. Our school is a tantric school, but in this school we do not teach the physical tantric sex. Rama taught the unity between opposites, the unity of opposites, the yin-yang, the male, the female, But he did it in a spiritual way, not physically.

0:02:27
Rama, like myself, recommended to the students that they don't enter sexual relationships. That was his recommendation, that is my recommendation.

0:02:46
The reason why is because sexual relationships tend to drain your personal power for most people.

0:03:17
Please translate.

0:03:18
The main reason why you lose energy is because of passion. So you might notice, if you've had a girlfriend or a boyfriend before, or it drains so much energy. Or you see that you're putting so much energy into that person. Women do this a lot. They're like, oh, this is my man, I'm just going to put all of my energy into that relationship. Right? And for men, it generally is that when you have a sexual relationship that your meditation practice goes down. Your personal power goes down. Your yoga goes down. Your mindfulness goes down. Just because you're spending subtle physical energy in other places. Your aura and your subtle physical energy have to be high to meditate, to be mindful, and to do yoga well. To do spiritual practice well, a man has to have high spiritual, subtle, physical energy. For a woman, a woman can have sex and keep her energy high much more easily. Women tend to put so much energy and focus on the relationship with the man, that there is no room for spirit anymore. Rama said the number one reason why women don't become enlightened is men.

0:05:31
And this is true.

0:05:32
Because women see that a man is their power. Women say, my husband is what could make me powerful in this life. Not me. Not me going to get a job to be powerful, to be able to live on my own. That's what men do. I'm going to marry some woman who's going to be successful and take care of me. Men don't do that. Most. Most. But women put their power into a relationship and a man because they want to get their personal power in life from that man's success. This is very, very, very spiritually defeating for a woman. So this is what I mean. All of these factors are factors of attachment. Please translate.

0:06:40
that you lose energy in sexual relations, then this energy loss is due to addiction.

0:06:47
You must have noticed that if you have a friend or a girlfriend, when they press your buttons, how angry you can be and how much energy you lose through this. Then, in the case of women, the energy loss mainly comes from the fact that they invest an incredible amount of energy in the man they are with. They say, yes, he is my man and I put my energy into this relationship. their meditation practices are deteriorating, their personal strength is declining, their self-confidence is declining, because they are losing a lot of physical energy in other places, in their beds. In the case of men, in order to be successful in these things, it is very important to maintain their spiritual energy high and it's very difficult to achieve this in a relationship. For women, this is easy. Women are easily able to live a sexual life and at the same time move on a high spiritual level. Yes, but the problem with them is that when they are in a relationship, they put all their energies in a relationship and thus they lose their energy. My teacher said that the first reason why women do not become enlightened is because of men. And it is true, because women see men as their strength. that here is my husband and he will strengthen me. He will take care of me, instead of building their lives on their own strength. Men don't think like that. They go, build, do, but most men don't say that I will find a wife who will take care of me. I find myself a mother who can stand it. I'm sorry, I'm a bit tired. So, women simply lose their personal power because of this. Because if they lose their power from a man, it is spiritually very, very harmful for them. Additionally for women, men have a very coarse, dense aura. Women have a very porous, open aura. When you have sex, it damages the woman's aura. It rips it and puts bad energy into it. So this is something that's also damaging. If a woman's aura is damaged and broken from sex, then she can't practice because her energy

0:10:13
body is not strong enough. And please translate.

0:10:21
Then, women can add to this that their men have very deep auras, and women have very fine, porous, very delicate auras. And if your aura is broken or damaged, you can't practice because your energy body can't keep the light. in sex, which makes it hard to meditate. Attachment for men and women is where people lose personal power. So that is why Rama recommended no sexual relationships. Please translate. So, once again, men lose their energy during sex.

0:11:24
The aura of women is destroyed during sex.

0:11:30
And for both men and women, meditation becomes increasingly difficult.

0:11:37
Now, the way that we learn about Tantra is, you know, like monks would look at these pictures, right? They would look at these pictures, these tantras, they would have meditations, visions of the Bodhisattva with his consort having sex. So the Buddhist monks in the Himalayas would visualize these and paint these. And through this visualization, it was not something that the monk would get sexually aroused about physically. It's something that would raise their Kundalini. It's the way that you would learn about Tantra, not having sex, but the spiritual vision of the feminine and the masculine in unity. As the organizers were learning the tantra at that time, they were meditating on tanks. And they had a vision of how the illuminated becomes one with its partner. they did not physically get excited, but instead they raised their Kundalini energy, as if they were seeing a kind of spiritual vision of the feminine and masculine unity. our lineage, we do teach Tantra, but we don't teach Tantra in physical sex. I teach Tantra using sexual energy for women and for men, but it's not a physical sexual energy. Agni Kala did this when he had the women get up and do the drumming together. This was a kind of Tantra teaching for women. And then he had the men dancing around. And that was sexual energy for men. So I do this as well. I teach my students with sexual energy, not physical, but it is a sexual energy that creates that union for them. And I do it for the women, I do it for the men. It has nothing to do with physical sex, it has everything to do with that spiritual unity. I'll translate. Rámo, csak úgy mint én, csak úgy mint Agnika, le is csak úgy mint mindent tanár Every teacher in our family teaches tantra, but not in the physical form of sex. I also use sexual energy in teaching tantra, but it is not a physical, but a spiritual energy. When the men danced, there was also. But this is not happening on a physical level, but on a spiritual level. I also use sexual energy with my students for teaching. With women and men as well. But it has nothing to do with physical sex. It helps them in the spiritual unity.

0:16:05
So now you're clear on the teaching. In this school, the teaching as Rama taught it. However, Rama also said there are no rules.

0:16:27
And he said, it's fine if you have a sexual relationship. sexual relationships. Please translate. So it's important for you to know what works for you. So if you are in a sexual relationship and it works for you, then okay.

0:16:50
You know, you kind of figure out where you want to be, right? You know that if you're by yourself, you're going to have more personal power. But because of reason one, two, three, four, five, you're in a relationship, maybe you've got family, kids, and all sorts of things. You just do the best you can. You get these teachings for greater awareness, right? And you get the recommended way. But, if you find yourself, you know, oh, but I really want a relationship, and it's a desire I can't shake, well then have the relationship. Because it's better than being a hypocrite or sitting there thinking about it all the time and struggling with it, right? So you know, you do what you gotta do. You do what is gonna happen. But you always temper it. Is this just a desire I could drop or I understand that this isn't good for me, so is this something I can let go of?" And sometimes no. Sometimes you say, no, I want the relationship, I'm going to do it, but you have to do it in a way where it works best for you. So, if you find that it really doesn't work, that your energy is so low, that you're really getting hurt, that you have no personal power, that you can't meditate, all these things, if you find that it's so low, then you'll probably want to get out of it. But if you find it's in a place where you can moderate it, where you can work with it, where it's okay,

0:18:41
and that's what you want to do, then that's fine. Please touch it. So it's very important that you know what works for you. If you are in a relationship and it works for you, then it's okay. Then bring out the best you can and use the lessons to be more aware in this relationship. There may be certain people who are not aware of what you are doing, and you use the lessons to be more aware in this relationship. There may be certain points that you immediately decide to keep in touch, you have children, family, other things, and you try to operate this relationship in the best way possible for yourself. And you know that if you were alone, you would have more personal strength, but somehow you balance this thing. Or, if you feel inside that you have an incredible desire and you can't shake this desire off yourself that you are in a relationship, then go and be in a relationship. Much better than if you were just thinking about this and being in love with this all the time. If there is this desire and you can't let go, yes, sometimes you say, I don't want to let go, I don't want to let go, but I want to live the relationship. But then you do it so that it works best for you. But if it doesn't work, and you feel that the energy is completely down, that you can't meditate, that your life is falling apart, then get out of it.

0:20:25
So if you are in a relationship, you don't have to freak out and get a divorce or something like that. You should be seeing that every month your meditation becomes stronger. You have to look clearly at how you're doing every month. Is your meditation getting stronger? If it's not, chances are you're losing energy from your relationship, which means your meditation won't get very good. Some people are okay with that. I'm not, personally. I would personally want my meditation to be very good more than have a relationship. But people are different. So you have to see that your bodhicitta becomes stronger every month. You can watch month by month by month. Sometimes it looks horrible, but then the next month you see that it actually worked out to get higher. So this is over a long period of time. I don't suggest any rash decisions. Watch things for six months. See how it goes. And you should see that your yoga is stronger and more successful month after month after month. And that shows you that those three things are going in the right direction. Your relationship is working. It's okay. If you see that your medication is bad or your yoga is bad, if any one of those three things is bad, then you are losing energy from your relationship. That's the first and foremost place where people lose energy. So you go, okay, I've got to fix my relationship. So, if you worry it's broken, try and fix it. But, if you cherish that relationship, if you want that relationship, you could also summon more personal power and say, okay, my meditation is bad, but I like my relationship. I'm going to really work on my meditation really hard so that I can meditate and be in this relationship. It's like a martial artist, right? You might get a horrible knee injury and it messes you up, but you can say, I'm still going to be a good fighter because I'm going to work on certain techniques that I could be very strong in without having the mobility or techniques that I could have if my knee was working properly. So you can adjust and change by summoning more personal power. But always look at, is your meditation strong? Is your mindfulness and bodhicitta strong? Is your yoga strong? Because if it isn't, most likely you're losing energy in the relationship. Very very very very often when someone was having a problem who was in a relationship who came over to my teacher Rama and he might not have even known that they were in a relationship he could just see. So they come over and go, I'm having this problem at work or I'm having this problem with my medication and he says, your boyfriend is draining all of your energy. And then you say, break up with him. That's it. There's nothing else to do. That's what he would say. He was very, very severe about it. So, if you went over and asked him a question, you better be ready to change your life. If you didn't follow the teaching, he probably wouldn't teach you again. Okay, so, you know, I really want you to understand that in a relationship, that's where you lose a lot of energy, but if you observe your meditation, mindfulness and bodhicitta, and yoga, that's That's where you can use personal power to moderate so that you can be successful on the spiritual path.

0:24:55
Please, Chandler. If you don't, it means you are wasting energy.

0:25:03
And if you waste energy, your meditation will not improve. There are people who are okay with this. I wouldn't be. It would be much more important for me to meditate well. I would be better off. I would be better off if I could meditate well. There are people who are okay with this. I wouldn't be. It would be much more important for me to meditate well than to be in a relationship. Then, pay attention to your body cycle. And you need to pay attention to your body cycle becoming stronger and stronger every month. And of course, there are times when it doesn't work, and then there are times when it becomes stronger. So I'm not saying that you should look back at a very sudden decision and a very short period of time, but you should pay attention to a longer period of time. Look at what pattern you see over six months. Or your yoga. It's getting stronger, it's getting more successful month after month after month. Then that means that your relationship is okay. But if you have bad meditation, if you can't body sit, if your yoga is weak, then it means that you are losing energy in your relationship and you have to somehow fix this. One possibility to fix it is to mobilize more personal strength. So you think, and I'm meditating now, and I'm putting myself in so that I can stay in this relationship. It's like when a martial artist, let's say, suffers a man's injury, which really rips his career. And then he says, he makes the decision that I still want to remain a good fighter. So I will work out the techniques I can compensate with. I can compensate for the loss of mobility or the limitations. I am entitled to this change, but I am still fighting. I can't meditate. So if you move your personal strength in yourself, and you pay attention, my meditation becomes stronger, my yoga becomes stronger, my bodhicitta becomes stronger, if this doesn't happen, then you certainly lose strength because of my connection. If people come to me with any problem, I think I can't meditate because of my work, I'm not going to be able to meditate. Rama immediately said, Yes, your friend, your friend's heart will take all of his energy and move away from you. He was very strict. If you asked him anything, you had to be prepared to stand on top of his head all your life.

0:28:30
... Now I want to give another correction that's important for everyone to understand. And this is about places of power. And I never want to see failure in a place of power. It's a very dangerous place if you have a failure of attention. And my US Sangha had a failure. So, to begin, I told you and I told my American founder, so working with the benefactors, you cannot get confused about my teaching and the experiences you have with them. That's one. Number two, when you're with them, since their teachings are different, you must have an impeccable attention. So those are the two things. Don't get confused and have an impeccable attention. And on the last night in the desert, my American Sangha, the attention of the group broke. This is the first time I've seen this happen and it's not a good thing. We went out, sat on the ridge, watched the moon come up, meditated. It was so beautiful and happy.

0:30:45
It was great.

0:30:46
I loved it. And then we went and had our drumming session. Now after about an hour of drumming, what happened is about a third of the Sangha got tired, they lost their attention, and they decided to just go like sit down and space out. a place of power. Aztecala had a very specific teaching, which was drumming, music, and people checked out of it. They lost their focus, they lost their attention, and there was a big group of them.

0:31:27
They were just sitting around.

0:31:29
Some of them decided to go take a nap. Yeah, and this broke the group.

0:31:44
This broke the Sangha. In a place of power, when you have a bunch of people checking out like that, it does

0:31:52
not work.

0:31:53
So I was very, very disappointed to see this in the American Sangha. I was sitting there, because of this broken attention, I was in a lot of pain because of it. So then finally, I don't know, someone told Anikala I wasn't feeling well. So then he decided to make a change. But I wasn't feeling well because the group's attention was broken. You don't go into a place of power and then start by being like, oh, I don't really want to be here. When do we go home? And you have to go there and you've gotta be focused. Whatever the teacher's teaching, focus. If you're too tired to do drumming, meditate. Or just put your attention there. Watch the people, listen to the people, but bring your attention up. Be strong in your mind. Otherwise, you start to pull your energy out of the teaching. And the whole group becomes unbalanced. So Abdi Kala said, I got to go to the garden. And he said, yeah, you know, it's natural to get tired after a period of time. And he said, so, you know, you can rest, but you have to stay engaged. And I said, yeah, they didn't stay engaged. So, this was an error in a place of power. It's unacceptable, it will never happen again. So, you cannot make mistakes in a place of power. This, that mistake created an imbalance in the whole sangha, in the whole US sangha, that I am now correcting. This was bad etiquette and it was not following my teaching of how to work with a benefactor. The two things, confusion and non-impeccable attention is what you guys did. Right? I said, don't be confused about my teachings. They got new teachings and they go, yeah, we're going to get all crazy and do that. Jumping splits kicks. Yeah. Right? And then we go out and you couldn't keep your attention on the last night at the most powerful time. And so what happens? Non-impeccable attention. The attention of the group broke. So you broke both of the things that I taught you about how to deal with benefactors. This is not a good thing. Please check.

0:34:32
I would like to make a correction. It is very important for all of you to understand how we behave in the places of power,

0:34:44
how we work with the places of power. Because there was a mistake in this power tour that we just had. The American sound was wrong. And it's very bad. You should never make a mistake when you are in a strong position. The two lessons I gave were very important in relation to our good habits. The first lesson was to not to mix up the things, their lessons and my lessons. The second was to be unnoticeable, because the lessons are a little different, and this requires unnoticeable attention. And in the last night of the festival, the group's attention was broken. This was the first time that this happened, and it's not a good thing.

0:36:10
We sat there in a wonderful place,

0:36:12
we watched the moon,

0:36:14
everything was beautiful, we meditated. Then we started the throwing. And after an hour of throwing, about a third of the group got tired and decided to sit down and just leave. And to do this in a place of power is unacceptable. the music lesson. And this group just left the whole thing, checked out. There were some who rested,

0:36:57
who were in a slump,

0:36:59
simply not there to be watched. And this broke the whole group and broke the whole song. And I'm very disappointed that this happened. It caused me a lot of suffering. I was not well. Someone told Agnikala that I was not feeling well, and Agnikala made certain changes. But the only reason for this was that part of the group is gone. You shouldn't do this in a way that you say, I don't want to be here anymore, we're going home, I'm tired, I don't want to throw up. Yes, you can get tired, because it happens, but then meditate. or you are watching the others. Bring up your attention, bring up your energy. Because if you don't do this, you are breaking the unity of the whole team. Abnicola said the same thing, that yes, it can happen that you get tired and rest. Just stay connected, stay connected to the group.

0:38:26
This is an unacceptable mistake

0:38:28
and it will not happen again. Because this has created an unequal situation in the entire American society. And this is a bad etiquette. I had two lessons with our good followers. I'm going to be doing a lot of things in the future. I'm going to be doing a lot of things in the future. I'm going to be doing a lot of things in the future. I'm going to be doing a lot of things in the future. I'm going to be doing a lot of things in the future.

0:39:10
So, Janna Sensei and I conferred about this because Janna is a very, very good seer. And he sees very, very accurately. So it's really wonderful to be able to talk to him about his insights. But I very much agree with him. One of the things that we did when we were playing our drums, especially that night, My sangha lost the refinement of attention that is required in spiritual practice. It became not such a sacred drumming experience, but it became like a party out in the desert. And I had a lot of students commenting about that. Out in the desert. They're like, wow, this is like a party, like Burning Man or something like that. A rainbow gathering. Something like that, right? And I was like, yeah, this is bad. You don't come to the desert for a party. A sacred drumming experience could be beautiful. But Jan pointed out that while Akikawa started out in a very sacred feeling, then it just became second chakra. It became unbalanced sexual energy and violence. I mean people were even breaking drumsticks over their drums or mashing them in half. It got wild. And it's inappropriate, it's unacceptable to be that wild in a place of power. It's a bad attention. You become unbalanced. So, rather, you do your drumming, but you keep that sacred attention. And you feel, you know, you feel a unity in rhythm with everybody drumming. When the girls got up to do drumming, there was a beautiful unity in that. But then the guys came over and fucked it all up again. Additionally, in a place of power, you must be impeccable. You just assume Agni-Kal is going to take care of everything in that physical place where there's all these dimensions, where there's not good ones, where there's other beings in other dimensions that could really cause trouble for you. So a place's power is like scuba diving. When I take people scuba diving, we might go down to 70 meters. We might go into places where there's a lot of current. And I do my best to be a good dive master, to lead, but I cannot do the whole dive for you. you must be impeccable so that you dive well. So I take you into a difficult dive, it's because I want you to be impeccable. I've had to save students because they were not impeccable. And fortunately I was able to save them. But you go into a difficult dive, and if you're not impeccable, then if I've got five students not impeccable and they all have uncontrolled ascent, I can't save all 5, I can save one. So you assume you're going to this tremendous place of power, many dimensions, you assume that ugly colors can be able to keep everything perfect, you have to be impeccable. And the Svanga was not impeccable. There was bad energy flowing through Vayu's cave.

0:43:50
Bad energy.

0:43:51
I did not like it. The dimensions that were opening up, bad dimensions. The group broke. Not impeccable, bad attention, not really respecting the power of the desert. This is unacceptable, it cannot happen again. Please translate. I like to talk to him, he is a seer, and his sight is unbearable. And he also noticed that while we were throwing, the rope lost its delicate, attentive nature. that this was no longer a holy celebration, but a party in the streets. There were those who told me, that this is like a rainbow party, we are partying, but this is wrong. You don't go out to the streets to party, to party. Agni Kala gave a spiritual experience, a spiritual kick-off, and it became a second The team was confused. There were some who broke their throwing weapons. This was a very bad observation. And the whole team lost their balance. It would have been very important to keep this clear observation. the You can assume that Agni will take care of everything, that you will live away from all bad dimensions and beings, and that you will be free from all dangers. But it may not be possible. The places of power are like the bubble. Sometimes I take you down 70 meters deep, or places where the current is very strong. And of course I will do everything to be a good leader, but I cannot sit still, I cannot pay attention. Yes, there were times when I had to save some of my students because they were not paying attention. I'm So as a result of this confusion and confusion, I was able to get out of the cave. I was able to get out of the cave. I was able to get out of the cave. So as a result of this confusion and lack of impeccability, I'm not sure if I'm going to have the Sangha have the opportunity to see Yajnicala again. I'm just not sure.

0:47:56
It depends on how you accept this teaching.

0:48:00
If you can pull it back together, then great. And don't make a mistake again. Learn from the mistake, move on.

0:48:10
We can do that.

0:48:11
It depends on if you learn from the mistake and move on. Or I might, you know, so Agnepala wants to do another trip with us on the equinox in

0:48:22
America.

0:48:23
And it will be, it sounds really amazing and wonderful. However, what happened can't happen again. So I'm thinking maybe I just bring, you know, the yoga rank black belt, because I know that they're stronger. They could probably handle it. Or we have other groups. We have the 100K group. We have gratitude, adventure, groups. So maybe we use different groups, smaller groups, that are stronger in their attention so that the group won't break, so that they won't get confused. And then they get to see Avishala and go on these amazing trips, but the whole Tandem might not be able to if you don't fix your attention now. Learn from the mistake and move on. Of course, if you learn and we can move on, then that could be a great thing. But it really depends on you, the American. Okay, please translate.

0:49:56
So, as a result of this confusion and the lack of responsibility, it may happen that the deaf person will not see more of the sign language. This depends on how you accept this teaching. If you get together and correct your behavior, that's good. Learn from your mistakes. Agnika would like to take you on a similar power trip at the next day's meeting, which is also a wonderful, magical opportunity. But maybe we can only take the yoga black belts for this. the black people will be able to take away the rights, or other smaller groups, to make the attention stronger. And maybe the whole country will not be able to take part in this, in the event that they will not be able to correct this and place your attention.

0:51:13
So now this is only on you, the Americans. Egyedül csak rajtatok múlik az amerikai akon. So this is an important lesson for the Hungarian Sangha as well,

0:51:30
because you guys are going to be able to have teachings from Adnikala and teachings from Shiva, and you cannot make this mistake. Please, Chancellor. És ez egy nagyon-nagyon fontos lecken Magyar Sangha számára is,

0:51:44
This is improper etiquette that my U.S. students did. So what I did was I raised their tuition by 30%. Actually, I raised the tuition for you guys too by 30%. 30% is zero. So you guys have to suffer because of what the Americans did to you. But I have a tuition. I created the tuition in the very beginning because of etiquette. There was bad etiquette. It was a difficult time. Our first yoga project was ending. And my students were struggling. So then I said, alright, you just have to pay me $500 a month. Then they were all, oh great. But, um, tuition is a means of proper etiquette. And raising tuition, this is the first time I had to raise tuition, it gets you to refocus your etiquette to be proper etiquette. So I remember when we were with Rama, for a while, for a long time, our tuition was $50 a month. And then one day it went up to $500 a month. And a lot of people who were not, who didn't have the right etiquette, which means that they didn't listen to the teaching, follow the teaching, they left. They didn't have the money. They didn't feel their personal power in their careers. So they couldn't pay that much money. So a lot of people just disappeared when the tuition went up. So Rama always used tuition as a way to refocus your etiquette. And he raised the tuition higher and higher and higher. Most of the time when I was in the intermediate study, the tuition was $1,200 a month. So tuition is a way of etiquette. And by drawing your attention to, oh look, now you have to pay more, it gets you back to, okay wait, I value this teaching. So that's why I raised the tuition. And it's very important. For the Americans, for the seminars, you must pay your tuition or you do not get in the seminar. There has to be formality. an adherence to the etiquette for your access to the teaching. And you have to realize for some of you who are just barely, you know, on the bottom level of tuition, I have some new students who just pay, now they pay $65 a month. You have to get your personal power together and become strong. Because if I raise a tuition on you and you don't have your career together, then that's it. There's nothing. You've got nothing. You don't get access anymore, which means you're not in the sangha anymore. So take this tuition seriously. And I do not want anybody paying anyone else's tuition. Sometimes there might be a student who's got a lot of money and say, Oh, you don't have enough money to make it to the seminar? You don't have the $65? Don't worry, I'll pay it for you. Don't do that. That does not help that person's personal power.

0:56:20
That person must get their shit together.

0:56:28
Okay, please hang on. were not ethical. And that's why I increased the payment add-on by 30%. So with Hungarian Canga I increased the P payment add-on

0:56:47
by 30%, the zero. So, you can suffer together with American Canga. This payment add-on, I'm going to speak in Hungarian. I have chosen this award as one of the ways to get the right etiquette. And when I raise this award, I give the opportunity to focus on your etiquette again and work with the right etiquette. I'm going to show you how to do it. and when this happened, a lot of people left because they didn't have enough money to pay for it. So a lot of people left, they left the song. That's why I was given this award, this offer, to help us re-organize our etiquette. When I continued my mid-term studies, this scholarship was $1,200 in the spring. By the end of my studies, I had paid $7,000 in the spring. The scholarship is the path of ethics, and it states that you pay to value your lessons. So, for the American students, they have to pay for their seminars. We have to pay them so that they can attend the seminars. If you don't pay for your monthly tuition, you won't be able to attend the lessons. There are some of our new students who pay $65 a month. and that you can't keep up with the music. And I don't want you to pay each other. Because I know there are situations when someone who has a lot of money says to the person sitting in the picture, I will help you and pay you. But you can't do that because you're not helping the other person, but I want everyone to get together and put the order in the right order. So your benefactors and your teachers, we do not disagree.

1:00:34
I would never say Agnikala is wrong. I would never say Shiva is wrong. I would never say Jnana is wrong. Mandala is wrong. Never. And they would never say that I am wrong. Because I'm not. We all studied with Rama, an enlightened master. We all learned his basic teachings, but we also all had direct personal teachings that he gave us that are different from each other. We were on certain adventures with him where he taught certain things. He taught different things to the SD2s, the younger group, than the older group. So for example, Yana probably has the most teachings. He was with Rama the longest and he was also one of Rama's top students. He's so humble. He was actually one of Rama's top students. He is the one who is most clearly capable of cleanly telling you Rama's teachings. He just will specifically say, this is what Rama said. This is what Rama taught.

1:01:59
He'll never add anything to it.

1:02:01
So, that's an amazing thing. That's why they call him Yana, discrimination. So, everybody else adds stuff on or they heard someone else say something about Rama and they say it like they know Rama better. Things like that. So, for example, when Rama was teaching the ST, one, to teach, he said, you never sit in front of a group and meditate. The way that he does, the way that I do, he said, never do that. So if Yana was addressing you, while he's talking to you, he's talking to you, but then if he was going to meditate with you, pick up his chair, put it right there, and face the same direction as you. Because he's because he is not going to break one of Rama's teachings. So then when he sees, when he first saw Agni Kala or maybe Kundalini or me sitting in front of a group teaching, meditating, he probably was like, oh my gosh, Rama could never do that many times. the ST2's how to teach meditation. And he never told us not to do it. He was like, fine, yeah, so you sit in front of a group, you explain things, you meditate with them. So he taught us how to do it, but this wasn't a problem. So Rama had many different types of students and he taught them all perfectly the things that would work for them. And he gave individual teachings, he gave small group teachings, he gave FT1 teachings, FT2 teachings. So we all know Rama's teachings, but we all know that there's changes in teachings. Agni Kala got a lot of special teachings that no one else got. Rama really liked Agni Kala too. He gave him very special teachings. So, you know, all of these things, they're just, they're different. We respect when someone else has a teaching that we don't have. We say, oh, cool, yeah. And it might be like something that Rama taught, you know, Agni Kala, or Rama taught me, or Rama taught Janna, specifically for me, or him, or her. So we recognize that there's differences in our Sangha. Different teachings, different experiences and expressions of enlightenment. And we never say that another person is wrong. We just say, oh, wow, okay, no that's cool. It's just that Rama taught me this and this is what works for me. So I don't see anything wrong about what Agne Kala taught, I just want you to recognize how it works with the structure of this school.

1:04:59
Please translate.

1:05:01
So your supporters, your helpers and your teachers will never argue.

1:05:08
I will never say that Agnikala is stealing something, or that Shiva is wrong, or that Jana is wrong. And they will never say this about me, because of course it is not true. We all studied with Ráma. We received basic lessons, but besides the basic lessons, we all received special lessons for the eyes. We were on different routes with him. Sometimes he took one of us with him, sometimes with another, or smaller groups. I'm and she is the one who can give back her teachings to me without adding anything. They do not call her for nothing what distinguishing means. Everyone else added things to what Rama taught them, but Jana clearly remembers her words. For example, Ráma taught the SP1 generation to never sit in front of the group when they meditate with you. So it may be wonderful when you see Agnika, Kundalini or myself sitting in front of the group when we meditate with them. and the ST1 and ST2 never told me not to do this. So he gave us instructions on how to meditate and this never happened. So you see, there are many types of teaching and teaching is explained in many ways and everyone gets the perfect teaching. The ST1, the ST2, all groups. And there are also changes, the teachings. The teachings change. Rama loved Agnikala very much, and he also received very special teachings. And these teachings that he received from one or the other, we hold them very deeply in respect. and we respect them. So, Ráma taught. He taught Agnika, he taught me, he taught János, and he gave me the teachings that I said would speak to that person. Different teachings, different experiences, different manifestations of enlightenment. And this is wonderful. I would never say that it's wrong. There is nothing wrong, nothing wrong with what Nikola teaches. It's just very important that you see how what he teaches relates to the structures that we have built in our school. So there is a very deep and profound connection with you and your teacher. And if you get confused by other teachings or other impressions from other enlightened teachers, it doesn't serve your enlightenment. One great thing, one great lesson I had was I never got confused about my teacher's teaching. Never. And I was totally spiritually focused on learning those teachings.

1:10:05
I didn't, you know, look at some YouTube video about some other teacher and go, wow, that's really cool, I want to do that. I didn't find some book in some bookstore and start like, oh, that's cool, I want to go to Foxy, I want to do that, or something like that. I just focused on the teaching, not confused, and because of that I've been very successful. I've been successful in martial arts, meditation, mindfulness, yoga, and enlightenment because of that. Now if you start thinking things like, well, you know, there's this other teacher that I learned from, and that's good, and some of the things that Samara teach are good, then I hope it works for you. I don't know. But I know that if you cannot be spiritually 100% connected to my teachings, that it's not a powerful place. Now, if you say, wow, you know, I like the consort relationship idea, and now I hear what Sombar is saying, but I think I'm going to go with the consort thing. You can do that. I just wanted to tell you what the teachings are, and that it's really, really, really a blessing if you can be 100% connected with the teachings of your teacher.

1:11:43
Please, Jen, please.

1:11:44
and if you are confused, other teachers confuse you or other enlightened teachers you hear from, that does not serve your enlightenment. I was confused and I never became confident about my teacher's teaching. I never watched YouTube videos and I started to go after the teachings I saw. I never read books in a book store and said, I would have said, well, this teaching is so great, now I will practice this. I always focused on his teachings consistently and exclusively. And I succeeded in martial arts, meditation, yoga. If you think that there is this other teacher, he does what he says. I like what you say. Then, a few things I know you like, if you can't connect with me 100% spiritually and with my teachings, then that won't be powerful for you. You can say, I like this concert, this relationship, relationship education. Of course, you can do it. But there is a huge risk that you can't connect with me and the education 100%, 100%.

1:13:49
So, talking about the consort relationship, or contracept, Aki Kala gave an authentic advanced teaching, but he mostly opened up the second attention. And then he said some things in the first attention that really couldn't get you to connect all the way with the second attention. So, it's information to you that is like a riddle almost, but you feel something very powerful, but you can't use it. campus, these football guys, they got three goats and they spray painted on the sides of the goats the number one, on the second goat number two, and on the third goat number four. And then they let the goats run around the campus. So the school officials see these goats running around and they go, oh look, there's a goat, and they go, oh, it's goat number two. And they find another goat, goat number one. And they find another goat, goat number four. And then they spend the rest of the day looking for goat number three. That's how it is for you guys. It's just kind of strange, like, what's going on? Okay, please translate that.

1:15:33
I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do this. It's a little bit confusing. Here's the tantric sex thing.

1:15:39
Agnika gave a moving teaching and showed the second attention. The first thing you noticed was that you couldn't connect with the whole. You felt the force, but it was a bit like a secret. There was once a school where they took three sticks and painted numbers on the sides. the and they spent the whole day looking for the number 3 sign. So this is how you can make a mistake. You can't put everything together. I'm going to assign to the Americans our final book in the Tibetan cycle of teaching. It is called Highest Yoga Tantra. And in this book it describes tantric sex, the actual yoga of tantric sex.

1:16:56
So not the basic new age stuff that everybody hears about. That stuff is, you know, I'm going to call it a zing night, trying to give you guys ways to understand tantric sex that were easy and accessible. But this book talks about the actual use of kundalini and attention to attain enlightenment in sex, enlightenment and sex. Tantric sex. So, this book describes the first attention. And it's not about sexual position. It's all about energy and attention and meditation. But it is about sex. And the reason I want you to read this book and to understand the first intention about it is because then you will see that it is actually an advanced practice. Not that new age, like, oh, I met my soulmate and then we had sex for a week. And it was amazing.

1:18:47
That's great.

1:18:48
That's amateur bullshit.

1:18:50
This book describes the real way to do it. And the thing that I want you to realize in reading this is that you don't even have enough Kundalini to experience the first drip.

1:18:59
Which is the first basic experience of how to generate enlightened energy in tantric

1:19:23
yoga.

1:19:24
And you probably won't even understand what a drip is. I don't think you have a personal power to know what a drip is actually. So I want you to read this book so that you understand the tonal, that it is an advanced practice and that you try to do a split jumping kick doesn't make a lot of sense.

1:19:44
But it's also good information.

1:19:45
So, is this advanced? I don't remember. Yeah, I think, no.

1:19:48
This is advanced intermediate, but this is not advanced.

1:19:49
This book. This assignment was given to us before the advanced teaching. So, I'm going to go ahead and move on to the next slide. So, I'm going to go ahead and move on to the next slide.

1:19:53
So, I'm going to go ahead and move on to the next slide.

1:19:54
So, I'm going to go ahead and move on to the next slide. So, I'm going to go ahead and move on to the next slide. So, I'm going to go ahead and move on to the next slide. So, I'm going to go ahead and move on to the next slide. So, I'm going to go ahead and move on to the next slide. So, I'm going to go ahead and move on to the next slide.

1:20:00
So, I'm going to go ahead and move on to the next slide.

1:20:01
So, I'm going to go ahead and move on to the next slide.

1:20:02
So, I'm going to go ahead and move on to the next slide.

1:20:03
So, I'm going to go ahead and move on to the next slide.

1:20:04
So, I'm going to go ahead and move on to the next slide.

1:20:05
This assignment was given to us before the advanced teaching.

1:20:12
So, it's fine for you guys to read as well.

1:20:17
Please, Shantel. the last book of Tibetan teachings. The title of the book is The Highest Tantra Yoga. And this really presents the tantric sex. And not the one-sided New Age nonsense that is usually understood under the table. Agnika was very kind to you and tried to make very advanced studies accessible. This book shows how, using Kundalini uses tantric sex to reach enlightenment. And in the first glance, it writes down things, not sexual positions, but energy, the flow of energy. This is a continuous teaching. Not the new age stuff, like,

1:21:36
I met my soulmate, we dated for a week, it was really good.

1:21:45
This is amateur bullshit. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure.

1:21:51
I'm not sure. I'm not sure.

1:21:53
I'm not sure.

1:21:54
I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure.

1:22:03
I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure.

1:22:06
I'm not sure.

1:22:07
I'm not sure. I'm not sure.

1:22:09
I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure.

1:22:12
I'm not sure.

1:22:13
I'm not sure. I'm not sure.

1:22:15
I'm not sure.

1:22:16
I'm not sure.

1:22:17
So, it's very easy to integrate Yana Sensei's teaching, because Yana Sensei works very easily in the structures that we have set up already, which is martial arts. So because Yana Sensei and I have done all of the structures that Rama taught, including martial arts and technology. You know, all of these structures to develop the mind and attention and power. It's very easy for us to work together. No one gets confused by Yana Sensei. He's very structured, very helpful, and teaching us amazing things about martial arts. And it's something that fits easily into my structure. So that's amazing. Mandala also. So Mandala used to be the yoga teacher. Fits into the structure perfectly because martial arts, meditation, career success, computer programming, meditation, so she also just follows, you know, those teachings of Brahma. It fits in really easily. Now, it got more confusing with Agni Kala and Shiva. Shiva never did yoga, never learned computer programming. He was there in the early days, and then way later, he came back. an enlightened expression of woo way, of the flow. So it's harder because those energies don't naturally fit into what we're doing. If Shiva was a master of technology, he could fit in and help with technology. If he was very good at the battery business, he can come into the battery business. Something like that. But he doesn't have that training, right? And Amikala is, he's like a new expression of enlightenment. So it's like, it doesn't really fit in exactly to what we're doing, but he talks about the same things, just in a different way. So, you know, it's really easy to see how someone like Mandala fits in and how Yana fits in. But it's those enlightened influences of these other teachers that it's harder for you guys to integrate. But you must integrate it. You know, sometimes, you know, I had the Americans reading about Tibetan yoga, like all these really, lots and lots of strange Tibetan yoga practices. And they didn't get confused. They didn't say, oh, am I supposed to be doing all of these meditations and all of these yoga practices? They just read them, understood that there's different practices that you can become enlightened through, that at different times they work for different people. So that's the way to understand that. No confusion. So when you see someone talking about a different enlightened practice, you don't have to get confused. You just say, I understand. This is a beautiful, new thing. I see a new way of enlightenment and that works for some people at some time. I would never go to Agni Kala students or Shiva students and say, you know how to do it this way. Don't listen to him, listen to me. I would never do that. If they asked me or if I had to present to them, I would tell them what I know. Not I'd always say, listen to your teacher, but here's what I know. And hopefully it's inspiring to you. Maybe it's, yeah, maybe it benefits you. Fantastic. But I'd always say, listen to your teacher. I have no idea where his students are at. He's teaching them different ways, different things, and I don't know their structures. So I wouldn't interfere with their structures, but I would show them really cool light, my city of enlightenment, and then I'd say, see, that's cool, right? And they'd say, oh, that's pretty cool. And then they'd say, oh gosh, we've got to learn computers, or something like that. And then the object's column might say, oh, no, no, no, no. You guys, don't worry So, Adinikala and Shiva's teachings should be positive influences, where we can take positive things from it, but not get confused by it. We can see differences and not throw ourselves out of balance because of those differences. It just opens our mind to seeing that enlightenment is bigger and broader. That more than one person can be enlightened. That many different types of people can be enlightened. That enlightened expressions happen in different ways. See that's what I really like about it. You guys can see me and say, wow, okay, that's it. Oh, but, and then there's Sheila, and then there's, there's Yana, and then there's, you know, let me call in and say, wow, these are all different things, but the light comes through in different ways. And that's wonderful to see because it tells you that enlightenment can come through you. You don't have to act like me. You don't have to talk like me. Eventually when you become enlightened, you'll talk like you.

1:28:27
But better.

1:28:28
So that's why, you know, and the more enlightened people, the more light that you get, it should be something that lifts you up, that doesn't confuse you, and that you have the right etiquette

1:28:45
for.

1:28:46
You have this.

1:28:47
computer, computer programming.

1:28:50
We did all of our studies together in these structures,

1:28:57
and she moves around very comfortably in these. She never bothers anyone, Jána and her teaching. She easily gets into our school. Or here, for example, Mandala, who is a law teacher, I'm If you are a professional, you can help, for example, in the Bethlehem Big Meet. But you can't do it because you don't have the skills, the experience. Agnika is a completely new definition of enlightenment. So, Mandala and Janna easily fit into our structure, Agnika and Shiva less. But you have to learn to integrate what they represent. With the American Sangha, we read books about Tibetan yoga practices. And we didn't read them to start practicing these practices. and we have to fight against these people. These are very, very, very strange practices for us. But we read that we understand that there are many types of practices, many types of techniques, that in different times, different people have different methods, and not because we are confused, but to understand, to open our minds, to make our sight wider and to learn new things. I would not go to my students with anger and tell them to do everything like this and that from now on, but I would tell them about myself and my techniques. I would show them the light in my own way. But I do not know their ancient structures and I would not like to delve into them at all. I would not tell them that now everyone should go and learn computer programming. But Agnika said she would like to learn computer programming if her students started learning it. So it's interesting that we can influence each other in a positive way. But not because we are disturbing each other, but because we are opening our minds. We are realizing that enlightenment and the light comes through them in many different ways. And this is reassuring for you, because you realize that the light comes through you. You don't have to be like me. You don't have to speak like me. You will speak like you are, but in a better way. And this knowledge is a gift. techniques more effective, just like in a martial arts class, you're punching wrong, I make this correction, then you punch correctly, and then you're stronger because of it. Don't have to feel bad, just fix it. And Hungarian Sangha, learn from the mistakes of Americans. Do not get confused. Do not lose impeccability. The way that we interface with our benefactors is a way where we're clear on our teaching and we deal with them with impeccability. The fourth pillar, right, the pillar of emotion. The way that we address this pillar is through bodhicitta. Not through fucking. Fucking doesn't do it. It doesn't do it. We'll let you adjust. But, okay. So we do it through bodhicitta.

1:34:53
in compassion and care and pity for another's suffering. That is very effective for enlightenment. It's a way that you transform your mind itself to open mind and care for others. It's a deep care, a concern. This compassion is my recommended teaching for how to have that emotional relief and emotional balance. Good afternoon, and go do yoga.

1:35:58
Okay, bye-bye.

1:36:00
And please, uh, pass it.

1:36:02
I hope you learned something from the Sensei Collection. You don't have to feel bad about yourselves, you don't have to be offended by yourselves, just put yourself in order.

1:36:15
Learn Hungarian from the mistakes of the Americans, don't get confused, and don't laugh at your incompetence in terms of our supporters, our goodwill in our relationship. But learn from your teachers and be aware of them. And now about the fourth pillar, the pillar of emotion. The pillar of emotion in our school is the Bodhisitta and not the fuck.

1:37:14
Because you don't believe in the fuck,

1:37:16
only if you are very progressive. Bodhicitta liberates extremely powerful emotions. The feeling of being united and united to another suffering. And in truth, it opens your ego, it opens you, and it opens up your values. So the Bodhisita is my path to your count to how you can reach the balance of values.

1:37:59
Alright, so hopefully we cleared up some confusions with the Americans. But I'd like to just, since you guys didn't listen to the Wednesday class that I taught, I'll just give you guys an overview. This is kind of where their confusion started. So I told them that my teacher, Obama, had contract sex with some of the students. And that was something that was very, very confusing to some people. When I first joined, a friend of mine said, I just can't stand it. You know, he shouldn't have sex with a student. And I was all like, okay, whatever. But my friend got really upset about it. And I didn't. I was just like, I don't know, you know, if this is tantra and stuff, and isn't that what they're supposed to do? I had a new age tantra thing going on. And some people got bothered by it. And some people quit because it bothered them. But that's something that Rama did and it wasn't a big deal to some people, it's weird. It's actually not weird to have sex. So all of the reasons that sex is not recommended is all because of social conditioning. Your attachment, the way that you think of men, the way you think of women, all this social conditioning. If everything was natural, if we were in a nature world, where everything is balanced and normal, then it would be fine. It's just that we're in the Kali Yuga and sex is this really twisted, strange thing. So for an enlightened person, sex is natural. The enlightened person has natural mind. And this is why Agni Kala is in a consort relationship. And he's lucky because his consort is also enlightened. That's amazing. But also Mandala, another enlightened teacher from our school, she's in a consort relationship. So once you're enlightened, then it's up to you. You can do what you want. On the way there, you have to be careful. But once you're there, then you're advanced. Once you're advanced, then you can negotiate the problems. You don't have that attachment that creates the place where you lose personal power. You have a very strong aura when you're enlightened. And then, that way, you don't lose energy. So it's possible, but that's why it's advanced. So like, you know, me or Yana or Shiva, we could do that too, because we know the advanced teachings. We're advanced, we know how to handle it. But I would never recommend it to a new student. And intermediate students, I'm all, well, okay, well, you know, here's the things that are good and here's the things that are bad. So, I think when I taught my students that, they started going, oh, really? Oh, so, enlightened people couldn't do it.

1:42:26
I don't know what I would have been like.

1:42:30
Maybe that'll help me. So that started it. And then in the desert, Agni called us all, yeah, you should do it. Great. So I just had to come back and make sure everybody understands what we're clear about. Even though I told them the same thing, I always am consistent on what the recommendations are and what the bad things are, difficult challenges about sex and relationships.

1:43:08
Yes? What about with Drupal Puri, by the way? He was advanced.

1:43:14
Yeah, so that's the thing.

1:43:16
That's what I'm saying. Once you're enlightened, you won't have attachment. You won't hurt your aura. So then the bad things about sex don't happen. And then there's sexist magic. Sex is pure, amazing, fantastic, and you wouldn't be here unless there was sex. So, something good about it, right? It gives life, it's amazing, it's just that world is upside down. Everyone is weird about sex. Yes, yes, yes. So, um, you know, there was this one student, his name was Otten, he was an ST2, and he was very close to enlightenment, but he had a girlfriend, and he knew she was draining his energy. Amanda, or enlightened students, we all said to him, Well, you've got to break up with that girl. Leave her. Because if you leave her, you will become enlightened very soon. So, he said, okay, they got apart, and then he goes back to her. So, he didn't become enlightened, because he went back to her. Now, I told him that, look, leave her, forget about her, become enlightened, and then when you're enlightened, then you can go back. But you won't be attached anymore. Then he's like, oh, well, what if I don't want to be with her afterwards? And I'm like, likely.

1:45:11
It would be horrible.

1:45:14
And then he goes back to it. So, before enlightenment, you have to be careful. After enlightenment, then you don't have the attachment, the desire, and you won't lose energy. So I would say get enlightened first. Alright, please, Hadley.

1:45:40
In the Serbian education, I told the American Tsanga that Ráma was sitting on a tantric chair with certain teachings. And yes, this practice bothered some people. who told me this and apparently this thing bothered her a lot. It didn't bother me. I was like, well, if this is it, then this is it. There were some who left the club because of this, because it bothered them so much. But Ráma did this because for him this was the Dharma. The western world has an incredible tendency towards sexuality. Sex is not a strange thing at all. The reason why we do not recommend it is because of the social conditioning and habits. If everything were in balance, then there would be no problem at all, and the text would be wonderful and magical. But we live in the Kali Yuga, and in the Kali Yuga everything is upside down, it is twisted, it is turned out. For a enlightened person who is in a relationship. Mandala, also in a relationship. Hunaini is also in a relationship. If you are enlightened, then basically everything depends on you. You decide which path you choose. But as long as you are on the way, try not to make mistakes. If you are enlightened, you have such a strong aura, that you can easily balance these things. So it is a possible, but ongoing thing. Here I am, here is János, Siva, we can do it too. But I would never recommend it to new teachers. I say to the intermediate students that it can be good, this is what you should pay attention to, this is what you get. And then I think this is where it all started, that my teachers, you see, I put the bug in their ear and they said, Aha! So if they are enlightened, they can do it. And I want to be enlightened too, so I could even help you with this. And then we went out to the yard, and Agnika put another stick on it and told them, Come on, do it. And this evening I wanted to be sure that we had set things up. That everything would be in place. Because if you are enlightened, then there is no sticking, then the aura will not have any problems, and then the sex is simply wonderful, magical. But their world is upside down. Who is turning away from themselves? There was a student from ESTI 2 who was very close to enlightenment, and he had a girlfriend. And he knew that his girlfriend was sucking his energy, and we were there around him. Mandala, Fernanda, Ananda, four of them were enlightened, and we told all four of them to leave their girlfriend there, because she would be enlightened much sooner. And she did it, so she moved, but then after a while she caught herself and moved back,

1:50:12
and she certainly was not enlightened.

1:50:15
and he didn't even blink. I told him, listen, leave your girlfriend there, blink, and if you blink, you can go back to her. And then you won't be stuck. And he said, obviously, I don't want to go back. Well, he's definitely got a chance, because she was a horrible girlfriend. So if it's lit, there's no sticking, no cutting, and you don't lose energy. So I recommend that you light it up first, and then you can do anything. All right. Okay, so, let's see. Um... Good. Tomorrow at 10am we're going for a walk in the park. We're also going to be doing Wu Wei Go. So dress appropriately. It was lovely meditating with you all this evening. Thank you very much. I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. I'm going to go ahead and get my phone.

1:51:45
May Allah bless you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
