0:00:00
So, welcome everyone. And for you, and you, Jason. For those of you who are new, I'm going to tell you what happened. Not because of the sun. It's a lot of sun, but I have a problem with my eyes. They're a bit red. So, sometimes people will come over to me after the meditation and say, What is this? I've forgotten a lot! But figure out how you like to meditate. Alright. So, we're going to begin with meditation. I assume some of you are meditating to them if you are familiar with chakra meditation we'll be meditating for 3 times first on the navel chakra second on the heart chakra third on the other one if you're unfamiliar with chakra meditation then just sit quietly try to sit still, try to clean yourself. We dedicate to music very often. Dedicating to music is very good for our health. Because we're kind of used to, or we're kind of trained to listen. Is it just position or listening? One very important thing to hear. It's a very good position for meditation. So instead of sitting there quietly, then we start to think more. We listen to something, put an eye to something, and it will become more reflective and open. the the the I'm going to be a good man. the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the I'm going to play it again. the the the the the the I'm going to be doing a lot of that. Thank you. I'm going to play it again. I'm going to play it again. the Oh so the the the the the the the the I'm going to be doing a lot of this. So I'm going to play it again. the the the the the the I'm going to play it again. the the the the the the the the so I'm going to be a good boy. I'm going to be a good boy. I'm going to be a good boy. I'm going to be a good boy. I'm going to be a good boy. I'm going to be a good boy. I'm going to be a good boy. I'm going to be a good boy. I'm going to be a good boy. I'm going to be a good boy. I'm going to be a good boy. I'm going to be a good boy. I'm going to be a good boy. the the the so so I'm going to be a good man. So the reality, the sweats on our body, the other one is very true way, not hiding anything. You can see whatever happens. If it is time to look at your condition of life, is your life a sitcom or a time on the condition of your experience of life. Before coming here to D.C., I was reviewing a detail from what my student Renata, and he had the worst problem ever. He had problems with his work, problems with his relationship, everything was upside down. He said, in fact, everything was coming to an end. So he gave me this long email of and that turns all the problems, all the difficulties, into a way of moving from dissatisfaction to satisfaction. It's a way of going from a personal history of suffering and pain to peace. It's a way of moving from a condition of limitation and suffering to a condition of freedom. So, the whole spiritual path is a path of solving problems. And really, the biggest problem when you get down to it, in every way, every aspect of our lives, is the kind but you become, you know, a pure spirit, and end up being never limited, never suffering, or in a condition where it hurts, where it's unhappy and silent. And this is what Buddha's first teaching is about. Buddha said, Hey, you know what? Did you ever notice that you've got problems? that things aren't so great. Well, let me show you the way. So the whole spiritual path all of the way from the path to overcome obstacles, to solve problems, and to really liberate and suffering. We look for life, we kind of want life to be simple and easy. We want the problems to be removed. So if there are paths, there are obstacles and locks that make it along, we just want them cleared out of the way. But that's not how it is. And there are some people who are sort of rock bottomed out. Well, even if we want to clean up, we have to be clear. We have to be as good as walking on a rocky path. there's the okay thing, there's the strong thing about it. Because if everything seems to go easy for you, then you're probably not looking at life in a realistic way. Like in California, Washington, like in LA or something, people are so busy making up, but they're not only in their heart spirit, but they're miserable. If your life is going really well, and you're humble, it's like you're a good friend, it's easy for you to don't need to have alcohol to the lab. Probably find out they have dogs. But people don't realistically have the problems in life. We perpetuate the rush of emotions. But in Buddhism, we look at life in a very pragmatic way, a real way. We look at life as it is, and we become, we cease to become strong so that we can deal with the problems in life. So this is why we reflect on our conditioning life, we reflect on the obstacles and the problems and our suffering, and it's equal, and learn to overcome them in a way that's true, which reminds me of a little story. There was a guy who had a car that had a gas problem in it, and he was making a way to get back on it. And he kept taking it to the mechanic, who knew the mechanic could fix it? What do you think? And this guy looked at the engine, heard it running, and then he kicked the car. He fired the car back, and he said, yeah, there's a particular fault. And then my dad said, oh, that's really great. And then he said, OK, now, how much do you want to steal? And it was $1,000. And he said, why was that $1,000? He just spent like a minute with it. He said, well, $1 is my prize, but my number is 99. How much? Because I'm your worst kick. Where to apply our awareness to fix the problem. We learn things that are maybe not that obvious and obviate among people in ways that a special mechanic is aware of how to solve problems that no one else can solve. So, tonight I'd like to share with you some of the past, we overcome obstacles with great wisdom. The first is not seeing a problem. This is often what I say in my spirits when I come to people with problems. They say, So, really when we're looking at problems, we're not seeing things in the lightest perspective. We're seeing things in a very small bright. When you look at things in a higher perspective, in a selfless way, you're able to see that there's many opportunities. Even in the most difficult circumstances, there's many opportunities for success. A long time ago in China, there was a farmer. There were three brothers that owned a large farm, and one of those brothers was a son-in-law, and the other two weren't. But one of the brothers, he went and gambled, and he lost the farm to a gangster, the head of a ring of thieves, basically. And so he was supposed to hand over the deed for the farm. At the same time, the second brother had gotten a loan from the government, but defaulted on the loan. And therefore, the responsible one, came up to the Zen master with his problem and he said, oh Zen master, this is horrible, what shall I do? and the Zen master said, nothing he said, look, you know, your brother's had a good adhesion to the gangster, and then there's the government that wants to collect. But here's the thing. The gangster's not going to give you the land because he doesn't want to deal with the government, and the government has to go after the gangster instead of you. So therefore, just continue to farm on the land. This is where he saw a huge problem, and ultimately nothing's changed. Another way is you pick a problem, and then you evolve in truth within the problem. a story of a Zen monk, actually a Buddhist monk, not Zen, back in China. And this is a time where there was the Shaolin Temple. But this monk was not in the Shaolin Temple. This monk was in a different monastery. And this monk had a bad temper and he liked to fight. So he would always get in their asses, and would always beat up the other monks. So one day, the Lama of the temple, the father of the temple, said, I have something perfect for you. Go shower in. So he's taking him off to the shower in temple. And at the shower in temple, he was the perfect fighter. He had a garden, he had a garden, he had a garden of flowers, he had a spice, he liked to get that. But then they found the symbol, and everyone was like, okay, so he said, oh okay, so the spice was totally, and then he was able to be in an environment where he developed his writing, and he developed control and and then he found that he was not angry anymore, but through the discipline of martial arts, he was able to evolve in truth. Now, in Tibetan monasteries, in Tibetan meditation halls, they have beautiful art, and not just pictures, but actually the full walls were painted, the images of the Buddha and the Bodhisattvas. And there's a story about how he came from. There was a monk who basically was really into Gurdish. And this monk was really... So there's this pristine, beautiful, clean contemplation. And then one person gets some paint and starts painting on the wall. Just stuff, paint, whatever comes to mind. And the other one says, it's so mad at him, because they haven't cleaned it up. And they try to work with him, call the microgrids, the supercells, to get it. Finally, they brought in after that the name, you know, Rue de Chez of the temple. He said, what do you think you've got? I said, it's horrible. And then they said, look, you know, if this paragraph is cleaned up, we're going to show you what he's doing. He's doing it right now. So they go, they go to show the Rue de Chez, and we'll want you to collect paint and a And then the rikshadeva goes over to the monk and takes a couple of pages of shit. And he starts painting. He starts painting a Buddha. And then the monk goes, oh, maybe I'll paint a Buddha too. So the rikshadeva starts painting with him and he kind of directs him to paint those things about Buddhism and the Dharma. They paint a whole lot better. And this is where that tradition came from, the same Buddhist graffiti. Every year, you paint them, and they set aside two weeks to go on a retreat in the Zen temple. And when they came to the retreat, the Zen master came and gave them, and then he put them to work cleaning and cooking. So they were cleaning and cooking for a week, and the parents thought of them, they were like, this is what we do at home. We came here to Medicaid, and they kept doing it, and eventually, they came over to the dean after, and they said, well, here's the problem. We walked to the spiritual life, deep down, and then the co-teachers of the Monash have spiritual practice and he just happens to be doing the same work that we do at home so he says something spiritual and Vajra says ok, we'll go to the meditation hall we go to the meditation hall, he has them sit down in the meditation session and then he gets up and starts cleaning the temple and they're both confused and he keeps talking to them, he's cleaning, deepening, cleaning everything, and then they realize that he's actually teaching them how to be spiritual in their lives, solve their problems. So the problem is that very often when you're looking at a problem, that you look at it in a limited way. You get fixed in a way, seeing the problem where you don't see opportunity. But we're all in a problem. And when you, you know, all these beautiful Buddhist stories, spiritual stories, or spiritual stories of taking some kind of problem and feeding it in a broader way, perhaps it's not what people do, they reflect on things, and we come to see opportunities where we say, oh, you know what, after all, I can solve that problem. I see this happen again and again and again, where people get the television view of their problems, but the spiritual practice is a way of overcoming that, letting go of that limited view and seeing a higher way toward truth. And you know, sometimes you think you're a little bit odd. It's obvious to everybody else that you are. Or when you look at somebody else's problem, right? What's your wife and your mother's story? There was a man in India who had a son, a 10-year-old son. And somehow he lost his son's genitals. And looking around, he found his son's ripped shirt. And he took a picture of his son, and he was killed. So his son was dead, and he pleaded for his son and cried in happiness. But his father was actually kidnapped by bandits. He tried to escape and he was kidnapped. He escaped five years later. He goes back home to his dad, to his father. And he says, hey, that was me. And his father says, hey, get out of here, I don't know who you are. I have something to tell you. He says, no, it's me, I'm your son. Oh no. I don't know. He still picks on this idea that his father said he turned his son away from the home. His son then found himself with his mom's care, and he took over the business. But that was his way. He had nowhere else to go, but he was always in his mind of a problem that he didn't even recognize five years later that his son was alive. Now, one of the ways that we understand problems and suffering in Buddhism is that they're the perfect lesson for us. The harder they are, the harder it is, the more humble we become. The more difficult the problems, the more we have to go within to find a way of change. So, you see problems as a lesson for me to develop spiritual qualities, personal power, and understand life in a way of greater humility. We don't see problems and suffering as something bad. We see them as opportunities to learn. And this is a question, like, you know, even with people, when someone's giving you a hard time, that's definitely being mean and bad intentions towards you, or hurting you. So many people have trouble with people. And, instead of suffering, you should recognize that it's an opportunity for you to grow. enemy promotes me. It promotes me for a higher power. It promotes me to be stronger. Who would Jesus be if there wasn't a Goliath? He'd be some little guy that no one knows about. So, we always say that, you know, when we're dealing with an opponent or someone that someone acting as if there's a way for you to grow and become strong, for dealing with them, not in a way of complaining, fighting, feeling bad, but in a sense of you recognizing an opportunity to come up, to be able to feel some of the powerfulness that is a way of truth. And this is transforming difficulties and suffering and problems into a way that makes you more powerful and more enlightened. All right, I'm going to conclude with another little story, a fable, of the kitten and the teacup. I was here with a kid, and the kid didn't want to hang out. He was in this little pleasure garden behind a college where the pines crumbled sometimes. And the kid was looking off, out of the garden he saw a peacock in the jungle. And the peacock was beautiful, right? So the kid said, wow, I'll be all serving you. And the peacocks eat poisonous plants. Somehow it fits with that. Somehow it all fits with that. But the peacock shows the pigeon, in what we view of it, being a peacock, you eat the poisonous plant, follows the peacock idea, and then the pigeon grows into a peacock. So, this is something that you've got to do. When you see something that's coming, a problem, a poison, and yes, it's part of your life, you've got to transform it into a way that makes you beautiful as a teapot, makes you into a brighter, more powerful, beautiful beings. I have just finished so many stories that are all good, all good stories, but in general, as a teacher, I'll have a lot of good stories and some spiritual practices. When you face something difficult, you don't run from it. You don't let it lower you. You have to open your mind, your heart, your power to be bigger and to accept it. To be a person who values, who needs you, you open your heart to be bigger, to be seen a way through, a way to reflect. We don't want to go in a way that's dimensional. We don't want to go in a way of reaction. We want to deal with our problems in a way that is noble and enlightening. And that's the way we seek the solution to our problems in life. But I also like you to have a direct experience to see that these stories point the direction to the actual experience of problem resolution in your life. So, what I'd like to do here is I'd like you to think about a problem. Maybe it's a problem with a co-worker, or a job. It's so funny how people just find problems with everything. You know? Like, you have a problem where you're like, I don't have a job, that's the problem. Then you get the job or not, whether we have the job or not, we see a way of truth and balance beyond the inner gang, where there's a true spiritual key. We're going to actually do a Buddhist technique together to see beyond that problem, to see it in spiritual conditions. So just to get really down into what that problem is, just to understand the spiritual let your suffering, you know, and make a deep connection with it. Because that's when you can use something to deal with your stress. You have to have awareness of not just, you know, the purpose of it, but the essence of it. You want to know your problems, your suffering, discuss it in a substantial way. It's kind of funny. In Asia, they should culturally know that people usually start to cherish and practice once they've gotten hurt, once they've gotten tough enough. Otherwise, we keep our brain in the freezer. This is another thing that's not a noun. And then, someday, it's gone, you know? And you think, okay, I'm going to use this brain now. I'm going to do something that's called a cispatization. I remember when I was in China, when I would meet new people, I would say, yeah, I'm from the United States. And then they'd go, oh, what happened to you? What's your name? I don't know. What's your first name? So, I want you to know what happened to you. I want you to be able to get in touch with me. What is the problem? It might be with work, relationship, a derivative problem, like who am I? Whatever it is, I want you to get in touch with me. In touch with the Okay, so, here I'm going to do a mystic esoteric heritage seeing with a mudra. So, a mudra is a use of a chakra, the subtle physical body, to create an energy field through limited problems. And just like the Buddhist story, you can see magical collisions. Any problem has a magical collision. And you can see it away through a wave of effects, a wave of heat, and a wave of sound, just by looking through the eyes. I'll take a stand in front of the TV, and you'll look up this way towards me, and the area around here, as if for a moment. Very good. Now, what did you see? So, I don't know, I don't remember the problem, but I was kind of saying it. So, when you're seeing, when you see pollution as the focus of your problem, you're looking, not just in a physical world, you're looking into an energy field of light. And in that light that he created a spiritual clarity. I'd like you to reflect on that for a moment. When you're looking through this clear light, and that's what this choir means, and where you get a feeling, a hint, a feeling of the way through the property that brings a more inviting position. Usually I ask people, let's speak. What does it feel like? A lot of these talks are very personal. We won't go into it. But what I want you to do is I want you to write this down later to people. You have to write it down so it's fresh to your awareness. I was looking and I saw a clear light around him and it gave me a feeling of this. Whatever it is, visual or feeling, it's very important to write it down because that makes a connection in your mind with that field of writing. And then information, a clarity of how to in a certain role solve this problem, it comes to you. You go, oh, I know what you mean by that. So very important, write it down. Write down your experience, what you saw, what you felt. And to conclude, I just want to have one last clarification. Focus on the third argument. It was wonderful. It was a great experience. I hope so. so so I'm going to play it again. so so so the the the the the the the the I'm going to play a little bit of that. I wish to be a fool in love I wish to be a fool in love So, if you'd like to find your book, or if you'd just like to say hello for a moment, please come to the library. Who are you? Gary? Okay. Well, thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.

0:53:55
Thank you. Thank you.

0:53:56
Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
