0:00:00
I just really thought that was very beautiful. It was really cool watching a bunch of my black belts gain the Kala Chakra from Upanikana. And he did such an amazing, beautiful blessing to create such a beautiful, sacred object. Especially cool for security, I would say. So, very grateful. You know, that type of blessing and that amount of energy that it takes, it's just pretty incredible. You know, you don't know how lucky you are.

0:00:39
I also really liked how...

0:00:41
I think what Apikala was pointing out was some of the very subtle things about etiquette. About how you should be on a power trip, and how you should regard your teacher. It's very important. When you start to become aware of that, you say, Yeah, okay. Which is kind of true. Apikala's very polite. So, I was, more than anything, very grateful for Agni Kala's kindness to be here.

0:01:34
He's wonderful.

0:01:36
He opens his heart so much, he gives so much light. That's a beautiful gift. Yeah, we just had Turkey Day a little while ago. Turkey, that's what it's about. It's just about dinner. We were at the Dharma Villa, which is our new cult compound. That's really beautiful. And we were having Thanksgiving dinner. I always like on Thanksgiving to really reflect on gratitude. What am I thankful for? And then at dinner we talk about that. But this is just, you know, this is something that I'm very, very grateful for. The opportunity to have other enlightened beings from our lineage come and speak with my students, teach my students. It's amazing. And it's rare, because I know a couple more, they just don't want to come. Because, you know, you become very sensitive. And it's great when you're with people who reflect the light. But sometimes people get confused or upset, or they're just having a hard time in their lives. And then what's coming back is, it doesn't make you feel better. So, I know a few who have had difficult experiences, and it's very difficult for them to want to meet new friends. So we're very, very, very fortunate. It's a very beautiful thing. And ultimately, I'm always most grateful to my teacher, Rama. Rama had a singular and most important effect on my existence by teaching me about enlightenment. It changed my life in all of the best ways possible. Sometimes it was difficult. You know what I mean. But it was beautiful. It's the greatest gift. And then we see, you know, beautiful teachings, beautiful opportunities, beautiful opportunities to do it with Akikala, Shiva, Mandala. Little by little, we're waking up and coming together. That's a good reflection on Thanksgiving. Now, at Thanksgiving, I actually told my students to reflect on this time, what selfless giving they had done for another person that year. Considering what was the highest thing, the most selfless thing. And then we went around the table talking about it.

0:05:17
Oh, well.

0:05:18
Oh, yeah?

0:05:19
Well, I didn't even look at it. I was even more selfless, and even more helpful. I had to tell them to reflect on it. That way it could stay much more pure. But that's an interesting thing. If you reflect on, what did I do wrong? It's good to count your wins, your beautiful qualities. Not to get egotistical about them, but just to say, wow, I did do something kind of silly.

0:05:56
Yeah, it's important.

0:05:58
But, I think that, I think college teaching is a very, very beautiful demonstration of complete selflessness. You know, it's like, you know, to get up here and just leave these jobs and just go away a perfect child caretaker personality and get you guys out of just being sick freaks. It's beautiful, right? It's a beautiful country. So, we always look for places to be grateful, places to be selfless. And when we find those helpless places, that's where we have gratitude. Gratitude is such a beautiful energy, such a beautiful state of mind. So, we're a little over Thanksgiving, but really, what in life could serve your happiness, your enlightenment, your health, your spirit. And be grateful for those things.

0:07:26
They're very, very powerful.

0:07:29
I remember sometimes my teacher, they gave us such a hard time and we were, I think we were bad students. I remember one time we were in the middle of, I think it was client service sales event and I was on security with him and he was just with a few people and he said, these are the most ungrateful people I've ever met. And I said, what? What do we have to be grateful about? It's true, because I was struggling with my yoga. And I was like, I don't think we need to make a kid, which was exactly what he meant. So, you know, looking back now, I'm like, oh my god, I'm so grateful for even those very difficult teachings. Even those directives that he gave us hardships, it got us to push, be stronger, be brighter.

0:08:55
It was amazing, wonderful. We were so fortunate.

0:08:59
As you are so fortunate. You've got to look at your opportunities. They're all fine houses. They live in a dharma villa. 6,500 square feet and 6 acres. Villa style. I mean, that's insane, right? And then we also have our buddy list. Our proper cult compound. I would be Santa Cruz Mountains far from all people. Easily defended. With a moat.

0:09:45
We can break through our problems.

0:09:47
You know, you guys have beautiful,

0:09:49
Bill Kratner Stadium, This is a beautiful life.

0:09:53
Bill Dratt, Mercedes, computer programmers in Silicon Valley, top technologists in the world. It's great. We've got a great life. Watching a documentary about how kids in England are like, they're just bad. So there's this horribly bad kid. But then they go to India on some little program for them to kind of straighten up. And at one point, I think it was a hospital, no it was an orphanage for blind kids who were kicked or just, oh you're blind, you're useless, so kicked out on the street. And And I was like, okay. And then the English teenagers were hanging around them and helping them out, serving them food, walking them around and stuff. And then there were a couple sitting down with a couple blind kids, a girl and a boy. Probably were like 13 or 14. And the English kids said, so like, when you grow up, what would you like to do for a living? And both of the kids were like, I want to be a computer programmer.

0:11:22
But they couldn't see.

0:11:26
So how are you going to be a computer programmer if you're white? You can do it. It's a lot harder. But then also, you've got a lot of people against you. because you're pretty much in the lowest caste, because you don't really have a family, you're just in an orphanage, so what are you going to do? But these kids, they just had this excitement and determination to become computer programmers. So I was like, wow. And I look at some of my new students, and they have such a bad attitude about computer

0:12:10
programs.

0:12:11
It's just so much stuff. So much stuff.

0:12:17
And I'm like, wow. These poor little blind kids have so much determination. They recognize the opportunity as being such an amazing thing. And my students really don't have a good character. They're all good selves. You should be like the British teenagers, sitting there with the English kids, I go to Indian kids and say, wow, these kids got nothing but a dream. And I got everything. I got teachers that teach in technology, who are experts in technology, teaching me the top technologies of Silicon Valley. I got a structure, a school, a support system. And I'm just sitting there going, me, me, me, me, me.

0:13:24
Oh, that.

0:13:32
Yeah, the English kids ended up, you know all I'm all I'm doing is partying every night and drinking with my friends You know quitting high school Not talking to my parents We need them to say, wow, maybe I better change my language Opportunity See that's why a teacher has to give you a hard time. Because you won't change unless you see something different. Unless you have a hard time. Unless you have a challenge.

0:14:13
Teachers are tricky that way.

0:14:16
My teacher was... Yeah, there was a story about, back in China, a long time ago, there was a restaurant in I think it was in Xi'an, the capital. In this restaurant, it's a big restaurant, there are lots of, there was a group of like 30 Taoists. Not Taoist monks.

0:14:55
They were the rich Taoists.

0:14:56
They were Taoist philosophers. And they were sitting there having lunch and talking. But there was a lot of other people in the restaurant. A woman was sitting eating with her child. Her child was like 5 or 6 years old. And her child had a bad leg or something, some kind of disformed leg where he couldn't walk properly. So she's just sitting there with her kid. And then she sees this, looks like a bedroom. Like a homeless guy. And he's walking around the restaurant looking at children. So she sees that he's looking at other children. And she's like, uh-oh. This guy's like, something's wrong with him. And the guy starts coming over to her. And he stops about ten feet away. And he starts making little faces at the kid. And the kid looks back and is like, oh, and smiles. And so he's sitting like in the middle of the restaurant and he's like, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,

0:16:27
no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,

0:16:28
no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,

0:16:29
She's also worried because she's like, some crazy person is making a game with my child that he's probably going to come over here. So she picked up her child and couldn't walk. She carried him and started heading for the door. And then the fake ring goes to the door before she could get there. And so the vagrant says, can I hug your boy? She's like, he seemed nice enough. And she's like, in this position, this boy's all, yeah, why not hug her? No one hugs before I do. And then she says, ah, all right. I don't know why, but we'll get here. But then he hugs the boy, and then he whispers something to the boy's ear. And she could kind of hear it a little bit, like, you're going to be better than what

0:17:30
he's like, no.

0:17:32
Don't get his hopes up. And then he hands the boy back. And then she's like, okay. So she walks outside. And then the outside was where there's a crutch for the boy. He gets his crutch. And then he starts walking. And they're walking together and he just kind of drops the crutch. And then she's like,

0:17:54
Mother says,

0:17:55
Stop.

0:17:56
I didn't know this. Wait, what happened? And then she said, Well, the man said I would be better, and now I'm better. So his deformed leg was all of a sudden healed. And then she said, wow, that's amazing. So she goes back into the restaurant to see what's going on. And by this time, the bakery was sitting with the Dallas. So she goes over and says, hey, did you have my friend's leg? And he says, yes, of course. And then she finds out that this vagrant, who was making her feel uncomfortable, and she was worried that he was going to be a weirdo and do something strange with her hip, this vagrant was a Daoist hermit, and Daoist master, and a master healer. So he was, as he does, goes around and if anyone is hurt, he would heal them. So then, she goes from this condition of, wait, what just happened? To, oh my god, this is the best thing! And so she moved to a place of gratitude. So I like that. You know, the teacher, sometimes you don't know what they're doing. It might be weird. They might be challenging. You might be afraid of what they're going to do. But then, what they do is something that's totally inviting. And it's filled with dharma. in his field of darkness. There's another story about there was a master sitting in a cave and this monk comes over and went on a long pilgrimage to get to this master and says, I really want enlightenment teaching. And the master says, Are you sure? And the tail is alive. And then the master turns into a demon and starts chasing him. And the demon is saying, NOW!

0:20:11
NOW!

0:20:12
NOW!

0:20:13
Chasing him all around the cave, shouting, NOW! And the monk, of course, is running, scared out of his mind. And eventually he notices that the demon is yelling, now. Then he brings his attention away from fear, like, I'm going to get eaten by a demon, right? Away from fear to the moment where he's just present, and then he stops. And then the master, and he goes into his enlightenment storybook. And he realized enlightenment by a teaching that was very appropriate for him. He had to get past his fear, he had to be present, instead of thinking about the future, or the problems of the future, and I need enlightenment of the future. And then he had enlightenment. But the teacher was kind of scary. He was a difficult teacher.

0:21:18
So that happens sometimes.

0:21:20
But then, when it's over, when it's done, then there's nothing but gratitude. Look at that situation. When I want to be chased around by demons, you know, the master turned me into a demon and chased me around.

0:21:40
Does that seem like a good thing? No, it doesn't seem like a good thing.

0:21:41
It's the perfect thing!

0:21:42
Because the teacher was enlightened and was giving me the perfect teaching.

0:21:43
The perfect teaching. One of Mikhal's perfect teachings is so wonderful. He was talking about the protection that went wrong. I'm going to protect you! I'm going to protect you!

0:21:48
I'm going to protect you!

0:21:49
I'm going to protect you! I'm going to protect you!

0:21:51
I'm going to protect you!

0:21:52
I'm going to protect you!

0:21:53
I'm going to protect you! I'm going to protect you! I'm going to protect you! I'm going to protect you! I'm going to protect you! I'm going to protect you! I'm going to protect you!

0:22:00
I'm going to protect you! I'm going to protect you!

0:22:02
I'm going to protect you!

0:22:03
I'm going to protect you!

0:22:02
I'm gonna protect the shit out of you! And while he thinks the protection died, that's beautiful.

0:22:04
Alright.

0:22:05
But his correction on that is perfect and it's directly meant. He's like, love.

0:22:07
If you have love, that's protection.

0:22:08
And I think that's a good thing.

0:22:09
I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing.

0:22:13
I think that's a good thing.

0:22:14
I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing.

0:22:18
I think that's a good thing.

0:22:19
I think that's a good thing.

0:22:20
I think that's a good thing.

0:22:21
I think that's a good thing.

0:22:22
I think that's a good thing.

0:22:23
I think that's a good thing.

0:22:24
I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing.

0:22:26
I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's protection.

0:22:31
You know?

0:22:32
All that other stuff is not actually protection. It's actually a whole bunch of pain. That was kind of fun. That is... That wasn't where he was coming from when he was talking about it the first time. You have to listen to the tone. Where he's coming from in his mind. Because if you get caught and confused in the words, then you're going to end up making a fool of yourself. Making mistakes. But then, as Adipala said, we can correct that. So, another thought. Gratitude is something that It brings a greater sense of unity in our spiritual community. So for a while there was this period of time where the recruiters were calling our consulting business saying, where's Ray? And we're all, we'll find out. Ray, where are you? No answer. So there was a couple weeks where we were very concerned because nobody could find Ray. And Ray's computer, I mean, recruiter, was wondering where he was. And we said, oh, kind of a client thing. He's expecting a consultant.

0:24:24
They didn't show up.

0:24:25
It's not happening. So we found Ray. Ray's okay. So that's the good news. So Ray was in a car accident. He was in the hospital for a couple weeks. Lost his phone. And now he's fine. He's out of the hospital. It wasn't a fun thing for him. He got through it, but now he's back and he's better. So, since everyone was concerned, and as you probably saw in the room, I just wanted to give everybody an update on that. But don't go bugging him about the particulars of it, because now it's a difficult situation. He got through it. But when he was missing, everybody was like, where's Ray? We all had concern. We all had genuine concern. Not like all trying to line it out, like, where's Ray? Gotta know, put on lines. know at all times. Right? Just want to know what's going on. We were just very concerned. No one could reach him. Wasn't around.

0:25:50
And, uh...

0:25:52
And then, you know, I practice compassion, because if he's not around, you can't contact him for whatever reason, he's probably having

0:26:19
a hard time.

0:26:22
That's really beautiful. That care and that approval. It's really beautiful. So I'm grateful for that. That's a good intention that brings the fondant together. Creates a greater balance. It's appropriate to care and worry. Well, not worried. I care.

0:26:51
When someone's having a hard time. Compassion is really beautiful. You know, gratitude leads to compassion.

0:26:54
Or, it's hand in hand with compassion. So when you have gratitude, when you're just so grateful for wonderful, beautiful things,

0:26:56
then it's so easy to be grateful for the things that you're grateful for.

0:26:57
And I think that's what's so beautiful about it.

0:26:58
I think that's what's so beautiful about it. I think that's what's so beautiful about it.

0:27:00
I think that's what's so beautiful about it.

0:27:01
I think that's what's so beautiful about it.

0:27:02
I think that's what's so beautiful about it.

0:27:03
I think that's what's so beautiful about it.

0:27:04
I think that's what's so beautiful about it.

0:27:05
I think that's what's so beautiful about it. I think that's what's so beautiful about it. I think that's what's so beautiful about it.

0:27:08
I think that's what's so beautiful about it.

0:27:09
I think that's what's so beautiful about it.

0:27:10
I think that's what's so beautiful about it. I think that's what's so beautiful about it. I think that's what's so beautiful about it. I think that's what's so beautiful about it. I think that's what's so beautiful about it.

0:27:15
I think that's what's so beautiful about it.

0:27:16
I think that's what's so easy to be compassionate, to give people, give to people from your heart. It's so easy. Like, you're so filled with love and light from your teacher, and then when you have to be compassionate with them. And you're so elevated. It's like a Bible. It's heart-opening. The light comes back. So beautiful. I haven't thought about parrots. Paris.

0:27:45
Paris, or our Sangha, is kind of a place of power. A special place. When we go to Paris, we go to Paris for gratitude ventures.

0:28:07
people who put in money for podiums. And so when we go there, it's always for a special reason, for a special dollar. And Paris is a wonderful place because of the beautiful energy. So it's strangely similar to Santa Fe, New Mexico. Beautiful dimensions. So I always go there when I'm coming back from teaching in Budapest. And then that's where I'll meet some students. And it's a significant place for us. And that's why we wrote the City of Lights album. And that was focused on all these beautiful dimensions of Paris. Wonderful. Romantic Paris. So, recently, Paris was hit with a terrorist attack. 130 people were killed. But what that did was it hit the spirit of Paris. It hit like spirits of parrots. More than targets like blowing up something at the actual tower, where just a lot of tourists would die. There's lots of significant places they could have died. The octagon, or something like that. Or the Louvre. Blow themselves up in the Louvre. Lots of tourists would go there. And those would be like, those would scare tourists away, and it would have a certain impact. But these tourists wanted to go for the spirit of Paris. So they went to the places where the locals would go. And where the locals would have a, expressing their beautiful spirit. is, Paris has a beautiful, thriving human energy. So when you're in those energy fields, it's good for your aura, and you just find you have a lot of good energy for, you know, eating the duck and having a glass of wine. Lovely, right?

0:30:42
It has a certain spirit.

0:30:44
And so the terrace is that spirit. And that creates, in the energy of the city, creates a new balance, problems. There's fear, new balance. But Paris is a strong city. It will come back. They've been through a little bit worse. Once upon a time. Right? So, that's one of the streets that we'll visit. Not like San Francisco. So, but this is a place where we have many beautiful songs about many beautiful places there. And so when I've been listening to the Paris album, I've always been doing it with an energy of compassion. You know what? Let's do that. Let's practice Bodhicitta

0:31:46
for paradise.

0:31:48
Which is

0:31:50
one of our allies, a place of

0:31:54
power that we draw upon.

0:31:56
We go there for beautiful experiences of gratitude adventures, which are always so out of this world. And then we meditate to the dimensions of Paris. So what I'd like to do is I'd like to do a Bodhicitta practice, where we will meditate So, that takes for one song on relative bodhicit.

0:32:19
Bodhicit, we're taking in silence.

0:32:21
So, when we're listening to the song, we will breathe in the dark energy, which is people who are suffering in Paris, the people who died in Paris. we can feel intuitively from the terror of that. We have the intent of taking it in to our heart. We breathe it in, imagine it like a dark fog or smoke coming into our heart, and then we exhale out the brightest light that we could ever imagine or that we've ever experienced. management, whatever efforts go, we get to Paris. This way, we're good allies to a place that empowers us. So we'll sit for just one second. Let's begin.

0:33:31
so So So So do so so so the the the the so That song is called Rainy Time. Alright, so, we work on becoming Buddhist warriors. We become impeccable in our career. We become black belts in martial arts, but we also come from a place of compassion. I find a spiritual warrior.

0:39:05
So tomorrow I'm at the college meeting with my black belt in bodybuilding. And he talked about it tonight. He started opening dimensions. And they're dimensions of protection that are powerful. So I'll be calling, of course, he and I were on the security team together. We are brother black belts in security. And the way that he's talking about protection, the way that he talks about security, that's what we did. That's what we learned directly from our connection with Rama. And it's so powerful, so beautiful. To me, it has, you have to be a black belt. You have to. There's a lot of martial arts focus, but it all comes down to love and compassion. And it's so beautiful. So I'm so happy that Ajikala is going to train my security team, because he's so good at it. Now this was a training that I think, you know, some of you guys have been black belt

0:40:58
for 10 years.

0:40:59
This is a training I've always wanted to do but just never did. So I think Kala has so much power that he can do this. If it were up to me, I'd have to wait a little while. But fortunately, this is why it's such a wonderful thing to have another enlightened teacher and an enlightened teacher who was on Rama's security team, who got those inner teachings.

0:41:36
Because it's cool. It teaches the true

0:41:40
path of the protector of the dark.

0:41:44
It's very high.

0:41:46
But even when Padme Hala's teaching about it to everyone and opening the dimensions and showing it it shows you how to be a spiritual warrior. It teaches you how to make love powerful. And powerful love is when love rolls up its sleeves and gets out there to do something. It helps them. When love is acting.

0:42:19
When love is acting, that's compassion.

0:42:20
So, just so many blessings. That's great fortune. I probably want to announce? I didn't want to check. So, one thing is...

0:43:02
Yes, of course.

0:43:05
The main announcement I want to make. Well, it's close. Black belt test is coming up for Jiu Jitsu and Karate. Get ready! Especially during the Karate test. So it might happen any day. As soon as I find a dojo who will fight you, I'm going to call you in and say, we're fighting. So any night now into the soul fist could be fight night. So, you know, part of the karate test is you have to beat another black belt in a different school. That's how I got my black belt. Raman said that was cool. That's how he got his first black belt.

0:43:58
So, that's the gold standard. Let's see. Oh yeah.

0:44:07
So, last week I talked to some of the people, but it was only a few weeks. I also had a few corrections to make. And since then I've had a lot of students email me or come over to me and say, I'm sorry, so Laura, I did that, that you yelled at us about. And you felt really bad about it. So, if I or Agni call this giving correction, just correct yourself. You don't have to feel bad about yourself, because that actually makes it worse. But it goes the wrong way. So, just listen to the teaching, make the correction, and then just go on. We're not going to hold it against you. The next time we see you, if you've corrected it, then there's nothing else to say. We're not going to sit there and say, Are you doing that again? I remembered last time I saw you. There's no need to apologize. There's everything to attempt to correct yourself. And then, when the correction is made, no more problems. Instead of apologizing, you're feeling really sorry about it.

0:45:23
Just fix it. Okay.

0:45:27
One last thing. There is a new book. It's called Enlightened Pregnancy. I'm not saying... Do I tell you I'm not confused when I say it? It is called Enlightened Pregnancy, but it is not a how-to guide for you, a person. Although you can practice it. You can read it, of course, and you can practice it if you know someone else who's pregnant. Or if you have to be pregnant. The 19th Pregnancy is a book that I wrote, and then I had a team of editors. So I had Kamala, Barbara, the roles, and Savitri. And they helped me edit this book. But I wrote it.

0:46:50
Pregnancy is usually not one of the things I teach about.

0:46:54
But it is. Because if you're gonna have a kid, you might as well do it then. But let me explain what it's about. So I teach about the Bard of Plutal a lot. So the bard of Thudol, you know someone, they die. Then you say to them, hey, go into the light, take a left. No, wait, wait, stay away from that light. Now go over here, now go over there. You can be more under-reliant. So it's instructions to someone who's dead. If you're expecting, then there's obviously a spirit that's going to come in you. So what you can do is you're on the other end. And you're all, hey, coming in! And on the way here, let me point out all of these very enlightened opportunities that

0:47:51
exist in the body.

0:47:53
And I'm going to expose you to them, I'm going to meditate on them with you, and you're going to have all this beautiful, spiritual stuff happening. So, the structures of the bardo, they are structures from beginning to end. Now, you're not going to be born. You're going to find that baby in the fourth bardo, what I call the fourth bardo. I've got the special bardos. The fourth bardo, which is the bardo of becoming the Siddhāi bardo. So, in that bardo, there's certain structures, and that's where the baby, once they hit that bardo, they're going to be born. That's the bardo of becoming. So you just have to follow the teachings of the book, which are exactly like the teachings of the book of the dead. But we don't say dead there. Expecting mothers don't like to hear that. Since it's all about the cipay bardo, the bardo of becoming, it's about bringing in light to the world. It's an exciting book. I think it's fascinating. We, um... So, I first wrote the basic text. And then we went, wow, this is pretty heavy. We like the book a bit better. And we tried to write it not so heavy, but it's intense. And then we added to it poems for every part. A poem is artistic. It's not just instructions like, hey, go do this, then do this, look at that, run away from that.

0:49:56
Stay there.

0:49:57
So it's not just instructions like that, it kind of paints a picture of that step of where the baby is in the bardos, where that spirit is. And I think that it works very nicely. Just like the bardo by all works to help someone become liberated through the theory, the instructions. This works. The dimensions are just like in the Bible, and I think it's more accessible. So, it's an amazing, amazing book. Also, so it says, enlightened pregnancy, connecting with your baby spiritually. And it says, the author, Maybe spiritual. And it says, the author, Louisa McGarrion, with Sambara O'Riffesha. So there's a story behind that. So just like with Mystic Scuba, you know, I wrote most of it. And then we said, Cydnethri will be the author and the promoter. Yeah, that's good. So, with this book, instead of it being about me and me having to be promoting it, it's going to be Kamala. And then she gets promoted. Because I don't want to promote it. I'll write the text, but then I want the yogi to do the work. So, yeah, because otherwise, when the book becomes a bestseller, then I'll have to do interviews. So, with Sambara Rinpoche. And Rinpoche sounds like, and then everyone will say, well, because once a book becomes a bestseller, then everyone will say, who is this Sembaw Rinpoche? She'll say, oh, it's very private, and what's his lineage? Oh, I don't know. Nobody knows me, so that's perfect. And then once everyone starts to know me and they get too close, they just change my name. To Jim. When it becomes a bestseller and everyone in the world is reading it, and translate it to 200 languages, then everyone could read the world in one language starting before you're born. Then, yeah, maybe I'll go on and run.

0:52:54
I'm not really in a room to save.

0:52:55
I pretty much just copied the Spanish. I'm not really in a room to save. I'm not really in a room to save. I'm not really in a room to save.

0:52:59
I'm not really in a room to save.

0:53:00
I'm not really in a room to save.

0:53:01
I'm not really in a room to save.

0:53:02
I'm not really in a room to save. I'm not really in a room to save.

0:53:04
I'm not really in a room to save.

0:53:05
I'm not really in a room to save.

0:53:06
I'm not really in a room to save. I'm not really in a room to save. I'm not really in a room to save.

0:53:09
I'm not really in a room to save. I'm not really in the room to say. I pretty much just copied the Spendthrift of the Dead.

0:53:19
I figured that was a bestseller, so I'm not going to say it.

0:53:22
I don't know if you can keep buying it. Yeah, so. But the book works. As you've seen it work. There have been things born through these connections. We have the baby users.

0:53:44
Laughter

0:53:51
I'm glad I got laughing. Bodhisitta, compassion, and the focus on the warrior, the compassion warrior. I would like to do a final meditation. We'll meditate to the Eiffel Tower. Sorry. That was the crystal. But you have to be careful. So the Eiffel Tower is a beautiful symbol. It's the most powerful symbol of Paris. And it is, uh, it's strange. It is like the warrior symbol of Paris. That's what it means, I believe. And this is an energy, a withdrawal, of overcoming adversity with compassion. So we've just practiced bodhicitta, taking and sending, but in this final consideration, many times, we are going to be bringing this compassionate energy to overcome even the worst of terrorism. And we're going to be strong on it, focus on it, really overcoming this fear and suffering and the damage. So we are going to drop that. That's the lawyer's weapon. It's compassion that overcomes adversity. I'd like you to look up towards me. Focus on your heart. And we'll just bring that compassion.

0:56:03
So I'm gonna definitely demonstrate draw, and I'd like you to follow me.

0:56:08
We're gonna bring that compassion from the heart, but it's going to become powerful.

0:56:30
It's going to impact.

0:56:31
So...

0:56:33
So so So the the the the so so the the the so so so so So, Very nice. I think, uh, as T2's in the audience, see? There's a dimension in that drama, that warrior's way of compassion, that we see so many times There's a dimension in that drama, that warrior's way of compassion, that we see so many times

0:59:19
more.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
