0:00:00
So a few people are getting their names tonight. Names is an interesting thing. It's kind of nice when you're established in your spiritual practice to have a spiritual name. Because then you again find out how you are not yourself. You have a separation from your karma name, your given name, and all its associations, and then you can start new. And spiritual names are names that are about high spiritual things, that have some beautiful quality that has to do with your spirit. So then you can say, wow, let me do a whole new thing here. Let me explore the dharma, this name, and identify as Krishna or dharma or something like that. And then it gives you a beautiful experience on the path. I don't really exactly know. When Rama would give names, he would just have a very, very deep seeing about the people have reached a certain point where it's appropriate. And I have a certain kind of feeling of when it's appropriate for someone to have a name. Kundalini had a different kind of scene about it. So like when Kundalini met some of my students, like Tara and Ajna, she was all, oh wow. So she said, oh, did they do this, this, or this? And I was like, oh, no.

0:01:53
I didn't know any of that.

0:01:55
And then she was all, that's appropriate for her and her students, but for my students, I really trust my intuition about names. I have a seeing or an intuition and then it's impossible, I can't go back from it So as I said, there were a lot of ST2s with spiritual names ST1s with spiritual names and there were very few, there were like 3 or 4 ST2s that got spiritual names from Rama when he was alive So, I was always like, okay, get your spiritual name from Rama. Okay, Rama's not here anymore, so I'm just like, I'm Jeff. I said, you know, no problem being Jeff. And then we were on a power trip, hiking into Haleakala on an equinox. 10 mile hike down and across the valley. It was very beautiful. And I had noticed that I was having dreams with Rama, where he would tell me new things. He would teach me meditation and dreams. And then I would also have these visions, where I was like, once in a while, I'm just sitting there and I have a vision of Rama, and I would see his face, and it was all bright. And then I would just get this intuitive inspiration about how to look at life or something. So I noticed these things were happening, but I think I didn't realize how powerful these little experiences were. But later on I was talking to the lady and she's all, oh yeah, Rama gives these downloads, like he's teaching still. And I was like oh picture of Rama comes into my mind and then all of a sudden I'm thinking about oh I know how to practice mindfulness better and stuff like that so it was just you know innocuous to me sort of and then she pointed it out I was like oh that's a big deal and I was like oh yeah those were a big deal actually but anyway when I was still like not aware of it very much I was hiking down into Haleakala, and then a picture, a vision of Rama came, and I was like, huh, neat. And I was like, this is really happening, right? And then I heard Rama say something, like a name.

0:04:37
And I was like, huh?

0:04:38
He said something, and I was like, huh? And then after he said something, I saw an image, and now I know it's an image of Sambara. So I heard the name, sort of. I kind of heard it wrong. I did that. I thought I heard it say Avar. So I thought, Avar, that's weird. And she gave me this image, and I was like, okay. Some taunka. And I was like, well, that's cool. And then he came again, the vision, and he's all like, you're Avar. And I'm like, oh, I'm a varro.

0:05:16
OK. And then I'm like, cool.

0:05:20
And then I just ignored him for a bit. And then it came even stronger. He's all, you're a varro.

0:05:27
And I'm like, oh my god.

0:05:29
I'm like, yeah. I'm a varro.

0:05:32
I'm like, I did it.

0:05:33
Varro is a varro.

0:05:37
And then I was like, cool, as well. And then I just like, walk in and I was like, yeah, that's cool, alright. So I'm like, oh, my name's Laura. And then I was like, wait a minute. I'm like, I'm just making up shit. I'm like, I just had some vision of Rama, and I'm just imagining this. And I'm like, I'm not going to just like, make up my own name. I'm like, that would be like, that's the most egotistical thing I've ever done.

0:06:06
Call me, dude. Call me...

0:06:10
Ishmael. So I was very clear that this was really bright vision, and that it was Rahman, and it sounded like his voice and stuff. And then I was like, but wait, this is crazy. So I said, I toyed with having the name again. And I was like, no, wait, this is crazy. This would be just crazy geniuses. So I said, no, no matter what, even though I knew that vision was really bright, I'm not going to accept that name. And the moment I did that, I felt all this darkness descend on me. And I was like, okay. I was like, I can deny the light, but I can't deny the dark. I know this is dark and I know this is wrong. This is obviously not good. So then I said, all right, now I see the difference. And I said, I accept the name. And then all of a sudden, right again. Like, immediately. And then I went, OK.

0:07:18
So that's it.

0:07:19
So that was my experience getting my name. And then with my students, very often I would hear it. I would hear the name. And then I would also hear it wrong. When Ajahn was saying his name, I actually didn't know the word for third eye, so I thought it was Ajahn-ah. So I was like, your spiritual name is Ajahn-ah.

0:07:48
Alright, go find it. Go find one.

0:07:53
So, I've kind of noticed as a pattern in giving students names, where I have an intuition about, you know, it's like, for me it's like, first of all, I start to feel like when I call your name, that name doesn't fit you at all anymore. So I start to feel that and I start to see some sort of symbol or some dharma about what your name connects to. It's like a dharma for your being to interact with the dharma of that name. So I start to see that. Sometimes I have a vision, like if your name is going to be Krishna, I'll see a vision of Krishna. Or sometimes I'll hear something like, with my third ear, I actually hear a name called. So, just wanted to give you a little background on spiritual names. But I normally see it happen, seems like a criteria in this school, is that you become a good yogi, that you're a dedicated practitioner So it's kind of like you know if you look at the yoga ranks It's kind of like if you're like a black belt. That's where you probably get your spiritual name So we have a few people tonight who are getting their names the first one is Janan and Janan's name now is Patala and Patala is another name for Durga So it's a you know a name for an aspect of Durga. You might want to look it up An aspect of Durga. Durga is a very powerful warrior goddess We shall call Patala, Patala. The next person who's getting their name is Jack

0:10:01
so Jack

0:10:03
his name now is

0:10:05
Atman and Atman is the awakened, the enlightened aspect of self So that's really physical. Rama, before he was Rama, his spiritual name was Atmananda. Third person who's getting their spiritual name is Ed. And Ed's name is EJ. And EJ, it's just two initials, E and J. And it's based on a mechanic that I once met. It's a Sanskrit word, I-J-A-Y, EJ. And EJ is an emanation of Vishnu. And as we know Rama also, one of his primary expressions of enlightenment was an emanation of Vishnu. So it's a very, very, very beautiful thing. The final person is, what's her name? Can't even remember her old name anymore.

0:11:37
Oh yeah, Martha.

0:11:38
Martha's spiritual name is Sarasvati. The one major goddess we were always missing. Congratulations.

0:11:44
All right.

0:11:45
All right, so that's beautiful dimensions.

0:11:50
Beautiful, beautiful dimensions in Star Wars.

0:11:53
All right, so those are the new names.

0:11:55
Patala, Ockman, EJ, Star Wars Falcon.

0:12:00
So we know what's gonna happen for the next couple days. Hey, I mean, you do. It's normal. It happens. It's okay. Don't feel dissed.

0:12:39
All right, we're good.

0:12:42
So now I'd like to go over Mystic Scuba, the exercises for tomorrow. Now, again tonight, we're not gonna do the breath check. We need, I think we need another day of diving. You know, it takes about three days before your body starts to like relax and the body really changes from these exercises. So, we'll do breath check tomorrow.

0:13:18
But just the fact that we were doing

0:13:19
some sensitivity awareness, you know, like the palpitations, this also gives you awareness of your overall health. These are important things. We will be doing the stomach palpitations again in the future, because it shows you after a little while where places start to loosen up. It gives you information about tension in your body.

0:13:47
So

0:13:49
So first of all, we'll do the healing exercise. The main healing exercise. Now, this is a healing exercise of the five major of the five major organs. This is a Taoist and Chinese medicine practice. So I used to be an acupuncturist before I moved to New York. I studied acupuncture with my Kung Fu teacher. So this exercise was one that we would practice as medical qigong, and it's based on Chinese medicine. So in this practice, what we do is we actually focus on internal organs, and we focus light to these organs. And again, we like, we'll inhale light, and we will exhale toxicity. So the first organ is the lungs. And the light for the lungs is a really white light. For practicing the lung, you would inhale and envision this beautiful white light

0:14:58
filling the lungs.

0:14:59
And then when you exhale, it could be coming out of your nose if you want, or you can feel it just shoot right out of the lungs. And whatever toxicity and darkness shoots out. Simple, we're getting good at this. The next organ, and these organs have relationships, so it's important to do it in the right order. So we do one breath on the lungs, the second is the kidneys. And on the kidneys, I think A little back. You inhale a blue light through the kidneys. And you see the kidneys, envision the kidneys being filled with a brilliant, beautiful blue light. And then you exhale, and you can shoot right out of your kidneys, or you can come out of your nose. Any toxicity to the kidneys comes out. And then you go right on to the liver.

0:15:54
Where's my liver expert, Tara?

0:15:56
Tara, okay, so where's the liver, Tara? On the right side below the ribcage. Right side below the ribcage. Everybody locate your liver.

0:16:06
Tara's our liver expert.

0:16:09
This is her selfless giving to help everyone. So you're going to envision inhaling a brilliant green light to the liver, and then you exhale all the toxicity out. And then you go right on to the heart. And you inhale a brilliant, beautiful red light for the heart and then you exhale the toxicity and then you go to the spleen who knows where the spleen is yeah spleen is on the left side below the ribcage so the spleen looks like? We're all like, he's a little thing, he's got a lung, he's got a heart. A spleen looks like a little thing that you're going to have a bunch of... Yellow light. Yellow light goes into the spleen. You inhale yellow light, and then you exhale the toxicity. So white lungs, blue kidneys, green liver, red heart, and topaz. Yeah, that beautiful yellow light.

0:17:50
Sound good? OK.

0:17:53
We're going to practice together. I'll just walk through it. So inhale white light to the lungs.

0:18:08
Exhale, intoxicity.

0:18:09
Inhale blue light for the kidneys. Exhale, toxicity.

0:18:12
Inhale green light to the liver on the right.

0:18:14
Exhale toxicity.

0:18:16
Inhale red light to the heart.

0:18:21
Exhale toxicity.

0:18:23
Inhale yellow light to the spleen on the left side.

0:18:48
Exhale toxicity. Very nice. So this is a practice that you can just continually cycle through.

0:18:55
And we're gonna be doing this underwater.

0:18:57
So that's the primary healing exercise. Now we're gonna do another exercise tomorrow, and this is a mystic exercise. It is finding a place of power. So even on the dive sites that I've been on, on the west side, Sunset House, I find there are certain places that are more powerful than others

0:19:41
It's pretty simple

0:19:43
But what what I'd like you to do is I'd like you to find powerful places so the way that we'll do it is The dive master will first take people to a place where the Dive Master says, this is the place. So we'll have a hand sign, here is power.

0:20:09
And then you guys will go to that place of power,

0:20:14
and then you'll just, you know, you'll hover above it or just hang out there for a little while, just focus on the navel, just still the mind and just be there and see what it's like. Could be for a minute, just try to be still and see what that place of power is. And then the dive master will point to another person on the team. The other person on the team has to go to a different place and find a place that they think is powerful. Then the next one and the next one.

0:20:46
Hopefully you get all four of them done in the same dive.

0:20:49
Second from fifth, you're like,

0:20:50
what, what, what, what? What, what, what, what?

0:20:53
What, what, what, what?

0:20:55
But it's important to try to be able to see energy lines underwater.

0:21:00
So try to find the distance of color. Okay, so that's another exercise that we're going to do underwater. Now, I have another exercise that we're going to do. It's called Torma. You guys know Torma from the Bodhisattva book? Yeah. So, someone was telling me after the dive today, the night dive, that she's like, I found a ghost underwater. So Torma is always giving an offering to the local spirits. And there are local spirits underwater. So what we're going to do is we're going to do Torma. Torma helps you create a good relationship with a place of power. Because if there are spirits there, then they're appeased and they might show you the cool stuff. Or they might not mess with you. Or, even if there's no spirits there, just that act of giving, that makes you have a better connection with the place of power, the energy of the place. But I know you know if you think about it like you're like I bought a house Yeah, you buy a house with some land and it's like There's a lot of other beings that live in that you just said it's mine. I mean there's ants bees

0:22:37
birds who live there

0:22:39
and you're like it's mine, it's mine It's kind of nice to recognize and care for the animals and plants and trees and birds and everything that live there. It's nice to have a regard for them. And not to like go around,

0:23:01
hey, there's an ant.

0:23:02
So one, there's the animals that we come across and things like that. But also, there are spirits. Sometimes there's spirits in places, and it's good to have a good positive regard for them as well. So tomorrow, you can do it before you go in on the dive. Say, if we're at the water's edge, we'll skip torma. Or you can bring your torma down into the dive, and then go to the reef and say, here, your sub-spaghetti.

0:23:40
I'm watching your sub-spaghetti.

0:23:47
So I think you all know how to get to Torma from the Bodhisitta book. But Torma often comes in the form of cake, comes in the form of an orange or something like that, a piece of fruit. So bring whatever you think is appropriate for a torma. Spaghetti. And everyone should have a piece of torma on the team, and everyone should have that intention of giving torma to the local spirits. And so if you're bringing like a chocolate or something, make sure that you don't like take it out of the wrapper, put the chocolate down, it's tormenting, throw the wrapper out. So we're not literate.

0:24:40
Okay, so simple exercise.

0:24:42
Torma, offering.

0:24:44
Torah offering Okay, so those will be our exercises

0:24:48
They'll be first you're going to do the healing exercises

0:24:52
Well, you don't have to go first, but at some point you're going to do the healing exercise just going through those colors focusing on the internal organs and then after that, it's just finding places of power looking for special energy lines and then after you guys come up you can talk about what what about it was a special Powerful and you can see that there's different energy lines feel different So you guys can talk about that seeing different energy It's good. Let's see.

0:25:30
I have to determine,

0:25:32
or to see what we're doing tomorrow. I have a little schedule somewhere. Yeah. We do normal before we do the dive,

0:25:39
so we might plan to do this tomorrow. Yeah, yeah, you can do that.

0:25:43
You can do it before.

0:25:45
Yeah, usually, it's like you go to a place

0:25:47
and you do it to a run,

0:25:48
then you like hang around it.

0:26:04
So, that would be fine.

0:26:05
Did anyone dive Babylon today?

0:26:07
Just curious. Yeah?

0:26:09
You dove Babylon? How was the entry?

0:26:11
Well, there's a couple of weeks,

0:26:13
like, on the shore, and then it was. It was totally hard to swim, yeah.

0:26:16
Good. All right, thanks. All right, thanks.

0:26:19
We'll see what we're doing tomorrow.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
