0:00:00
So tonight I'm going to give you an esoteric teaching from the Shambhala doctrines. which is a great power in compassion. So a warrior needs to have the right tools. So we work on developing skillful means. And this is a new practice, a new power that you can use. You must learn to use it skillfully. And then when you are waging your war, you can have greater success with the proper tools. Yeah. Yeah, I know that it's difficult. I know that it's painful. I know it's hard. I know sometimes it seems impossible. impossible to be happy, impossible to be at peace, and that the pain and confusion seems overwhelming. But if you, in the moment, start to practice bodhicitta, or wind horse, as you will start the path out of that darkness. If you let your karma steamroll you, if you just follow the reactions of self, you'll always experience great suffering. But if you learn the path of compassion, and if you follow it, if you put it to use, you work on it, you do it. You don't fake it, you do it. You don't just let the self react, you practice bodhicitta, you practice compassion. If you do this, you will learn the way out of suffering. So it's very important. It's kind of like, you know, if this was a dojo, right? I'm like, if you get in a fight, block. Some punches after you, block. You know? And kick, punch, right? So it's like, if you are learning martial arts, and yet if you get to a fight, you don't do anything. You don't have the presence of mind to actually do anything, then you're not really benefiting from the martial arts that you're learning. You have to put it to use when appropriate. Compassion you could put to use a lot. Martial arts? Here and there. So it's really important. even black belts, get into a fight and not have the presence of mind to utilize their martial arts. It happens so fast, they don't know what's going on, you know, they're just not ready. So with compassion we have to be ready. This is something that we make a part of our awareness in every moment. It's not something that we learn a little bit about and then forget. And then we find ourselves in the dark of desire and and anger without a mindful moment of compassion. This is something that we develop a conscious moment-by-moment awareness of. And then you become strong. Then your mind always will To understand wind horse, you have to understand a very important fundamental awareness in the Shambhala teaching, the Shambhala worldview. It is an awareness of basic happiness. So basic happiness is the nature of your mind. Your mind is basically, simply, and naturally bright and happy. I know that you know sometimes you don't think so. Sometimes you're looking at it going,

0:05:40
ooh, this thing is,

0:05:42
it more resembles a garbage truck

0:05:44
than happiness, right?

0:05:46
But that's only because there's a garbage truck there.

0:05:48
You move the garbage truck out of the way, and your mind is pristine, right? Garbage trucks sometimes occupy our mind, but that is not your mind. Right? Your mind is actually naturally clear, bright, and pristine. When you find yourself, you know, having garbage trucks in your mind, that is not your mind. That is not the true nature of your mind. This is ideas, thoughts that you might be holding on to that are occupying your mind. But your mind is basically good, peaceful, and bright. So it's important for you to see the nature of your mind, to see that, you know, and to believe and to connect with your Buddha nature. The fact that you are enlightened, you just don't know it yet. You're not aware of the eternal aspect of your being in every moment. But you can have a reflection to say, hmm, this is true. I have had a good meditation before. I have had a beautiful experience of spirit and light. And I recognized that light as the basic goodness of my mind. I remember my teacher was talking to us one day and he said, he said, you guys are some of the most beautiful people in the world. Some of the nicest people in the world. And I was surprised. I said, really? All I see is a lot of garbage trucks. But this is the case for everyone. Everyone has basic goodness. You have basic goodness. Others have basic goodness. So it's important to come to an understanding when you're out of balance that you're actually not, that in your essence everything is pristine. It's just the transient surface of thoughts and feelings, little things that you grab onto for a while. That's transient, that comes and goes, it changes, it goes up and down. But your basic goodness is the eternal aspect of your being, and it's during an equinox or a solstice. You just feel in nature a great peace. There's a balance. You feel like your awareness is expanding, that there's many options, that you're happy. A very natural, peaceful happiness. And you experience basic goodness in meditation. When you meditate, slow down thoughts, experience light or stop thoughts, that is basic goodness. So, you want to identify that that is the truth, and that the transient things come and go and it's not worth identifying as yourself. We get down on ourselves and we say, no, that's not my experience. That's not what's going on in my head. And, you know, someone who's, let's say, miserable is not a very good person for cheering someone else up. So it's like if you are identifying with transient suffering, then it's not... for the wind horse, it's not a good way to apply compassion for someone. You're like, I'm miserable. Why should I be compassionate for you? So you have to think well of yourself. You constantly have to say, you know, you have to connect with the fact that you have enlightened nature. When you get down on yourself, you have to say, I have enlightened nature. The transient, whatever. I'm going to let that go and I'm going to go back to, I had a good meditation once. I felt nice at this solstice sunset or something. That is my mind. That is me. When you have that connection to your eternal side, that is a fruitful place for you to start with Wind Horse? Wind basically means energy. And the idea of horse is that you can mount that energy and use it. So, that's why they call it Wind Horse. But it is a power, a power of compassion, and it stems from the awareness of basic goodness. So, you know like when you go to Janus Martial Arts class and he says, okay, we're gonna do this exercise, and then all of a sudden, simply looking at something a certain way, thinking about holding your attention a certain way, and doing something, all of a sudden you shift into having a great power. So this is what we see from this martial arts class. We see that very simple little thing of holding your attention a certain way, extending your arm a certain way. It's not something that takes forever to develop, it just takes having the right attention and focus. And then you feel this great power, or you see that you can be very powerful. The wind horse is like that. It's not something where you need an empowerment. It's something where you have the proper approach, the proper attention, and you develop this skillful means of compassion. The Wind Horse is an additional tool to the taking and sending in Bodhicitta. And it's a power of compassion. And it's very effective. So tonight I'm going to give you that inner teaching of how to hold your attention, of how to access the wind horse and how to use the wind horse. And then I encourage you to use it. You will go around blasting people with wind horse. Bam! Here's my power! Bam! You'll go around with like a little fairy wand.

0:14:35
Bink!

0:14:37
I wind horse you!

0:14:39
Bink! Yes, and then you can get very proud of your power. I have a power.

0:14:50
Yes.

0:14:51
I finally have a power.

0:14:54
Yes. Windhorse is considered in Shambhala a power, the power of compassion. Very different than the practice of taking and sending. So then you get all egotistical about it. I finally have a magical power. I will free you from your suffering.

0:15:11
Windhorse.

0:15:12
This is what I encourage. It was I who did it for you. Okay, so obviously if the I gets in the way, the power of wind horse doesn't work. So you must recognize the truth of Windhorse that it actually isn't you. It's basic goodness. So with Windhorse, you don't... it's not you doing it. I mean, you got to do it, but it's not you doing it. So if you do wind horse and somebody's suffering is relieved you don't say I did it although I did wind horse I used the power. This is tricky. No just like a could could you say a sensei made you a black belt in their embroidery? Just kidding. Can a sensei... Can a sensei make somebody into a black belt? No. But they can make the power available and teach the power and discipline. And the person can themselves become a black belt. So Windhorse is a power, you might say, like martial arts has power. You don't learn to be powerful. It essentially doesn't make you learn power. You learn it by having that opportunity. Windhorse is that invitation, an Invitation. An invitation to basic goodness. So when you direct the wind horse, what happens is the person you direct it to is invited to their own basic goodness. And when they experience their basic goodness, then they are relieved of their suffering as we are when we are out of our transient mind and into our basic goodness. You guys are out of your transient mind. Then we find in our basic goodness that we're not in suffering that everything that's so horrible in our transient mind falls into balance. And that we see opportunity and brightness and peace. This is what we extend as an op... Through the power of Windforce we extend that invitation. Won't you be bright with me? And it has a very powerful effect very powerful effect, so This is what we do now. How do you do wind horse? I'm going to give you a demonstration And then I'm going to tell you how to do it, and then we're all going to do it together. First we start with a demonstration. So for the demonstration of the wind horse, we will play some music, and you guys will look at me. And I'll show you the wind horse. So the wind horse is an esoteric teaching. So it's an inner teaching. It's a way of holding your attention. A way of using the power of basic goodness. You have to feel it. So you will just observe me and I will be moving this power, this invitation to basic goodness, and you just observe and feel. If you just try to still your mind a little bit, don't worry about it if you're thinking, but but you will get the attention learning how to use Windhorse and the expression, the feeling of Windhorse.

0:20:13
All right. You can focus lightly on your third eye. It helps you to see. Adventures in AP Systems I'm going to play a little bit of it.

0:20:36
so so

0:20:56
I'm not afraid of the dark

0:20:59
I'm not afraid of the dark

0:21:03
I'm not afraid of the dark I'm not afraid of the dark the Got it? That's Windhorse. Alright so, imagine you have financial struggles. I mean, I know it's hard to imagine for some of you. But imagine that you're struggling to pay rent. You're struggling to put food on the table. You're struggling to get your bike fixed so that you can go to work. I don't know, right? This causes a lot of concern for you,

0:22:07
and it makes your life difficult, makes it hard. Hard to do anything, hard to get around in life. So then you imagine, what if money wasn't an issue at all? You have all the money you could ever need. Not with you kind of like saying oh then I'm gonna buy a Bentley and I'm gonna like go party in the club and like make it rain but just in money is not an issue anything that you need is provided for you can be generous when tipping the waitress right you don't even say, oh, I'm just going to give you 10%. You give them 20%, at least. 35%. So you have the feeling like if you need something, you can get it. Money's not a problem. You walk into the store, you don't look at the price of something, you just get it, because that's what you need. This is like wind horse. There's no limitation. There's a flow of energy. It's easy to see your basic goodness when you're not limited with constraints in the physical world. This is how it is for your mind with Windhorse. Not just the struggling with money thing, but it's like you see somebody who needs money, right? And if you've got all the money you need, and they say, oh, I'm struggling to pay rent, then you give them money for rent. Basic goodness. You see someone who's suffering, and you have, you connect with your basic goodness. You think back to a meditation, you think back to this meditation, where your mind was bright and balanced, or one of the highest moments of meditation in your life. You connect with your basic goodness and you say, I have so much of that, that I extend it to this person. That creates the opening, the invitation for them. That's where you're bringing to them this very high experience. But not just that high experience. It is just by doing that you direct the wind horse. You direct the power. This is a... this is the trick. But that's how you do it. So for our practice of Windhorse, I'd like you to close your eyes for a moment. And I'd like you to get in touch with your basic goodness. I want you to see yourself with all of your suffering and all limitations. I want you to see those limitations and problems and suffering, darkness, everything that bothers your spirit, bothers your mind. I want to see you drop it. Let go of it. It's gone. Imagine yourself without those problems. Imagine yourself enlightened. Let's say you see yourself as a vision of Buddha or a Bodhisattva. You say, well, and That's an enlightened person, filled with light, wisdom, power, love. See that person as you. And you have so much light, so much wisdom, so much love, that you can extend it and give in love to people, to other people, to people who are suffering. So with the awareness of your... you don't have any problems, and the vision of yourself as enlightened, I want to see you extend that enlightenment from the vision of your enlightened self to the vision of them. We're going to go ahead and get that.

0:32:04
I'm going to go ahead and get that. I'm going to go ahead and get the camera. I'm. Very nice. Very nice. I almost didn't want to stop. You guys got the wind horse, the power. So, practice this. Practice this same exercise in your meditations. So, after stopping thought for whatever period you do it, after your practice of relative

0:33:18
Practice the wind horse in a sitting meditation. Could just be for a minute or you can do it for play a play a song. But practice it right away. Practice it tomorrow morning. I don't want you to forget how to do this. Practice this as mindfulness. Practice the wind horse. Let's start. Let's start working on the wind horse. So we know the you know taking and sending the Tong Len but Practice the wind horse. We'll start to get good at using this power Excellent, thank you all very much

0:34:40
That was quite exciting

0:34:42
it's really That was quite exciting. It's really amazing to see you guys use the Windhorse. It's really amazing to see you guys use the Windhorse. Use it liberally.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
