0:00:00
Good evening everyone. In Hungarian, good morning everyone in America. We're going to begin with meditation. We're going to sit for three songs. One song per chakra and everyone in America you should have the playlist. And if you don't, you can listen in. Otherwise you can turn your volume down once we begin. All right, so let's begin with a focus on the navel.

0:00:46
the. The. The. The. The. the the the the. the the the Oh. Oh. the the the the the the the the Oh. Oh. the the the the the the the the the the the the The.. the the the the the the the the the the the I'm going to go ahead and get started. The. the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the. the the the the the the the the The. the the the the I'm Ah, very nice. Nirvana is a wonderful temporary relief from Good evening, good morning, and we're going to talk about tales of power. We have some beautiful tales of power to discuss today, but first, Americans, while we're translating here in Hungarian, I don't want you to lose your attention.

0:16:07
Don't start texting, don't start reading other emails, don't start coding. on what I said or just sit there and meditate in silence. But I don't want you to lose your attention or your focus. So, in addition, setup crew on the American side, we always have problems with setup. We always have problems with dialing in. We always have problems at seminars with making sure that the music is going to play. If you're on the setup crew, it's really nice that you're setting things up, but make sure they work.

0:17:04
So,

0:17:08
you know, and I told you ahead of time, be prepared for this. But you've got to figure it out. So, it's just that it shows that there's a lack of impeccability. Okay. Please chat please.

0:17:28
And then I'll be done.

0:17:32
I'm going to speak in Hungarian. and with the music, it's very nice that you want to set everything up, but I ask you to work, because I always speak in time, and when it starts so difficult, it indicates the lack of flexibility. So, last weekend, the American Fonga went to the Anza Borrego Desert in Southern California

0:18:37
on a power trip to a place where my teacher Rama, he really loved that place. He went to that place many, many times. Probably hundreds of times. He took students out into the desert hundreds of times because it's a very, very magical place, a very mystical place. And Agni Kala is another liberated teacher in our lineage. He was also a contemporary of mine, a direct student of Brahma.

0:19:55
At the end, the American singer Anza Borrego went to the South California for a power tour. We went to a place that Raman loved very much. He went there many times, maybe hundreds of times, and took his students there. It is a magical, mystical place. This time we went with Agnika, who is also a liberated teacher,

0:20:22
So it was a very, very powerful and beautiful experience. First we got together and he took us out to a place in the desert that I had never been to before. He lives near the desert in San Diego. And he goes to the desert very, very often. Maybe every weekend, I don't know. But he knows the desert very, very, very, very well. So it's very beautiful to go with him because he knows new places of power that I think they're places that even my teacher Rama had never even known about. And so we go out into the desert, have a beautiful meditation, and he has a special kind of experience in the desert. with Ajnakala, a lot of times, we will, he'll have us lie down and just rest, relax the body, and if you can sleep, he says, please fall asleep. Which is kind of very different, right? So the first time we did that with him, I was sitting there going, this is crazy. Because going out into the desert is a place of power, right? And it's a place where generally you have to have a strong attention. And to go there and just to flee to me was like very, very strange at first. different than anything I've ever experienced in a place of power. However, I noticed that when we would go out there, that Agni Kala would have an awareness around the whole group that's protective and that is aiding, that's resting. So then I lay down and rest and say, hey yeah, this is working out okay. And then I also would just fall asleep. And it was very, very beautiful. So the first evening we went out, rested, fell asleep a little bit, and it was very nice. I'm going to show you a video of a young man who was in a wheelchair.

0:23:13
He was in a wheelchair for a long time. He was in a wheelchair for a long time. He was in a wheelchair for a long time. He was in a wheelchair for a long time. He was in a wheelchair for a long time. He was in a wheelchair for a long time. He was in a wheelchair for a long time. and and we should relax our body and if we can, we should sleep. This is very different from what I have experienced during the power trip. At first I thought that this is pure madness, because the Shivatag is a strong place, I had to be very attentive. And he said, we can even go to the bathroom if we want. It was very strange for me. Very different. But I noticed that Agnikala takes the whole group with a very strong awareness, protects the group and supports the rest. And when I noticed this, I relaxed in this situation, that I'm fine. So I let myself fall asleep. This is how our first day was, resting and snoring in bed. So I didn't go out with them for the morning meditation.

0:25:06
So Adi Kala took the sangha out and they meditated for three or four hours. And this is very important because I would not really trust a lot of people to take my students into the desert without me there. So the fact that I was totally fine with Agnikala leading my students without my presence, it means that I really respect and trust his abilities in the desert. And I heard that people had very beautiful meditations. Afterwards, they came back. We were staying at a beautiful desert resort. And they had a beautiful breakfast where everybody was laughing and very cheerful. So that was really wonderful. At the resort there was a beautiful, you know, hall. And we all got together in this hall and we wore suits. Which is kind of funny because I've never worn a suit in the desert. And also I've never, when we go to the desert, usually we go out into nature. And this night we wore suits and we stayed in the resort. But we did something else that was another signature of Achnikala, which is music. Now he told every one of us to bring either like a percussion instrument or like a flute. So we all brought these little drums or flutes or things. When he set up on stage, he had these giant Native American drums. And then he started playing them. And then he had all of us play music with him. So we were all sitting there wearing suits, and we were playing percussion in this hall and it was very, very, very loud and filled with sound. Now, the staff of the hotel thought this was very strange. First of all, a group of people wearing suits in the desert. I don't think they've ever seen that. Second of all, we start playing all this weird music. And so when we were done, I could hear the staff in the kitchen just laughing and having a good time. They were very, very happy and bright about it as well.

0:28:13
I was not feeling well, so I did not go to the morning meditation.

0:28:18
Agnikala was the one who took the whole sangha out to meditate for 3-4 hours. And you know, there are not many people I would dare to trust my students in the office, so I'm not there. But I trusted Agnikala with great joy, I trust them, even without my presence. I trust them. And when they came back, they counted on their wonderful meditation. And then, in that place where we landed, a beautiful, wonderful, delicious breakfast was waiting for us. And I saw that everyone was happy, happy. And then that night, there was a beautiful big fish in this hotel, and we gathered in this fish in the evening, in a dress. Well, it was a very interesting experience, because in the office I had never worn a dress. And so in a dress, we stayed there all night at our accommodation. Agni Kalán's other very distinctive feature is his music. He asked us to bring drum instruments, horns, whatever we wanted, and he appeared on the top of the hill with huge, huge, American-Indian, ancient drums, and started playing on it, and we turned it on. And we were all there, in costumes, wearing costumes, hitting the drums, blowing the horns, and the whole room was filled with loud music. Well, it was a very interesting phenomenon, and the hotel staff were surprised that they were sitting here in the middle of the grass in their clothes, and jamming to old music. And when we finished, I heard the hotel staff laughing, they were enjoying themselves, and it was a great experience for them too.

0:30:52
They feel good and they also had a very uplifting experience. And a lot of that about how he operates in life is flow. He just flows with life. Which is very similar to Wu Wei. So I really like that he was talking about flow. And as an example, it's our music. Like when we play the drums or flutes or something, there's no planning, there's no structure of the song, we just flow with it. And it's fun. Then we did a meditation where one of his students played the piano. And it was really beautiful. It was definitely a magical meditative journey. But we meditated while he played this song. And it was a flowing song. And it was very nice. piano under Agni Kala and he had learned just about flow and it's pretty magical. So that was one of the wonderful teachings. First, he talked about flow. This is how he lives, this is his way of life. It is similar to what we call a boobay. This is how it is when we are playing music.

0:32:14
When we were playing music, we were in the flow.

0:32:17
It was not predetermined what we were doing when, but the music came. Then we meditated. And then he proceeded to really give very advanced teachings.

0:33:20
And it was very beautiful. The first teaching that he gave was a beautiful teaching about really security for me. Because he saw that for me I was having a very difficult time. With, you know, my students. When you guys have hard times in your mind, it's something that affects me. And the world. So he said, alright, let me teach you guys something really cool. And there's something that when you are on security, when you're a black belt and when you are given that ability to, you know, be the bodyguard of enlightenment, it really connects you to certain powers. And when we were, when I was first on security for my teacher, I started learning these powers. Powers of awareness, powers of how to use power and attention to create a secure protection energy for my teacher. So Agni Kala also was a Black Belt on security with me, serving our teacher. And he learned these skills, these powers, and then he taught my students and really, like, actually taught them how to use this power of protection. So then they learned it. Now, usually, you know, Rambo would only teach us the Black Belt. But the way Azne Kala taught it, it was balanced. Can the students do it? I don't know. We'll see. But it was a very, very powerful and beautiful teaching.

0:35:28
...

0:35:32
...... and gave us very advanced, high-level teachings. They were beautiful. The first such teaching was about how to protect me, my disciples. Because I had a very difficult time. With my disciples, with the world. When you have difficulties and you are in dark places in your minds, that has a certain effect on me, and it's hard for me too. So Agni Kala taught me something really super, because she said that when someone is honoured to perform a security service in addition to enlightenment, it is connected to certain powers. and the power of consciousness, and the powers that are given to create a safe, protective energy around the teacher. And Agnika has also learned all this, because she was also in the security service with the teachers, and now she has taught my students how to use the power of defense. I have taught this to only black belt students. Agnika has just opened this course for the whole class. We will see if they can use it. If they have acquired it. It is a very beautiful, very powerful and complete course. And really I think that was one of the most beautiful parts of the whole trip, that teaching.

0:37:24
It was like gold light everywhere. It was so beautiful. place of love, concern, compassion, and the Kala Chakra, the powerful dharma of our lineage and protection. The most beautiful moment of this journey, of the whole journey,

0:37:50
was filled with golden light.

0:37:53
This teaching came from a place where love is ruled, care and feeling together, and from the place of the Kala Chakra, which represents the whole family tree. Then he talked about one of his primary teachings which is Tantric Sex. And he said that many, many people, spiritual people, neglect the emotional pillar. And if you think of it as a table, right? If you neglect one of the legs of the table, the table falls over. So he said to address the emotional pillar, the best thing to do is contract sex. Contract sex and the consort relationship. So just to give you guys an overview of what that is, contract sex is when you have sex. But, not in such a physical attention, but in more of a spiritual way. High level. The conflict relationship is where a man and a woman come together in relationship as the yin and the yang side of this divine. the eternity in each other and when they come together it really reflects enlightenment

0:40:09
in a stronger way.

0:40:16
I see what you'd like as partner. Yeah. The fourth pillar has four pillars. The physical pillar, the mental, the emotional and the spiritual.

0:40:31
And what happens is that a lot of people on the street give up the emotional pillar. And it's like when a table has three legs, the table will fall. will be gone. So, to reinforce this fourth pillar, the best thing is tantric sex and a kind of consort relationship, a partner relationship. In a broad sense, tantric sex means that someone is in a sexual relationship with the other, but not with physical attention, but much more with spiritual attention. The consort relationship, this is the partner relationship, when a man and a woman meet like Yin and Yang,

0:41:58
so like the manifestation of the equinox, I was speaking with my students also about Tantric sex. So I was talking about my teacher Rama. Did you guys listen to that? Did you guys get the recording of that and listen to it?

0:42:35
No?

0:42:36
Okay.

0:42:37
Well, I was talking about my teacher Rama. And my teacher Rama practiced construct sex. And he taught us about construct sex. So I was teaching my students about it as well. I think I taught you guys the first step. There's different things to understand about contract sex. And most of it doesn't have to do with actual sex, physical sex. But I started to teach another part about toxic sex. And so it was kind of interesting that Agni Kala taught about flow and toxic sex. Some of my students were like, were you guys planning this together? And then Agni Kala said, no, we're really just networks. And I'm like, yeah, Facebook. Facebook message. Think about that. But it's cool that the things that he's teaching and the things that I teach, they're connected.

0:43:56
That we are members.

0:43:58
On Wednesday, before we went to the Shivacak on the day of the day of the day, I also talked to my teachers about the Tantric sex. Because Ráma also taught about it and practiced it. So I also taught them, although I think I taught you the first steps. There are aspects that are not related to physical sex. So it was very interesting that after the teaching we went to the office and Agnika taught about the flow and tantric sex. They picked up their heads from the couch a few times, the song, that, well, you guys talked about it. And then we looked at each other and said, yes, we discussed it on Facebook, that this will be the theme. Well, yes, how interesting and how beautiful that the lessons are so nicely connected.

0:45:07
So the next day, after a wonderful, fantastic lunch that we had together. This was a great lunch especially for me because I got to sit at the table also with Agni Kala, but also Maya Devi. Maya Devi is Agni Kala's consort. And she's also an enlightened student of Brahma. And she's amazing. She's very, very, very gentle, very sensitive, beautiful, enlightened, feminine energy. So, you know, it was very, very nice. I got to talk to her and just have a moment to connect with her. And that was really, really beautiful. So after that, we went out to the desert again. It was like going to a very special place that Agni Kala found that I think Brahma never knew about, but it's a beautiful place. And Agni Kala calls it Vayu's cave.

0:46:15
I was in a wonderful dinner the next day.

0:46:26
We were talking and I was talking to a lady named May Devi. She is a very bright teacher to me. She is a very extraordinary being, very weak, delicate, sensitive, bright feminine energy. It was good to talk to her, to connect with her. It was a wonderful experience for me. So this was the night of what they call the blood moon. And this is where there was a lunar eclipse.

0:47:24
It was a night where the moon was 7% closer to the earth. So we went out onto this ridge in the desert. It was so beautiful. And we sat down and watched the moon, meditated and watched the moon rise in the sky. And there was a very, very, very special energy unlocking during this astrological event. I'm not sure what it is, but it's something significant, like it was a shift in energy on the planet.

0:48:13
So that was beautiful to be meditating there and experiencing this shift of energy. And this night was the Blood Moon night. This is the moon eclipse, when the moon, and I felt a very special energy appear in the air. I don't know exactly what it was, but I'm sure there was a movement in the energy of the planet.

0:49:10
During that meditation, Ajahn Kala went to each one of my students and he cleared their their energy with the energy of the desert. So, he was clearing the aura and shifting their energy. Every single one of my students went to them. One by one spending thirty seconds to a minute just focusing this power of the desert to clear their aura. It's a very, very, very special opportunity. I never do crap like that. Maybe I'll be an asshole. I'm not that bad. But he did something very, very special. And then after that, we went from the bridge back down and we started playing the drums. Drum, flute, and we had this little, yeah, kind of drum playing jam session. And it was really neat, because there's these tall canyons all around. And we're in this beautiful, kind of, bend in a riverbed. And all the music just bounces off the wall. Very beautiful. And at one point, Agni Kala had all the women get up and do drumming. And when the women got up and did the drumming, the guys just started dancing around in circles. So it was very like, you know, like tribal. Very beautiful. Shiva, another enlightened person in our lineage, Shiva had given each of my students a meditation blanket. And he did a blessing in that blanket, put Shakti, energy, into the blanket. And then he said, hey, you know, maybe Agni Kala would do the same thing. So my students brought, it was like 40 degrees out there, and my students brought these big blankets to the desert. Yeah, and then they gave them to Amit Kala that night, and he did a blessing in the blanket. He put Shakti, additional energy, spiritual energy into the blanket. And so this is something that my students, you know, in Northern California it's a little cool most of the year, so they have to put their little blanket on and meditate, right? So it's a really nice thing for, to, you know, enlighten people with this beautiful energy into these blankets. And especially to do it in the desert, very magical. So Agni Kala, one at a time, put, again, a lot of beautiful energy into these blankets. And then afterwards, way back. Now, I just remember one thing that I really liked at the end. At the end, Maya Devi came over to Agnekala, bringing him some water. And then he bowed, and he took the water and drank it. And then they just had a moment together that was really magical and beautiful. And that's where I really got to see the magic of the consort relationship. was so much light and love, like enlightenment really being reflected back to each other. And then they just had a moment where they bowed and then we left. It was a very beautiful moment.

0:53:28
and the meditation was based on Agni Kala going to all of my students one by one

0:53:38
and purifying their aura, purifying their energy with the power of the Shiva. He used the power of the Shiva to purify their aura. I never do things like that. Or sometimes. It was very nice. And then we went back to another place and started to throw. And again a little jam session was created. We were in a very nice place, in a corner of a river basin. So, the music was coming from the river's wall. There was a moment when Agnika asked the women to get up and start dancing. And when the women started dancing, the men started dancing in circles. It was a kind of tribal experience. After that, Shiva gave all my teachers a meditation cover which contained energy of Shakti. He put this energy into this cover. And then, it was true that it was 40 degrees, but everyone brought this blanket to the Shivatag, so that Agnikala could stop it. And Agnikala stopped the blankets and put more energy into it. And it will be very good for everyone in Northern California, because it is more or less cool there all year. and everyone will meditate around this cover. So this shrine is a very magical place, and the beautiful energy of this magical place is reflected in this cover. And then we left. At the end of this road, there was a moment, a very magical, wonderful moment, when My Baby brought water to Agnika. I was so happy to feel again how valuable and powerful this partnership is. And after this beautiful moment, we set off on our journey. But he also plays the Native American flute. And he's an amazing musician.

0:56:42
His flute playing is magical. He kind of reminds me of Don Juan, because he's so mystical. He looks like how I would imagine Don Juan. I mean, I imagine Don Juan. I mean I imagine Don Juan being older. He looks like a young Don Juan. So, he also is an artist. So, he makes beautiful modern tankas. So, he's made tankas of our teachers. Things like that. And he is going to put together a visual and musical experience of that trip. So a lot of people took video and took pictures, and he's gotten all those videos and pictures. And we also recorded the time that we were playing music. And he's going to put together some sort of magical compilation of that trip. When he does, then you guys can listen to it so that you can understand more what this experience was like. Additionally, I have been working with benefactors factors like Akinkala, Shiva, and Jnana Sensei. These advanced teachers, direct students of my teacher Rama, and I've been working with them on helping the the Sangha. So a couple things. I'd like to ask Kognikala to teach you the protection powers because I think it has a very nice effect. Because even if you your mind goes into caring versus trashing versus self, you know, thought. So, I've noticed that and I like that. So, in order to do the protection powers, usually it takes, you know, you kind of have to have a black belt. You have to have some tone out power. But even if you're not still good at it, I like the effect that I see people have when they're caring about that protection. So I'd like to ask him to teach you that. And if you get good at it, then it's very helpful. And so maybe we can do a session where he'll maybe show one of his meditations, visual meditation, and you guys can meditate. Probably see a picture of him because he looks like a very magical creature. And then he can maybe teach you the protection. So I'm going to ask him to do that. That way you guys will be able to have an introduction to Ajnakala and his teachings. Additionally, sometime maybe in the spring, I'd like to invite Shiva to come out there to meditate with you. And Shiva is a jolly old chap. This is Charlie O'Chopper.

1:00:54
I think you guys will absolutely love that it's a unicorn. and he promised to make a visual, musical compilation of this route. But it won't be a simple compilation of the videos and sound recordings we made during the route, because we recorded the music as well, but it will be a magical combination. Then, on top of that, you know that I work with good teachers these days, with people who help the voice. Agnikala, Shiva, Gyana Sensei. They all studied with Ramana, and they are all teachers. And I work with them to serve your progress. I would like if Agnika could teach you the use of defensive forces. Even if you don't do it well enough, your mind is tuned to the sound of the bell. I think that the care is more for the flow, not for the many garbage and dark thoughts. Of course, you need a black belt, so it is important to have that tone, that strength in you, so that you can practice this from a distance. But if you are not yet so good at this technique, I really like the effect that this has on my students. And if you are really good at it, it is extremely useful. So we will figure out how to do this. Maybe through a visual meditation, you will see the picture and meditate on it, and I will ask you to give this teaching to you. This will be your introduction to Agnika's teachings. And then, I would like to ask Shiva to come to Hungary on the spring and meditate with you. Ő egy nagyon jó pofa öreg fazon. Biztosan nagyon fogjátok szeretni.

1:04:07
In a martial arts class you might say, okay, we did five Heian Nidan. We did a hundred Hozuki. So you do all these techniques. And you go, okay, so that's what we did. But what makes it very, very powerful is when you did a punch a little bit wrong and the sensei corrects your punch. Small little correction, but it makes your power much stronger. So now I will create that effect. I'm going to make corrections.

1:05:02
In martial arts, the most powerful thing is when the master corrects, corrects, corrects. Because he could do our techniques, our tasks, he could do a hundred of them. But what this really makes effective is that when your punch is not completely in place,

1:05:31
The first time Shiva or Agni Kala came to visit my students, they came to a meditation seminar. And I had them sit up on stage and talk to my students for 20 minutes or so, not very long. Agni Kala was the first, I think. And afterwards, my students were very confused. Because they have seen me for years. And they're like, Tampara is enlightenment. You know what enlightenment looks like? This. And they had this fixed idea. And then they see Agni Kala sitting up there with me. And we kind of look like brothers, I think. And then they're all like, he looks a little different. And then they're all like, oh my god, there's two! And I would be called a coward very strong. So they were like, ah! So a lot of my students couldn't handle it and freaked out. Then I said, relax. So I had to make some corrections so that they were able to be balanced. Same thing with Shiva. Shiva came and Shiva is, he teaches a lot of energy about the heart, but it's powerful. And then so also after Shiva's dharma talk, which was beautiful, then what I did was I started to change the structure, the second attention structure, so that it would be able to have these benefactors and it would be positive and constructive for my students. And then we introduced a way to work with other enlightened beings from our lineage so that my students wouldn't freak out. And I started that off with a group of my strong students meeting with Shiva. And Shiva did one of the most powerful teachings ever. It was amazing. And my strong students were able to handle it just fine, which created another pattern within the structure of the Sangha, the second attention structure, so that it made it so that the others would be able to accept that energy. We did the same thing with Agni Kala. Took that strong group of students to the desert with Agni Kala. And then it was very successful and it created a very positive pattern. So this was the first time where I took my whole American Sanda to the desert. But this time we have some corrections to make. It's very, very important to recognize that the benefactor, even if they're enlightened, they are an experience of enlightenment. But it's very important to realize that me as your teacher, I'm a teacher of tonal, and of To-Now and my teachings of To-Now must be followed. The experience of a benefactor is magical, amazing, opens your mind to all these new fantastic dimensions, even advanced teachings like Gatli Kalade. the experiences of enlightenment from a benefactor and the teachings of this teacher, then this is what happens. Confusion. This is what happens to my students in the desert. So you cannot get confused. My teachings are the teachings of Konal and the benefactors are experiences of enlightenment that uplift you, show you new dimensions that you can only integrate if you follow the teachings that come out. So I remember Shiva met with my students and he said, I'm going to give you guys an amazing teaching. And he said, but afterwards you've got to go and do your work, you've got to follow your teacher's teaching, because if you don't, you're never going to see me again. So then they did, because they really appreciated the magical, magical meditation. So I'm reminding the Americans, and I'm telling the Hungarians, for when you have a meditation with Sheila in person and Agni Kala over the magical sphere, right? That they give amazing experiences. They can teach you powers and awarenesses and they can teach you things that work for you too. But my teachings of tonal are the teachings you must follow. That's how this structure works. If you don't follow my teachings, you go, oh wait, wait, wait, Arne Kala said something

1:11:47
a little different, I'm going to do that.

1:11:48
And you don't follow my teachings, you broke. You broke it. You get confused and you fall out of balance. If you fall out of balance with me, it's a bad thing for you. Okay, please translate.

1:12:03
I'm a teacher.

1:12:05
I'm a teacher. I'm a teacher. I'm a teacher. I'm a teacher. I'm a teacher. I'm a teacher.

1:12:17
I'm a teacher. I'm a teacher. I'm a teacher. I'm a teacher. I'm a teacher. I'm a teacher.

1:12:29
I'm a teacher.

1:12:31
seminar and then they saw Agni who was a bit different, and they felt like, oh, we don't know what this is. And Agni's strength was very, very strong. And my teachers couldn't handle it and they got confused. So I had to correct them. Shiva is the same. He teaches the heart teachings. And these are very strong teachings. It just happened again that after his dharma teaching there were teachers who got completely confused I was in a state of complete confusion. I didn't know where I was going. I started to change the structures that existed in my second mind so that we could integrate the energies of the good eaters of the sangha. I created a way to accept the enlightened beings from the family tree and their energy without disturbing the sound. I first showed the strongest students to Shiva, and Shiva gave them a very, very strong lesson. And they were able to handle it just fine. And because they were able to handle it well, a sample was formed in the second observation. A sample was strengthened, which the other members of the Sangha could then use. and Now, for the first time, the whole of her throat had the possibility to go into the gut with Agni. And now came the moment when I had to make corrections again. So, this is very important now. When the throat has a good will, even if it is a well-lit good will, you experience enlightenment. But I am your teacher, and I am the teacher of the teacher, and give magical experiences. And if you mix this experience, the magical experience that comes from the enlightenment of the good will, and the teachings that you receive from me, that's a problem. Because my teachings are the teachings of the Tónál, and our good wills enrich you with the experience of enlightenment. And you are only able to integrate these experiences if you follow my teachings that are directed to the Tónál. I'm going to tell you how to do it. You have to follow my instructions.

1:16:53
You might think,

1:16:55
these instructions are so magical. But, despite the fact that you feel this,

1:17:02
or along with it,

1:17:04
you go and follow my teachings, you do your work. Because otherwise, you lose it. Shiva also said that. Maybe my teachings are magical, but after the teaching, you go and do what I told you to do, otherwise you will never see me again. And now I'm saying this because I want to remind the Americans about this and I would like to tell you that my teachings are about the teacher and these are the teachings that you must follow. Because the built structure only works this way. If you do not do this and do not respect it, then you are done.

1:18:03
So, if I come to PJ's karate class, I know black belt in karate, and I might say, let me show you something interesting. Let me show you how to take some of the karate moves and turn them into wrist lock. And you guys might never have seen that in karate. Now, if I leave, and you go, wow, Sambaura is super cool, and he showed us these cool martial arts things, if you start trying to do wrist lock in PJ's class when PJ doesn't teach it, it doesn't make sense. It doesn't follow the structure of PJ's class. That would be something that doesn't work. So, the fact that I show you cool wrist blocks opens your mind to say, wow, karate could do different things than I thought it could. But, if you start trying to practice wrist blocks in PJ's class, it doesn't make sense. So, you just take the experience and say, wow, that's great, awesome, maybe play around with it a little bit, but then you follow the structure of PJ's teaching. That's how things work.

1:19:24
Please translate....

1:19:32
...... I am a black belt karate fighter and I will show you a few interesting techniques. For example, the closing of the fist. And then you say, this is a very cool technique. and you can use these techniques for hours and hours and the PJ doesn't teach you this, it has no meaning and no place. So when I go there as a guest and show some interesting tricks, you simply accept this experience

1:20:21
and you are training all this karate and then you get this one teaching of wrist locks. If you're sparring and you try to do those wrist locks because you got one teaching on

1:20:44
it, it doesn't work. I imagine that you are in a fight, and you practice karate, and you get one lesson from this. And if you apply the techniques, and then you incorporate one technique into your martial art,

1:21:11
So it's important not to get confused. Confusion in martial arts usually gets you a black eye. But it's more dangerous in spiritual practice. Because you could think that everything is going fine, but you're wrong. So if you go, oh I learned this teaching, I learned that teaching, I'm going to just do it, right? It can be very, very dangerous for your spiritual development.

1:21:50
Confusion. You have to un-confuse thyself. So it is very important not to get confused. Because confusion is in martial arts at least a green-purple-eyes result. But on the spiritual path it is even more dangerous.

1:22:22
... One of the first Zen masters in America was teaching a group of Americans very interested in Zen. One of Dojin Zenji's famous teachings. For Suzuki Roshi, it was like, Ah yeah, this is awesome, I get this, let me just tell you. And for the Americans, they didn't understand correctly and there was great confusion. And I'll just tell you the teaching summary. It's called the teaching of the painted rice cake. And so, Sajan Bhanji says, if you're hungry, does this picture of a rice cake satisfy you? Or do you need a real rice cake? And then he said, it is the same with enlightenment. You have the picture of enlightenment, the concept of enlightenment, but then you have the real thing. And then, students go, oh, okay, I got it. But then, Zenji says, picture of the rice cake and the rice cake are both in my tooth. So, therefore, this was a very enlightening teaching, and Roshi Suzuki is like, yeah, see, isn't this great? And the students are like, I'm so confused. So then he had to, and he just talked to them and he thought that they understood. Then he goes away. And then they sit there confused for a while. Then he has to go back and explain things to them. So, confusion is always a place where you don't gain personal power, where there's a separation of your attention, where you lose personal power.

1:24:58
Okay, please translate.

1:24:59
He was one of the first American pianists and one of the teachers of Do-Jang-San-Ji.

1:25:07
His teacher had a teacher whom he understood, loved and shared with the American teachers. But they certainly didn't understand him, they didn't understand him well and they got confused. I will tell you what it was about. It was the teaching of the body of rice cake. He said that if you are hungry, that was the question, if you are hungry, does the picture of the rice cake satisfy you? foreign foreign and it affected them a lot, but the teachers couldn't accept it. They were all confused. So he went back to them and they had to explain the whole thing again, they had to put the thing in place. Disturbance is a place where you don't win personal power, because your attention is divided, it's split in two, So he had to explain it to them again and again and again for them to get the idea that enlightenment

1:26:54
is in the transient as well as the eternal. But for the American mind, they're like, painted rice cake and real rice cake, both are enlightenment. It was really hard for them to get the idea. The metaphor was a very oriental metaphor. So he had to answer lots of questions and really work with them for them to get that idea. There was another story of a Zen monk in China who misunderstood the teachings. His teacher, and he was a monk, right? His teacher said, okay, in the Vinaya, the code of the monk, the rules of the monk, we we can't have money because attachment to money is bad for a monk. So he said huh, so if attachment to money is bad for a monk, I just don't have to be attached. I can keep all my money. So he had a lot of money for his check debt. And he's like, nah, it's cool. I'm just not attached to it. And then the master, Zen master says, okay, he took some tea, well actually he goes over to this very advanced meditator, or actually he was a calligraphy writer. He was a very advanced spiritual practitioner and he would sit there and he would do calligraphy totally focused, his mind was very quiet, very still. And he would have tea next to him and he would drink tea from time to time to keep pages. So he said, come with me. And this guy was painting and everyone knew he was a very advanced enlightened guy too. and the Zen master took heaped loads of salt and put it in his tea. And then he stirred it. And then after a while, the calligraphy painter picked up the tea, dipped the tea, put it down, same serene look on his face, totally focused. And then he said, the Zen Master took the tea and said, try the tea. And he was like, oh, I thought you put a lot of salt in it, but it didn't seem to bother him. So then he sipped the tea and he thought, oh god, it's so salty. And he said, and then the Zen Master said, you know, when you can drink the tea with all the salt and not be attached to the experience of the salt, then you can have your money. And then you can be detached from your money. But right now you are in a condition where you are attached to everything. You are attached to everything in your experience. So the Zen Master took his money and kept it for yourself. Just kidding, I don't know any. I'm just making fun of him. Okay, see you in a sec.

1:30:32
in the past, is the same as in the present. Because they didn't understand that the picture of the painted rice cake and the real one, how can both be enlightened. They asked him questions about this, he answered their questions. And then, slowly, this teaching came into place. I have another story. Once there was a Zen teacher in China who misunderstood the teachings a little. There is the Vinaya, in which the rules of the teachers are written, this is the rule code. He had a rule that it was illegal for the organizers to have money because of the bad numbers of the ads. And he interpreted this as, Aha, so the problem with ads is that if I don't ad, I can keep the money. And so it was. and the Zen master gave him a lesson on this, and he believed it to be true. Beforehand, the Zen master went to one of his very advanced students, who was a calligraphy master, and was completely absorbed in what he was doing, with a quiet mind, inner peace. And there was a glass of tea next to him, from which he was drinking one from time to time. And then the master told him, come with me for a little bit, to his teacher. And then the teacher, looking at him, put the tea in a large tablespoon of salt. I Then the master gave the glass to his student, who tasted the tea and said, Wow, this is so sour! Then the master told him, If you can consume it, just like you do here. This other master can keep your money because then there is no more attachment to your experiences. But now, you are attached to everything. So it's better if you don't have money. And then the master took it, took the money, and gave it to the bird. No, I'm just kidding. I don't know what he did with the money.

1:34:00
It's very important that you understand my teaching without confusion. And my teachings of love are challenging. And if you get other ideas in your head, then it could be even more challenging. But it's very important that you hear correctly, that you are open, and that you really apply the teachings correctly. This reminds me of an open day here in Hungary where after the teaching, some guy who studied a lot of Buddhist stuff comes over to me and he says, you know, you're teaching a lot of basic stuff like the Four Noble Truths. And then he says, but you're having people meditate on the third eye. And he said, that could be a very dangerous teaching. Because I don't think he's like, you know, it's different. And then I said, no. Not the way I teach it. And then he said, well there is this teaching that Buddha gave. I told you guys this story as well. Where Buddha was teaching people how to be not so in their physical body, not so attached to their physical body. And he said, the physical body is horrible. Basically, you're full of shit. And you're full of shit and snot, basically. And then he said, the body is so gross, and it's just going to get old, and it's going to get hurt, and then it's going to die. So he told this to a group of monks, and then he went away and meditated in the hills by himself. Then when he came back, a big number of these monks killed themselves. They went, oh my gosh, Buddha's teaching, he said that the body is gross, how disgusting! And then they killed themselves. So they reasoned the teaching incorrectly. The teaching wasn't wrong, they just reacted incorrectly. They heard wrong, processed the information wrong, and did something really stupid. So the guy mentioned that to me. He's like, yeah, Buddha taught this, and then his monks messed up and did that. And then he's like, so Buddha's teaching was dangerous. I said, no it wasn't. Buddha's teaching was the Dharma, and they were idiots, like you. I said, you're sitting here with enlightenment, just showing you how to meditate on the third eye correctly, and you're like, missing the point. And he's like, oh, I don't think I like this. So, it's very important to hear my teachings correctly, process my teachings correctly, and if you're getting confused with a bunch of other stuff, you're really not spending your energy on the right thing.

1:37:26
Please check me. It is very important to understand your students without being confused. These students are a big challenge for you. But if you confuse them with other ideas, it will be a bigger challenge for you. So it's very important to be open, to be receptive and to use the teaching in a proper way. Once there was an open day in Hungary and a guy came up to me and said, and you teach, like the four gender equality, but at the same time I noticed that you meditate on the third eye, which is a pretty dangerous thing. And then I looked at you and said, that's not it. That's not the way I do it. There was a teacher of Buta who wanted his students not to be so attached to their physical body, not to be so obsessed with it. And he told them, look, this physical body is actually made of shit and shit. It will age, it will be a fool. And this is it. And then Buddha took himself and left and meditated alone in a cave. And when he came back, he came back because most of his disciples killed themselves. And this happened because they misunderstood the teaching. There was no problem with the teaching. The teachers were not at fault. The teachers were working up the wrong information and were doing a pure madness. that no, Buddha's teachings were pure, he only taught idiots like you are. Here you sit with enlightenment in front of you, who finally teaches you how to meditate in a proper way to your third eye, and you are occupied with someone else. So, in life, people don't always, you know, say the same thing.

1:40:42
We might be talking, you know, Abdi Kala might be talking about the flow. I'll talk about Wu Wei, right? And we talk about them in different ways, different energies. So an enlightened person is like a force of nature. While Abdi Kala is like the wind, I'm like the water. They're different, but they're both natural and both true. So don't get confused. The way of the wind, how you deal with the wind, is a little different than how you deal with the water. So don't be confused. about my teaching.

1:41:38
I'm talking about the bouvet.

1:41:40
These are different methods of teaching, different energies. Think of us as the forces of nature.

1:41:50
Agnika is like the wind. I am like the water. And don't be confused. Yes, the water is a little different.

1:42:03
Part of the confusion is because there's two ways of teaching. I would say there's kind of two types of teachers. One type of teacher is a teacher that structures things. Says, okay, here's the first thing for you to learn. Second thing. The third thing. But there's another kind of teacher. And that's a teacher that is very excited about what they just discovered or where they're at. And then they share that with you. So, one teacher, one type of teacher is a structuring teacher. Another type is, this is what I'm going through, so jump on board and experience it with me. So I remember in Chicago in an Aikido dojo watching a class where a third degree black belt sensei was like, whoa, I just realized something, I just learned something myself, and he was teaching it to his students. It was a little bit advanced, the idea and the concept, but it was cool. And he just figured something out. So he was showing his students. And then I remember in New York City, Yamada Shihan, an eighth degree black belt, he would go around the class looking at people. A little correction here. A little correction there. And then he would say, okay, everyone stop. And he would show the next thing. He knew way more, but he showed them something that was useful for them at the time. Both are wonderful experiences. It's very nice to be in that experience where someone just figured something out, amazing and really high. Even if you're the white belt, the third degree black belt, what he figured out, what he's showing you, is amazing. And it's a great experience to be there for that. And then there's the Yamada Sensei. So, it's like, if I was showing you what I know, you wouldn't even get it.

1:45:08
Please, Chandler. The confusion can be caused by the fact that there are multiple ways of teaching. There is a type of teacher who structures things. He says, this is the first thing you have to learn, this is the second thing, this is the third thing. Then there is another kind of teacher. This teacher is extremely enthusiastic about the things he is just discovering, and everything he is just discovering and going through, he shares with his students. He says, this is what I am just experiencing now, come with me, let's live it together. I was in a sensei dojo where he just came up with something and showed it to his students the next step was. Both approaches are beautiful, because even if you are a white-collar or just starting to study, what a wonderful experience it is that your teacher, who is much ahead,

1:46:47
So Rama always said, we are structuralist. We work with structures, we learn structures, and that's how we divine power. So Rama always created structures. Structures in the world of spirit and the second attention and structures in the physical. had died, I had a friend who found another enlightened teacher. And he was a very advanced enlightened teacher. And I was able to go see him. So I had a darshan with him. When I saw this enlightened teacher who has since passed away. And I could see I was practicing the advanced practices and I could not believe what this guy was doing. He was just experiencing life, like all these crazy dimensions, powerful dimensions, death dimensions, these horribly strange dimensions. He was just, whatever was going on in his experience, life, the universe, and everything was flying out of this guy while he was meditating. And I was just like, why would he use those dimensions with his students? And I'm like, this is horrible. It's just so unbalanced. It's just crazy. And for him, it's just his experience. But he did not create structures for his students that were developmental. So his students are useful. I think they're very useful. I think they're pretty useful.

1:48:54
But critique.

1:48:55
I mean, well, they have a hard time by feeling the physical world. Yeah, they have a good heart. But I remember all of the teachings, when I compared that experience to all of the teachings with my teacher, they were beautiful structures of amazing dimensions. Rama's choice of dimensions were always bright, beautiful, empowering, happy, amazing, and sometimes intense. But then this guy, whoa, stuff that was coming out of him, it did look like a Tantric painting of some sort. You're just like, ah, the skulls and the monsters and the fire and like, why is this happening? You know, and I could deal with it because I was advanced. But I, you know, there was a lot of new students in the room and I'm like, why would he do that? Because he was just experiencing life. That was what was coming through him at the time. So, Rama was structure. Beautiful structures. And this guy went, like, just into enlightenment and life, the universe, and everything just came through him. So that's kind of a difference between a structural life, you know, and then the, here's what I'm going through, and it's crazy, and it's enlightening and it's intense and wild but come along on the roller coaster. Okay, please, Jacqueline.

1:50:35
I was very happy to be able to help. I was very happy to be able to help. When Rama died, one of my friends found a very advanced, enlightened teacher. I joined him. Before that, I had only studied with Rama. I did not know anyone else. And then, for this experience, I met this teacher. And I noticed that he was following the Haradó teachings. And at the same time, whatever was going on in it, he simply let it out, let it on to his students. And I didn't understand. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.

1:51:54
I don't know.

1:51:55
I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.

1:52:05
I don't know.

1:52:06
I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. and I think they didn't even use this teaching, but this is my criticism. It was very difficult for them to deal with the physical world, although they had great faith. And then I compared this to the teachings of my teacher, which were beautiful structures, Happy, bright, strong, sometimes intimidating, sometimes intense dimensions. But they always served our purpose. And then, in contrast, there was this teacher, whose teaching or essence was like a painting of a tantric, that everything was there, fire, devils, dust, light, everything. And I didn't really understand why people would do this to their students. Rama poured everything into beautiful structures. And here was this other teacher who went into enlightenment and then let everything flow over him and let his students do it.

1:53:15
So, Jana and I are more of the, you know, this is my experience now teacher. Both are good, but one of the reasons that Rama focused on structures is because structures are very developmental. experiences with Agni Kala and Shiva, especially because they're not structural. Because they're amazing, blast-off, new, tremendous experiences. The way that the light and the dharma and their siddhas come through is amazing and beautiful and fantastic. So both are good, but don't get confused. Understand that structures are used for a certain reason and the experiences are used for a different reason.

1:54:34
Jánál és én, mi inkább a strukturalista irányzatból jövünk.

1:54:39
I'm The experiences that Agnika and Shiva experience are amazing, breathtaking, wonderful experiences. The light, the drum, the way the sparks fly through them. We use the structures for a certain purpose, and we use the experiences for a certain purpose. All right. One last point before we take a break. So, this is so important to understand

1:55:49
the experience and the structure.

1:55:54
Especially because of Agni Kala's teaching on tantric sex and the consort relationship. So Agni Kala experiences tantric sex and the consort relationship and for him it is one of the most amazing, enlightening things. So, therefore, he wants to share that with you. He wants you to have that same thing. So he says, look, this is what I'm experiencing, it's great, I want you to experience it. And that's where he's at. Just like he said, wow, this protection of energy, this security power, it was one of the most amazing things for me, so I want to give it to you. So, this is what he was showing. Something that is working for him, something that he experiences that is beautiful and enlightening for him. And that's why it's a beautiful, wonderful thing. However, it's important to recognize that that is really an advanced teaching. He is actually very accurate to be able to do that. And it would be kind of like him showing you guys...he's a black belt too, right? So he says, okay, I'm going to show you guys this cool thing called the jumping split kick. Where you jump up in the air, do the split, and kick two guys in the face at the same time. Right? And you're like, yeah, that's cool, I want to learn that.

1:57:52
Wow, I saw that, it's amazing. Yeah, that's the coolest thing.

1:57:55
And it is the coolest thing. But when you can't even do the split, you are never going to learn that kick. So when you're beginning and intermediate, first you're working on basic kicks and you're working on stretching so that you can do the switch. Then when you're advanced, you put those two things together and you can do something amazing. So he was showing you something amazing that he can do. I don't, you know, it's advanced. And you guys are not advanced. Now, if you're going into Samadhi in every meditation, then you're advanced. But then, you need more teachings than just one. So, if you're going into Samadhi in every meditation, then you can approach and you can approach me and I can give you more teachings. Exactly. Exactly. the difference between experience and structure.

1:58:52
Especially because Agnika taught about tantric sex and couple relationship. This is something that is an incredible, inspiring, working thing for her and that's why she wants to share it with you. I would like you to experience this. The same was true of the energy of the guardian. He said, this was one of the most inspiring teachings from my teacher, so I would like to pass this on to you. These are things that work for the guardian, and this is a beautiful, wonderful thing. But you have to realize that these are very advanced teachings. You have to be very, very advanced to be able to realize this. He is a black belt. Now imagine what a black belt would tell you, I will show you the double jump in the bar. You know, it's beautiful, that they jump in the bar, and two opponents jump in the face. Yes, but if you can't do the bar yourself, how would you be able to do this whole choreography in the air? is So these are wonderful things, all that he is capable of, but he is a follower. And you are not followers. If you go to every single meditation in Samadhi, then I call you followers. And if you have this experience, if you go to every single meditation in Samadhi, then please come to me and I will give you teachings. All right, we're going to take a 15 minute break. Then we'll come back and we'll talk some more.

2:01:57
So 15 minutes and we will resume. So 15 minutes and we will resume.

2:02:02
We're done. Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
