0:00:00
I'd like to talk about compassion and Buwei, but before that I'd like to talk about just something kind of funny. And then we're going to have a special transmission tonight from Ganga.

0:00:25
All right, so here it is.

0:00:27
Little bit of Japanese Wu-Wei.

0:00:29
In Tokyo, I was there with Ketu and Sarah. And Japanese are very subtle. Japanese guys especially, very subtle as you know. And they have a certain kind of conditioning usually, right? And what they call gaijin, a Western woman, kind of stands out to them. So I just noticed while we were going around Tokyo, Japanese guys would be like. You know, towards Sarah.

0:01:09
Just noticed it.

0:01:10
And then, one day we were in the Ginza district, really high end district, right? And we went to a one Michelin star tea house. Beautiful experience. Very, very, very high tonal. Very chic and modern. Really, really wonderful. And then afterwards, Sarah was like, high on duh. And while we were, you know, like on these Japanese, these crowded Japanese streets, she just started doing karate. She's all, ha! But she did it funny,

0:01:57
because she's really good at karate,

0:01:58
like she's a brown belt or something. And then she just does these really funny kicks, like silly kicks. It's so funny. And as soon as she starts doing that, there's all these Japanese businessmen around who are usually looking at her. And they just go, I don't want to know. So if she would try to be polite and hide, they'd look at her more. But when she starts doing karate at the crosswalk, all Japanese people are just like... I'm actually not kidding. This is a true story. And I have a video. It's just so impolite to eat in public. If you're walking down the street eating an onigiri or something, people are like, oh no. It's really funny. They really get bothered by it. Anyway, so we're on the subway and Tao has some little candies or something that she's just eating. And there's this Japanese businessman sitting across from her and he's like He's just so bothered by it and I just think it's kind of funny and then Tao noticed that he's looking at her a lot And then and he's just like, you know, he's putting out the like in the Japanese way, which is very subtle You shouldn't be doing this And then she's like, what's going on with this guy? And she goes, I'll be polite. So she gets up, walks over, and offers him a drink. And he is so embarrassed.

0:04:11
And he just shuts up.

0:04:12
He's not angry anymore?

0:04:13
He got off on the next stop.

0:04:17
I'm sure it wasn't his stop.

0:04:18
So you know, a little practical Wu-Way, Japanese etiquette. All right. Thank you.

0:04:59
Tara and I used to be students of a Chinese woman. She's like a living one yin. She's very tall, has extremely long hair all the way to her ankles. She had the experience. She had Darsha, a vision of Guanyin when she was three years old. And she's been guided by Guanyin her whole life. She has visions of Guanyin and receives messages from Guanyin. And we had the extreme good fortune to live with her for three years. One day, we were in La Jolla. Who here knows La Jolla? I know several people. Down on the rocks at the beach. Those beautiful rocks and the waves are crashing in. And I burst into song and dance. Completely spontaneously. I had no intention of doing this. I just started dancing and singing and she fell on the ground laughing. She was hysterical laughing. And from that day on, every time she gave a teaching, she asked me to do this dance. And in the beginning, I was very embarrassed, because I mean, I had no intention of ever doing it

0:06:21
in the first place.

0:06:22
And now, she's having me do it in front of 100 people. And she would tell them, this is Ganga's transmission.

0:06:30
That's a long question.

0:06:32
It is dance of Wu Wei. Now you know, Zen is considered a fast path, as is Advaita and Dzogchen in the Tibetan tradition. All three of those, Advaita, Dzogchen, and Zen, the goal of them, if you can say there's a goal, is to attain non-dual mind, non-duality. And what she would say is that this is to go beyond the conceptual mind that you were speaking about earlier. And when you spoke about it, I thought

0:07:16
I should offer to do this dance.

0:07:19
There's a word.

0:07:20
This is called the Shaodai dance, Shaodai. You might translate Shaodai as little idiot. But not idiot in a negative way, idiot in a sense of being beyond conceptual mind. Innocence, complete innocence, no intention whatsoever. So I offered to do the dance for you tonight. I rarely do it, maybe once a year about. But this is Guru Purnima. And so I'm offering it to this teacher and all the teachers here and to all teachers that we've ever had in our life, all our lives, past, present and future. So I just have to prepare for a second.

0:08:17
I Shao dai dai, shao dai dai, shao yama shao dai dai, yeah. Shao dai dai, shao dai dai, shao yama shao dai dai, yeah. Shao dai dai, shao dai dai, shao yama shao dai dai, yeah. Shao dai dai, shao dai dai, shao yama shao dai dai Shao Shao Shao yama Shao dai dai Shao yama shao dai dai Shao dai dai Shao yama shao yama dai Shao dai Shao dai dai Shao yama shao dai dai Shao yama That was awesome. I've never experienced anything like that before. No. Is that a Shandai dance? The Shandai dance. The dance of the little idiot. Yeah. Wow. Yeah. Dance is interesting. So our teacher Rama used to dance on stage.

0:10:19
He only did it once for the SC2, the younger generation, but he did it often at some point. Where he'd just get up and dance for hours or something like that? For an hour? Okay. Yeah, he did it at the Palace of Fine Arts. So a dance is kind of like a full body mudra. And it's something, you have to be very selfless to be able to do it, right? But it has a very strong power that comes through. So it's beautiful. Thank you for the transmission. All right, wow. Usually towards the end of the meditation seminar, you guys get really sleepy. Yeah, this is good. All right, but I'd like to look at Wu Wei Do, Look at wu-wei dou, I mean wu-wei, in the way of compassion. So we've been practicing and studying compassion for some time. We practice bodhicitta, we practice wind horse, primary mindfulness practices of compassion. So something very interesting that I learned when I was reading about Taoism and wu-wei recently is Mencius he had a very very powerful practice of wu-wei for compassion. Now it started with the ruler of the state that he was in, in China, had respect for him, so he would let him come to court, and he liked to hear his counsel, he liked to hear his teachings, but he was only into waging wars, and drinking, and concubines. He was just like a mess. He didn't care about anyone else. He would wage wars and impoverish his country. And Mentius would hang out and he was just like, hmm, I want to help him, elevate him so that it helps the whole country. So one day while he was sitting there feasting he knocked over a big platter and it fell on his dog and he liked his dog. So when it fell on his dog he had concern and then Menchus came right over to him. He's like, the first time I saw that you had some compassion, some care for someone else. And he said, look, you had concern for your dog. And he said, oh, yeah. And then Menchus pointed out to him how that is a selfless and noble energy. And the king, their emperor said, yeah, that's right, okay. And then Mencius said, okay, now that's a good, noble feeling. What about if you have that feeling towards your people who are impoverished and hurting? Then he started to grow his awareness of concern for them. And he got him to grow it to even to his enemies. So through this same process of growing concern, growing awareness of another person's suffering, as in Bodhisitta, he got the Emperor to care about his whole country and even his enemies. So then Mencius would continually talk to him about this, and he then became a very benevolent ruler. He stopped his wars, he started to spend energy developing and enriching his population. So this is Wu Wei in compassion. It's very similar to Bodhisitta. Bodhicitta. But with Bodhicitta, there's the taking and sending. So with Bodhicitta, it is Wu Wei, but it has just that extra part, the Tang Len, taking and sending. And this can be seen in the story of Asanga. Asanga was... it is a story in the Yellow Book. But he was... he went to a cave to meditate because he said, I want to have direct teachings from Maitreya, the future Buddha. So he goes into the cave and he's meditating and meditating really really really really hard and in six years nothing happens. So he says, okay I give up I'm out of here. And then he is just heading out to quit and he sees a guy with a big metal pole, big iron pole, an iron rod. And he has some silk that he's rubbing against the rod. And he says, what are you doing? He says, well, I need a needle. So I'm going to wear down this iron rod until it's a needle so that I can sew something. And then Asanga says, wow, people things and what I was doing was something very noble and worthwhile so I'm gonna go back and try again he goes back to try again for three years he tries even harder this gave him more of a giant boulder and he's stroking it with a feather. As long as that's him, well, what are you doing? And he said, oh, this, um, my house is down there and the sun comes up and it, it casts, this rock casts a shadow over my house, so I want to get rid of the rock by the set with the feather then again Tonga says this is crazy people you know the the world outside of Dharma doesn't make any sense so I'm gonna go back and I'm gonna go for time for real so here goes and meditates even harder meditates even harder and then quits after three years because he's just like, I don't know, I give up. He walks out of his cave and this is where he finds, laying on the ground in front of him, this poor dog that's got these open sores and these maggots that are all over the sores. And then he says, he has compassion, he says, I'm going to help this dog. So he starts trying to pick off the maggots, but some of them are too small to get with his fingers. So he has to go down and bite them off. And then the dog is so famished that he actually cuts off a piece of his own flesh to give to the dog. And then the dog eats that. And then after he cuts off his flesh and feeds it to the dog, then the dog transforms into Maitreya. And then he says, oh Maitreya, there you are. And he said, I was meditating for 12 years and I wanted you to come. And then Maitreya says, you are going about it all wrong. Sitting there and just meditating and meditating and meditating is like taking an iron rod and trying to, with a silk cloth, make it into a needle. Or taking a giant boulder and, with a feather, trying to break it down. He said, the way to me is compassion. And this is the analogy of Bodhisitta. It is taking and sending. You take what is suffering on the other person. The biting off the maggots is taking. Sending is giving your light or whatever the being needs. So, when he cut off a piece of his flesh to feed the animal. This is bodhisitta in its essence. And it is bodhisitta, right? Taking and sending. Taking someone's suffering into your heart, the darkness into your heart, giving them your light, like for real, right? That is the fast way to Maitreya. That's the Wu way to enlightenment. Now we also from our Shambhala practices, practice wind horse as a way of compassion. So in Shambhala they practice bodhicitta, but they also practice wind horse. Wind horse is the recognition of your Buddha nature, and it is an offering, or it's a shift of power, where you use that power, that wind means energy, right? When you use that wind of Buddha nature, of enlightenment, to help someone. It is an energy of compassion, help someone with their suffering. So it's a very different kind of energy of compassion than picking and sending, but it's a very powerful one. So it's one of the methods of Now, this is important for Wu Wei. When I talk about Windhorse and your Buddha nature, it seems to you to be an interesting idea, but it's something very, very solid and powerful. very directly Very directly is in Wu Wei Do This is why we practice Wu Wei Do

0:22:25
so

0:22:26
very simple You know when we sat down and practiced the Wu and the Yi push This is the first place where I saw this in you When you say Wu and do that push, you're like, I am just pushing and the other person is flying over. You just have so much power for compassion. I've seen it on these exercises, the unbendable arm. You're like, my arm, someone's trying their hardest, they're like trying to bend it in all these different ways. When you have the Wu Wei focus, it's unbendable. They can't break it. Many, many exercises in Wu Wei Do are ways of you to see your greater power. And when you see that greater power, I've seen those aha moments with you in the Wu Wei Do class, unlike anything else I've ever seen in martial arts. In Wu Wei Do, it's this recognition of this unlimited greater power. This is Wind Horse. Wind Horse is not a, oh let me have an idea and just kind of like, oh I think of myself as a Buddha and go, poof, to somebody. Windhorse is a real power. Just like tapping into this unlimited power. You're tapping into the Tao in wu-wei-do. And that unlimited energy is Windhorse. So when you're practicing Wind Horse, I want you to have that awareness. It's not just some idea. It's not just some thought form. It's not just in your head. You know it from Wu Wei Do. That energy. Bam. We have a Wu Wei Do class tomorrow. Yes. And finally, we use the windhorse in what we call drama. So when we're facing a problem, an issue, we can use windhorse with another person or another situation. We use that power of windhorse to create drala, a wisdom above enmity, to solve the problem. How do we solve problems? Drala, the energy of compassion to overcome these, any difficulty with another person or with a situation. We practice wind horse and drala. So this is our practice. We practice compassion, bodhisitta, and wind horse. These are our mindful practices and when we have a difficulty we overcome it with drala.

0:26:27
My final story of the evening

0:26:30
is a story about drala and tea. There was a tea master who was in the company of a very, very wealthy noble. And the noble loved him so much, he had tea with him all the time, and loved what he learned about tea. And he, the noble was a samurai, an old man though, he's like an old samurai. But he honored his class of samurai, and he honored the tea master so much, he dressed the tea master up like a samurai. He's like, oh, you're not a lowly person. You're like me, a samurai. Anyway, one day they were traveling in Edo, the ancient capital, and they came across, you know, just walking down the street, and there were a couple other very kind of fierce, rugged samurai. And when they walked, both of them got out of the way. But the tea master, in order to get out of the way, he actually stepped into the gutter. And one of the samurais walked by, and the other one noticed. Why would a samurai step into the gutter? And then he said, what's wrong with you? And he's like, you don't even look very tough. It's like, there's something, you're not a samurai. And then the tea master says, I'm not a samurai. I'm a tea master, but my boss tells me to dress like this. That's why I do it. And then the samurai says, this is ridiculous. And he says, well, if you dress like a samurai, you're going to die like a samurai. He's like, because I'm going to fight you right now. And then his master says, no, let me buy you off. I have lots of money. We're really sorry. This is just a little thing I like, and I'm an old samurai. And then the samurai is like, no, I'm too proud. You can't pay me anything. There's no amount you can't buy. You can't buy me off. I'm going to kill this guy, because he's dissing samurai. So it comes down to there's just no way he can get around it. He's got to fight this very fierce samurai. So he's preparing for the duel. He's just sitting there saying, Okay, I got to do it. And the noble who employs him says, What are you going to do? Because that guy's a real samurai. You don't know anything about sword fighting. And then the tea master says, I'm going to do tea. He's like, I'm going I'm going to fight like I do tea. And his boss says, I'm so sorry, it was great knowing you. So the two samurai walk upon a field, They're far apart and they start getting ready. They take off their outer coat, they have to tie up their kimono sleeves, you know, they just kind of like prepare, button up for battle kind of thing, and the very fierce samurai gets ready real fast, and then he's ready to fight, he's preparing with his tea master attention. So he's doing everything as he would do tea to prepare. Now the fierce samurai all of a sudden gets the stir of fear because he had seen one samurai before who was so precise and so gentle who had so much duh. I like that. And it was Musashi. So he had seen Musashi duel a greater samurai than him. And when he was preparing and everything that he did, and including the time where he cut the guy's head off, everything had a tremendous power of death. And when he saw the tea master doing this, he immediately felt fear. He bowed and said, please forgive me. And the fight was over. This is drama. This is how Wu Wei solves problems. So again, tonight we will have a demonstration of Wind Horse and Drawa, and then we're going to practice it together. So in the demonstration, you're just going to look up here to me. I'm going to practice. I'm going to do Wind Horse and Dralu. I have you practice with me where you look at me to do this because then you really start to pick up and see the Wind Horse. Not a little light thing, a very powerful thing. Like in your practice of Wu Wei Do, you have experienced it directly, undeniably, physically in your Wu Wei Do. And that's what I bring out, that's what I'm going to do, and you're going to follow me into Wind Horse, into Drala, a wisdom above enmity.

0:32:45
I'm going to play a little bit of that. so so so so I'm not a fool I'm not a fool I'm not a fool I'm not a fool I'm not a fool I'm not a fool I'm not a fool I'm not a fool I'm not a fool I'm not a fool I'm not a fool I'm not a fool I'm not a fool I'm not a fool You so Oh Cool all right All right. Think of a problem with a person, with a business, with anything. The problem that you have. Maybe your biggest problem. Maybe it's with yourself. We're going to practice dhrava together. You're going to see that problem, that person, that

0:35:26
thing come up. And you're going You're welcome.

0:39:28
Okay. Okay, very good. That's really nice. So when we get together to meditate, we've been doing lots of practices of the wind horse and of drama. They're very, very bright. Tonight, even brighter and stronger You are progressing. Alright, so now I promised that we'd talk about something interesting. Alright, now I need to come back down. Okay, so we're starting two new yoga projects. We do these things called yoga projects that are businesses and we do them as a way to develop ourselves. We develop ourselves in and selflessness in the actualization of wu-wei by practicing these special businesses. We do business in a special way. There's a feeling. In the second intention, there's kind of structure to our businesses, where we develop impeccability and selflessness. And if you are impeccable and selfless, then you see the business take off. It's really

0:41:39
beautiful. So, you know, we've been working, we are working on several businesses, but now we're starting two new ones. Actually, they're not new, but they're new. And we've got to look at the time, because I'm going to ask Mujer about it. So it's 11 o'clock.

0:44:14
Okay.

0:44:15
project Deanna has been working on for a while. She's been investigating real estate investment. And we're going to put a small team together focused on developing real estate investment opportunities for the Sangha to invest in. So we've talked a lot about financial tone-out and making your financial life strong. This is something that gives us the greatest personal power. The most options for success and opportunity for spiritual avenues is the bottom line is being successful and strong in this physical world. Okay, so real estate investing is a way where we can make a lot of money. Wonderful. So Deanna has been working on this, researching it for a long time, six months or so, if not more. And also, Morgan's mother, who's been very successful in real estate, like very successful, she also can be a mentor to us. And she says, it's not rocket science. It's very simple. So we're going to put a team together that creates deals, real estate deals, that the Sangha can invest in. And the second project is what I call sell real things. So we usually sell software, which, what is that anyway? It's just like little zeros and ones floating around in cyberspace, in the cloud, right? Yes. That's why there's so much upsell on that stuff. So, so, Raja has been doing this thing called the battery business, where he got this idea to sell batteries for high-end cameras, people who make films and stuff like that. He and Dacchini set it up, and then once they set it up, it just started making money on its own. They didn't do anything, and it just made like $60,000 a year. And they were too busy doing other things, so it just kinda was going along. But now, I like that idea a lot. Especially seeing, you know, it's, takes a long time sometimes to develop a software product, to get it to market, to learn things, to change things. And we might spend three years on a software product before we realize the reasons why it won't work. So now I wanna experiment with selling real things, selling physical things. So we're gonna put a team together that looks at different products. If you sell the right thing, the right product on the internet, you'll make hundreds of millions of dollars if you sell the right thing. Let's find that right thing.

0:47:52
Use Wu Wei, it's easy.

0:47:54
So this is the second project that we're going to work on.

0:47:59
Excellent.

0:48:00
And you know, it seems like we're going to

0:48:04
go back into aerospace.

0:48:05
So we're gonna streamline our way into aerospace. So instead of the Hobson way, where you had a giant warehouse with products that sat on the shelves for 25 years. We're going to do the Wu Wei way of selling stuff over the internet. We're very, it's very easy for us to set up a web shop. We're experts at SEO. So they also have, we could also automate fulfillment. We could have the manufacturer send it right to the client, the customer. We can also have Amazon fulfillment, do our fulfillment. So we don't have to keep warehouses anymore. And we don't have to do the menial work of having a warehouse and shipping things, fulfillment. So that would be, wouldn't that be awesome if we say, oh, we found a place in China that can make this. And when a customer buys it, it's gonna get shipped to them. And what do we do? We set it all up and it just happens. That's like, woo-way. So we're gonna make experiments into this. We're gonna start doing a lot of product research. And those are the two new projects. Exciting! In our portfolio of yoga adventures. I like it. It's just exciting. Okay, so I'm going to have everyone who is not on a yoga project stay here after. I know that we have some people who are in the Yoga Project Bardo, and I bet we have some people who haven't started a yoga project yet. We're going to start yoga. Yoga is good. Yes. All right. Let's see...

0:50:24
Oh yes. Fashion.

0:50:28
Alright, so, we have

0:50:32
Orsi, coming from Hungary, to do

0:50:36
fashion consulting. For anyone who wants to look good. Alright, so on the Yildirank spreadsheet, you get your points for that Armani suit. That's fine. Yeah, that's a good thing. That's a step in the right direction. But some of you never found your Armani's. Here's another way you can get your points. Or she. She's not so much into designer labels. She's into what really, really works. And what really, really works tends to be the color you wear, the color that works for you. And it's an amazing thing. I hope you guys come to the presentations and stuff. I hope you will use Orsi services, because I remember when I went to see her in Hungary, I said, my Hungarians can't afford Armani. So she's this local person who knows fashion. And she looked at what I was wearing and went, oh, all your colors are all wrong. And she got me in front of a mirror, put on a black jacket on one side, a brown jacket on the other side. She said, now look, when you're in the black, look how the energy of your face looks all gray. And I said, oh, I know. She goes, but then on the other side, when you're in brown. And then I said, oh my God, look. So actually, the flow of energy in your aura changes depending on what you're wearing. And if you're wearing the right colors, the colors vibe with your aura. That's what I see. She just sees colors that work with your skin tone. Now she sees, she's very magical. And so she'll talk about colors, she'll talk about, you know, your body type and what kind of cut of clothing you have to wear. She's got a really good eye, it's amazing. And then the other thing that she does that my teacher always talked about, she does it so impeccably, she helps you shop. So when I was in Hungary last time, she took me shopping and we went to the mall and she did exactly what my teacher always talked about. You walk in, and you just feel and go to the right thing, and that's it. And she did that. We went in there, and I got this new wardrobe. I walk in there, and she's like, wait here. And I said, okay. And she just goes over and gets this, and gets that, and gets this, and gets that. And she's all like, I'm not sure about these, you have to try them on. Oh, no, wrong cut, here's this one. It works. Boom. So it was the fastest way, it was perfect. It was fast and perfect. It was a really cool thing. So she's going to be here for like three weeks or something. There's an open calendar on the Sangha wiki and she's going to do presentations about what she does, her services. The presentation alone is awesome. The presentation is free, because she's describing what her services are. Her services are consultation, where she tells you your color and your body type. Second one is, she takes you shopping, gets you the right clothes for your body, and your colors and stuff. And then she also will look at your wardrobe and say, this, not this. And you have to be very detached. You open your wardrobe and she's all like, throw this away, throw that away. I just bought that. But I'm going to do it because it's awesome. Everyone I've seen who ever used her services look awesome and they look it's like it's a level of tone out higher. I'm living proof. So I've used her services and now boom look at me. Got the socks, got the thing, you know, whatever.

0:55:10
It's all these little funny things.

0:55:12
Different sunglasses. She'll tell you what kind of sunglasses

0:55:15
to get for your face.

0:55:17
Anyway, so look onto the calendar, go to the presentation. We have a couple presentations in Bodie Woods, one in Pacifica, and that's where you can find out about the services, or yeah, everything that she does. It's a really great presentation. And it's a really good opportunity. So if you have a little bit of money saved up and you want to totally change your look and look awesome, use her. Go shopping with her. She'll totally change your wardrobe, and you'll look awesome. And especially, I'm going to prescribe it for some of you. Some of you dress so funky. Number one. And then I'm going to prescribe it for some of you because you have a big ego. And if you do this, you change the way you look, it's going to change your attitude. You know who I'm talking about, right? If I'm talking about you, you with the big attitude of, no, I'm not going to do that. I like the way I look. Who cares? Why not change? Remember in the Enlightenment workbook there was this one thing, change one thing in your wardrobe, get something, throw something else out. Well, this is gonna be massive.

0:56:54
Change everything.

0:56:57
Unless your wardrobe really works, then she won't change it. She won't throw things out that work for you. So some of you, I'm gonna prescribe it. I'm gonna say, do this. And if you have a problem spending the money, I'll buy it for you. But you don't, because you should be fine. So take this as, if I prescribe it for you, take it as a lesson that I didn't see you sign up and I know you have All right, let's see what else.

0:57:31
Or she.

0:57:33
All right.

0:57:35
Next week, Saturday, the 8th of August. Well, you know how August is. It's usually a tough time. So you know what we're gonna do? We're going to have a party. It's the kimono party. The kimono party came from the last trip we did in Japan. We were sitting around in Kyoto, we had some gratitude adventure, and in this little tatami room we all bought these kimonos. And they're like the bathrobe kimonos, right? And we're just sitting there like you know singing karaoke or something like that. It was fun. And then we said, you know, what we should have is a kimono party. And therefore, we're going to have a kimono party. So get a kimono. The bathrobe type is the best, not the formal one. Unless you want to be hot. And if you want to be hot, great. We got to do weird stuff sometimes.

0:58:49
All right, now, something very special.

0:58:52
So Ganga Nath and Tara Leela are going to be doing the Women of Wisdom presentation in Bodhi Woods. On Saturday the 22nd, we're going to have the presentation for women to attend. And on the 23rd, we're going to have the presentation for men to attend. So, it'll just be kind of a nice thing since it's about women, for women to be able to attend it just together with other women.

0:59:23
And instead of just saying,

0:59:24
guys, you can't learn anything about this, you guys wanna learn about it too. We want to learn about women's enlightenment so we can support women's enlightenment. Alright, something else very special. The Equinox. We're having an Anza-Borrego desert trip that is going to be led by Agni Kala. Not me. I'm not going to be leading or teaching. I'm going along for the ride, which I always love doing. I hadn't had an opportunity to do it for a while. It's really great. I mean, here's what I love. Let me just tell you what I love. I love taking Jana's Wu Wei Do class. I love it. It's amazing. It's magical. It's powerful. And I'm just there to learn like you guys. It's great. I love it. Here's what else I love. I love Ganga Nath and Tara Lalila's presentations and their tea ceremonies. It's new, beautiful dimensions. I'm just there to experience it and learn. And then when I learn about it, then I say, Oh, look, here's how we shove this into our yoga so that we succeed more, and make more money. And here's what I love. I love sitting in Shiva's meditations. It's out of this world beautiful. And here's what I love. I love going to the desert with either Shiva or Agni Kala. They lead amazing power trips. So Agni Kala knows the Ansambaraya so well. He goes there all the time. And he knows it unlike anyone else I've ever seen. He found new beautiful places of power. I don't think even our teacher knew about their amazing places. Yeah. And he also leads a very, very, very powerful trip. And you do. Things are very, very different and unusual than my trips or Shiva's trips. So I'm not going to tell you what it is. I'm just going to tell you it's out there. Now here's something. So Shiva and I, when we go on these trips, we tend to be very structured and tell you what's going on. some dimension of Wu Wei right now, okay? We're gonna open up, you know, this dimension of that there's a power line on the mountain, we're gonna go into it, you know, stuff like that. Okay, here's what Agni Kala does. All right, let's just sit here, and then all of a sudden he's like, bam, bam, bam! And, you know, unless you're like Yana, you're probably not knowing what the hell is going on. All these things are happening. He's opening up dimensions, and they're really cool, and it's really amazing. If your tonal is there to understand it, it tends to be like, you're like, what's happening? Whoa, what's going on? And it's very, very, very second attention. Very, very, very mystical. But maybe not a lot of physical explanation. So therefore, if you're going to go on that trip, you're going to go strong. You're going to go strong, you're going to go positive, you're going to do a lot of exercise, you're going to come with a very, very strong focus when you're meditating. Strong focus. So you're going to come with a strong tonal because you're going to get exposed to lots of wonderful, amazing things. I've seen him do something that I actually hadn't even seen our teacher do in the desert. It was amazing. Well, actually, I guess I had seen my teacher do that, but not like this. Yeah, it was something really cool. At one moment, he was standing there, doing something. And then it's like he went into this dimension. He went into some dimension that shifted. And then he was in multiple places at the same time, standing all around in different places, I saw like a dozen of him standing there. I'd never seen that before. It was amazing. My teacher would very often be standing in front of you and then all of a sudden he's up on the wiki we have details about the dates for the Grand Cayman dive trip. You can feel free to go ahead and buy your tickets because we are, we already have like some plans we've already made there. So those of you who went on the last one to Bonaire, wasn't that out of this world? Yeah, okay. Now we're going to Grand Cayman, which was one of my favorite, was one of my teacher's favorite, favorite, he had two top favorite dive sites. And where we're going to be diving is his first favor. And it's amazing. The dimensions of power there are amazing. They're ecstatic, actually. They're filled with light and ecstasy. Just these really beautiful feelings. So it's going to be a great trip. An amazing

1:05:56
I think I'll do two modes.

1:05:58
The usual mode or the Wu Wei mode. And in the Wu Wei mode, you get some sleep. In the usual mode, you do six dives a day with no sleep.

1:06:09
Just kidding.

1:06:10
We're really gonna work on Wu Wei are opening, these are kind of Chinese, Taoist, Zen kind of dimensions, we're going to transition from the Tibetan teachings we've been working on a little bit. So there's a book you might enjoy called Chao Dao, which is the way of tea. I liked it. It's fun. It's really nice. It gives you that feeling of the culture and the spiritual aspect of tea. It has a chapter called Wu Wei, so how bad can that be, right? Another book called Lao Tzu's Tao and Wu Wei. This is a very, very good book.

1:07:27
So since we're kind of talking about Wu Wei and Taoism,

1:07:30
we're gonna read these books and kind of go into those dimensions a little more. But to finish you off on the Tibetan cycle, there's a new release of the Tibetan book of the dead. And this is not just the Bharata at all. It is a larger doctrine. And I was waiting, you know, I always assign books that are what I call living teachings, something that we're actually going through. So with the Book of the Dead, I was waiting for one of you guys to die, but since that didn't happen, we're gonna have to move on.

1:08:20
We're gonna read that book.

1:08:22
So we've all read the Bartholomew's Law, or most of my students have. This one is a bigger scope and, you know, the part that we have read fits in there, but it's a bigger scope. So it's very, very interesting to read. We read different versions of books sometimes. They show us different things. All right, so for those of you who need something to read, we have things to read. Okay, next, something again very, very special. Ganga Nath and Tara Leela have invited us to go on a trip with them to India. So for those of you who have seen their presentation on the Siddhas of India, they are very strong stalkers and they've moved across India finding the coolest stuff, the highest beings, the most incredible places, and they are offering to take us there to meet some of these teachers and go to some of these places. Isn't that lovely? It looks like we're going to be planning to do that in January. And the only way that you can go is you have to prove to me that you're financially strong enough and that you can manage your job enough. And I'm only going to take six to eight people. So it'll be, you have to prove to me, you have to give me a plan, and make me say, all right, I see that you're in a strong place. I see that you can take the time off of work, or that you can quit the job and get another one, whatever. You have to make a How fat? And if you don't get to do it this year, maybe you can do it next year. All right.

1:10:33
Yes. It might be good to mention how long it'll be.

1:10:40
It's going to, yeah, that's right.

1:10:42
Because it's going to be,

1:10:43
we're probably going to do a two-week trip, which is a short time for going to India, but I don't like to take too much time off of work or in-between work, because it's so important to keep that foundation of continually working. I know some people are like, I've got a lot of money, I want to take off for like a month. I say, no, you've got to keep that foundation. It's very strong and important for your yoga projects as well. So you have to be in a strong financial tonal to be able to make this trip.

1:11:19
Oh, this is so many special, wonderful things.

1:11:23
All right, now here's a really good one. Shiva will be teaching tomorrow at 8.30 after Wu Wei Do in the year. This is going to be a class for yoga ranks of white belt to blue belt only. So this is a particular group that he's asked to meet with. So it's going to be very special. And guests are also welcome. And I think most of you hadn't had a chance to sit with Shiva in his own teaching. He's come here and taught a little bit, but when he teaches the class and he's doing the structure, it's out of this world beautiful. So I hope you can make it. There will be another class that I'll schedule later for the purple belts to black belts. But that will be scheduled later. Okay, finally, I've accepted some new students. So, any of you students who applied, you were accepted. If you hung around this long and you applied, you're in. And now it's time to do yoga. Yoga is really where you develop yourself. It's impeccability, selflessness, wu-wei applied. Walking the walk. All right, that's it. Isn't that some great stuff? So all of this is going to be on the wiki. So if you want to find the books, you want to find what classes are happening, it's all on the wiki. it's all on the wiki. But really beautiful, wonderful things coming up.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
