0:00:00
Sometimes we have a hard time, things are difficult, and we blame the pathway to enlightenment. We blame the teacher, we blame the Sangha, and sometimes we do blame the Dharma. and this is a an incorrect view the very short-sighted view it's a view of your suffering and that's all you see it's just a small-minded view of what's going on Buddha gave me a hard time

0:01:09
he's a jerk, he's mean, he's hurting me

0:01:12
that's what people did monks did that Students of Rama did that all the time Missing the big picture

0:01:20
so a lot of times we complain about

0:01:22
Our pain and we pointed out to being on the path I'm in pain because of this person that person this thing that they listen to do that sensitive whatever right me, too I was just complaining right I Like to complete But I I in no way would rather be in any other condition

0:01:44
Then on the pathway to enlightenment

0:01:46
When I was with my teacher, I was also short. I had a short view of things. So I was, you know, Rambo would yell at me and I'd be like, Oh, my life is horrible. He's tormenting me. Rambo would say things to me like, Oh, you should go double your rate.

0:02:20
And I'm like, Ah! Why do you do this to me?

0:02:24
And then a week later, I double my rate.

0:02:26
And then I buy a Porsche.

0:02:27
It's something like that, right?

0:02:29
Or Rama's like,

0:02:30
you should get your next

0:02:31
black belt rank.

0:02:32
And I'm all, ahhh, why are you telling me what to do? He's like, buy your birthday, which is like four months away. And I'm all, it's impossible that I get my next black belt rank.

0:02:39
So,

0:02:40
I felt tormented by him challenging me to do things that were good for me. Or sometimes he yelled at me and said, you're a stupid idiot.

0:02:59
And I'm like, ahhh!

0:03:01
And then I realized he was right. And then him pointing it out got me to get past it. And I'm like, oh. And then I'm like, cool, I'm happy now. Much happier so I felt tormented by my t-shirt Felt tormented by the other students in the song And Yeah, I was really bothered by people

0:03:23
angry at them and

0:03:25
I and I pointed out there the problem of my life.

0:03:42
Right?

0:03:43
Um, let's see, did I complain about the Dharma? Yeah, I complained about the Dharma. You know, because the Dharma was, you know, things like, you got to do your yoga project. And I'm all, ah, I don't like yoga, it's hard. And so do you. You guys complain about the pathway to enlightenment. But you should look at things in a higher way. One time a monk was complaining to Buddha about the path being hard. He's like, this is so hard.

0:04:26
There's so many ouches.

0:04:28
And then the Buddha says, oh, oh, and this monk actually was a Sotapanna, which is the stream winner. And as you know, that's the first level of realization. And so he was like, and this stream winner is complaining to Buddha about all the pain. And Buddha said, he said, you know, to be a streamlinner, like if you were given this deal, you would live for a hundred years, and three times a day, 300 people with spears would come and spear you. And you're promised at the end of that hundred years of life that you'd get stream-winner. That would be way better. That would be a great deal to take. And then the monk who was the stream-winner was like, what?

0:05:24
That would be horrible.

0:05:25
And Buddha said, no, no, no, no. You're in a good situation. You're in such a favorable situation. It would be worth going through all that physical pain. And then the monk said, why? Then Buddha went and grabbed the dirt, he just kind of like grabbed onto the dirt, and he got some dirt under his fingernails, and he said, where is there more dirt, under my fingernails or on the earth? And then the monk said, the earth of course. And then he said, the suffering of a sotapanna, a stream-winner, is the same. It is like this much suffering as the dirt under my fingernails, as opposed to someone who is not a sotapanna, which is the suffering of all of the dirt in the earth. So, even when you have some accomplishment on the path, you still complain about the path. You still go, ah, that person, and oh, this thing, and it's oh, it's so hard. And it's because you lose perspective. You're just sitting there looking at the little pain that you have. There's dirt under my fingernails, and it bugs me. So the thing that we have to realize is that our lives are beautiful, powerful, amazing, luminous lives. And that we shouldn't... it's a very short perspective, small perspective, to blame the pathway to enlightenment for your suffering. You actually should realize that the pathway to enlightenment has brought you out of suffering Many many many many other types of suffering you could have had the earth of suffering But you have dirt under your fingernails of suffering so Instead of going, I'm not a bad person. Oh, my teacher did this to me Right. Oh, I have to do this yoga. So instead of doing things like that, you should realize the positive benefits of the teacher, of the Sangha, of the teachings. And you should be happy. Because it's bringing you from tremendous suffering to, yeah, dirt under your fingernails. Now, of course, dirt under your fingernails is still bothersome. And that's why you move beyond Sarupana to the Arhat. Because it is said, when you're in Arhat, there's no dirt under your fingernails.

0:08:12
So that's really good.

0:08:16
But this is important. important because a lot of you really point blame at each other and get bent out of shape because of me and think, why am I doing yoga? Yoga is stupid. Stuff like that. You haven't come to terms with the power of yoga. You don't understand how... I mean, let's say yoga is powerful. Yoga is magical. It is a refuge from suffering. And it also has this magic in the structures of yoga. It lifts you up to higher degrees of personal power and awareness. But you don't know this at first. You're just like Milarepa. Martin was like, build this stone thing. And you're like, okay. And after a while you're like, why am I doing this? Well, for enlightenment. So it's very important when you start to go mad at my teacher for saying this, mad at this person, that person, this person in the Sangha. Don't know why I'm doing yoga, frustrated with yoga. When you start going through those thoughts, you have to really realize this is dirt under your fingernails and that these people, places and things, the things, the triple gem of the path, teacher, sangha, the dharma, these are things that have tremendously uplifted you spiritually and is continuing to. and is continuing to. So instead of getting mad at them, instead of blaming them, you have to start seeing a way to appreciate them.

0:10:12
So, very important.

0:10:14
Now, I've made progress on this trip. So, when I got back from diving today, I wanted to sleep, but then I was sleeping in the car, but then by the time I got back, I wasn't sleeping anymore. So I meditated. And that, what, the Dola Bellagio is on this amazing energy line. It is just, it's a very, very beautiful energy. Here, it's more elemental. I like it. In a little while, we're gonna take a break and then we're just gonna go outside and look at the ocean for a little while because it's powerful, that north wall. All we have here is that north wall. Energy just comes up that wall. But a little bit in there, in Cayman Pines, there's this beautiful diffuse energy. Really one of the best energy lines for relaxing. Now I have to say, it's sad to see, but the energy lines in Cayman are degrading. It's getting lined out. And you can just see like human attention and territorialism and things like that. You see a lot more do not enter and don't trust passing and security guards and stuff like that. So it's unfortunate. But the energy lines are still here, even though they're a little bit obscured, more than they used to be. So I was meditating and I figured something out in meditation and it's something that I've been pondering for a while and it has to do with my health. So as you know, I don't know, three months ago or so, I said, hey, you know, you guys are acting bad, you're very toxic, you're reactive. And I pull it into my aura, and then it makes me sick. So then I said, okay, you know, I've been through it a couple times before, but this time I was determined not to just like go away for six months to regenerate. I said I'm gonna still do monthly seminars and still have some interactions with my students and just really work on getting through this. And then I got some advice from Shiva and Agni Kala and Jana and all the advice was helpful and different people had different points of view. But Yana had, I think, the accurate way of looking at it. It was really a way to address the relevant conundrum. And that is that he recognizes that I take in your karma. And I know I do that too. And I take in your karma because it's helpful for you. It's one technique that Rama did. He would take in our karma and it would be like he holds it away so the bad karma doesn't come back and hit you Because if you're just putting out, you're making bad actions and then the karma always hits you, you can never go up Spiritually, it's like you're like I want to go up, but my bad karma always knocks me down I want to go up, but it always knocks me down So then if your teacher is able to kind of take that karma Then you can ascend Now the thing is that the reason that I would get sick is because I would take it and take it and take it and take it until I can't process it and then my aura becomes toxic and then you know and then in the passive I had to like go away for a while stop meditation seminars and things. So So, Yana recommended, and it was a very subtle way, that I deal with the karma in a different way. And that I don't just keep taking it and becoming toxic with it. And it was like a subtle energy that I've been thinking about and it made it make sense to me But today after meditation I I realized how I can do it To my to my satisfaction in yours Because there's a little I mean like I think Allah had one way which was like oh boy, I think back for you She had another way which wouldn't be helpful for her. But Jana was like, no, you'd be helpful. Just deal with the karma in a different way. I was like, how am I going to do it? But I figured out a way how I'm going to do it. That's really great. So I will continue to take the bad karma so that you can go up. But then what I'm going to do is, I'm going to repackage it.

0:16:05
In a nice, user-friendly way.

0:16:10
Little, in little small happy doses. So that you can then deal with it.

0:16:16
So I'm going to give it back to you.

0:16:18
But I'm going to gift wrap it. I'm going to take it, transform it into, so I'm going to take your crap, I'm going to make it into like, you know, I'm going to reshape it into little like, I don't know, marionettes or something. And they're like, oh no, people will favor this now. Oh, this is wonderful.

0:16:40
Yeah.

0:16:41
So, and then I'll give it back to you.

0:16:45
And then I'll say, look, here's how you can deal with this.

0:16:47
And you have to deal with it.

0:16:49
And then you'll go, oh, okay. I'll give it to you in a way that you can recognize it and where you can deal with it. And where it just won't keep pushing you down. So it will bring it out of your patterns and it will return it to you in a way that's constructive for you to deal with. Now, having said that, it is not going to be fun, nice, or easy. But I'm going to do it because I don't want to just sit here and hold it in my aura. For me to sit here and hold it in my aura makes me sick. And it's fair. That's the thing about it. It's fair for me to reshape it and give it back to you. I wouldn't do something that's not fair. So it will be challenging. It will be difficult. But it will be fair and it's what's going to happen. Because this way I will be able to teach without getting sick. And that makes sense. So if I take you aside and I give you a task to do that's difficult, then it will be because of this. It will be the repackaging of your karma. And it will be serious stuff. Like I'll say, you have to do this or you've got to go you've got to figure out this this karma Or you or you can't be here because the alternative is that I hold it and I get sick So I'm gonna make you be Responsible for your karma. This is good for you. This is a graduation for the song right because Now you have to be more responsible you have to be able to clean up your mess the problem is when you have a pattern of karma and this mess happens, you see it happen, you just don't have enough awareness to stop it, and that's why I hold it I hold that karma back so this is going to give you a way to deal with that karma. So this is a fantastic thing. It's a great solution. It's a great solution to a problem. And I guarantee it's not going to be easy for you. Because it is going to be dealing with difficult karmas. But I guarantee that what I give you to do, you can do, and that it's not impossible, and that by doing it, you really, yourself, work through your karma. And it's fair. So and it's good. I mean, if I took, you know, Aki Call's advice, boy, boom! You guys would be running around crazy. Or Shiva's advice, you guys would be like, oh. relevant way for the relevant problem. And I really, really, really like being able to take your karma, take the load off so that you can get higher. But I notice that I can't take it all and I get sick. So it's not sustainable for me to do that practice, but I can repackage it and give it back to you and say, build me a stone tower.

0:21:24
If you start seeing stone towers,

0:21:26
popping up in the Carpenter Dojo,

0:21:29
then you know.

0:21:30
So, this is a great thing. This is a very amazing Dharma that results from this solstice. Because this is something that I've been dealing with and having difficulty with for a long time. And I see this as a way that really solves it So it's grand Yes Okay now moving on to my first observation of the day So my first observation of the day was that Last night was that last night there were very particular states of mind, views of your practice, your life, that everyone got last night, and I like that. And then this morning, what I saw was people go right back into routine patterns of self-reflection. And you really forgot where we were coming from last night. So this is one of the difficult things. I mean this is what they always say about the Sotapanna. For the Sotapanna, the thing that holds you back is the routines, the patterns. Patterns of self, patterns of doubt, and rituals. These are the routines that stop you. Like, it's fish sauce. Like, the brand is fish sauce in Asia.

0:23:41
It's the funniest thing.

0:23:42
You go over to the booths after, tell me the way to soda panna. Oh, it's in the corner store down the street. I got soda panna, oh my god. So, so the prana is not just fish sauce, it's also, you know, the first stage of enlightenment, according to Buddha. And what I noticed was that you guys went right back into stuck old self-reflection routines. So you've got to break those routines. You've got to break those routines. Now, the problem is that when you go and meditate the next day, do mystic scuba the next day, You're going back into the routine. But you have to see past the routine. You have to hold a state of mind. You have to remember a dimension of awareness. So that you're not bound in the same way of looking at things again and again and again. Now we're here on a break from life. Break from our routine lives. Break from the day in day out, everything that we do. So this is a good time to break from your routines. To get out of the normal way that you're looking at things. We're in a different place. We go underwater. Mystic scuba is great because when you go underwater, it's a break in your routines. Your routine is, I'm always in the dimension of on land. And then as soon as you're underwater, it's a different dimension. It's a whole different world. And you don't have the same routine underwater. So it's a great way to just let yourself be free. So yesterday, last night, I was talking about checking your consciousness underwater. Look at your mind. You're underwater and you go, what's my mind like in this dimension? The routine would say, wherever you go there, you are, but you can go beyond the routine and see that you are the higher self of who you are. And it just gives you that ability to see a difference. That it's not always one way. Life isn't always one way. Sometimes you're on land, sometimes you're with fish. So you guys went right into routine mode. I want you to observe these routines. He's thinking the same negative, boring, limited thing over and over and over. At some point you have to say, no, stop it, enough. This is crazy. If I'm thinking something negative or limited and all it does is limit me and hurt me, why am I subjecting myself to this? Why am I doing it? It's a habit, right? You're attached to a pattern, a pattern of consciousness, but you have to direct your mind to get out of that habit. Isn't it funny how you can look at somebody else and see their patterns, their habits, and their routines, and you're just like, oh, that's, you're just doing that. That's so lame. It's so simple. Just don't do that. Do this, and then don't do that. And then you won't have that problem anymore. Right? It's so easy to see other people's routines, but your routines, you're like, oh, I think these bad thoughts, these are some good thoughts, I do this, I do that. And it's so hard to break. Easy to see others, hard to deal with your own, and it's all because of your attachment, right? You're attached to your routine. Everybody on the pathway to enlightenment has their difficulties. You might look at one person's difficulty and say, that's stupid, that's so easy for me. And then your difficulty, they might say, that's so stupid, that's so easy for me. So we all deal with where we're at, what we're attached to. So we have to work on breaking the routine. I like to look at other people's patterns and say, wow, so easy to break out of it, you know, compared to mine, right? Because it just shows you how transient it is. It's like, we don't all have to suffer the same things, right? And we don't.

0:29:37
And then when we say,

0:29:38
well, that person doesn't suffer my problem at all. I want to be a little bit more like that.

0:29:44
It's transient.

0:29:45
Yeah. So, breaking up routines is not just, you know, skipping lunch or, you know, like walking backwards or something. It's really observing what's going on in your head. How are you looking at things? All right, is it limited? Is it the same old, I think the same old negative thoughts? Because that's no fun. You'll be stuck in that pattern forever. And that's not a positive pattern. Wealth esteem is a pattern, right? So I try to teach you guys positive financial tone out and wealth esteem. So like, if there's, like let's say there's a pro NFL player, right? And he comes from the hood and he's a very talented football player. Gets a $35 million contract, right? Spends seven years playing, and then he comes out in retirement, and he's broke. This happens to a lot of pro ball players. It's because they don't have patterns in their mind. They don't have the tonality in their mind. Their habits are, oh, I got money, let's start spending it on stuff. And then they can burn through $35 million in seven years. And it's like, whoa, what happened there? So routines are the way that you look at things. Yann was telling me about a movie I saw back in the 90s, what was it called? The Edge, yeah. And in the movie, Anthony Hopkins plays this billionaire. And the portrayal is, he's not just like some arrogant jerk like Donald Trump. Who I like. Remember him from past lives? Being a jerk.

0:31:57
Anyway.

0:31:58
But this billionaire, he just had like super positive mental attitude, like just a really strong positive mind. So when he's stuck out in the wilds of Alaska, and there's bears chasing him and all this stuff, he just has this strong positive mind. And if there's a problem, he does, okay, let's fix it, right? If there's like the bears coming and stuff like that, he's all, I'm gonna deal with the bear, you know? So it's like, he had this, he had these powerful routines, these powerful patterns. And this is what we want to change. We want to change wimpy patterns, right?

0:32:49
It's powerful patterns.

0:32:50
Like we can deal with anything in life. We want to change, you know, like bad wealth, esteem, bad financial tone out to powerful financial tone out. We want to be the kind of person who could be like going from broke, you know, poor to a billionaire. We want to be the person who can go from being like scared of life and can't handle life to being able to handle the grizzly bear in the wilds of Alaska. But to do that, we have to be able to change our patterns. We can't just be stuck in the same patterns. We have to be able to grow out of these patterns. And it works in meditation too. So in meditation, if you're just meditating the same way all the time, you're not really making a lot of progress. I constantly am looking at my meditation to see if I got to the same place or higher. And I wanna go higher every day. And if I'm not going higher every day, I'm going higher every other day. Sometimes I get to a place that I really like. So I might spend another day there. But I really, really, honestly, when I meditate, I'm not just sitting there going, as still as possible and to go into the highest light and higher light every time. And so there's no routine there, I'm not stuck there, and it's super bright and I love it. There's a flow of energy in practicing that way. I remember one time we went to the first Zen monastery in America which was in It was on Maui in Hawaii We're doing a power trip there, and we went to the meditation hall and I walked in there and I was all oh And what there was is a heavy routine of where monks sat down and Went into the same states of mind every time Which was what they called Zen and it was so heavy so ponderous and It was just like Goodness, you know, I thought it'd be cool to meditate in their meditation hall I thought I was just like oh my gosh if I meditate here It's this these routines this energy that they left, that they've created here, will weigh us down. So I said, I'm going to do something cool. And that's not like, sun hand, moon hand. And I was like, we're supposed to break these routines. And I'm like, it's going to make them upset. They're going to come back and go, whoa, what's happening? I can't meditate so good.

0:36:03
Good for you.

0:36:04
You broke your routine.

0:36:05
Now you can do something different.

0:36:07
So yes.

0:36:08
So we really want to observe in our meditation that we're not just bringing the same level of attention to it. We want to always bring a stronger, higher attention. We always want to seek a deeper stillness and a brighter life. In our bodhicitta, we don't want to just say, okay, I'm going to go through the process of bodhicitta considerations. You want to say, I want to get deeper into this practice every time. I just, I don't want to make bodhicitta a routine. Of course, I want to practice it all the time as my mindfulness. That's not a routine. You want to, in the experience of that mindfulness, you want to go into a deeper awareness of compassion. A greater ability of exchanging yourself for another suffering. So, don't make meditation a routine. Don't make bodhicitta a routine. Don't make yoga a routine. And make your spiritual practices the practices where you seek to break that routine

0:37:16
One routine that I've seen a lot with

0:37:19
ST2s and ST1s is the routine of the master, right? so we always saw Brahma as you know enlightenment and then and we're like oh no we're so flawed right he's always pointing it out and that was cool right it's very true but one day he gave us the advanced teachings and he said you can be enlightened and I was like, first of all, he was just yelling at us for six years straight. That's all I remember was him yelling. I was like, oh!

0:38:12
He's terrible!

0:38:14
And then one day he's all, you can be enlightened. And I was like, what? That was a bigger shock than getting the Bodhisitta book. The Bodhisitta book came in the middle of yelling. And then I got the book and I was like, cool, new book. And I was like, what? What is this? I'm like, I read the book, but I was like, we're going to come back to the next seminar next month and Rama's going to say it's a joke. Because I was like, what does this have to do with what we are? We're all into mysticism, occultism, and yoga, like disciplines, martial arts, and so on. And then I was like, what is this compassion thing? And exchanging yourself for another? I was like, no way. So then we got back to the next seminar, and someone raised their hand and said, are you serious? And I was like, yes.

0:39:17
And then he talked about it.

0:39:18
And I was like, oh, okay. So, yeah, it was interesting. And then, you know, he yells at us more and more and more. And then, you can be enlightened. And I was like, what? it was like a big shock to me and at first again I was just like, are you serious? and then he starts teaching us about it and it's something I would be happy to teach. But to me, it's an amazing thing. Because to me, you know, I eventually believed it and practiced it. But to me, it was the second or third or fourth day, that's when I started stopping thought. Before that, I really sucked at meditation. I can't say, you can't judge a meditation, but I, you know, I sat up straight, focused on the chakra, thought a lot, struggled with my mind. I fell asleep, just kidding. I never fell asleep. And after the advanced teachings, just a couple or a few days after, I started stopping thought. And I was like, wow, this is awesome. I'm like, this is like real meditation. Wow, cool. And then it just kept going higher and higher and higher And I had this feeling like I was like I gotta do this. You know this is this is the shot. Oh Yeah, but I remember one reason why I I Really really really decided to really try because even after products about it, I was kind of skeptical. I was like, I don't know, you're enlightened, I can't be enlightened and all this stuff. I was in that routine of he's enlightenment, I'm not. And one day, a few of the security guys were out with Rama and his secretary Kuan Yin. And he was sitting with Kuan Yin at one table and we were sitting at another doing security. And at one point, Quan Yin said to him, are you serious that we could become like, is this like, or is this like, you know, you're just trying to like, like shift things. And then Rongo's like, no, I'm dead serious. If I do, you know, if you do these practices, it's just gonna happen. And then I was like, okay, now I believe it. I just overheard that. I wasn't listening. It just happened that I heard. So then I was like, I'm really, really gonna practice this exactly how it's said to. And then I started scoffing thought and I started breaking through those patterns. And I stopped looking at it like he's enlightened and I can't be. I started looking at it like my enlightened guru was showing me the way to be enlightened. I had a really good attitude about it. I loved it. It was working. It was fantastic. And then after Rama died, which was a short time after that, then I moved away. First I went off to Asia, traveled around Asia, and then I stayed in California, and I wasn't in touch with anyone. And I was just practicing really hard, and it was totally amazing. And then I got in touch with Adi Kala, I think. And I went and visited him and a bunch of other STGs in New York. And I looked at them and I was just like, what's wrong with you guys? And I asked them, do you guys meditate? Because it looked to me like they were in the dark and then they say yeah yeah yeah we meditate every day whatever that is but then I also asked them later but um a couple of them told told me, oh yeah, I don't really believe that I can become enlightened. I think Ronald was just saying that. And I'm like, why would you think that? Why would you think he's just saying that? And then they're like, yeah, you know,

0:44:34
because it's impossible, like he's enlightenment

0:44:36
and we're just scumbags. I'm like, yeah, yeah. I know where you're coming from. But, um, but, but it's just like, you know, this is the pinnacle of Rama's teachings for us in this lifetime. And it was, and so many people didn't believe it, and were stuck in that pattern of, I'm a scumbag, and he's enlightened. And I just saw that with so many people. And I'm like, why? Rama taught us, hey, do computer programming. It will be good for you.

0:45:22
We did that.

0:45:23
Get a black belt.

0:45:24
It'll be good for you.

0:45:25
We did that. Get hired to do black belt. Make more money. Do this yoga project. All the things that he taught were things that I did, you know, and they all worked. And then when we come to his last pinnacle teaching of his life, why would I think that's not gonna work? I, you know, I believed it, and I worked on it, and I saw just by following the teaching that it worked. And I was like, wow, but people had these patterns. They had these patterns of, I can't, it's impossible for me to be enlightened. Only Mr. Magorium is magic. You guys know Mr. Magorium's Wonder Emporium? He's a magical guy who has a little toy store in the deep. He's magical, yeah. And then he hands it over to Princess Amidubali. And then she's all, I can't run the store, I'm not magic. And then at the end, she does a little magic dance. She's magic. Anyway, so enlightenment is within all of us, omani padme hum. But, you know, the teachings in our lineage bring you to that awareness. It brings you to a mental map. So, it's real. And it was a big shocker for me when I went and met with all my friends that they didn't believe it, they discounted it. They were like, oh. Yeah, so I actually knew people who said, I don't believe him. I didn't believe Rama. He was just saying that.

0:47:22
I'm like, what?

0:47:25
You wouldn't dare?

0:47:26
That's the most amazing thing. You know? And so I couldn't believe it. I thought it was really wonderful when Kundalini started teaching, because she got a whole bunch of ST2s, who their practice to me was like, I don't know, to me they weren't meditating. They said they were doing the advanced techniques, but I didn't see any light in them. And then she got them and she reignited the light and energy and happiness of Rama's teachings. She got see past some routines. And it was helpful for many ST2s, so I really like that. But it's strange to me that your enlightened teacher teaches you all of these things at work, they're solid, they have results, you see how doing those disciplines actually happen, and then when you get the highest teaching, the pinnacle teaching, the thing that you got there for in the beginning, enlightenment. When you get that teaching, you're like, ah, no, how can we do that? It's this pattern. We're in a pattern of self, where we deny it, where we deny our enlightened teacher teaching us the highest teaching of enlightenment. That's a pattern of self. So I was like, wow, this is so strange to me. So I didn't hang out with those friends of mine anymore. I just, I said, I'm just going to meditate on my own. Because I know, because I know I had a burning fire in my heart. Enlightenment, right? I was like, I see that vision of what Rama taught, and I'm not going to stop. Do I want to go to the vision of these people who don't believe Rama? Who deny his teachings, who say, no, I can't be enlightened. And a lot of them wouldn't even say enlightenment. Yeah, I'm doing the advanced teachings. Yeah, I kind of want to go into Samadhi and stuff like that. Well, yeah, Samadhi is like part of the problem. You go into Samadhi a bunch of times, but Samadhi alone isn't the end goal. There is a level of attainment that Rama taught. That's what Rama taught. Get to that attainment. If Rama says, get a black belt, you're like, yeah, I like working on my green belt. Yeah, I like doing the cadas, I'm like, get the black belt, get the black belt. That's what breaks the routines, that end goal. Rambo was always about those end goals, he's like, I don't wanna work with professional black belts. He always was like, working at very high tonal levels. He's like, get to that level, then I'll work with you. So I saw a lot of people stuck in routine. And I was like, no, man, don't do that to yourself. When you guys are learning meditation, don't just get there and be like, yeah, I'm going to sit there and listen to some music. Meditation is when you go into the light. Meditation is when your spirit is illuminated. Meditation is when you can go into the Dhyanas, into Samadhi, or just bask in the light. And drop the self. Drop all that negative thinking. Drop those constrictive feelings that's not meditation. That's self pattern self routine The the promise of meditation in this lineage it's so amazing is that it's light meditation and when you sit there and meditate because of the structures of grace of Rama you experience Spiritual luminosity, brightness, dimensions, many dimensions of light. And that is so awesome because you can go to Zen monastery, you can go to Thailand and sit with the monks or Tibet and sit with the monks and they don't know anything about light. They sit there and they're all confused. And they concentrate, but to me, I mean, most of them are in a dead state of mind. There's no illumination. So they're ponderous, they concentrate, they do hit stillnesses and stuff like that. But we've been granted, in this lineage, light. If we weren't in this lineage and we practiced meditation all over the world, we would never know about this light. This light comes from enlightenment. It comes from an enlightened teacher who was a connoisseur of dimensions of light, who brought us the best, awesomest dimensions of light. And they are what we experience in meditation. So don't walk into this enlightened, fully enlightened teacher who gives you these dimensions of life. You walk in there and just go

0:52:50
I'm gonna do this bad feeling. I'm gonna take all these crappy thoughts.

0:52:55
You're not taking advantage of the opportunity.

0:52:58
Yeah.

0:52:59
You know, if you learned meditation through Zen, yeah, I'm sure you would sit there and concentrate on your navel and probably gain some personal power and stuff like that. But to be able to have this light is amazing. It's truly amazing. amazing It's truly amazing. It's it's it's the it's like the most Awesome coolest thing about meditation like it takes it makes our meditations so much more fun high and bright There's energy. There's life so amazing you hardly ever ever ever ever hear other Buddhists Hindus Taoists talking about experiencing light and meditation once in a while you do hear someone talk about it, but very very very very seldom and And for us we experience light every time you guys are plumbed into light because our root guru Rama Set set it up as well Yeah, you know I remember I was sitting with this other enlightened teacher Adi Gap. And I was watching the dimensions that he was going through. And they were very tantric. They were very deep. But there was no light. And it was like, wow, I can't believe you're doing this. Why are you going through this? Why are you showing this to your students? Rama was always like, I'm going to use very particular dimensions that are super cool. It's got these very particular, beautiful dimensions of life, thousands of them, the causal dimensions, and he gave us these dimensions over and over and over, got plugged into these dimensions. And that's meditation in our lineage, is meditating on life. Every time you meditate, you're connected to life. Even when you're not meditating, you're connected to life. And that's an amazing thing. So, don't go into patterns of self. Don't just sit there and go in pattern, pattern, pattern. Recognize the opportunity of being in an enlightened lineage where a master has given you these dimensions of life. And take advantage of that opportunity. That's like, you know, this master gives you THE teaching for enlightenment and then all the ST2s and ST1s are like,

0:55:22
oh, I don't know, I don't really believe him.

0:55:27
And I'm like, oh my gosh. So, we have to break routines of what we think about our meditation, break routines about what we think about enlightenment, enlightenment is possible in this lifetime absolutely without a doubt I Know at the moment might seem far away but all you have to do is just do the best with where you're at now, and I'm confident we'll get there Okay, I'd like to take a break

0:55:52
and OK, I'd like to take a break.

0:55:58
And after the break, I think we're going to go outside and just stand by the ocean for a little while. Then we'll come back in and talk about the mystics. Then we'll come back in and talk about the mystics. Arigato gozaimasu.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
