0:00:00
Okay, so just three songs, about 15 minutes.

0:00:02
It's not working. Don't touch it.

0:00:04
Yeah, I'm like, what's going to happen when it actually does play? Okay, so it looks like it's playing.

0:00:37
Totally.

0:00:39
Yeah, can you turn the volume up? Is that as loud as it goes?

0:00:51
No, can you turn it up?

0:00:52
If you push the names, you'll pull his mic down. Push the names and pull his mic down.

0:00:57
This is technical, okay.

0:00:59
Phew. All right.

0:01:00
Okay, you guys ready?

0:01:02
You guys ready for meditation now? You're gonna have the most amazing meditation after this. We got through the opposition. No, we're not there yet. Let's try it.

0:01:19
the Oh, ♪ So so So, let's get started. so so so so so so so the the the the It's the end Oh, I'm a little bit lonely Oh, I'm a little bit lonely Oh, I'm a little bit lonely the the the the the the the so so so All right, very nice. So there was something interesting in the presentation that I wanted to bring your attention to. There is a great wisdom in alliance.

0:13:53
Now, Ganga Nath and Tara Leela, they had an amazing, powerful spiritual experience in India. It was an amazing spiritual journey where they met all of these different siddhas, different yogis. They made alliances. So when we talk about the warrior, right? The spiritual warrior. The spiritual warrior makes strong alliances. These alliances for them were empowering, enlightening. They were transformative experiences. Their experiences sitting with these saints and siddha masters are not just an interesting little story or a little imprint of information, not just a little bit of a biography. They are connections. Connections to dimensions of power and light. So each time they were bringing up one of the enlightened saints, they were opening the dimension to that person's enlightenment. Because they made an ally out of them. The ones they met and the ones that had passed away. Even the very first one, Christ. It's like, hey, we all know Jesus Christ and the dimensions of Christ of it. This is an alliance. They made this journey, this beautiful spiritual journey, where they made all of these amazing alliances, and then they were able to come here and for us open up all of these beautiful dimensions to enlightenment. So, they were able to do this because of the alliances they made, and then the thing that's wise for us is to have an alliance with them, because then we don't have to go on the seven-year quest. Alliances with enlightenment help you to go faster. This is seven years of enlightened experiences compressed into three and a half hours, where the dimensions of enlightenment just open up. Some people, like a lot of them, probably half of the saints that they talked about, we never even heard of. And it's like, all of a sudden, they open this for us. And they literally open it. Put it on the table, open it up, and it's dimensions of life. And you can see when they're talking, they're like, I mean, like, I can see, the, you know, they go, oh, let's talk about this saint. And then the Kundalini starts going and they get like, whoa, right?

0:18:11
I mean, we saw it.

0:18:12
It's so much energy coming through them of these enlightened saints. It's not just a little story. That's why they said, just look into the eyes and look at the pictures because while they talk about them, you're able to connect with their energy, with their enlightened consciousness. So, pretty amazing. So they made alliances that they were then enriched by and then fortunately for us, they were able to come here and they are our allies and they share these beautiful dimensions with us. So there is wisdom in alliance. An ally

0:19:01
is someone

0:19:03
who can really help you move along and get you going further, faster. An ally is a guru, a saint. I mean it doesn't have to be a big thing. Some of these guys, they didn't teach you nothing. They just said, you come here and I give a blessing. That was their thing to do. There's so many opportunities for allies, and an ally is someone who just helps. If they don't help, then they're not an ally. But if they help, then they're an ally. So an ally really does something significant. Like there's a story of a man who goes to meet a saint and he sits there, learns from the saint, and then he's gotta go off and do his life. He's like, oh, I have to go and work and follow my karma because he wasn't at a point to become a yogi himself. But the saint that he met was given, as a donation, a diamond or a gem, a very, very precious gem. And he tried to refuse it, but someone gave it to him. So while he was with the man who was just going off and starting his life, he realized he needed to give the gem to the man. So he slipped it in his pocket while he wasn't looking. And then the man went to the South or something and he was like, okay, I'm gonna win my fortune and do all these great things, but he went out and had a really hard time. His business ideas didn't work out, his family was suffering, it was very difficult. And he spent about a year experiencing great difficulty. And after that year, a friend of his came from the North and said, Hey, I was just visiting that saint that you had met, and he told me to check your left pocket in your coat. And then he's like, what? So the coat that you wore when you saw him. So he goes over to the coat and reaches in and finds this precious gem. And then he says, oh my gosh, this is going to solve all my problems. So he exchanges it for money and then his family is safe, and he's living well, and he's able to invest. Then he becomes a very wealthy merchant. His life becomes very strong. See, that's the kind of thing... This is a parable from the White Lotus Sutra. But that's the kind of thing that an alliance does, an ally does. They help you out in a significant way. They show you more opportunity than you can find yourself. If you go at it yourself, you'll be heavy, you'll be ponderous, you'll be slow. You'll figure things out very slowly. There's a Thai monk Ajahn Chah who says, the worst teacher to listen to is yourself. It's interesting. But you know, if you just were going and giving yourself dharma talks, giving yourself holy blessings, it might not go so well. That's why you go to the Siddhas. That's why you go to a teacher. To create an alliance so that you get significant help. You know, for example, in martial arts, so Yana is teaching martial arts. It's so amazing. Now I've been doing martial arts since I was six, right? I've got seven black belts. I'm a fifth degree black belt. And then I'm working with Yana on martial arts, and he shows me something I never knew. I mean, all the time. Every class. He shows me things I never knew. It's just because he has looked into a lot of different dimensions in martial arts that I didn't know. Even though I know something, there's a whole bunch of stuff that he knows that I don't know. So then he could show me something that is amazing to me. It's outstanding. It's something that I wouldn't have figured out probably in this whole lifetime. But then he says, oh no, just go like this, no, relax there. And then all of a sudden I feel all this energy and power. So it helps significantly. It gives me an opportunity to grow in a way that I wouldn't normally have. And I thought I was such a good martial artist, right? I thought I knew everything. I thought I had seen everything. I thought I knew the realm of possibilities, but then this just blows the lid off of that. So there was this fish,

0:24:56
this little fish in a pond,

0:24:59
and the fish is just swimming around doing a fish do. And then all of a sudden this giant fish comes in and this little fish says, whoa, you're huge. And then he says, yeah, you know, when you're in the ocean, you get bigger. That happens to trout. They're in the river, they're small, they get to the ocean, they get much bigger. That happens to goldfish, except for they don't go in the ocean. So the little fish says, what's the ocean? And he's like, oh, that's the ocean. The big agua. And then he says, okay, well, I'd like to see this ocean. So the big fish says, okay, let's go over here. We go to this part of the pond that he was always staying away from, the small fish, because it has just some kind of current and it's kind of scary. But the big fish says, no it's okay, this is the way to the ocean. So the little fish jumps in the current with the big fish, and they go down through this little stream that joins a river and eventually gets to the ocean. And then in the ocean, the Enlightened, their teachings are how to go from a small situation to an unlimited, bright, transformative situation. The ocean. So we go from a little pond that we might be comfortable with, in our little selves and our little attention, and we go down this pathway and eventually we get to the ocean. And in the ocean, we too become the big fish. You can be a big fish.

0:27:00
So,

0:27:02
that's an alliance. That's an ally is very valuable. They help you. They help you grow. They help you move faster. They help you get beyond... Be honest with yourself. You look at yourself, you're like, OK, I can meditate like this, or I can think about this, and I'm about this happy, I'm about this mindful. If you could go to, I forgot the name of the scene, the guy with the ash, right? And he says, what do you want? You're like, well, I'm struggling with depression or something like that, I wanna get rid of it. And then he goes, okay, boom, it's gone, right? If he could help you get really past something that you're stuck on or help you to get ahead, wouldn't it be a nice idea for you to see that person, come to that person with an open mind, with no negativity, to have an actual opportunity to experience that help, to create that alliance? Wouldn't that make sense? Yeah, it would. But then, people are jerks. People don't want alliances. They get angry. Alliances bother them. I don't know why. It's self, selfish. Self-thoughts, reactions, egotism. That's what holds you back. So Ananda comes over to Buddha one day and says, he's so happy about the Sangha, and he says, half of the spiritual life is spiritual friendship, is alliance. And then the Buddha says, no, the whole of spiritual life is alliance. And that you think maybe he's just patting him on the back and saying, yeah, yeah, it's even better than you think. But it actually gets to the kind of the essence of Buddhist teachings. Anatta, selflessness. We think we are a self. a particular person separate from others. That's how we act and react. That's what we think. However, in any situation, you can see connection with you and another. And at any point, if you want to look at a tree, chill out a little bit, you'll see that you and the tree are the same. You are one with Brad. So we are all connected. We are all completely, we're the same, me and you. I'm quoting some movie. It's all a blanket, yeah. So, you can see this if you still your mind and reflect on things deeply. So it is true that we are not a self, that spiritual friendship, that alliance is truth. And the way that you develop this awareness that you're connected with all things, that you finally see the whole universe in its true nature, the way that we develop this is by making intelligent alliances. So we make intelligent alliances by looking at the saints, looking at the gurus, the teachers, and being open in our heart to those blessings, to those teachings, to those dimensions of enlightenment. And we see that we get higher, so that you can see more connections, more opportunities, until finally you see the truth of reality. with party friends or something like that. If you're hanging out with people who drain your energy, who do not do positive, noble things, then you're making alliance with those people and you'll start to just go into what their spiritual possibilities are, their spiritual attention. So then you won't go higher, and then you won't see the nature of reality. So a warrior makes alliances, intelligent alliances, because you don't want to make a mistake. There was one time where Buddha was traveling around and he came across these three Brahmins who are studying with this wild teacher. Now this wild teacher was just going around saying amazingly different things. Like he'd say it was daytime and then he'd say it's midnight and then his students would say, whoa let's ponder that. You know, let's really ponder this. And then, you know, he would say, just, you know, just strange wild claims. And, you know, spiritual teachers say things like that. But the Buddha came over and he saw them studying with this guy. And then, you know, after a few minutes, the Buddha said, he just made a statement, he said, this guy's crazy. He's just mad. And that truth was a connection of truth. His mind was so powerful. It snapped the Brahmins out of believing this guy, pondering his craziness, pondering his mad statements. pondering his mad statements. So then they said, well, wow, we've been studying with this crazy guy for a while. And then they started studying with the Buddha, they became monks. And then they were able to, instead of having just some wild ride of like weird considerations, they started transformation. So an ally must be chosen carefully, where you feel that it is positive, constructive, wholesome, healthy, bright. Otherwise you might just confuse yourself. Yeah, or the movie Whiplash. So that's a, the drummer had an alliance with the teacher. That's where he was getting power from. That was his ticket to power, working with that teacher. But that teacher was harmful. He was powerful and impeccable, and he could teach you how to play the drums, but then sometimes the students kill themselves. So he was actually harmful. So that also is not a good alliance. No matter how much you want power or something like that, you don't want to find, there's wisdom in enlightened alliance, because enlightenment is harmless. Where there's a self that has desire and aversion, then there's harm. Now it's a very, very, very rare thing. That's why it's valuable. And it's not something you want to just say, whatever, I don't care, I'm going to go do what I want. I do what I want. You know who said, I do what I want in an alliance? Who was it? Steve Jobs. He had cancer. He has this alliance with his doctor. And the alliance is a powerful one. I am the person who can save your life with an operation. And then Steve Jobs goes, no, I think I'm going to just kind of do my own thing, like do a little acupuncture, go to the chiropractor. Anyway, later on, he could have had an operation that would have saved his life. He walked away from that. See, that's what you do if you break alliances. If you just say, I don't care about it. You walk away from significant help. So alliances are valuable. Sangha is an alliance. So this is a

0:37:14
construct of

0:37:16
alliance that's very very powerful. So you got the gurus and the teachers. That's a very powerful thing, but then you also have the third jewel, the Sangha. Now Sariputra, who was like one of Buddha's top arhants, Sariputra said that the greatest help for his liberation was not even Buddha, was not even the Dharma, it was the Sangha. And then you have to say, why? There wouldn't be a Sangha unless there was a Buddha and stuff like that. But this was his biggest thing. This was his biggest teacher. And it's because of the considerations of Anatta that we are not just a single us, self, separate from the universe. And through the considerations of the Sangha, he was able to become enlightened. The Sangha is a group that aims to win together. We work together to win together. So we don't compete against each other. Sometimes we do, Maybe in martial arts, we spar. That's fun. Sometimes maybe we'll have like a walk-off. Just kidding.

0:38:57
You know, we might do things like where we try

0:39:00
to two different software companies will compete against each other to sell more software, something like that, but for fun. Not so that one person wins and the other one loses. There was this indigenous tribe in South America, an anthropologist was studying them. And they had this game that was an important game to their tribe. And the anthropologist was trying to figure it out. He was like, what are they doing? So it started off where there was a team of eight and then a team of 12. And basically they were going into the jungle, grabbing logs, each team would grab a log, and then they had a finish line somewhere. So they're carrying the logs, each team, and they're kind of going, and one team gets ahead. And then all of a sudden they switch. Some guys on one team go to the other team, and some guys on the other team go to the other team and then the other team goes ahead a little bit and then they switch again and it's like wait what are they doing in the end when you finally figure out what the rules were the rules were that they're trying to finish at the same time it's not that they're trying to get one team to beat another team they're all trying to help each other to succeed in winning the game. This is what we do. This is what the Sangha does. This is the spirit of the Sangha. It's a powerful alliance. Having allies is strong. And then there's always the teacher. So like, you know, Arjuna, he had Krishna going into battle with such a strong ally. He's got this avatar helping him into battle. That's a powerful alliance. So we always want to have strong alliances when we go into the battles of life, the battles of the mind, the battles of the spirit. We go into battle like an octopus, well-armed. How do you make an octopus laugh?

0:41:28
10 tickles.

0:41:29
They're ticklish. Oh my gosh. Should I give you another octopus joke? No. So you know, my teacher would say that we're, he gave a talk once, a really beautiful, inspiring talk, called The Electric Tribe. And he talked about how our energy is networked and that it moves like electricity. It's an amazing thing. Speaking of electricity, electric cars. Yes. The technology is just so fun. It's so new. I keep on being more and more enamored by it. It has such a good vibration, the intent where it's coming from. You know we have global warming and stuff like that, right? So the people who are working on the electric cars, it started especially with Toyota and the hybrid. who want to create cars that help with global warming. So I just was fascinated by it. Yeah, so electric cars, there you go. So when we're together, there's a greater strength. That's our network, and we share positive energy. So this is like, if you go into Ikea on a Sunday by yourself, you would walk around and you'd probably notice that you get drained very quickly. You notice that your energy level goes down, you'll feel kind of toxic because you're psychic. And if you go with one other person in the Sangha, you'll notice that you have a much stronger ability to push off negative energy. So that network helps us to kind of stay away from that heaviness of the world. And it always is operating. We don't even have to be with each other. We're always networking. But especially when we're with each other, it's much more helpful. So I do that when I travel. Traveling is kind of toxic and tiring. But if I'm with one other person in the Sangha, it's so much better. It's so much easier. So this is how a network works. Now, sometimes people get into a wrong view of Sangha. You get kind of tired of your Sangha meets, you know, you get bothered by them, and you say, oh, this person bothers me, or, oh, them again, kind of thing. And when that happens, you have to say, wait, I've got to look at things differently. You know, you say, a lot of times you guys create enmity amongst each other. You stepped on my toe, you looked at me wrong, right? This is where the ego comes in. But we always have to remember, even if you think someone's your enemy or did you wrong, that enemies promote you. If you're a warrior, enemies promote you. The hero in any story is really... their nobility is shaped out of the opposition from their enemy. That opposing force makes you be stronger, makes you push harder. It makes you pull out greater power and greater nobility. So, anytime that you start to look at someone like, Oh, you're really mean to me, then you should say, wait a second. This is my chance to be promoted by finding a greater Dharma, a greater truth in this experience. I had this happen to me when I was a younger student. I got so mad at this one guy. I was like, urgh, I wanted to fight him. Like, I'm gonna be a Buddhist and knock you out. You know? So, yeah, so I was just really mad. And then after a while, I was able to see that going through that tremendous, horrible anger got me on the other side of ever being angry again. So I was able to take this horrible situation where I was done wrong, he was mean to me, I had every reason in the universe, but eventually, through mindfulness, through the blessings of my teacher, I just was like, you know what? Being angry doesn't make any sense. The only person it hurts is me. So I just said, done with anger. It's over. It's over. Out of here. And then I was able to just be like, oh, okay, if I don't have to get mad at him, I don't have to get mad at anyone. And I got on the other side of it. That opposition, what I called an enemy, I was really mad at him. That helped me to get past my anger. So anytime you start being negative and like weird about people, you got to look at it in a bigger perspective. This is a Sangha. We all work together and we all get stronger. In a dojo, maybe everyone's not best friends or something like that, but by training together, by going through hardships together, sometimes you have to spar each other, someone goes a little hard, you know, and then you learn to block. You know, so by doing this together, everyone gets stronger. There was a Zen master who came to a town, this was in China, and there was a Buddhist society of laymen. There were 40 laymen, and they were organizing this big event with like 500 people. And when the Zen master came to town, they come over to the Zen master, and they had such difficulty organizing the event that they were all mad at each other. So they're all, Zen Master, I was trying to do it right, but then he said this, and he did that. So they were naming all these problems to the Zen Master between themselves. And they wanted the Zen Master to say, you're wrong, he's right, he's right, you're wrong. And the Zen Master just listened. Then after they complained a lot, and voiced why they're mad at each other, then the Zen master said, so how many of you guys follow the five precepts? And then they all said, yeah we all do. And then he said, okay. And then he said, watch this. Tonight, you know, I'm gonna ask the same question and I just don't raise your hand but I want you to look around the room. So they have this big auditorium and he's giving a Dharma talk to about 500 people who are all from Buddhist families, who all like Buddhism, who are all there to see this famous Zen master. Then he asked the question, hey in the audience how many people follow the five precepts? And out out of 400, 500 people, a few people raised their hands. And then the 40 laymen who set the Buddhist Society up, they all realized something. Even though they got all mad at each other, they were doing something very strong, very positive, that their association kept them progressing. So they went, oh, oh, and then all of a sudden they cleared up all their problems in their heads. They're like, oh, there's no big deal. Look, we're able to follow the Buddhist teachings. This is great. So you have to have perspective. When I was a student, I always lost perspective in the sangha too, so I understand. But being in a sangha, having this type of alliance is really very fundamental to Buddha's teachings. In a dark, crazy world that's all physical and heavy, the sangha, this connection, is tremendous support for staying in the light. Now Shambhala, one day, there was a master, he was an arhant, learned the advanced teachings from Buddha. He came together with a bunch of people and said, I'm going to create this city, joined in and made the city stronger, brighter and better. So, we have a similar situation here. We're very fortunate. who come over. They were my mentors when I was 20 years old. And they greatly helped me out. And now they just appear again, and they're sharing all these beautiful things with us. We have Yana teaching us martial arts. So we have this amazing martial arts. And he just comes in with this amazing knowledge of this magical martial arts. You know this stuff like, he can knock you over, and you can have the... it's just incredible. And all this like focus on how to move energy, it's so amazing. And he just comes in with all this knowledge. I was teaching a guy jiu-jitsu, right? And this is like magical stuff. He comes in with all this knowledge, and then all of a sudden, it's something that everyone in the Sangha can benefit from.

0:53:41
So, also Shiva.

0:53:43
So, Shiva was here a couple weeks ago, and I took some students to meditate with him, and it was wonderful. It was powerful, incredible. So Shiva is actually probably, I think, pretty much for sure, he's going to become the property manager at Bodhi Woods. So he'll be around, right? And he likes to teach you guys. He really likes you guys. He thinks you guys are wonderful. So from time to time we'll have meditations with Shiva, which are really out of this world. I like those because he kind of channels my teacher's energy. He opens the dimensions of my teacher's energy in the early 80s, because he was only a student in the early 80s, formerly a student. So it's really nice, because I heard stories about the 80s. And I was like, man, I was just a student in the 80s. That sounded really great. Anyway, so that's a beautiful dimension, a beautiful expression of enlightenment. And then there's also Agni Kala. So most of you have met him, and from time to time, we're going to have probably desert trips with Agni Kala. So I was in touch with him recently and I think we're going to do a trip with him to the Anza Borrego in the next equinox. And some of us, a small group of us, have been to the Anza Borrego with him. It's pretty amazing. He is very magical. Very magical. So going down to the desert with him is a beautiful experience. It's very different than a desert trip that I would lead. And the thing is, in the Anza-Brega especially, he's gone to all these places, these deserts in the southwest, where he knows them so well. He knows the energies of the places. He loves the desert. He looks like a fixture of the desert. So it's really, really incredible going. So, you know, and mudra, right? Mudra came here and he was like, yeah, it's pretty cool. And then he started, you know, Vaya and Vaya would, you know, we have some musicians, but it never would have come together. He had, he led the way. And that's why we have, you know, like what, six, seven albums now? And this is really beautiful, wonderful music to meditate to. It opened up a whole new dimension for our meditation. So we have benefactors in this school, which is really great.

0:56:43
It's amazing.

0:56:44
See, this is a network of, you know, direct students of my teacher who are working together in a positive way, in a constructive way. And it opens for you so many more opportunities. If Mudra wasn't here, no music. We'd listen to or meditate to other stuff, of course. But that wouldn't be here. So having these alliances from these benefactors is really wonderful. It's really amazing, really powerful. When these things come together, something amazing happens. When benefactors come together, when alliances are made, amazing things happen. We're talking about Shambhala. So the leader of Shambhala, the Arhant, he comes over and he says to this group of 100 householders, he says, he says, I'm inviting you, all 100 of you, to join Shambhala. We're gonna create a city of spiritual warriors. You can be a householder, but you're going to be a spiritual warrior. Who wants in? He raises his hand. Who else wants in? And they all experienced wind horse. So we were talking about wind horse, right? They spontaneously all experienced it. Not that the Arhant did wind horse on them, but they did wind horse. Then the Arhant gave the teachings about wind horse so that they could do it all the time. So Windhorse was what we were talking about in our last seminar. And I said, all right, great, it's so simple. Just do Windhorse. Then everybody was all like, wait, the next day, what was Windhorse again?

0:59:05
Yes, Windhorse is mysterious.

0:59:07
Yeah. Yeah, so Windhorse is a power of compassion. It's realizing or reflecting on, seeing your enlightened nature and in such an abundant amount of enlightenment you can see yourself someone who is suffering. So that's a Shambhala teaching on compassion. Now, Windhorse, when it's used, can be used to solve problems. And this is the next important thing to understand about wind horse. So today we'll talk about, just for a little bit, we'll wind up soon, we'll talk about how to use Windhorse to solve problems, to solve, you know, problems, to deal with people who are giving a hard time. So, Windhorse, when it is used against someone who's causing trouble or a situation that is causing you trouble or limitation or suffering. It creates a wisdom. It's called dhrala. So when you do wind horse to solve a problem, it comes from a place of wisdom called dhrala. And dhrala is a wisdom that is beyond enmity. So you think wind horse itself is gonna be confusing? Try to follow me on this draw lot thing. So in one way, you could look at bodhisitta, tonglen, taking and sending, our mindfulness practice of compassion. You could look at that as being something that solves the problem in your head. It's something that solves suffering for yourself. Windhorse is a power, you can't really use it on yourself, it is all about another person. So, Windhorse is always directed towards another. The power of compassion. But the power of compassion for solving problems. So let me explain how that can happen. So for example, you do things in a way where an enemy comes up, a problem comes up, you don't try to... you do wind horse, you don't try to defeat them. So let's say there's a wrongdoer. When the wrongdoer is messing with you, you use wind horse to give them compassion, but you seek... your intent is to seek a way to elevate both of you you with that power of compassion. So there's a story of a merchant. The merchant is doing business, but he's plagued by thieves. So the merchant very intelligently goes to one of his shops, and he sees a very clever thief steal things. And then he follows that thief, and then he sees where the thief lives. So he shows up the next day, and he takes what the thief has stolen the night before, and he brings it to him and says, here, it's a gift from my store. And then the thief's like, oh, OK, well. And then the thief, another time, goes over and steals money from the store. And the merchant comes over the next day with money. And he says, look, here's money. And then the thief is like, OK. So the thief, after a while, stops stealing, because he's just getting what he wanted anyway. And then one day, the merchant, after doing this several times, the merchant says, hey, I'm being bothered by a lot of other thieves still. You're a good thief. Can you give me any advice on how to not be robbed? And then the thief says, oh, boy, can I? I used to do this, and then you don't have to. So he started giving them all these different ways of avoiding problems. And then one day, the merchant had a big convoy bringing materials of whatever he's selling somewhere. And then the thief shows up and he says, if you go down to the right, the way that you're headed, you're going to get stopped by thieves. They're going to ambush you. So go down to the left. Here, I'll show you the way. So then he shows up and gets them out of danger. Eventually, this thief became the partner of the merchant. He kept them out of harm and then he ended up having like actually, you know, a lot of business acumen And then he became they became really good friends and partners and they both prospered together so the merchant Looked at things in a higher way The way where I'm not just going to try to put this thief in jail, but I'm going to try to elevate both of us Now with Drala, we want to dominate a problem, the situation, so that there is no problem or situation. So there was a... this happened in Shambhala. In Shambhala, the barbarians came to attack. Shambhala was this beautiful place, prosperous, everything was going really well, and the barbarians nearby said, hey, let's go take that place over. They don't have a big army, there's not a lot of them, they seem really nice, and they got stuff that we want. So a big army started marching towards Shambhala. And Shambhala, the farmers of Shambhala, they didn't have any army. They had to stand up against this army. So the leader, this Arhant, says, okay, let's pick up our pitchforks and our hose and go out there and face this army. So they did. And then when they realized that the army was 10 times bigger than them, they had lots of weapons and horses and everything, they were like, oh my gosh, what are we going to do? And then the Arhant says, wind horse. We are going to do wind horse to win. And then in the power of that compassion, that enlightened energy projected to their enemy, what spontaneously happened was all of the farmers, their doubles appeared. But many, many, many, many, many doubles. So then the army that outnumbered them by such a great number, all of a sudden started to see like tens of thousands of farmers with pitchforks and hoes that were facing them. And then they turned around and ran away. They said, whoa, that's way too much. We can't handle that. This is what Drala, you could say, there could be the really stern teacher, who even though they give you a really hard time, they're giving you a really hard time to direct you out of your mischief, out of your negative ways. So Drala can be wrathful. There's the story of Patnasambhava. He sees this young boy, like 12 years old, and the boy is in a market and everyone is saying, wow, what a beautiful boy, what a beautiful boy. And Padma Sambhava walks over and punches him in the nose, you know, breaks his nose, and you know, cuts his face. He's got a big scar and a crooked nose. And everyone says, well, why'd you do that? And he said, well, this boy was going to grow up proud and he would then, from his pride, he would grow evil and then he would do numerous bad things. So now that I broke his nose and he looks ugly, people don't go over and say, oh, he looks so wonderful. So this is Drala. This is dhrala. You know, and dhrala also... It's also found in the study of bodhicitta. So, for example, in the commitments to mind training, we have, do not be excited by cutting remarks. Right? cutting remarks. Do not be excited. So if someone goes, you're ugly, and then you get that, like, I'm getting mad, they called me ugly, they're wrong, I'm right, you check in the mirror. So what happens, what you're supposed to be even. And you're supposed to just say, these are just words. Words are empty. If you say words are empty, then anytime someone says something really mean to you, instead of you going to some big karma, then you just say words are empty, and then you can be at peace. So words have have power unless you let go of them.

1:10:32
So

1:10:34
there was a archer and a yogi and the archer was a famous archer, and he was an excellent archer. The yogi didn't know anything about archery, but he knew the power of words. And the Yogi said, hey, I bet you that we could take anyone you choose around here and they'll beat you in archery. And the archer was like, no, that's impossible. Let's take that one guy, some random guy. And then the yogi said, okay, let's set up the target really close to the famous archer. He says, you go first, famous archer. Gets ready to shoot the arrow. And then the yogi says, you're never going to hit the target. And he's like, just bothers his mind and then he shoots and misses and Then the yogi takes the target puts it way far away and the guy who never shot a bow before The yogi looks at him and says you can do it and then the archer shoots and he hits a bullseye Words have power now if the famous archer was able to let go of his pride, when those words, you'll never do it, came to him, he'd just let go of them.

1:12:10
Words are empty.

1:12:12
But, you know, this is what my teacher used to do all the time. You can do it! He would say that. And when he said it, it just gives a power to do it, to succeed. But there are so many times where you have to use this wisdom of drala when somebody says something difficult to you. You can't be sitting there having arguments in your head with people. You have to say, words are empty, and drop them. That's drala. Or, let's see, commitments to mind training. This is what we study about bodhicitta, but it is a drala. So another one is don't depend on consistency. And I guess that's kind of a funny way of talking about it, but it means don't be consistently negative, don't be consistently reactive. If you keep on getting mad at the same thing all the time, you're being consistent. That's their term, right? The aphorism means you're consistently falling into the same trap. So they say, don't fall into the same trap. So don't be consistent. That means that you start to observe patterns where you start to get upset. And when you see, whoa, I keep getting mad about this one thing, happening, then you have to somehow get out of it. So that's consistency. So there is a... so drala is the way out of that. See, this is using wisdom to get out of a situation that repeats. And there's a great story about a layman who goes over to a Zen master and tells him, I have this problem. I keep thinking these bad thoughts. I keep getting angry, angry, angry, or sad, sad, sad. He's got these negative thoughts. And he tries to meditate, he tries to get rid of it, but he can't. So the Zen master gives him this bag that's filled with little tiles, and on each tile there's a different... it has different feelings. So one might say happy, one might say sad, one might say angry, and sometimes it says something like laugh or cry. So it's got all these feelings and emotions and expressions. And then the Zen master said, when you feel anything, when you recognize that you're feeling angry or sad or happy, I want you to go into the bag, pull out the tile, and I want you to start trying to be whatever it says on the tile. So the guy says, okay, yes, Zen master, fine. And then the next day he's out walking, he sees somebody he doesn't like, he gets angry. And he says, oh wait, I'm angry. I gotta go into my tile. And he pulls out happy. Then he says, all right, I'm gonna start acting happy. So he starts trying to be happy. And it doesn't succeed very much.

1:15:27
And then he just goes through his day

1:15:28
pulling out these things. So another time he's sad and he pulls out laugh. And then he goes, ha ha ha ha ha ha. angry and he pulls out happy and then he's like ha ha, then he's like wait am I angry or happy? And then after a while he's nothing, he's neither, he's neither angry or happy, he's playing out happy. Sometimes he's happy and he pulls out angry, then he starts playing out angry, and then he finds that he is neither, either happy or angry. He becomes detached from his cycle by not being consistent with his cycle. So this is Drala. Now we're going to do Drala, otherwise you guys won't understand it. So it is Windhorse to solve a problem and Windhorse is this wisdom above enmity. So, if we direct compassion to someone who's got a problem, then you have this really high connection of how to deal with difficulties. So, for example, we're gonna do it together. So I have this one student who's totally pissed off at me. You know, people get mad sometimes for whatever reason. We lose perspective. So this is what I do. I do draw a lot. So a lot of times my students come over to me and they have some problems. Sometimes it's with me, sometimes it's with other people. And they notice consistently that you come and talk to me about your problem and then you end up more balanced, you end up brighter, you find your way out of being stuck in that problem. That's because I do drala. I do drala in meditation. When I'm meditating with you, I bring you up to my level, I don't come down to your level. You can be sitting there going, oh, and I'm like, I'm not going to get stuck there, I'm bringing it up. And then it creates that doorway, that possibility for you. This is drala. So even meditation, dealing with the problem, your thinking mind, dealing with any problem. So I'm going to do drala for this one student who's having a hard time. People have hard times from time to time. It's not a... I mean, it happens. It's not fun, but it happens. And I want you guys to just look up here at me so that you can see drala. This is a demonstration. And for my student who has a problem, it will solve their problem. They'll just be sitting there going, is it me?

1:18:55
Um, no.

1:18:56
And then at some point during this drala, they'll just be like, oh, it's no big deal. And it'll be gone. All right, so we're going to listen to one song and just look up towards me.

1:19:16
the the the the so the the the the so you Problem solved. Now, to end, I would like you to consider a difficulty in your life. Could be a problem with a person, could be a problem with anything something that limits you that you want to use

1:24:30
drama

1:24:32
to enlighten To uplift to open to transform from difficulty to enlightenment We'll try just one thing." You're like, oh boy. Laughter So, we're going to do Drala together now, just for a minute. And I want you to bring to mind your situation. Again, see yourself, your enlightened nature, pretend, envision yourself as a Buddha. And maybe you'll use some of the new dimensions that we experienced tonight in the presentation. And you'll say, wow, that feeling, I want to bring that feeling of enlightenment to this problem. That's the wind horse, bringing your enlightenment, the dimensions of enlightenment that you're aware of, to the problem. And we see that, and our intent is to transform the problem, to bring it from a problem to no problem. So we're going to practice Wind Horse on solving a problem, which is where we experience drama. So just sit up straight. You can bring the focus to the third eye. And just for about a minute, we're going to sit in silence and I want you to practice the wind horse.

1:26:06
Let's begin. Okay. All right, very nice. So now when you consider the wind horse, it is a consideration of compassion for people suffering, but it's also a consideration of solving problems, in which case you start to develop a special wisdom called jhala. Very nice. Now, we are done, thank you, but I have a couple announcements. Alright, so, first of all, Grand Canyon. So Summer Solstice, Grand Canyon. I want everyone who's going to sign up for this to sign up this week.

1:27:48
I need to know exactly who's coming. So if you've been on the fence, get off the fence. So I need to know because I set things up for the people who are attending. It should be lovely. Grand Canyon is a beautiful place, powerful place. So I need to know. Electric cars. So under our car category in the yoga ranking, there is room in our hearts for electric cars. So, you know, Mercedes gets you your score for sure, but if you're interested and you want to, like probably like me eventually, electric car. I don't really care which one. Yeah. It doesn't have to be a Tesla. A Tesla's kind of cool. I'm kind of also interested in the Volt, just in case, you know, I have to go farther. I have the flex option of, you know, using gas. So anyway, keep that in mind. There's a hybrid Mercedes.

1:30:30
Hybrid or electric?

1:30:32
Oh, like the Bolt? Oh, cool. So, all right, so you can do both. Okay. I have to see this. Oh, yes, this is an important one. Get a job. But if you don't have a job, I'm not kidding, focus and get a job. Get over what's stopping talk. Start being positive, because as my teacher said, you can do it! And you can. So start being positive. To clarify, does that mean a tech job? Or just have to say, and you'll try? That means, wherever you're at, get it. If you're ready for tech, tech. If you're not ready for tech, then get what you're supposed to get. Get something. No, yeah, I mean get a job. Okay, very good. Okay, lastly, we are going to be bringing our practice of martial arts with IANA to a new level. So, at first we are just kind of playing around with martial arts, right? We're like, hey, this is really fun. This is really exciting. However, I have come to see what Yan has been telling me about this martial arts, that it's very, very, very helpful and very, very powerful. And I see it in my own experience and I see it in the experience of my students who take the class. So, just very simply, it changes your energy body and it helps you to deal with difficulties in the world better. So I've got a bunch of black belts and I know, and I've been trained through my teacher in martial arts, my spiritual teacher, so I know that it brings tremendous benefits. That's why I always tell you guys to do martial arts. However, Yana's martial arts adds a whole new dimension to what martial arts can bring you. And I want all of you to experience that. So it is my recommendation that you take the martial arts class. It's really wonderful. To explain it simply, everything that I had learned about martial arts before is kind of like a way to make you strong and a way to help you to purge negativity and deal with negativity. Now this martial arts is a much stronger inner energetic focus and what this does for me is circulate. Instead of purging out its circulation. So with circulation, what I find is that I don't pick up the toxicity as quickly. So that means that I could, in my normal practice, if I walk into traffic or if I walk into IKEA on a Sunday, I start to pick up that toxicity immediately. Then I do my martial arts that pushes that out. But with the circulation, what I find is that I'll be sitting in traffic, and I'll feel this energy circulating, and I don't pick up the toxicity. So martial arts changes your aura to deal with hardships and difficulties in better ways. And this circulation, I'm putting it in very simple terms, really, really significantly helps. Additionally, what Yana's been pointing out is that when you do this few minutes of practice before meditation, it charges your meditation. So I started practicing this before meditating, I just find that it's tremendously helpful. Very simple things. So I would like you guys to take this class, make it part of your practice, because it changes your aura in a very strong way, both for dealing with toxicity and hardship and also for enhancing meditation practice. What we're going to do is we're going to have one class in Bodie Woods, one class in Pacifica, because a lot of people are up in Pacifica now. And the Pacifica class will probably be on a weeknight, and we're going to rent a space for it so that we can, so everyone in Pacifica can come to it. And then for the people in the valley, closer to Bodie Woods and the people in Bodie Woods, then we'll still have our Saturday class. I'd also like everybody who's going to attend these classes to pay $50 a month. $50 a month because we have to rent spaces, and also because that's what you do when you go to a martial arts class. You pay because you respect it. So this is what I would recommend in terms of martial arts practice. And if you're getting your black belt in SKA or Jiu-Jitsu, do this as well. This enhances all other martial arts. Yeah, so with that, I'd like to thank you all for coming this evening. I'd like to thank you all for coming this evening. Beautiful presentation, beautiful alliance.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
