0:00:00
I

0:00:27
I remember a story when I was going to church as a kid. It was a story of a man talking to God. And he said, God, we're walking down this beach, and I see the footprints back there where we were walking together. There's my footprints and then yours alongside mine. So we were walking together, but then sometimes I only see my footprints. I only see one set of footprints. So like, why did you abandon me? Why did you leave me? And then God says, oh, I didn't abandon you. That was a time where you were having a hard time, so I picked you up and carried you. That's why there's one set of footprints.

0:01:21
I know. Aww. That's very cute.

0:01:25
But we have another way of looking at it.

0:01:29
You're like, hey, Sambara, I see two sets of footprints. And then at some point there was just one set of footprints. And what happened? Well, that's when I kicked you in the ass.

0:01:50
I said, move along.

0:01:54
There was footprints and you fell down. There was like some face print. Yes. Yes, so, you know, after a very, very powerful solstice, it's very good to make a step forward. Making a step forward. And sometimes in making a step forward, it's challenging, it's a little difficult, might be a little scary, a little bit of a change. You might get a little kick in the ass. Gotta move forward. So this, yeah, so this, you know, moving forward, being strong and independent is important. There was a... this was maybe a hundred years after the death of Buddha. There was an Arhant, an enlightened master, Buddhist. And he was in a region where they started building Buddhist monasteries after a while. So for a while the Buddhists, the Buddha's Buddhists, the monks they would just wander around, sleep under trees, and then it became cool to build monasteries. So they started building monasteries. So there was this one region, and they would also be nomadic before the monasteries. They would travel from one place to another very often. So in this one area, this enlightened master was working with the different nomadic monks. These monks, they thought very well of themselves. So they were like, oh, we are Buddha's monks. We are the most amazing, wonderful gift to the universe. And we know Buddha's enlightened teachings and they fancied themselves you know, arhats or at least non-returners. And they would go around giving discourses to the lay people and in their discourses they would very often often make themselves look really good, basically, without breaking the rule. If you said, I'm an arhant, but you're not, then you've got to get kicked out. They would just kind of put it out there

0:05:06
like they're an arhant.

0:05:08
No, you never know.

0:05:09
You could be sitting with someone enlightened right now.

0:05:12
Oh.

0:05:12
Oh.

0:05:13
Oh.

0:05:13
Oh.

0:05:14
Oh.

0:05:14
Oh.

0:05:15
Oh.

0:05:15
Oh.

0:05:16
Oh. Yeah. Oh, yeah. So they never actually wrote the rule, but they were doing all sorts of stuff like that. So that's what they thought about themselves. Maybe I'm enlightened right now. So they were, you know, that's the way they were. So this enlightened, this actual enlightened Arhant, He got them all together and said, hey, let's build a monastery here. So this is a place that you guys hang out a lot. Let's build a monastery. And they said, oh, OK, yeah, that's cool. And so they went to the people that they would give discourses to, and they said, hey, we want to build a monastery.

0:06:05
and we'll help build it.

0:06:07
And so eventually, a nice, big, beautiful Buddhist monastery was built. And all the monks, instead of living out under trees and stuff like that, they moved into the monastery. And then they had their first inaugural meditation with the Arhant. And then after the meditation, the Arhant goes and collects his begging bowl, puts on his outdoor robes or his cloak, and then the monks go, what are you doing? He's like, oh I'm going. And then they were all like, but we built this monastery. He's like, yeah, yeah, for you guys. And then they're like, but you know, you're the famous Buddhist master, the famous Arhat. We thought that you wanted to stay here with us. And then he said, oh, no. He said, I just wanted to make sure that when I went to other regions that I wouldn't run into these totally conceited people.

0:07:24
Bark!

0:07:24
And then they were like, oh? And he said, yeah, you guys are so egotistical. I wanted you guys to be contained.

0:07:33
And then they were like, oh my god.

0:07:37
And then he, before leaving, he gave them a teaching on meditation. And for them, that was shocking that he was basically building them a prison. A prison for the conceited, egotistical maniacs. And so they realized that they were just being egotistical because of this kind of event. And then they said, oh, and wow. And he gave them a very basic teaching in meditation and then they started meditating and they stopped thinking that they were good at meditating and they started actually meditating and practicing mindfulness and they started having a more humble Buddhist attitude. Now because they started practicing correctly they started to, they all became stream winners very quickly, some won returners, some non-returners. And then the Dharma was flourishing in their monastery. And then finally another Arhant, a different one, came over and said, Hey, this looks like a cool place. You guys seem like cool people. I'll hang out here with you. So then they had an enlightened monk there to help them attain arhantship. So this was a situation where there was a group of people with a problem, but they addressed with the Dharma and it end up working out well with them. So that's always a possibility. Now, Bodhiwoods is sort of like that. Bodhiwoods is a group of people, a problem, a possibility of it turning out well. But the thing is, with Bodhiwoods it's not a problem of being conceited and egotistical. It is a problem of negativity. So you guys are negative people. You guys have a lot of negativity. You don't handle it properly. So Like the Arhant in the story, I'm leaving the monastery. I'm heading out. I bought a house in Pacifica. I'm gonna move in. I'm gonna move into Pacifica. You know, it's the final destination. All roads lead to okay sorry come here what am I gonna do

0:11:03
Are we recording?

0:11:04
Yes. Okay.

0:11:05
Yeah, so, um... Yeah, man.

0:11:07
I mean, this is a- this is like the last of the solstice cycle. Um, you know, this is right before I go to Hungary for a while it would have been smart to show up here right but you know you guys are not known to be smart you guys are known to be negative I guess that's what happens. Yeah. What is it? You're like, there's an opportunity to meditate with your enlightened teacher and you say, nah, I don't think I'll show up. Oh, I'll just call in. Oh, I know what I'll do. I'll come late. Right. So this just shows that you have poor etiquette.

0:12:31
Poor etiquette.

0:12:33
So, that's why I'm leaving. Because of poor etiquette, negativity, people who are not practicing properly. So the Arhant in the story is just like, all right cool, there's a system, there's a structure, here's the teachings, you know, an Arhant isn't going to hang around a bunch of assholes. He's going to say, uh, you know, I've given you something that works for you and now I'm going to go. go So This is the situation here. Not that you guys are conceited, but that you guys are negative and It is appropriate For me to let you guys Work on the thing you got to work on and not have to be around it. Because you know, this is a good time to take that step, you know, to make a shift. We're coming off of a very strong, beautiful solstice, very powerful, and we're coming into a time where you can make a change, where you can be stronger. So negativity needs to be met with the practice of Dharma, not the practice of reaction, egotism, anger, sadness and stuff. That's all self and that's all bullshit. And I have And you don't. You don't. There is a Sikh saying, I learned, If the pain is bad enough, or if the sickness is bad enough, then you'll take the medicine. So for you, you sit there and complain about your suffering, but you're not doing anything about it, except for complaining about your suffering. Yet, you have been given the medicine. So you've got to grow up. Very, like, very corny, very immature. So when you recognize that you have suffering, and you're given the teachings, the dharma, and a tremendous amount of support, and yet you keep indulging in your suffering, then then you're really being a jerk. That's it. You know, and I want you to be free from the suffering. You know, I'm pointing out a very real situation that is important to you because you experience the suffering. And I'm telling you that you have to grow up and you have to start addressing your life way, in a way that leads to happiness, peace, and balance, instead of a way of self-reaction. Self-reaction which leads to what? More shit, right? Don't you notice it yet? Are you savvy? Did you catch on to what's going on? When you act like an asshole, and then you react more assholes around you yeah so you got to make a change here you got to start to say okay maybe I should stop reacting maybe I should start really if I if I suffer really really really applying bodhisitta. Bodhisitta is something that really transforms a dark state of mind to a bright state of mind. Suffering into wisdom. So, you know, the fact that you sit there and go through your hissy fit, your whiny baby reactions and don't apply bodhisitta and you're so selfish, deluded. It just tells me that you're not serious. You're not mature. So if you're not mature then I'm going to give you a little distance. So that you... this is where I kick you in the ass so that you can walk down the beach by yourself a little bit. Because you need to learn something. You need to, you know, put on your cowboy pants or whatever. You need to man up. You need to woman up you need to just up you need to up and get the fuck moving right like move move forward don't get stuck in self-reaction it's just so negative it's not appropriate you're like me, me, me, me, me, and you know what that is?

0:19:48
That's negative.

0:19:49
All this me, me, me thinking, it's just negative crap. All it does is bring... it doesn't make you happy, it doesn't make anyone happy, it creates heavy, dark states of mind. It's unbecoming Buddhist. So when you're dealing with suffering, right, don't deal with it like an asshole. An asshole, you know, like experiences suffering and then like, like, oh I got hurt so I'm going to hurt someone else, right? Oh, I want to fulfill my every desire, even though my every desire doesn't make me happy. It's like, when you have evidence, you've been given the teachings, you've seen the cycles of your mind of your suffering and yet you just indulge you indulge in the same shit again and again and again and again that just tells me you know you're not serious you're not mature you're going to be a jerk, then we go into jerk lesson.

0:21:24
Jerk lesson is okay.

0:21:25
If that's what you need, if that's what you want, if that's where you're at, if that's where you're at, that's the best you guys can do. This is it. This is the best you can do. I think you just lost the plot. And this gets back to your etiquette. Your poor etiquette. That's one of the reasons I'm leaving Boatywoods. Because of poor etiquette. Man, like for example, I meditate here in the morning open for everyone in Boneywood and man if I had... anytime I had an opportunity to sit with my with my enlightened teacher and meditate with him, I was there. If he gave me every morning to meditate with him, I would be there every morning. I wouldn't miss one. Are you kidding? You know, I was talking to Shen on the drive up to Tato, and he said when he was in India, he was at the ashram of Sai Baba. To see Sai Baba, it was like a darshan, you had to wait in line for three hours. And then Sai Baba would like walk past you. That's it, right? And yet, that's what everyone So it was worth the wait and it was worth doing every day. And then here, you guys don't even show up for meditation. Or if you show up for meditation, you show up with a shitty state of mind. And then you don't even try in your meditation. You should bring your best to satsang. When you're sitting with your enlightened teacher, you're experience when you come with a schleppy state of mind. When we come together to talk about the Dharma, when we come together to meditate together, we come with our... we bring our best. I bring my best to you, you bring your best to me. And then it's a very bright, beautiful experience. But when you come with your head spinning with all your negativity, or you come with a, you know, like a schleppy attention, where you're like, oh yeah, and you don't try, then it's not a bright experience. It's a heavy experience, and it's a dark experience, because you guys are being dark. You're not focusing on light properly. That's poor etiquette. Poor etiquette. And you must... you know, you gotta get... you gotta figure this out. Yeah, so, you know, Kundalini, that was the other teacher, the only other teacher in our whole lineage who had a number of students. So Kundalini had about a hundred students and she, a couple months ago, cut them all loose. She was just all like, uh-uh, gone, done, right? And the reason why was because her students had poor etiquette. They did not appreciate the opportunity with enlightenment properly. And she only met them once per month and that's it. Once a month she had meditation seminars. No yoga projects, just the teachings of enlightenment. And they'll say, oh yeah, we really love Kundalini, and stuff like that. But they didn't honor her properly. They didn't honor the teachings properly. If you honor this opportunity to have an enlightened teacher, to receive the enlightened teachings, then you'll do something correctly with them. When you have bad etiquette, you don't learn right. So, like, imagine a karate dojo with bad etiquette, where the students are sitting around talking, and they don't care, when they're sloppy, then their martial arts sucks, right? If they don't, like, they're all, oh yeah, our teacher teaches us some stuff, and we kind of like do it or whatever, you know, if there's like just, if there's bad etiquette, then the actual martial arts is not strong, it's weak. So they might have the 10th degree black belt teaching. But if they have bad etiquette, the students don't learn very well. The students end up having sloppy karate. You know, the the sensei might come over and say, no no no, it's not like that, it's like this, right? And then they're all, eh, why should I change? Why should I do it differently? Just because you told me that I'm doing it wrong. Because if you get in a fight, if you do that, it won't work. This is what will work. And you go, oh, okay. Nah, I don't know. All that effort to do a technique differently, that's bad etiquette. It's like this master is teaching you how to do something correctly because it's for your benefit. And then you don't practice it correctly, because you're sloppy, and you're stuck in patterns, in your pattern of how you do it. The thing about this is, this is a place where you actually get in the fight, and you see that your techniques don't work. So your fights are with yourself and life. Where you get angry, where you get deluded and selfish and go spinning out on an ego reaction. You know, where you get sad. Right? So that is the fight. And your technique is, uh, yeah, but I, you know, the 10th degree black belt told me to do a different technique, but nah, I'm going to get in a fight, and I'm just going to do it wrong, and it hurts, right? That's Kundalini's students had bad etiquette. And what does it bring them? Now it brings them that Kundalini left them. She didn't just move out of Bodhi Woods. She ended their study. She's like, that's it.

0:29:25
It's over.

0:29:26
Never going to see you again. Bye. Past is dust. Oh, wait, you guys are still here. So she just like, she said, this is it. That's as far as you guys can go. If you have poor etiquette, you can't continue. An enlightened teacher won't work with you if you have poor etiquette. So, that was the thing Rama used to say, he's like, and you have and you and you want enlightenment then he'll work with you but if you have you know if you don't want enlightenment there's door you have proper improper etiquette drama kicked a lot of people out because of improper etiquette yeah so you know the I think Rama pushed his student body down to about 10% of what it originally was. And it was maybe 25% people who were not serious, but most of it was bad etiquette. People acting poorly. People not recognizing their opportunity and not acting upon it with the proper etiquette, the proper response, a response that makes sense. So you guys have to like really wake up and make a change. Also, there was another teacher, probably the next teacher who had the most students, Sara Swati. She's cool. She's this fabulous, amazing ST2 arhant. She had 25 students, and she was working with them, and they had bad etiquette. So what happened was she started to get sick, and then she just had to cut them loose, because they had bad etiquette. Now, you know, I don't know, maybe Kundalini was getting sick and I saw that my sickness was going in a very bad direction. So that's where I had to pull back from the Sangha. Fortunately Mandala was there to continue with my students. If Mandela wasn't there, what am I going to do? I'm going to say, bye guys. I mean, I did say goodbye. I had to go away for six months. And I just had to distance myself because the energy and the etiquette was improper. Yeah, so Kundalini and Saraswati, the two teachers that have any number of students, there's probably, you know, like lots of ST1s and ST2s who have like one or two students. Because they can like deal with one or two people. But there was only a couple of the enlightened students of Rama's who were working with a number of people. And in both cases in the past four months, they had to shut down their school. It's not that they wanted to, I'm sure they wanted their students to be enlightened. But if the students are stupid idiots, keep acting like assholes, keep reacting like a selfish maniac and going into dark states of mind and still following yourself what kind of idiot are you I mean like wake the fuck up doing the same thing again seriously that's the best you can do grow up Yeah, so Domojit was telling me, she's like, you know, I think you're the only one who can figure out how to teach students. And I said, yeah, maybe. But you know what I have to do? I have to meditate six hours a day. And four of those hours of meditation are healing meditation where I'm just purging toxicity out of my aura. And then the other two hours, one hour was with you and one or two hours I do where I have like a, you know, I just push it as far as I can, which is fun. But purging is fun too, because I purge in samadhi. But it's really a focus on cleaning my aura, otherwise I couldn't handle this. And then I have to exercise two or three hours a day. of clearing my aura. It's like a full-time job just to clear my aura so that I can deal

0:35:39
It is, in this lineage, it's a very, very, very, very special opportunity to be in this lineage. To have access to these amazing dimensions. And it's not easy, right?

0:36:02
basically this is the place where you can have access to this lineage, where you can have the enlightened teachings. And you know, sure you can get enlightened teachings from any book, or you can go see some teacher who's heard of some enlightened teachings, but you know, to have the true opportunity to be on the pathway to enlightenment with an enlightened teacher in a very powerful enlightened lineage where you have a real opportunity to become a non-returner or to become enlightened in this lifetime. It's rare. Right? Kundalini dropped her group. Saraswati dropped her group. And now within the same period of time I'm moving out of Bodhi Woods. This is something It should be honored properly. It should be honored properly. And if it isn't honored properly, guess what I do? I pull back more and more and more. Right? So you guys have to really reflect on this. The fact that I'm not only pulling out of Bodie Woods, but I'm becoming inaccessible. So this is the part where I kick you in the ass and you're going to see your footprints on the beach. Because I have to take the training wheels off. And I have to let you stumble around a little bit. Because that's how you'll get stronger. That's how you'll get more balance. You know, I don't want to make it hard for you guys. I want to give you support. You know, but when you don't act right, the support doesn't help you. So, you know, a lot of you became spoiled. And when you're spoiled, you don't act right. And it doesn't help you. It doesn't help you to be strong when you're spoiled. So like, being spoiled is like, there's a piece of fruit and it's ripe, right? And if you're like, I don't care. I don't honor that fruit. It's going to be there. And I can get it anytime I want, right? But when you recognize that the fruit is very, very, very special, it's like, that is the time to eat the fruit, the fruit of enlightenment. But if the fruit sits there too long and you're all, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, then eventually the fruit goes bad. It becomes spoiled. And then it's a bad scene. Fruit should be delicious and wonderful. But you guys can eat some rotten fruit so that you can get the idea of what I'm talking about.

0:40:13
Spoiled!

0:40:16
Spoiled mind, spoiled attention. If you have the proper recognition of your opportunity, then there's balance. Then you work with enlightenment in a proper way. But when you're just like, you take it for granted, you know, a lot of you are very, you know, you don't practice mindfulness, you just go, hey, you know, I'll just like be a jerk, I'll get all upset. And then when I'm mad, and I can't handle it. I'm going to go to Sambara and he's going to lift me up out of it. You guys are like, I'm not going to practice mindfulness. I'm going to go to Sambara to get me out of my bad mood. Get me out of my anger and my self-indulgence. So a lot of you guys just come over to me to say, oh fix my problem. I got the problem in the head again. Fix it. Right? And I do but don't you want to be able to fix your own problem in your head right wouldn't that be cool if instead of you know getting angry and having to come to me and say the person did this thing to me and I go oh no you know, that's just your outlook. And then, oh, oh, oh, perhaps you can have chicks or us.

0:41:41
Oh, well, maybe not, but...

0:41:43
So, you know, yeah, so instead of going into, you know, this anger and having to come to me to solve it, you can solve it yourself. And I'm talking about the hard stuff. You know? The hard stuff. Because you know, everyone's got like the little bit of problems where like, Oh, I'm a little upset, so let me do some, think about Bodhisitta, no problem. But when the real hard time hits you, right? When the real hard time hits you, you want to be able to manage that yourself. You want to be able to say, alright, this is really painful, this is really difficult, but now I'm going to really apply myself in my mindfulness, in my bodhicitta. And then you transform that negativity into light. And when you do not apply the Dharma, when you don't try, and you just let yourself indulge in your anger, your depression, your selfishness, then that's not good. Then that's weak. There's only so far that you can go with that. You know, getting an enlightened teacher, you get one because of your good karma. You've all been powerful meditators on the path to enlightenment in past lives. But you only keep an enlightened teacher if you create more good karma. So, when you're going into negativity, selfish spin-outs, anger, reaction, just being deluded and crazy, not practicing bodhicitta, not practicing dharma, then what happens is you Out off the pathway to enlightenment and on the pathway of self-reaction You know you think that being selfish and you think that You know your negative reactions You think they help you You think that's the way to solve the problem. That puts you on the pathway of that problem. So, you gotta make a change. You have to say, wait, do I want to be on the pathway of self-reaction? And what will it lead to? The same stuff and more of it. Or do I want to be on the pathway of bodhicitta, of mindfulness, of meditation, the pathway to enlightenment, where I actually find myself and break out of these dissatisfactions, master this negativity and bring yourself into the light. If you can master that negativity, then when it happens you're just like, oh, I know what this is and I'm doing bodhicitta and Instead of like getting upset and angry and all negative and being all selfie Then

0:45:45
You immediately turn into the Dharma

0:45:48
You lean in to the Dharma and then and then You don't experience that suffering you experience light. And you eventually break that even... those thoughts just don't occur after a while. Because you've broken away and you've committed yourself to practicing the Dharma.

0:46:14
You know, but I've said this a thousand times to you.

0:46:17
And your etiquette is to say, Uh, whatever. I'll show up sometimes. I'll try a little. Nah, next time I get pissed off, I'm just gonna react like an asshole again. I'm just gonna react like an asshole again. It doesn't make sense.

0:46:45
It doesn't work.

0:46:56
Therefore, because of the power of the solstice, and because I want you to be stronger, I have to be a little bit firm with you. I have to give you a little bit of a hard time like this. I don't want to. I'd rather talk nice to you and do a lot of bodhicitta and stuff like that. But when you require you know it's like sometimes I have to push you a little hard and say you got to be strong and you're being a jerk. So I'm not I'm not doing this out of meanness. I'm not trying to take something away. I'm doing something that's necessary for you to be stronger and I'm making a shift in that I interact with you with energy and the shift is going to be that I am more inaccessible

0:48:08
and when I'm more inaccessible

0:48:11
the interface of dealing with me changes the energy of working with me changes it's not the end of the universe. It's a way that makes you stronger. But you have to take responsibility. You have to start taking more responsibility for your mind, for your reactions. You have to say, oh look, I've got to handle this myself. with Sorasita.

0:48:50
So this is, you know, coming off of this solstice and heading into this shift.

0:48:58
a change where you have to be stronger. You have to be stronger. Yeah.

0:49:07
So...

0:49:08
You know...

0:49:09
you know, you gotta, this is the path of the enlightened warrior.

0:49:19
We talk about Bodhisitta a lot. Bodhisitta is very good.

0:49:27
But ultimately, Bodhisitta is a technique, it's a tool that we use. And we are warriors. We are warriors of light. We are warriors of enlightenment. And we have to fight the battle. The battle is in our minds. The battle is our negativity. sometimes you suffer from being sensitive sometimes you have sensitivity and you get hurt from it so you know for example like Raja right Raja's got like he's very sensitive and then he picks up a lot from sensitivity. But what I told him last time we talked, I said, you know, things might hurt. Yes, things can hurt. But the place where you suffer is in your reaction. So the thing is, yeah, shit hurts in life sometimes. sometimes, but the reaction is what we have to cut out. We have to go into bodhicitta rather than suffering. Suffering is dependent on a reaction. The pain is going to happen, who cares? I mean, yeah, it sucks to have pain, but that's like first noble truth. There's pain in mine. So when you have sensitivity, you have to say, am I going to be a warrior or a sniveler? Am I going to win or am I going to lose? You've got to be a warrior. And a warrior is tough. A warrior takes the pain and applies their mind to the Dharma. So you know, I experience pain from sensitivity too. You have to figure I'm at least as sensitive as you. I'm dealing with at least as much bullshit as you are right and yeah it hurts and it's not pleasant you know at least three times a day I'm because of the toxicity I feel I almost pack or I fight I have to fight with passing out at least three times Because you guys remember that whole pass out thing? I think I figured it out, but it's not easy to deal with. We all have to deal with whatever toxicity and sensitivity and awareness we have to deal with. Everybody experiences some difficulty, sometimes in traffic, sometimes whatever, shopping, work. Yeah, sometimes just sitting in the office is a pain in the ass. But you have to be a warrior. You have to say, am I going to let this pain, am I going to let this whatever is hurting me, am I going to let it stop me? And you have to dig down inside and say, no, I'm going to be a spiritual warrior. I'm going to win over this pain. The pain might be there but you're not going to let it take you out. It might hurt like hell but you're going to instead of react and get taken down you gotta find the spirit to practice bodhicitta for real when you experience that much pain. You can't go into self-reaction. You can't let pain close you down. You have to win. And winning is drawing up your spirit. Yeah, yeah like with me, when I get a lot of negativity from you guys, it's toxic for me, right? And so that's what would make me pass out. But I say, no, I'm going to you know like really really really you know like push this off clear this out so that I can be balanced that's what I do and I recognize where the pain is coming from it comes from toxicity from my students going like sideways spinning out getting angry having all their negative reactions Since my aura is open to you and I'm giving you energy and light always, when you have your negative reactions then what you're giving me back is darkness. And when a lot of people do that at the same time then for me it's like, whoa, it's very difficult. difficult but instead of like so I have to maintain my balance I pull up my energy I say I'm a warrior I've got to survive this right it hurts like hell but then what I what I do is do I get mad at the person who's who's sending me toxicity because they're you know they're not being mindful, they're not practicing the Dharma. No, I don't get mad at them. I practice bodhicitta for them.

0:56:09
Right?

0:56:10
So, I maintain my power and balance with will. With connecting myself to the greatest strengths of the pathway to enlightenment. So that I can carry on. I pull up as much warrior power as possible so I don't pass out to be balanced. And then for the person or people who are creating that toxic toxicity I give them light, energy, and care. I practice Bodhisitta. That's what you got to do. That's what you got to do. That's the way of this school, this lineage. So just because we're sensitive doesn't mean that we hold back. Doesn't mean that we stop. We don't let sensitivity limit us.

0:57:26
We keep going.

0:57:29
Kundalini, you know, she's a black belt.

0:57:32
And she's strong. She can handle a lot. She's very occult. She's got very good skills for handling bullshit. But at the same time, she got to a certain point with her students where she said, it's not that she wasn't tough enough. It's where she said, this is not the dharma. You guys have lost it.

0:58:01
So she let them go. She cut them loose. Oh, that's difficult.

0:58:05
Yeah. So,

0:58:09
practice the Dharma. Be strong. You have to be a spiritual warrior.

0:58:15
Can't wimp out. This is a time where you have to walk down the beach by yourself. It's not the hardest thing in the world. But it's important that you start to take responsibility for your mind more. There's no wimping out. There's no more indulging. So, I am going to continue teaching monthly seminars, and I will also do twice a month a martial arts class here and meditation here. So twice a month on Sunday after yoga I will come here for martial arts and meditation. That's what we're going to do. And then we'll see how it goes.

1:00:26
Could do more.

1:00:28
Could do less.

1:00:30
So, you know,

1:00:32
so there's a shift that we're working on, but it's not the end of the universe. I mean, people who don't live in Bodie Woods, you know, they're like, oh cool, we can see Zimbara a couple more times and people in Bodie Woods you guys need to you need to like So, whether you live in Bode Woods and are used to seeing me and got spoiled, or you don't live in Bode Woods and you're going to see me a little bit more, I am shifting where I expect that you take more responsibility for your mind. song of meditation. Since we are recently up at Lake Tahoe, one of my favorite places we are going to play is Lake Tahoe. And we'll do an open eye just looking this way. the

1:02:14
the the

1:02:28
the the

1:02:42
the the the the the the the the Thank you. the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Thank you. Okay. Thank you. I'm going to go ahead and get some more. Alright. So So some of you are already reacting. Sad to see that. I'm giving you the best help that I can, and I'm doing everything in your interest to help But you respond with reaction and self, darkness, negativity, negative people. I'm sorry to see that.

1:07:04
I wish you would, in your mind and in your spirit, side with light and stop following the reactions of self that lead to darkness, that you've experienced again and again and again and again and you know it's true. But, this time you have to figure it out. It is unfortunate to receive a teaching, an enlightened teaching, and to go right into self-reaction. on what the hell you're doing. Yeah, you need to have a little heart-to-heart with yourself and say, patterns of suffering. And I know I'm not really applying Gautam Sita very strongly. Is there some... do I want that? Do I want my suffering? You have to look at it that way. Because the self will delight in its desires, and it will delight in its aversions. The self will say, oh it's so hard to meditate and all the spiritual stuff. Yeah, but I want you to ask yourself about your suffering. Do you want your suffering? If the answer is no, then all the self delighting and desire and aversion is not going to work. It leads to suffering. So you have to have a heart to heart with yourself and see if you want to be out of suffering to take responsibility for yourself, for your mind. So, a little disappointing to see. Reaction. This should be an opportunity for you to see a higher, brighter way, a greater pathway to enlightenment.

1:12:21
Just to say, oh, cool, now I'll actually be enlightened.

1:12:27
Now I'm actually going to literally stop indulging when I go into my crazy self spin out.

1:12:52
I'm going to stop indulging.

1:12:53
I'm going to direct my mind right to enlightenment. This is good. Yeah, and I'm going to be stronger, right? No more training wheels. I'm going to have the proper balance. This is an opportunity to step up. You either step up or trip up. Stepping up is good. Stepping up... hurts a little bit more. know, many of you know, Shakti, she previously studied with another enlightened teacher, Adi Dasamraj, who passed away and he had a dharma for her. Here, I was just like, the dharma for you, for Shakti here, was to repair her first attention, because she had broken it by improper spiritual practices. You know, that's what most spiritual people do. They break their first attention. They get all spacey They can't have a good job and they don't they're not tight, you know, so That's what most beautiful people do they break their first attention, but that's what she did. So Here she was able to repair her first attention and Then you know that I was I was I could act as a benefactor, teaching lessons and things like that. But really, it was just to give her a place for balance. But then this teacher says, oh no, I have these, I've got teachings for you to get higher. And I'm like, well, that's awesome. You should do that. So she's doing that now this teacher he he wants to be inaccessible so so it's important that we don't tell anybody else about about him because he's he's got his he's got reasons to be inaccessible. Now, of course, it's proper for our sangha to know about it because Shakti was here and she left. And it's proper for everyone to know that and know why. But for the sake of that teacher, for etiquette towards that teacher, it's something that we won't talk about outside of the sangha.

1:16:04
That would be good advocate.

1:16:06
And, what about this teacher? One cool thing is, he invited me to go out and meet him. So, I'm going to meet him one of these days. And that'll be kind of cool.

1:16:29
And they're like, yeah.

1:16:31
OK.

1:16:32
OK. OK.

1:16:34
OK. OK.

1:16:36
OK.

1:16:37
Another cool thing that you guys might be interested in knowing about, hopefully. When it comes around to the 12th I think of April, the Rama Mahasamadhi day, we're going to be doing something interesting. So Mudra knows of 28 of Rama's students who are enlightened. So there's more, but very often, Rama students are very inaccessible. But Mudra knows of 28 of them. And now of the 28, I am the only one teaching.

1:17:34
Wow.

1:17:37
But, that will change soon. We're going to be doing this thing called the Enlightenment Council. We're going to get all that we can of the enlightened students together to meditate together. And that's it. That should be cool. I remember one time I got together with Kundalini, Samadhi, Sananda, yeah, and me. So just four of us. And this was years ago. And we got together in Santa Fe and meditated. It was out of this world amazing.

1:18:27
I was like, wow.

1:18:31
It's different.

1:18:33
Times four.

1:18:35
Hm?

1:18:36
Times four?

1:18:37
I think you meant times three. Yeah, yeah. It was like times... It was more than... It was to the power of... It was very, very amazing. I can imagine if we can get a dozen or 20 or 28 of the enlightened students in a room to meditate together, it could be quite beautiful. And I wonder why we don't do stuff like that. Doesn't that make sense to do that? But see, I'm also very inaccessible. I know Mudra and I know Dolmajeet and they're connected to other things. But before that, I wouldn't talk. I have my dharma that I'm working on with you guys, and that's just what I do. I don't go into any other stuff that's going on. Because I'm very content with my dharma. So anyway, I think that'll be a neat thing. Yeah, so Agne Kala has this vision of Sangha unity that he's really working for that. And I think that's great. Sangha unity. If there was like, you know, like once a year at least, like, like everyone in the Sangha get together and meditate, I'd get her that and if it was like everyone in the Samba with extended song I would bring you guys it would be interesting I mean that would be cool right? A whole drama Samba back together. Isn't it weird that we don't do that? Oh we don't, it's weird. Because we're all inaccessible. But really we should. So we're starting, so Agni Kala was like going out there and saying, Hey everybody, we should have Sangha unity. And then he was like, you know, meditating with people and saying, See, I became enlightened from Rama's teachings and so can I. And then what happened was, he got a lot of negative reaction from ST1s and stuff. Because they're ST1s. Not like our honorable Yana-sensei. There are some ST1s who are very cool, very, very cool. But a lot of them are really like struggling and they have bad reactions. And so recently, Dilmanji and I are talking about it. And we're like, you know, if I got up in front of the ST1s and ST2s, and I was all like, I became enlightened from Rama's teachings, and let me tell you some reflections on that. They would probably get really mad at me. Or a lot of them would. They just would react. The ones that are not enlightened are struggling with, you know, they're all, oh, I'm for some reason I'm not enlightened and I can't be and going through all this garbage. And they also go, Rama could be, Rama is the only one who could be enlightened in the university, but though you have this advanced teaching saying you can be enlightened if you can be enlightened. It's weird. But you know, they're stuck somewhere. And it's not my dharma to unstick them. Even though Rama's not in the body, an enlightened teacher, their teachings continue. So they have proper enlightened support. So, you know, there is that place where they get upset and stuff. So what we're trying to do with this enlightened counsel is just start to make a stronger vibration of enlightenment in the Sangha. So that just by the enlightened ones getting together and meditating, it will create an energy that everyone will feel. And then they won't be able to sit there and go, I saw that Agni Kala guy, and he played a flute and pissed me off. Or, I saw that Sambara guy, and he didn't play a flute and pissed me off. They won't be able to feel a particular energy, energy because it will become a unity of the enlightened in the Sangha. And then it will be something that's strong and uplifting. So this could be something very, very, very helpful for those ST1s and ST2s who are struggling. and in a way that will affect them positively without confronting them. Because with enlightenment in the sangha, we can be sneaky. So, that's kind of cool. Speaking of enlightenment, we are going to have an esteemed guest come to Bodie Woods. His name is Shiva, and as you might remember I pawned off some students dinner. Because first of all he's like totally awesome, totally fantastic, very very bright, amazing, and second of all he doesn't make his students do yoga. So he studied with Rama like only for like a couple years in the 80s, early 80s and and then Rama kicked him out because Rama kicked a lot of people out. But you know he he kept working with them. He's been very, very, very advanced in previous lifetimes. So I remember when I first saw him, I was like, wow, that's a quality of light that I recognize as Rama's light, but it's a quality of light that I've never seen from Rama. So I was talking to him about it. So the thing is, he only studied with Rama for a certain point, but he learned those dimensions of enlightenment very, very well. So the light that comes out of him is very much Rama in the 80s. And then Rama, as he went along teaching, he changed the way that he, he changed the palette of dimensions that he had open to us. So in the 80s, Rama used to talk about love. He was all like, love, sweet love. Stuff like that, right? And then by the time I got there, it was like, you're an asshole.

1:26:07
And then I was like, oh, OK.

1:26:14
So the dimensions change. But at one point, I heard Rama used to talk about love and enlightenment and all this happy, bright stuff and then at one point he said yeah you know you guys are assholes and and me talking about love and enlightenment doesn't actually help you so he's like we have to talk about the things that are that that really That was lovely. So the kind of cool thing with Shiva is, you know, the dimensions that he brings are those early 80s dimensions. They are very, very, very positive. But he never learned yoga and he never learned computers and stuff like that. But then when the advanced teachings like you know like late 90s when the advanced teachings were opened up then all of a sudden he got invited to him. Rama kicked out a lot of people and even though he kicks them out he sends them in a direction that will get them hired. It's just that they didn't have the etiquette to be able to stay in the study. So I could kick them out. Etiquette, mostly. There's a lot to etiquette. Etiquette is how, if you don't regard enlightenment properly, you can't learn from enlightenment. Sometimes, if you're too selfish, you have too much self and you get into the self too much, then enlightened teachings, you take them wrong and you enhance your ego with them. Ramana kicked out a lot of people and he kicked out Shiva and Shiva is totally awesome. he was like, you know, he was like learning that stuff really well. He could actually, you know, like go into Samadhi. And then he got kicked out. And I'm like, what the fuck? I couldn't go into Samadhi. I was all like struggling like crazy. And he was all like, oh, I see Rama, the dimensions, and how to go into Samadhi. And then he just does it. And he can do it perfectly. For a long time. So he did that for a long time. He was doing that since the 80s. Then he got invited to the Youngster meetings out of nowhere.

1:28:55
So, anyway.

1:28:57
He's coming. He's going to get here on the 26th. And he's going to stay for about two weeks. So he'll be here for a while. And, uh... And so it's a really, really awesome thing that he's coming. He'll probably meditate with us and stuff, so it's going to be amazing. But here's the thing. If you guys freak out like you freaked out with Agni Kala, I won't be very happy about it. That will be bad etiquette. So when you see that there's another enlightened person from our lineage, there's at least 28. So this should tell you that you can be enlightened too. That many people can become enlightened. Buddha had at least 500 enlightened students. So this is a lineage of enlightenment. Now when you read about the different enlightened students of the Buddha, they had different Siddha powers, they had different expressions of enlightenment, Siddhi. You know, so like Shiva has a lot of expression of love and light that Rama taught in the 80s and then Rama said, yeah, that shit doesn't work.

1:30:29
Yeah.

1:30:29
And then I was there until the end.

1:30:30
So I, I got the end result.

1:30:32
But it worked.

1:30:33
Yeah.

1:30:33
And then, you know, Shiva got the advanced teaching. So that, you know, that works. So, you know, this should you should be open-minded and Be happy to see different dimensions of enlightenment And you should be happy that there's other enlightened people and don't go crazy You know be positive about it and don't and don't go desirous about it So So yeah, so it should be cool. He's totally, he's a totally cool guy. He's funny. He's, you know, he's enlightened. He's got amazing, amazing like city. It's so wonderful, so beautiful. So this is a very special opportunity. So please treat it properly. Okay, let's see. I think that's it. Shakti, Shiva, and... Shakti, Shiva, and... Thank you very much, ladies and everyone.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
