0:00:00
There are many gifts bestowed upon you in Buddhism. And tonight I'm going to talk about the greatest gift of my life. And this is my spiritual lineage. And actually this is a gift that we all share.

0:00:39
This greatest gift.

0:00:44
I mean, you thought last Christmas the Nintendo Wii was the thing, right? But no, no, no. everything right now. It's it's this lineage. Even better. It's more fun. And. Tonight I'm ex-students, because this information about the lineage is very important for them, but it's also important for my students. This is something called the living teaching. So I'm not just sitting there saying, oh let me tell you about the five precepts, or the seven foundations of success on the path. You know, just information. It's not just a night of information. It's a situation right now going on at this moment in your hearts and in your minds. Your spirit is faced with a real challenge. And so this teaching is a teaching directed to your experience now. So, I'll begin by introducing myself. I'm Samvara. I'm an enlightened Buddhist teacher. His name, if you're not familiar with him, he had a number of names over his long career as a teacher. I think the last couple of years we always kind of like chief executive officer or just like chief, the ultimate chief. So that's how we refer to him a lot. But I have in the past few years started to And this is because Rinpoche means Blessed One, and it is a title given to, it is originally supposed to be the title given to a reborn enlightened person, a reborn Buddha. So it's Rinpoche. And I like that. I use it as a statement of devotion. I suppose I can call him Sri Ram or something like that, right? But I like to call him Ram Rinpoche. So he was our enlightened master.

0:04:20
He was a

0:04:22
enlightened being for thousands and thousands of incarnations, an ancient being. Kundalini and I had the great fortune to study with him. We studied with him through the 90s in New York. And we studied meditation, mindfulness, yoga, computer science, martial arts, you know, all of his main practices, different sports, scuba diving sometimes. And we studied diligently. We did everything our teacher asked of us, or at least we gave it 110%. And we made mistakes, and we were corrected, but we persisted in earnest even when we failed. And we learned and we grew, became stronger, more impactful. of life, he taught us the advanced teachings. And these are the special teachings that if you practice them, you become enlightened. And we practiced them. And I became liberated in the summer solstice of 2002. Kundalini a little bit earlier than that, six or seven months earlier. And she was working with another liberated teacher, mentor to her, who helped her along. So we help each other out. Now there's different levels of enlightenment and Ramana Pashay was very clear in describing which levels of enlightenment we could attain from the Brahm Rinpoche often talked about enlightenment, when he's describing the different levels, like different levels in martial arts of black belt. So there's your first degree black belt, and then there's your fifth degree black belt. And what he taught us is how to become, you know, like a 1st degree black belt. Which is a happy thing. And he said we can go higher as well. And Buddha, a fully enlightened person, was like a fourth degree black belt. So just to give you a little idea of scale. But last night I was meeting with some students who are in a different lineage. And their root guru is a seventh degree black belt, which is like the highest. It's like the master. So, enlightenment abounds in all varieties, like the mountains and the Himalayas. They're all beautiful. Some are taller than others, but they're all pretty tall. And beautiful. So... Now, for you, it doesn't matter if you have a first-degree black belt teacher. The first degree black belt knows everything that it takes to get to the first degree black belt, which is a pretty good thing. Now the fifth degree black belt, you know, that's when you need the fifth degree black belt. But when you're just dealing with basic things like trying to control your mind, trying to cease negativity, trying to balance out disturbed emotions, yeah, you don't need such an advanced teacher. Ramana Rinpoche would say that he specialized in the advanced teachings. And he said that that's what he's really good at. Getting people to just get right over from self to liberation. But then he had to deal with all these people who are just learning meditation, just learning mindfulness. It's like a rocket scientist teaching third graders basic addition and subtraction. So a third grade teacher is competent to do. So you're okay. Now the advanced teachings were very powerful. They are very powerful. When Ramana Rinpoche described them, he just described, here's how it's going to happen. You just practice like this, get this empowerment, do this and this and this, and then it will come. And here, and you'll see it in this stage this step that thing that thing and finally

0:11:42
poof

0:11:44
Enlightenment And so I followed the program. You know, I practiced it. I did it. I Think I had about six months of confusion and then I got back on and I And I reached liberation. I got to a point where I went into Nirvikalpa Samadhi and the ceased to be. It's like I was grasping this configuration of stuff forever, forever, eons. And then in that one meditation, I don't come back all the way. So, like a fully enlightened person, I'm not in Sahaja Samadhi all the I at all times am connected with enlightenment, with nirvana. That light is always in my mind So then, that's primary enlightenment. And I don't have disturbing thoughts anymore. I'm not tormented by these horrible thoughts I always had. I don't have disturbing emotions afflictions are gone. And you know, I could have a bad day. Bad things happen. Things aren't so fun. Jesus gets put up on a cross. You know, that kind of thing. You know, so welcome to the planet Earth. But at the same time, while experiencing difficulties in life, I have a perspective that is vast. So the little difficulties, physical pain, all of these things fall into a balance, into understanding. Because I see, with the light, with enlightenment. Now, I might not be the most enlightened person in history. I just practiced the advanced teachings as my teacher taught it, and it worked for me it's wonderful, I love it. I work on it more. It's the most beautiful thing. So Kundalini and I, we were friends in New York. And I remember her pre-Enlightenment. enlightenment. And she was wonderful. We went to little parties and had yoga meetings and stuff together. And I would always walk her out, like if she had to leave, I'd walk her out, make sure she got in a cab okay. As a black girl, that was the kind of thing I would do. I'd be worried and concerned for her security. I did that for people. So we got along well. I was surprised to hear that there was an enlightened woman. It was the first person that I had heard who had attained enlightenment. This is back in 2001. And she invited us, she invited a number of Ramana Rinpoche students to go meet with her. So I went to meet with her And she helped me through the last stage of my liberation. She helped a number of students through the last stages of their liberation. It was wonderful. See, we help each other out. We had received the teachings. She didn't have to help us. But she did. And it was wonderful. Very helpful. So, I really respect her, and she has been a tremendous aid to my enlightenment. I remember after a weekend in the desert meditating with her. She and I were just chatting. And then she said, what is it that holds you back? She says, what is it? It's a fear of some kind. And I said, yeah, yeah. But I kept getting a vision in my head. There was one last thing that I had been just fighting with, which was a fear. Once I had been to Zion National Park to meditate, and I went to a very, very, very powerful energy line. It's a cliff with like a thousand foot drop. And at that powerful energy line, I had a fear of falling over. But it was a place of power, so it was like not just your normal kind of fear. It was like the most direct, most essential spiritual fear. And Kundalini talked to me, and she said, Oh, you're afraid of falling over? And she said, Then jump! You know, don't be afraid. Go into it. And, you know, it's like one of those tantric Zen things, right? Like, Oh, I don't know. But I, what she said, and the consciousness behind what she said, showed me the way through my fear. And then in my mind, I knew, in my mind, really in that moment, I jumped. And I had overcome to that spot and had a magical experience. I took some of you to Zion not too long ago, a year ago or something, and we went to the same spot. So you guys know the story. You know the beautiful power of that place. Yeah. So after that moment where I talked to her, she showed me the way through the fear and I left that fear behind and then I was beyond fear. And that was the last thing standing in my way. So then it was just a short matter of time of meditating properly. When nothing's in your way, you're going to get there. So she's been a tremendous aid to me, and I have all the respect and appreciation for her. So that's why when I heard from Dolmajeet, who is, I think you guys call her Agnes, she mentioned that, she told me that Kundalini, you know, for whatever reason, kicked out When I heard it, I was like, oh my gosh, that's a little concerning. But then I thought, maybe she's doing it to get them to shift and change. That's what I'm doing to my students. It's a way to get a shift in attention. But then a lot more time went by, and over the solstice I reflected on it, and I had a lot of compassion for you, because I know what it's like to lose a teacher. died. But I felt lost and confused. That's why I lost six months of my advanced practice, being lost and confused, and then finally got back on track. You know, yeah, Kundalini helped many ST2s, or the Ramana Prasad younger students, she helped many of them get back on track. They had lost it. Yeah, so... this was a consideration of compassion

0:22:44
for you.

0:22:48
Yeah. That's all.

0:22:53
I don't have an agenda for you. Just offering assistance. Because we help each other out. Yeah. So you might wonder, am I in contact with Kundalini? Did I tell her I'm going to reach out to you? I don't have that. We have the next best thing. We're psychic. And I've felt into it. And I've, you know, I've connected with her inwardly and on this subject it is very bright. If it was otherwise, if it was not bright, then I would not do it. So it's a bright thing. So Yogananda, one time, he was with his teacher, Yukteswar, and he's like, Yukteswar, put me into Samadhi! And Yukteswar says, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. He's like, I could, but he says, you know, he's like, I think the dharma here is for you to learn some things from me, but then you go back to Yukteswar. So he had a wonderful time learning things from that teacher. They're great things. And he kept saying, I know you can do it. Just do it. That's not the right thing. And then he went back to Yukteswar and then the day he came back Yukteswar goes BAM! Puts him into Samadhi. So there's I'm not going to break etiquette. If there's something that Kundalini is working with you on, if there's a lesson she's taught you, I'm not going to mess it up. We're in the same lineage and we're careful and aware. So you don't have to worry. It's safe. So I'm not I'm not here to try to replace your teacher. You can think of me as a benefactor. Or yeah. Or whatever. You know if if if Kundalini you know opens the doors again I'd be very happy for you to go and work with her again. I just wanted to offer some support and assistance when you're having a difficult time, and you are. Yeah. So, some of you are mad. You know? Some of you are frustrated and angry at me because I had the audacity to invite you to meditate with me. The audacity to say, I'm an enlightened teacher in the same lineage and that it makes you mad. Well, one of the things is, I don't think Kundalini told you about the lineage, about other enlightened teachers in the lineage, or even about Ram Rinpoche. So you might wonder, why wouldn't she tell us about that? And, It's a simple matter of the tonal of teaching. So she created a structure to work with you through. You didn't need to know a lot of other this, that, and the other thing. Does it help you? It might. Or the way that she works with it, it might not. So she just said, look, let's not have other distractions, right? Otherwise, you might be like Yogananda running off to the Himalayas. Oh, there's another teacher over there? Maybe I'll just try him. Oh, there's another one over there? Maybe I'll try her. So it's a normal etiquette to just focus on the lessons that you have set before you. You don't have to go seeking fancier new lessons. You know, that one looks good. So it's a simple matter of etiquette. Etiquette and tonal and structure. And it works. So, it's not a big deal. You shouldn't be like, oh my gosh, you didn't tell us, is it true, blah, blah, blah. It was peripheral information that you didn't need at that moment to advance in your practice. Very simple. So, do not be so frustrated. You know, look at yourself, look at your mind. You know, and look at the fact that someone says, hey, I'm from the same lineage, want me to, want to sit and meditate with me, maybe I can help you out. And then you say, rah, now. What is up with that? That's a negative attitude. That is evidence that you have a problem. That's unnatural. That's not normal. That's not Dharma. That's reaction. So relax. It's just so silly. It's like you're, okay, I have a doctor. And when I get hurt in my knee, when I get my tennis elbow, I go to my doctor. Then your doctor goes away. Another person goes, hey, I'm a doctor too. And I went to the same school as your other doctor. Harvard. Then they say, What? No! It cannot be! And they go, No, no, no, no, no, no!

0:31:07
Yeah, you're right.

0:31:08
It doesn't make any sense.

0:31:10
You're just wound up about too much junk. Chill out. Ramana Rupache used to say that a lot. Chill out. Yeah, so, don't be so upset. It's not necessary. Look at things in a balanced way. At the time of the Buddha, there were two Brahmin practitioners of the Vedic spiritual disciplines. They had teacher but he had passed away and they continued to practice his teachings. Then they heard about Buddha coming to town. They heard all these amazing things and they said, hey, do you want to go see Buddha? One guy says to the other and then the other guy says, no He's like, that would disgrace my everything I could think of. And, you know, it disgraced the teachings of our teacher, the honor of our cult, I mean, our sect. And we're Brahmins. And I heard he was from a different caste, right? And he just gets mad. So then the other guy goes, Okay, well, I'm open to it. So I'm going to go check him out. He goes, sees one discourse of the Buddha, he becomes a monk. And he goes back to his friend tries to say, you've got to see this guy. This is it, you know, and then his friend said, God, I'm so mad.

0:33:08
But I don't know why I'm mad.

0:33:09
He yells at his friend, if you do that, you're dead to me. So the open-minded monk goes back, studies with the Buddha for 10 years and becomes an arhat. And that is primary enlightenment. And then after becoming an arhat, he goes back to his his old friend, and he's like I really want to help you now I have attained enlightenment, and I'd like to help you and His friend just is angry and negative close-minded attached to the past and It's just so resistant to being open to a new experience of enlightenment So he said no, and he's and then he's I can't help you. It's such a shame. So one person was open-minded and was able to benefit and attain beautiful, powerful rewards. The other just That's a shame. The Buddha himself said, don't believe what I tell you. When I give you a teaching, don't just take it on faith. And don't discount it. When I tell you a teaching, when I show you a teaching, then investigate it, test it, see if it works. If it works, it makes your life better. And then do it. If it doesn't work, then let it go by. So, with me, don't get upset. You know, you can let go of the negativity, it's not necessary. Just test it. I'm putting something before you, and see if it feels good. If it does, then that's maybe something that's positive for you. If it doesn't, when you test it, you say, hmm, I'm going to touch this with an open mind. I'm going to consider this with an open mind. I'm going to practice this with an open mind. And if it doesn't work, OK, just let it go. There's no reason to get upset. There's just, one, it's a good thing, or two, it's something to just not do. It's not something to have massive reactions over. Tantrums. Tantrums are not becoming of an arahant. So, an arahant was primary enlightenment. And the Buddha taught many, many, many of his students to become arhats. Now, Buddha always would say, the arhant is the same attainment as himself, the Buddha. But then at the same time, Buddha would correct the arhats and he would teach them more so then people would be pressed to ask Buddha, wait a minute, you know, if they're the same as you then why do you keep giving them all these teachings and why do you correct There's more. But that there's something about enlightenment that is exactly the same from the first Nirvikalpa Samadhi to the seventh degree black belt in enlightenment, right? There's something the same, and it is that the self has been extinguished, and that it is never the same. There's always a hole in the self that leads to enlightenment. a Buddha or an enlightened master, that hole is massive. Right, it's like most of their body has that hole leading to nirvana. And then for someone who's at primary liberation, it might be just a little hole. But there's always that connection. And that's what they have in common. So it's just like, bigger, smaller, bigger is better. Ask your bank account. Yeah. So, a lot of you feel abandoned. You feel rejected.

0:38:51
Kicked out.

0:38:53
rejected, kicked out, kicked to the curb, right? And you have to have a greater perspective. rather than a feeling rejected. It's amazing, it's a miracle to even have one night and one teaching from an enlightened teacher. And look at all that you got. So much. Kundalini did her best for you. Kundalini in kicking you out did her best for you. And she gave you a teaching in that. She's giving you all that she can to help you to step up to a more powerful place. So instead of feeling rejected, you should really focus on the teachings that she gave

0:40:22
you.

0:40:27
You should really say, wow, okay, well, if I'm out on my own, does this stuff really

0:40:35
work?

0:40:36
Put it to the test, this meditation thing. You know, Shiva, who is here tonight, another enlightened teacher from our lineage, who you'll be able to meet later. He's going to address the group. Shiva was kicked out by our teacher, just like you. And he ended up okay. So, you know, he'll probably tell a beautiful story about it. But he, after he got kicked out, you know, he felt like you guys. And then he started to really work on his practice and draw from the teachings of our teacher and he mastered Samadhi and

0:41:41
then

0:41:43
years and years later When my teacher had the advanced teachings He was he was invited he was there So you have to have perspective got a look at things in the right way. Now I understand, also, Kundalini's point of view, or her situation. I don't exactly know what it is, but I know a little bit about it. At one time, I think it was 2005, I had to drop my students. I had to. It was a time when my students were really struggling and they were going through was so... and their karmas were so toxic to me that it was making me sick. And then I eventually was so toxic and so sick, I realized, I'm going to die. Like, really. I'm going to die if I hang around this, if I am connected to this. So I said to them, got to go. And I left.

0:43:30
Out of the state.

0:43:31
And I was able to disconnect and I was able to really really purify myself really concentrate my energy on my own attention and I was able to purge those toxicities but it took me about six months and then after six months I came back. I said, okay, I think I know how I can work with you guys. Now, when I left, I didn't just say, We were working with Mandala. So, Mandala is another enlightened woman in our lineage. And she was working with my students first as their yoga teacher. So she was training them in technology, and we were building a software product together. And then that's when I said, OK, I'm going to disappear. Because she was there to be able to help them. She was able to work with them, continue focus on yoga, and continue the focus on the development of our software product, which was like our job. We were just working on this thing for so long and put so much into it. It was the primary focus of our practice and she was there to be able to deal with that and manage that and manage my students because they were at that time proficient in yoga. So therefore, we help each other out. She was able to help me out and help my students out. So it's not unusual in a lineage to get some help. It's not unusual. So sometimes we have fear. I feel a lot of fear from you as well. You're afraid. Afraid that you might do the wrong thing. You're afraid that you might do something that would dishonor or anger Kundalini. You're afraid of dealing with truth again, facing the truth. You're afraid of jumping into a new circumstance. So, you gotta get past your fear. Don't be afraid. I don't bite. I kick. But I have control. So, yeah, don't be afraid. You've got to find a way through in your heart, a way through that fear. Because fear just holds you back. Fear is a barrier. I know you feel it and it repels you. But your fear is repelling you from light. Your fear is repelling you from an expression of enlightenment, an expression of this lineage. And this lineage and enlightenment is something that's a part of you. And to feel fear and to be repelled does not serve your happiness. So reflect on your fear. See what it is. Be honest about your fear. And that's to reconnect with your love of light. To see enlightenment in a new way, in a new dimension. To have a greater lineage of enlightenment. It's beautiful. There was a young Brahmin who came to see the Buddha. He saw the Buddha, loved the Buddha, wanted to become a monk. And then right before... and Buddha was ordaining one monk at a time. And then right when he got in front of Buddha, he all of a sudden got hit with fear. And he said, oh wait, no Buddha, I can't. And Buddha said, why? And he said, well, I'm the son of the high Brahman priest, and I'm his successor. What will he... what will my father think he'll go crazy right and also you know I also have the highest Brahmin teachers and I would disrespect them or something and then he and then he said and also I live a life of luxury and now I'll be homeless living in the forest and he's like I'm freaked out about bugs squirrels, I got to sing about squirrels. I don't think I could just eat one day. He's just like and he's afraid. He's afraid of the big change in his life. And he's afraid of his father and his teachers and what they would say and what they would think. And he says, Oh Buddha, I got to go home and think about it. And Buddha said, Okay, go home and think about this. Do you want to live your life in fear? Or in enlightenment? And he thought about it just then and there and said, I definitely don't want to live my life in fear. Fear is no fun. The feeling of fear is no fun. And if you can look at it that way and see that enlightenment breaks you through that fear, enlightenment gives you tremendous opportunity for growth, happiness, liberation from suffering. Enlightenment seems like a better idea, right? So he considered it and then he experienced enlightenment. There's a book I really like. It's called the seven Taoist masters. There was one great enlightened master seven students And he taught them all the path to enlightenment and then he died and he went to Taoist heaven and went to Taoist heaven. And the seven Taoist students did what all of Ram Rinpoche's students did.

0:52:08
They went everywhere else.

0:52:10
They didn't stay together. They just went different places. And they all practiced and practiced and practiced. And then one at a time started becoming liberated. Four of them became enlightened. And then they went to visit the other three. And the other three had hang-ups, had stuff that they were still stuck on. And then they came over and said, Hey, yeah, I've attained enlightenment, let me help you. And then they received aid and assistance. At first they didn't want to be around each other. They're all, oh yeah, I'm not sure if I like you guys. I'm just going to go away from you. But when you come back and when you recognize that there's aid, that there's support, and it's not just the support of a person, it's the support of the lineage, then you say, okay, this is not a person. This is enlightenment. And then they were able to receive the help, just as I did from Kundalini, to grow. And then they were able to attain liberation. So wonderful. You know, there's no reason to doubt me. I feel a lot of doubt from you.

0:53:51
So, let's look at it this way.

0:53:53
Let's say Kundalini was in a dojo with a 5th degree black belt sensei. And she got her black belt. And then you knew her and you trained with her, and you thought, this is awesome. And when another black belt shows up, from the same dojo, are you the yellow-slash-orange belt? Are you to think, eww, I don't like him,

0:54:26
I doubt that he's good.

0:54:31
Would you do that in a dojo? That would be silly, right? There's no reason to doubt. That's the wonderful thing about a dojo, the structure of a dojo, the structure of a lineage. The stuff is real and we all learn it and it's something that we all grow impeccable at. We grow in this study, we grow in our mastery of these disciplines. The same disciplines that Kundalini taught you have grown in these masteries.

0:55:14
Yes So

0:55:18
Negativity and doubt would be silly and poor etiquette Right

0:55:24
like if

0:55:25
If my students met Kundalini and would doubt her without her? I don't think they would. She's so strong. But you know, that would be a silly thing to initiate. It's not good etiquette. And I know that I reached out to you. Really, you reached out to me. But I reached out to you in an email, in words. However, that creates a conversation, right? The moment that you get an email from me, you start thinking about it. You have to think about it with good etiquette. Because with an enlightened teacher, when you're considering them, when they're in your mind, you're on the mat, the dojo mat.

0:56:26
So you have to have good etiquette.

0:56:28
I'm also a fifth degree black belt in jiu-jitsu. So if you came into my dojo and you had bad etiquette, then I would say, oh, watch this. And the dojo, you know, there's special ways to show people how to have proper etiquette. So you know, don't be so silly. Don't be so silly. I think in general, the situation is that you're lost and confused. And I understand this. After my teacher died, I was lost and confused. He died, and I was making good progress in the advanced teachings. Then he died, and then I said, oh, it's all horrible.

0:57:33
I don't have a teacher anymore.

0:57:34
I'm never going to become enlightened. I lost it. Yeah. So I understand how you feel. But I got it back, and so can you. You know, confused, there's a special magical thing that happens because you're a part of this lineage. And because you've studied with an enlightened teacher in this lineage, something magical happens. You're frustrated, you're confused, you're feeling sad and lost. But at a very deep level in your spirit, you start to reach for greater light see Kundalini knew this

0:58:52
She wasn't just like

0:58:54
Kicking you to the curb. She knew that you are going to reach for greater life and And it's like a call to enlightenment It's a call for assistance, it's a call for help, it's a call for a greater understanding, a greater light, so that you can be at peace, stronger, figure out the koan of why she kicked you out. And with greater light, then it's obvious, and there's no problem anymore. There's only understanding and appreciation. There's only seeing and wisdom. There's only spiritual transformation. So to me, me when I see you're calling for that greater light, it's like I am receiving a call from you. That's why I said you contacted me first. It's not a personal person. I am enlightenment. I am this lineage of enlightenment. And when And when you ask, when you draw in the light, I just open to respond. So it's kind of like you're calling for tech support.

1:01:09
Tech support!

1:01:11
Right? And then I pick up the phone, and then I... And then you know what I'm going to say? Make sure that... I'm going to make sure that you're plugged in. I'm going to make sure that you're turned on. We're going to get back to the basics and get things working. So you called for help and you should accept the help. Which reminds me of a joke. So this guy is sitting on the roof of his house. There was a giant flood, right? And the water's rising. Someone comes by in a little rubber raft. Oh, no, before the guy comes by, he says, God, please save me. I've loved you and been devoted to you my whole life. Please save me. And then he says, no, no, no, no.

1:02:29
God will save me.

1:02:30
And the guy in the back of the ambulance says, OK. And he goes, bye. And then later on, a big rescue boat comes up. It's got big, they have ladders to help him on and everything. And then they say, come on, we're going to save you. And he says, no, no, no, go away. God will save me. And then they go, this guy's crazy, and they go off. They're all triage. We have to help other people. And then finally, a helicopter. And the water is just rising. So by the time he's at the tip of his, the peak of his house roof, this helicopter comes. They drop a ladder.

1:03:12
They say, come on up.

1:03:13
And he says, no, no, no. God will save me. And then they say, whatever. And they go away. Then the water goes up, up, up, up. He gets swept away and drowns. The end. But then he goes to heaven, because he's so devout, and then he goes before God, and then he says, Oh God, it's so good to see you. But God, I prayed to you, and I asked you to save me. Why didn't you save me? And then God says, I tried. I sent that little rubber boat, I sent that big rescue boat, I even sent a helicopter and you just didn't accept any of it. Well I was expecting it a different way.

1:04:08
Well take what you get.

1:04:09
All righty, we'll see. All right we're going to take a 15 minute break. All right we're going to take a 15 minute break. I'd like to have short sessions, give you little breaks, so you can drink coffee and things.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
