0:00:00
Okay, we'll fit the three times.

0:00:02
the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the So the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the So the the the the the the the the the So, the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the I'm going to play a little bit of the music. So Oh. Oh. The. The. Oh. Oh, the the the The. the the the

0:14:01
I'd like to give you a teaching on the higher self. And don't worry, nothing's going to happen. And if it doesn't, something's wrong. The self is a paradox. The self is, uh... Well, there's a story that very nicely illustrates the self. actually illustrate this up. It's the story of Pu Tai. Pu Tai, you guys probably have seen pictures of Pu Tai. Pu Tai was an old famous Zen master in China. And he was big and fat, and he smiled a lot, and he liked to play with children. So, a lot of times when you see the Chinese Buddha, the Chinese Buddha is a big fat guy. Now, Shakyamuni Buddha was not a big fat guy. He was pretty thin, actually. And, uh, we, uh, it's kind of funny because, you know, you go from India, this thin Indian guy who was actually Buddha. Then you go to China, and all of a sudden there's this fat guy, fat Chinese guy who's Buddha. But there are actually two different people. Shakyamuni Buddha was the guy who started Buddhism, and then the fat guy in China who we always call Buddha, Chinese Buddha. His name is Puthai and he was from the era of the 6th patriarch of Zen. So this is 27 lineage holders, 28 lineage holders. Half to the time of the Buddha. Do you guys know the children's television show, Mr. Rogers' Neighborhood. Is that something you guys know?

0:17:19
No, we don't know.

0:17:20
Ah, too bad.

0:17:21
Too bad.

0:17:26
Um, so, um, then I won't tell you. I'm like, I won't tell you about something you don't know about. Okay, so one day there was a there was a monk who was seeking Pu Tai. And Pu Tai was a wanderer. He would wander all around central China and you know he he always He always just had this satchel with him. Just one satchel. And he was walking all around, going to different places, meditating, sometimes teaching in villages, playing with the children, sometimes going up to the mountain for a hermitage. So he was not easy to actually find. But there was one monk who was looking for him, and he wanted to learn from him. He got lucky, he crossed into the middle of nowhere, and yet he wasn't sure exactly if it was him. It fits the description, he was a bald, fat guy with a satchel, right? But he wasn't sure, so he asked, who are you? And Putai took his satchel off and dropped it on the ground. And then the monk was confused. And he said, what are you doing? And Putai picked the satchel back up, put it on, and walked away.

0:19:11
What is essential? The bag.

0:19:16
Oh, no. Now, this is one of those early Zen stories that doesn't seem to make any sense. But, in that interaction, that was enough for the monk, because what the monk learned is the teaching of the higher self. And this is what we're going to explore this evening. The higher self. So first of all I'd like you to just say, who am I actually, really, for real, now, in this moment, or ever? Who am I? The first thing that people are aware of The self is the body. When you're walking around, you're like, you know, like as a kid or something, you start

0:20:25
to bump into things.

0:20:26
You go, oh, oh. You get hungry, you go, oh, oh. You know, down in the bathroom. You start to become very aware of the body in the beginning. And a lot of people live their lives in complete body consciousness. They just think that the physical body, and all the junk in it, they just think that's it. That's them. their thinking is a function of the brain, you know, feelings are a function of the hypothalamus, and the peptides within there. They just think it's all a physical function, all bodies. And they live their lives with experiences for the body? Is that who you are? Is that who the felt is? What do you think? I like that answer, no. Now let me tell you a story. There's a Zen master sitting around having tea, because that's what Zen masters do. Zen monk runs in, and he had an amazing meditation, an amazing spiritual realization. He sits down and says, Zen master, Zen master, I realize I am not the body. And then the Zen master says, oh really? And then he takes his teeth and he... and he stalls him in the face with it. And then the guy, you know, like, ah, it hurts, ah. And he's like, oh, I thought you weren't the body. Zen masters do that. So, actually, it really is undeniable that an aspect of you is the body. But at the same time, there's that paradox. You're also not the body. There was a time where a Brahmin went over to...sorry, no, he's not a Brahmin. He's a regular guy, talking to the Buddha. And he's just like, I don't get all this spiritual stuff, right? I'm just a regular person, you know, like, in a physical body. And that's how I know that this is me. I can make my arm go up, make my head go back. So that's how I know I'm the body, because I can control the body. And then the Buddha said, no you can't. He's like, you're not the body, and you have no control over his body. And the man said, that's ridiculous. I can make my body walk around, jump, sing, do all these things. And then the Buddha said, well, he said, you look like you're around 45 years old.

0:24:20
Yeah.

0:24:21
He said, can you make your body 20 years old? Do you have control over your body? Or it looks like you have a little bit of a limp, like an old knee injury. Yeah. Can you make that go away?

0:24:36
No.

0:24:37
That's stupid. Of course I can't age backwards or heal injuries. The Buddha said, that just shows you that you're not the body. You don't have control over the body. The body is just something that happens. The body is just an aggregate where your consciousness resides. But it is not who you are. It is not something that you have control over. Ultimately, at some point, the body will cease to function. You will want to live. The body will not continue and you will die. So you are not the body. You are not in command of the body. The body is just an aggregate of things that came together for your spirit to live in. This was the Buddha's teaching. I don't want to think about that. So in a way, you're the body and in a way you're not the body. That's the first awareness of self. These stories about the self come from personal history, experiences that you've accepted for yourself. You're like, I define myself to be this. Somebody in school defines me to be this. My father defines me to be this. Because of this experience I had when I was six, I am this. Personal history. Because of this experience that I had when I was 16, I am this. These are definitions from the impressions of people and from experiences of personal history. Adults tend to experience as the self. This is something that is very limiting. So it's important to recognize that you can grow. So for example, Frank Sinatra, pretty famous, pretty successful, but his father always thought he was a loser. His father always looked at him like, you're this loser little kid who wants to sing, and that his father just thought it was horrible, that he really struggled in his career. And even after he was successful, he broke out of the pressure, out of his definition, he would still talk about in interviews how deep down inside he still felt like that loser little kid. And it really bothered him. So, that's someone who broke out. Use personal power to push past that limited definition. But we get those limited definitions. And there's so many other people who would not even have the personal power to break out, they would say, I'm not even going to try because of that definition. So, these are very limited. Merman pop.

0:29:28
laughter laughter Movie reference. I think if you guys saw Zoolander, I don't think you would even think it's funny. It's so American in its humor.

0:29:46
Zoolander?

0:29:47
Yeah.

0:29:48
So, we have a very, very important saying in Buddhism. The past is that, and leave it behind. Because a lot of times, you hold definitions of embarrassing experiences when you're a 12 year old soul, and now I'm like, oh, I got everything. You know, we all do stupid things when we're, you know, when we're growing up or whatever. Actually, yeah, I've been, I used to be the biggest idiot, and I have my mother here to vouch for me. If I held myself to the definition of the mistakes that I had made and the limitations that I experienced, then I would... There's a television show in America called The Biggest Loser. Well, that's about losing weight. very limited and very unhappy. So, when I learned about the past of Dust, I got to take a lot of these places from, you know, high school experiences and all sorts of weird things growing up where I didn't fit in, where I wasn't successful, where things were hard limited and I got to just throw it away. All of those ideas, all of those vibrations, I just had to throw it out. And then I felt free to be where I can be now. To learn what I can do now. To make advances now. To succeed now. Letting go of the past. The past is past. Another place where adults find themselves..................

0:32:28
I'm a lawyer.

0:32:29
That's what I am.

0:32:30
Or a policeman. I'm a policeman.

0:32:32
They really like, that's what I am.

0:32:33
And so, a lot of women are associated to the men that they're with.

0:32:34
They're all like, oh, I'm with him.

0:32:35
I married this guy. I'm the wife of this guy.

0:32:37
I'm the mother of this guy. I'm the father of this guy. I'm the mother of this guy.

0:32:40
I'm the father of this guy.

0:32:41
I'm the mother of this guy.

0:32:42
I'm the father of this guy.

0:32:43
I'm the mother of this guy. I'm the father of this guy. I'm the mother of this guy. I'm the father of this guy. I'm the mother of this guy. I'm the father of this guy. I'm the mother of this guy. I'm the father of this guy. I'm the mother of this guy. I'm the father of this guy. I'm the mother of this guy.

0:32:54
I'm the father of this guy.

0:32:55
I'm the father of this guy. I'm the mother of this kid. I'm the wife, I'm the mother. I'm the wife, I'm the mother. That's what I am. Cooking, cleaning.

0:33:00
There's more to your being than just that role.

0:33:05
There's more to your being than I am the wife of Mr. X and the mother of Kid X. So there's more to it than that. There's more to your life than the role you play. It is good to be excellent at the role you play. So if you're a husband or wife, father or mother, be an excellent mother, be an excellent husband. This is great, you should. If you're a policeman or a lawyer, be an impeccable policeman, be an impeccable lawyer. This is good. Just don't be completely defined by those roles that most people are completely defined by. We also, we look at it like, it's clothes that we put on my police uniform and I'm going to act like the perfect cop. Right? That's great. Then you go home, you take off your police uniform, and you play with the kids. And you do it, if you love kids, you can do it perfectly. You're the perfect father. Right? You can do both. Now, we expanded beyond these basic roles. And let's say, look at a karate class. I'm a cop and a dad, but I also do karate. And when you put your karate gear on, you're different. You put on these different clothes, and then all of a sudden you're like, you know, a Chinese ninja warrior. This whole new side and this whole new energy comes out of you. Or maybe you go to an Elsa dancing class. You put on special little shoes and pants. And then you become Elsa dancing. And you get it all into that movement. You're like, Arriba! So, you can do many different things. And everything that you do, you do impeccably. But you don't just get caught in what everybody thinks of themselves as roles. You're also a Buddhist initiate. So then you go, oh, that changes everything. There's all sorts of different spiritual dimensions open to you as the impeccable Buddhist initiate. And also, you do yoga. There's all sorts of power and light available by learning to do yoga. So I do yogi. There's all this amazing things. So we have, we don't get caught or stuck in any one definition, any one role. We realize that we play many roles. The self is found in every role, but the self is not any particular. So Buddha teaches that we condition our lives to direct our thoughts, direct our actions to make ourselves better, stronger, higher. So, we use, when we recognize the self, we recognize that we can elevate our self. We can do things that help us to evolve, be healthier, be happier, be more empowered. So Buddha says, you know, as an archer whittles an arrow, or a carpenter crafts his wood, so we craft our lives. We make our lives, cultivation of the self in every way. Healthy body, healthy mind, healthy emotions, our lives in ways that make us higher and brighter. So once a monk who had been a Brahmin priest for many years, he converted to Buddhism but he was still a little confused about something. He said, Buddha, is there a self or is there not a self? Because the Brahmins believe there's the Atman, the enlightened self. So is there that enlightened self in Buddhism? And Buddha says, hey you have to tell me, is there a self or is there not a

0:38:55
self?

0:38:56
And Buddha says, no, no. So Buddha doesn't want to give an answer to if there is a self or not. If I...both answers would be limited. If I said there's a self, that would be limited and incorrect. If I said there's no self, that would be limited and incorrect. And he said, if you go to the ocean with a bucket, pick up a bucket of water from the ocean and bring it over and say, the ocean. You're not right, and you're not wrong. But in both cases, you're limited. Buddha had a son that he ran out on when he was a baby. And then his son grew up and became a Buddhist monk. Buddha took his son out to the grove in Yenong, a very special lesson. He said to his son, are you the body? Not completely, no. But he said, are you your thoughts? He thought about his thoughts and said, not totally, no. He said, Are you your consciousness?

0:40:33
He said,

0:40:34
Not really. I mean, I'm conscious, but I am not that conscious. I am not conscious. And at that, it's then realized the selflessness of self, the anahata, the non-self of self, and he the truth of self. That the self you think you are is not the self. But the self has The roles that we play are qualities that you can observe. The thoughts that you think are qualities that you can observe. The body is a quality, has qualities that you can observe that are true about the self. Which is exactly what Puthay was demonstrating in the beginning. Where he said, who are you? He drops the satchel. And says to say, no one. What are you doing? He picks up the satchel and walks away. The self is doing. The self has a body. The self thinks. The self exists in a way. There's no one doing. Just like you're not your body. You're not your thought. You're not even your consciousness. You have no control over your consciousness. You're just conscious.

0:42:54
Right? So it's not you.

0:42:58
But it is.

0:43:00
Part of your experience.

0:43:02
It's part of you. But it's not you. You are a bucket of ocean water. Or let's say a bucket of nirvana. Which is not the whole thing, but a part of it. And there's a bucket. Or let's say a bucket of nirvana. Which is not the whole thing, but a part of it. And there's a bucket.

0:43:21
and talk about...




Transcribed with Cockatoo
