0:00:00
Okay, I'd like to begin with meditation. We'll sit for three songs. One song on the navel, one on the heart, one on the third eye.

0:00:29
Let's begin. the the the the the the the the Thank you. I'm going to be a good boy. I'm going to be a good boy. I'm going to be a good boy. I'm going to be a good boy. I'm going to be a good boy. I'm going to be a good boy. I'm going to be doing a lot of work on this. the the the the so the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the So So so So So so so So the the the So So so So So So So So So So So so So so so so so You're not alone. Good evening everyone. So tonight we're going to talk about suicide. We have the Kool-Aid in the back. Don't worry. Did you eat the macaroons? Hey, this sounds familiar. Didn't we do this already? I guess we're good.

0:16:28
So we're going to talk about death, which is the same as life. But we're going to talk about death. And I'd like to talk about suicide, particularly.

0:16:46
You guys are like, didn't we just talk about death? Didn't we do this whole Kool-Aid thing already?

0:16:51
Yes, we did. See, we're still here. And that's the way life and death is. You're alive, you think you're here, you think death is the end of you, but then you're still here. So, we can talk about lots of types of death. You think this is the last class on death? There can be death by car accident, class. You know, death by scuba diving class.

0:17:29
Maybe this winter solstice.

0:17:30
We can have death by over coding JavaScript class.

0:17:35
Death by butterscotch pudding.

0:17:37
There's endless, you know, what do they say? 6,000 ways to die? There's more than that, but that's like the Zen thing. They say there's 10,000 states of mind. That means that there's just a lot.

0:18:06
Infinite.

0:18:06
So, suicide. And I realize that we have some guests here who are here for the first time. They're going, what? Let's hear some weird music.

0:18:18
Now it's all about death.

0:18:20
Suicide and Kool-Aid.

0:18:28
Yep.

0:18:32
Well, the reason is because you landed in the middle of an intermediate teaching. So for some reason, I have guests here. I don't know why. I usually have a group that I work with for at least five years before I bring in new students or even guests. However, you showed up, so you have the karma to sit through this, which is good. So you get to see the real deal, not just basic stuff, but what karma is. and drop an apple, it lands on your head. So, suicide. You know, the reason that we're talking about suicide is because suicide is a living teaching. And the reason it's a living teaching is because one of the members of the Sangha recently committed suicide. So it's something that's prevalent, that's happening now in the minds of my students. So I always take the most important prevalent topic that is something that's really affecting my students to talk about. So, life, death, suicide is a living teaching. It's happening now. We learn not only by reading a book or hearing a discourse on some doctrine of Buddhism, but we really learn by experience. And this is why, you know, they talk about the Dharma of death. And understanding suicide is something that's about your experience now. It illuminates your experience. living teaching and suicide is a dying trend. That's a joke. So, as you know, Ganesha, a couple weeks ago, killed himself. And it's really sad. He's a very beloved student and very much loved by Sangha mates, especially in Bodie Woods, because he lived in Bodie Woods, and the Vodouble team. And he was a really wonderful fellow. He had a great sense of humor and just a kind of magnetic character. He was so interesting. Does anyone here agree with me that he looked like Louis C.K.? Maybe that's why I think he's funny. Oh yeah, that joke you told. He's like, I didn't tell that joke. But I wanted to talk a little bit about his death. And since I was too jet-lagged to do it in Bodewoods with the students who knew him best. I just figured I'd do it here with the guests. So, you know, he had a background. This had been something that he'd been considering It started with a diagnosis of bipolar disorder. So this is what we call manic depressive. And it's a really, really difficult thing. It's a mutation of your genes that produces different chemical balances to the brain. And then it makes you go into really difficult experiences. On the manic side, you kind of go a little bit crazy. You go a little crazy. And on the depressed side, you get really sad. So someone with bipolar disorder kind of goes up and down through these and tries to balance it out, and it's a difficult thing. So he's had that his whole life. This is the kind of genetic loading that creates, which is a karma. It's a physical karma, but it creates a difficult situation. Now, I had a very good friend. He was a monk in the study who had bipolar disorder. He had a lot of struggles, and since he was a good friend of mine, I was with him a lot. I saw him going through these things. When we first moved to New York and we started our yoga. That level of stress was the thing that kicked off his first manic episode. And I thought he was hilarious. I didn't know what was happening to him. I just thought, oh, this guy who taught me how to do computer programming, who's been is acting really strange. And he was so funny. I remember, I just gotta say some of the things he did. He's like, all right, my clothes are too constraining. So he had to take them off and go to the balcony and throw them out. And then he was naked. And then we were all just moving into Atin's house, because Atin's like, hey, when you guys first get here, I've been here a little longer, I have a house, you can land here until you can get a job in a place. So it was really cool. And then we go over and there were some girls who were living there too, so he's walking around naked. And then I think I talked him into wearing a sheet. I was like, if the clothes were constraining, how about just this sheet? And he says, come on. And so he wraps himself in a sheet and then he's kind of walking around. And then he says, I need something grounding, but I can't eat meat. And then he said, what would that be? And I said, how about peanut butter? He said, okay, that's a good idea. And then he gets a can of peanut butter, opens it up, and he's walking around with it, holding his little toga, and eating it with his hands. And then he, and then I just look around a few minutes later, and it's like doorknobs with peanut butter, light switches, a wall. It was really great. So then a couple days later we went to see our teacher and he was just being really kind of crazy and what happened was after the meditation seminar he ran out real quick and went to where the teacher's car was and then you know the teacher our teacher goes over to this car, and my friend is sitting there going, all right, let's go. Like let's, let's go off and be enlightened together. And then my teacher's like, whoa, he's like, you know, you need to get a hold of yourself, you're acting crazy. And then he's like, no, no, it's okay. He's like, it's just that I'm becoming enlightened. And my teacher said, no you're not. He's like, you need to relax, settle down. And then he left. And then my friend came home that night and he was telling us that he's becoming enlightened. So I was like, I don't know. I'm new to this Buddhism thing. And so he was sitting down in the basement with his toga on. He wore clothes, we made him wear clothes to the meditation center, a seminar. But he's sitting down there wearing his little toga. And then all of a sudden, we see all this beautiful bright light around him. So it was Atin and I sitting down there. We were like, wow, maybe he, I guess he is becoming enlightened.

0:28:06
And what really what it was,

0:28:08
was my teacher was concerned about him, so he sent his attention, his kind of healing energy to help him. So we found out that later, but at the moment we were like, wow, I guess he was right. That aura looks exactly like our teachers when he meditated. So it was just kind of an interesting thing. So for a lot of people who have bipolar, they have big spikes of that manic episode, and then they have long valleys, canyons, giant canyons of depression. So this was the case for David. So he had a couple weeks of being manic, and then, or less, 10 days. And then he had like a year of being depressed. And then he just, this is how he had to live his life for a while. So this was something that Ganesha was experiencing, this manic depressive situation, which is really a physical harm. It's something that you can't just snap yourself out of very easily. It's an actual difficult physical condition. However, difficult physical conditions can be dealt with. You can cope with them with the proper dharmic practices of course. But it just sets the stage for difficulty. The second factor for Ganesha that was very, very hard was that after the death of our teacher, he studied with a couple of the older students, a couple of women who were very, very, very strong occultists. They were very, very powerful in mysticism. And he was an ST2, you know? So he was like one of the little happy guys, like me. And they were like these wizardesses. And so he said that he went on some of their mystical journeys, power trips to the desert, and that he never felt that he could recover from, and that he felt had an imprint on him, left just a really bad connection, that he was always connected to this kind of dark powers. And that created for him a depression, a real deep sadness. And it was something that he talked to me about several times. So this was something, when he first came to study with me, we talked about that. We talked about the fact that he had some really, really unbalanced spiritual experiences. And that that is what made him think about killing himself.

0:31:46
So this is something we've talked about for a while,

0:31:48
and he's been experiencing it for a while. He quit studying with those teachers because he started to experience it so strongly. He figured he was better off on his own, which is true. And they're fine by themselves, or if you're like them, then it's great to hang out with them. And they're cool because they can do magical things, but you have to, it's kind of like, you might say, it's kind of like going to a mixed martial arts dojo. It's like if you want to learn some happy martial arts, karate, judo is good. But if you go to MMA, it's intense. They're just sitting there teaching you how to smash each other's heads in all day. It's a totally different experience. And I don't know if it's better. So he had these experiences and we've talked about them. And every time that I've talked to him about these difficulties or any other difficulties, like trouble getting a job, he was a little anxious about getting a job and things like that. When I would talk to him about these always come to a place of brightness, a place of luminosity, and he would always end in a great experience of gratitude. Now, he was not my student. I was his benefactor, I would say, because he was actually a student of my teacher. So he was a direct student. He came in a little bit later than the rest of the ST2s, but he was a direct student of my teacher. And he came to study with me because he was kind of, you know, I don't know, interested in what I was teaching. But I said, okay, yeah, you can totally jump into all the yoga, all the structures that we're working on here, you know, and that's great. But really, you know, we have the same teacher. So I'm acting as a benefactor. So he always really appreciated this sangha, this group. He said that it was such a wonderful group, such a wonderful structure. He appreciated it infinitely more than when he was with the older students. And he also said, gosh, a lot more fun than when we were with our teacher too. And I would agree with that. It's fun. I mean, I'd rather be with my teacher, but that was a really intense environment, because you had all those MMA guys out there. It was a really intense environment. So he always had this great, great gratitude for the opportunity to be with us. He just always said, everything that we do and everyone is so awesome and it's such a great thing. And he particularly liked coming to the monthly meditation seminars, because there's a little bit of magic in the satsang here. This is a very pinnacle experience in our practice. This is where we take the new direction of power for the month. So he was always very, very, very grateful. Then he killed himself. So, you know, it's very sad that he did was extremely negative. He thought that it was a way for him to just kind of get out of suffering, He was wrong. I didn't do that for him. So I got a call. I was in Budapest just after teaching a meditation seminar to the Hungarian Sangha. And I was with Dholmajit and a couple of the other students. And then I got a call and they told me, Ganesh is dead. He killed himself. We found him with a bag, a plastic bag over his head. And I said, wow, I'm a bit surprised. It's not like I was aware of that. I said, wow, goodness. I wouldn't expect that to happen, because he kind of had a low energy profile. And this means that he, yeah, was kind of like having a hard time, struggling and stuff, but he wouldn't have these extreme peaks of freaking out and getting totally intensely crazy. So I would expect someone who would want to kill themselves to be having those real high like, ah, so mad, I'm so angry, I'm so depressed, those real intense feelings. He had very mellow feelings. So he just was like, yeah, actually, I would probably say that many of you during the time intense spikes of emotional angst than he did, even though he went and killed himself. He would just go, hmm, yeah, I guess I'll just get rid of my pain. So the moment I heard that he had killed himself, I said, this is very odd. So I sat, and I went out and found his spirit. So in our study, we learn a lot about death, as you guys know. And one of the things that we learn is awareness of what happens after death. And I have that awareness. So I went to see his spirit. And when I went to see his spirit, he was in a very, very, very bad state of mind. And he, The only thing I can get out of him was that he said, I didn't mean to do it, I didn't mean to do it. Over and over, like a crazy person, he just kept saying that. And he was in a very dark state of mind. When I brought bodhicitta to him, compassion to him, he didn't want to receive it. He was very ashamed. He didn't want, he was like, he's like, I know Simbara wouldn't like me to do this. So when he felt my energy, he ran away. And I'm like, eh. I thought we were friends. And then I tried some other things, like I tried to do some other things. I have Siddha powers of the bardos, of the intermediate states between death and life. So I can hold a spirit, I can push a spirit in certain ways, I can create certain connections. And it didn't work. He was always really in a dark state, having real trouble, really bad. So I was like, hmm. So my plan was to keep him in the second bardo for a long time. I can do that. And I was just like, I'm going to keep you here until you pay attention, until you listen, until you chill out and open up and start responding to light properly. So it was, you know, I was in for the long haul. So it was a difficult situation. So did you guys see that movie? I think it was called Afterlife with Matt Damon. It's this movie where it's all about like, what happens after you die kind of thing. And Matt Damon in the movie, he plays this kind of psychic guy who, he can tell you things about people who have died. And there's another guy, John Edwards, who had a TV show who would do that kind of same thing. He'd be like, hey, has anyone in here got a, that's like a male figure with the name Jay.

0:41:37
Yes, yes, yes.

0:41:39
Is it John? No, Joseph.

0:41:41
Oh yeah, okay, Joseph.

0:41:42
I mean, he did some little weird stuff like that, but he actually did have that awareness into those dimensions. And so there are people who have awareness into what we call the bardos, states after life, and before rebirth, if you're Buddhist or Hindu. Just kidding. So I'm kind of like that.

0:42:10
I have that awareness.

0:42:12
So I not only have that awareness,

0:42:14
I also have the Siddha powers. The Siddhas, these are energies that I can transmit that are kind of powerful in helpful ways. So this is what I tried to help Ganesha with, but he was not responding well to it. But fortunately, Dolman Sheet had mentioned to Agni Kala that Ganesha had died. And Agni Kala immediately responded that he would help Ganesha. And this is quite an amazing thing, because I don't think I had really talked to Agni Kala in years, even though he's actually like my brother from another mother.

0:43:21
I don't know.

0:43:22
This is really pretty true. But yeah, so then Agni Kala just emails me and says, I heard about this, and I'm going to help. And I said, cool, great, fantastic. And many of the ST3s were a part of this ceremony, this meditation, where on the full moon, we meditated for two hours and then the next day as well. Now, what I noticed was, I was in Europe, and I was like, I don't know if I can get up at four in the morning because I'm so weird with sleep when I'm traveling. But what happened was I was asleep and I had all of a sudden Ganesha appear in my dream with this whole network of our sangha behind him. And then I was like, our Sangha behind him. And then I was like, then I got excited and it woke me up. So then I started, I did the meditation. And it was so bright, so amazing. It was a unique and cool experience for me. I was like, wow, this is different. And the thing I noticed afterwards is that Ganesha was immediately changed in a piece. And I was like, wow, this is amazing. So at that point, when I approached him in the second bardo, he didn't try to run from me. And he... I'm sorry, I was in a bar. And I said, okay, you are forgiven. And he's like, he did such a good thing. Oh, maybe I shouldn't have done that. And I was like, yeah, maybe not. But at that point, really, it became, instead of being stuck in a really bad place, it became a regular path of the bardo. So, what Agni Kala did was he worked with a very deep, eternal aspect of Ganesha. And I work more, I guess, on a transient level. So I work more in the surface and he worked more on a deeper level. And working on a deeper level, he was able to really break through and get Ganesha past this terrible, terrible state. With my techniques, I would have probably had to just hold him in the second bardo for like years. Really, I'd probably have to hold him there for years before he could start accepting and chilling out so that he could move on in a way where he wouldn't get messed up. Most people who kill themselves, their reincarnation is a bad one a very bad one Some of them Are born with very bad illnesses Physical defects Some of them are born in lower worlds Ghostly worlds or hell realms. It's very, very true. You can go in such a low state of mind, you just will not even meet the vibration of this planet anymore. So I think what Agni Kala did was tremendous, because he blasted Ganesh with light in such a way that Ganesh was able to let go of that horrible, dark state of mind. That would have ended very poorly with him. And I don't know if I could have fixed it. It might have taken years. And that would be a lot of boring work for me. I'm like, oh yeah, and then I got Ganesha. I'm still working with a lot of people in the barrows. It takes time for some of them. Some people, just point them in the right direction, give them a little push, and things go really well. Yeah, so Agni Kala has really powerful and also unique and different Siddhas for the bardos. And I think it's quite fascinating because they're ones that I'm not as practiced or proficient in. So it's kind of like, if you take a dojo, it's like the sensei is like perfect at kata, and the sensei can break through concrete blocks. And then the students, they all get their black belts and they're good, but one of the students might be good at kata, but not so good at the concrete blocks. And the other one might be like, smashing these blocks with super power. So, there's different techniques in the whole structure of the bardo teachings that our teacher have given us. And it's rare for us to have these sit-ups. It's quite uncommon, but for some reason we do. We've learned about it and it's just an inner teaching that we've It was quite an amazing thing to see that just after that first meditation, so much progress, so much help for Ganesha. So that was really good. However, Ganesha right now is still in the second detention. attention. Even though he's not going to go to hell anymore, he's still got trouble. Right now, or for the past week, he's been spending a lot of time with his family, especially just... And going around places of his old house down in Southern California where he grew up. So he's been doing a recapitulation there and getting ready to make peace with his family and his life there. He's already been around Bodie Woods. After his death, we've all felt him around, felt his awareness. A lot of you have seen his ghost and talked to him and things like that. But now he's been hanging out down in Southern California. And sometimes you see him up at Bodie Woods as well. So it's like when you're in the second bardo, you just will appear wherever your karma draws you to. And right now, at first it was all around Bodhi Woods and his spiritual study, and now it's more around family. Tonight, we will be helping him along to the third bardo. And the third bardo is where he really leaves this whole incarnation. So there's no more ghost of him hanging around. He really goes, let's say, very, very far away on his trip to his next incarnation. our Buddhist way of help. Now it's time for him to move on. And the trajectory that he's on right now is one that, you know, it's definitely better, but it's one that's difficult. So, When he goes through the third bardo, there will be some great difficulty. In the bardos, you face lots of different things. You face everything, actually. So when you go into the third bardo, it's similar to Buddha's enlightenment. So those of us who saw the movie Little Buddha, remember, or read the book,

0:53:22
Buddha's sitting under the Bodhi tree meditating,

0:53:24
and then he's facing all of these things. So he's facing this army that's coming to destroy him. He's facing earthquakes and tsunamis. He's also facing these things that draw him into desire, Mara's daughters. Mara is the god of illusion. So he's facing all of these things that look like they're going to destroy him and all these things that try to pull him into drawing his attention away from meditation. He's looking at all of these things and he brings peace to all of them, harmlessness to all of them. So when the tsunami is crashing down, the earthquake is happening, the army's attacking, and the wild animals are attacking, and the beautiful women are pulling him. He just is totally at peace. And there's a beautiful way of looking at it in the film, when all of the things are jumping in or flying in at him. The arrows that are flying turn into little rose petals when they get within his aura. So, if you study the bardo at all, you read about a lot of the things that you experience in the third bardo is just exactly what happened to Buddha under the Bodhi tree. All those crazy things happen. This happens to everyone when they die. They go through the third bardo. And if you're like Buddha, what will happen is those things will happen and you'll recognize them as a reflection of your own mind. And they will fall into rose petals. They'll become harmless. You won't be averse running from them and you won't be attracted to the other things that will pull you off. So that's when you have a very peaceful, bright state of mind. That's when you have concentration and stillness. But when you don't, then you go through all sorts of hell. Then all of those things affect you. people who've got troubled minds, they experience kind of a hell, a terrible difficulty during that time. So Ganesh, in that, going through the third varda, will experience a lot of hard times. A lot of hard times. But he will also have aid, because Agni Kala and I can help him. But it will be hard. It's not going to be easy. And right now, his karmic destiny leads him to the North Country, which is an unsettling noise. It's called an unsettling noise. And this is a direction of the mind that leads you into your next life. And it brings you to a place in life where you can have a long life and you can gain worldly merit and maybe some money too. However, there's not a lot of spiritual access there. So there without spirituality. There might be the Catholic Church. So this is the place that he's gonna end up. Right now, his karmic destiny is to end up in a place where he's cut off from the access to light that he had here and in previous lifetimes. So it's a bad decision. It's not a good way to go. And even when there's two bardo masters who are helping you, I guess really our teacher is the true master. We just are okay. We're capable. But even with help in the bardos, from people who know the Bardo's, it's not a good situation for him. I would sure hate to have that next incarnation. Right now, the entrance to his next life is going to be through the path of the densely filled will mean that during this experience of the Siddhāpaita Bardo, the fourth Bardo, the last Bardo between here and life, he will have a brighter experience. It will give him a rest, so that he has some time to kind of club med in the barnows. Club med in the barnows. But his next incarnation, to me, looks like it's going to be in India in about 40 years. And I'm like, wow, that's gonna suck. So, and, you know, maybe he'll be able to be a girl and take up judo.

0:59:55
That would be great.

0:59:59
Yeah, so maybe we can put in some lines in there, but we'll grow. And in 40 years, it will at least give him some connection to enlightenment. But not a very good way to go. Really great difficulty, great hardship. It's quite sad to see that someone would make such a mistake. And he agrees it's a mistake. Oops, I shouldn't have done that. It's kind of frustrating. And, you know, when people kill themselves, when they commit suicide, they're doing it because they want to get out of suffering. That's the reason. And I just really wish that you would listen to the teachings. Very simple, right? Buddha's first teaching, the four noble truths.

1:01:18
There's suffering in life.

1:01:19
So, you know, it's gonna hurt.

1:01:22
Things are gonna be hard.

1:01:23
But there's a cause to suffering. And then there's the end to suffering. And the end to suffering is the eightfold path. Right? Right intent, right action, right speech, right effort, right mindfulness, right meditation. And then the eighth one of course is right kill yourself. Oh wait a minute, no, Buddha didn't say that. See that's the thing. What Buddha taught actually works for ending suffering. But if you're like, OK, four noble truths, now I'm going to kill myself. It's like, wait, wait, wait, no, you missed it. That wasn't the eighth noble truth. I mean, that wasn't the eighth fold. Seriously. So it's really important to just really listen to the teachings. This was an enlightened master. If you want to get out of suffering, do what that teacher says. Don't make up your own, I'm going to add a ninth part to the eightfold path, blow my brains out. It doesn't make any sense. If you're in suffering, it would be smart to follow the enlightened teachings. This is a huge misinterpretation of the Buddhist teachings. It's the main problem. It's like the fundamental problem in understanding the basic first teaching of the Buddha, like at a spiritual level, right? If you're like, okay, Buddha says, follow the Eightfold Path, which is all of these virtuous observances, and then you kill yourself. Like, oh, wait, you wanted to get out of suffering, but you did it the opposite way. It's opposite day.

1:03:35
I'll do whatever I want.

1:03:36
So people want to get out of suffering, that's why they do it.

1:03:41
But the problem is, this is so true, it's so important, killing yourself doesn't end suffering. Your spirit goes on. It's like everyone, or many people in Bodhi Woods were aware of Ganesha's spirit still being there. So if he killed himself and that was just the end, then maybe he would have ended his dissatisfaction. But he goes on and I see him in horrible states of mind because he did something really horrible. And then he feels terrible-er. So in physics, they talk about energy. With energy, you can do lots of things to energy. You can manipulate it, you can change it and transform it. But one thing you can't do to energy, you can't destroy energy. You can't end your spirit. Your body can end, but your spirit will go on. Now, your spirit is enriched and feels better. If you follow the observances of the Eightfold Path, your spirit is illuminated. But if you do bad things, things that are ad dharma, against the way of truth, then your spirit becomes darker, confused. It starts going into a worse feeling. So when you kill yourself, it doesn't make your situation better. It magnifies the problems. Your spirit's not going to die when you kill yourself. Your spirit's going to go on in a worse way. So it's really important. I know I've said this before, so I'm surprised. I'm surprised that someone wouldn't listen. But it is so important to recognize that this is not the way to go. This is not the way to get out of suffering. If it wasn't for Agni Kala, he might have gone into a lower realm or had a next birth with a terrible physical ailment or something to burn off that karma. So that's not the right way. The right way is to really follow the teachings of enlightenment. They actually and really bring you out of suffering from time to time. You're not a master yet of going into the light and always being able to stay in the light. So what happens, I mean, and this was for Ganesh too, Ganesh has had amazing experiences of life where he was like, oh, I'm so happy, oh, I'm free from all my trouble, you know, and it just feels great. But then he goes into his life, into his routine, into his karma, and he feels terrible, terrible, terrible. But you have to remember that you do experience light. And this is something that, you know, not everyone experiences. This is quite magical and amazing. And you have to say, wow, I need to focus more on that light stuff. If I feel bad, let me focus on the light. It's important to do that, otherwise you just forget it. He forgot the light. I remember that class I had in Bodie Woods before I left. I said, so this time when I go to Europe, I want you guys to stay in high good positive states of mind And don't get sloppy. Don't be you know, it's like you have to be mindful And I want you guys to do better than last time So then I go away when you when you kill yours kills yourself. I'm like, well, that's not what I was teaching It's the opposite. The ego is the stupidest person I've ever met. Yeah, and it's a shame, because you can have beautiful, liberating, luminous experiences, or you could forget it all and be an idiot in the ego and do something stupid, like kill yourself, thinking that that's going to solve your problems. It doesn't. And then a really bad thing, Ganesha had two Skadidhas. He took care of them, he loved them, he took care of them meticulously and cared for them completely properly, and then just said, fuck it, kill themselves. And you're like, why did you do that? You know, breaking all bonds of, you know, this proper way to take a life and care for a life, it's ad dharma. It's against the way of truth. It's a horrible thing. Terrible. So when he does that, it's because he's siding with the darkest part of self, It's like there was a three Michelin star chef in the south of France. I forgot his name. But he was a three Michelin star chef for a number of years, and then the Michelin guide decided to take one of his stars away. sauces were good enough. Your sauces have lost the fire in the lake.

1:10:50
And he's always that mean.

1:10:51
But anyway, so they took away Michelin star and then the next day he shot himself. And he built this, he owned the restaurant. He and his wife were partners, and he worked so hard every day. 16 hours, 18 hours a day, these chefs work. Running the kitchen, running the business, running the house. He worked on it so hard, it was his passion. He loved it. He loved his wife, too. But when they took that Michelin star away, he just went into a self-spin. And he was like, oh, I'm useless, I'm terrible, I suck. And then he ended up just killing himself. And this was horrible. Just a terrible thing. It's similar to Ganesha leaving his dogs. Why would you leave this thing you've built, this thing you love? You know, he had a great relationship with his wife. Because you go into the ego, and the ego wants to solve a problem in a really bad way. That's what an ego does. So, it was interesting, the wife of the chef, she said, you know, it's... She's like, now I'm running the whole business, right? I'm running everything myself. She has a new executive chef, but she's working really hard to get everything working. And she said, you know, I'm gonna get it from a two Michelin star restaurant back up to a three Michelin star restaurant. And she said, you know, I wonder if he just killed himself because he didn't want to do all the work. It took him like years to go from two Michelin stars to three, and to go from two to three takes so much attention, so much work, right? So she's like, now he's giving me all the work. I have to work twice as hard. So yeah. It's really a silly thing to give up on the things that you love. So Ganesh gave up on his dogs. Crazy. Gave up on his sangha, his spiritual study, which he loved. Crazy. And it's because he got trapped in the self. Trapped in the self. So then he put a bag over his head and died. Now, when I was discussing this the night that we heard about it with Dolmajean. She thought that maybe he just had an inelegant way of getting the last potato chip. So he's going for that last one. Going for it and going for it until he runs out of it. So I had to find out, were there any potato chips left in there? And they said no, there was no potato chips in the bag at all. So that means that at least he succeeded in that. Well, you gotta have a sense of humor. So yeah, Doma Jeet and I, that night, I mean, I thought that was hilarious. But that night we had a humorous and super bright conversation. And it was quite, quite beautiful. So in Buddhism, killing yourself is considered, you know, it's not a very virtuous act. Because it really ends in hate. You hate your life, and that's what it means. And you sided with that hate to the point where you've created an action that creates a physical karma. And that's a complete act of hate. Very sad. There is a story of a woman who had lots of trouble. She had lots of difficulty. She, probably an ST1 woman, she had magicked people, and she had killed people with mysticism and like that. And then she felt horrible about it. So she went to Dojin Zenji, who is the founder of Soto Zen, and said, Can you help me? And he said, Yes. He said, Buddha is within you. And he said, I will teach you how to find Buddha within you. So she said, thank you, thank you, thank you. So she was so happy and so he said, okay, so I want you to sit down and then he started teaching her meditation. Okay, so we're going to sit and kind of gaze out here. It's a basic meditation technique. So she's meditating for like three or four minutes and then she just loses it, starts screaming, starts banging her head against the floor. And he's like, what is wrong with you? And she says, I want to die. She's like, I feel horrible. And she's like, I'm just going to kill myself. And he says, what? So it's really cute because you know how she feels maybe from meditating a little bit? Some days you're meditating and you're all like, You know, the things, the karmas come back, right? And you just hit these thoughts that just hurt, and you're like, Oh my God, this is so difficult. But he says, no, no, no, no, no. He says, you've got to work through that. You've got to let that come up, and you gotta let that go. And it will go in meditation. And she says, bullshit. She's like, you lied to me. There's no Buddha in me. And she's all, this is horrible. She's like, I'm going to go back to my old ways.

1:18:18
And then he says, no, no, no, no. You see, the reason that you can't see Buddha within you,

1:18:20
is because you have desire and concept. And when you have desire and concept, it fogs your awareness, it fogs your mind, and you can't see the Buddha that's right there. He's like, so, you just need to meditate. When those things come up and fog comes up, guess what? Just sit and the fog will eventually, in its time, roll away. And then he says to her, when you kill yourself, wait, when you kill yourself, you kill Buddha. So this is an act of hate when you kill yourself. And it's an act of hate to enlightenment, to Buddha. And it's not very good. So that gets her to kind of like, okay, I don't want to kill Buddha. I just thought Buddha wasn't in me. So I'm going to kill myself. But if you're telling me if I kill myself, I kill Buddha. That's a pretty intense statement. Death, killing yourself, being an act of hate, and Dojin Zenji, this totally enlightened master, saying you kill yourself, you kill Buddha. That makes it really personal. What are you trying to do? Kill Buddha? Anyone want to kill Buddha? No. Doesn't sound like a good idea. Want to kill yourself maybe sounds good. But when you recognize that when you kill yourself, you're killing Buddha, then that's a bit more of a problem. People want to commit suicide because they feel alone or they feel like they've lost something. They feel unsatisfied or they feel that they can't stop their suffering. They feel inadequate. They feel like their dreams have fallen apart. All of these reasons people want to commit suicide. This is what motivates them to fall into dropping out of the perspective of life and enlightenment and going into the self. Now, a lot of these reasons, these feelings, these awarenesses, these ideas, they come from personal history.

1:21:18
So, in personal history,

1:21:21
you look at what you have done in the past, and it seems very concrete. And you look at yourself and your awareness right now, and it seems like, just kind of like weird. Like, what am I right now? I don't know. If you're not a strong meditator, you don't have a strong sense of this moment. You seem insubstantial in this moment. You seem like you might not be one way or another in the moment. So therefore, you trust your personal history. Well, because I've done this, I've seen this, I couldn't do that, I couldn't do that. Then that's who I am. That in the past. And in the moment, if I really look at my mind, there's nothing concrete. It's all intangible. What do I do? I feel uncomfortable with it. Well, this is where a Buddhist lives in the moment. And it's great. There's nothing concrete. Everything's intangible, right? Everything's flexible. Everything's open. In this very moment, you can sit and experience enlightenment. But in the past you didn't, and in the past it was hard, and in the past, and the past, and the past. So if you're looking at the past to inform you of who you are, then that's where you come up with all these feelings of, I want to kill myself. Right? Because the things in the past seem so real. The things in the moment, I don't know.

1:23:01
Right?

1:23:02
Like, for most people, you look at, how do I feel in this moment? Sort of good or bad, or a little bit of this, a little bit of that. But what do you think of your past? Very concrete. I went to school, I got bullied, my mom said this, my dad said that, I couldn't do this, I couldn't do that. So we take the past as being very, very, very concrete, and the present, which is the place to really be aware of, Weird. I don't get it. Now, the thing that we don't recognize is that we choose the moments of our past. So you actually go into your past and you choose your personal history. You sit there and go, everything that happened in your past, certain things. Not a lot of times it's not the good stuff. A lot of times bad stuff. So you actually a lot of personal history is just a bunch of negativity. It's kind of the worst and lowest aspect of self. So I have a story. There were two farmers, and on their farms, they each had chickens, they each had cabbages, because I like cabbage, and they had honey, bees. So one of the farmers You know goes to the chicken coop, takes the eggs and goes out to the cabbages and then he puts them in a wheelbarrow He goes out, gets the honey Goes back to his house He's got food to eat And he also has enough to take to the market to sell and this is productive and good. Now the other farmer was not too smart and what he would do is he would go out to the chicken coop and instead of getting the eggs he would just scoop up all the chicken shit.

1:25:40
All right, cool.

1:25:41
And he goes out to the cabbages, and he picks up all of the rotten cabbages, all the bad ones, and leaves the other ones in the ground. Takes them, and he goes to the beehives, and he takes the beets, brings them to his house, right? His house stinks because of the crap. He's got a bunch of useless cabbages and he gets stung by the beets. Gosh darn it! Never works out And then he has nothing that he can take to the market. Except for his sorry self. This is not productive. So, for you, when you look at your past, what do you take from your past? Do you take the eggs or the shit? You know, do you take the cabbages that are healthy? That are useful? Or do you take a bunch of garbage that's useless? Do you take the honey or do you take the paint? and a lot of people take a lot of shit, they take a lot of useless stuff, a lot of pain, and they say, this is my personal history. They don't look at their lives in a happy, bright way, even for personal history. So when you bring all that difficulty, all the pain, all the useless garbage, and all the crap, when you bring that as your concrete reality, yeah, why not kill yourself? It's like, that's horrible. But if you recognize that even in your past there has been, you know, the good stuff, things that are healthy and productive, there's been sweetness and goodness, then you say, oh, okay, I'm happy, I can move on. But really we want to let go of personal history this moment. Be here. Then you're really experiencing life directly. All of its opportunities. No definitions of who you are and what you're capable of. But most importantly, no crap, no uselessness and no pain, because that's all personal history. So another thing that people forget about in experiencing the thoughts of, I want to kill myself, is they forget that you're leaving your dogs behind and they're going to be sad, they think that they have no value and that it's better for them to be dead. And then the truth is that people care. Your dogs care. Your songa cares. Your parents care. If you think about the positivity that you have in your community or in your family or with your dogs, then you connect back with love and unity. And it keeps you going, going through the hard times. And we all have hard times, but it's important to always bring your perspective to light and unity To you know good things noble things and not into darkness It's very important Because I need you know a lot of people who want to kill themselves they say well They say, well, it's everyone else, my dogs are better off if I'm dead. You know, my friends are better off if I'm dead. My family is better off if I'm dead. This is not true. That's just such a limited way of looking at it. You know, it's the opposite way of looking at it. You have to connect with that love and unity and not say, I'm a hindrance to that.

1:30:50
You can't say that because that's not true.

1:30:53
Once you kill yourself, then they're all upset. And that's something that people, if you had someone you're close to who killed themselves, some people don't get over that their whole lifetime. They're upset about it and don't understand it and confused about it for their whole life. Why did my friend kill himself? And they just can't come to grips with it. So it's actually, that's the kind of thing that happens when you kill yourself. You're giving these loved ones this horrible experience. So it's not true that killing yourself makes it easier for anyone else. That is not the dharma. It's not the truth. It's just the self looking at itself in a selfish way. It's just the ego. So that can't be an excuse. You can't say, I'm being selfless by killing myself. No, it's not true. That's the wrong way to look at it. But this is something that people think when they want to kill themselves. This is something that Ganesh thought. He thought, oh, it's probably better if I just die. And he just didn't look at things right.

1:32:08
And some people kill themselves

1:32:10
because they're being ridiculous. They're like, oh, I'm done with this world. This world is so sucky. If I kill myself, then I will move on to a better world. Yeah, some people do that. That's another motivation. They're just so satisfied with this world that they just want to end it so that they can move on and think that they get a better situation. Which reminds me of a story with Mahakasyapa. Remember him? We talked about him before. He was speaking to a prince trying to talk to him about the Dharma. And the prince was like, ah, if there's a virtuous person like myself, like I should kill myself, because that means that when I die, because I'm virtuous, I will have a higher birth. So he's like, I'm gonna kill myself, isn't that great? Mahakasyapa was like, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And the prince is convinced, this is the thing to do. And then Mahakasappa tells him a story of something that had happened recently, which was there was a very, very powerful Brahmin, very noble Brahmin who died, had two wives. One of them had a daughter and was going to get all of the inheritance, or most of it. The other one didn't have a kid yet, but was pregnant, very pregnant, like seven months pregnant, something like that. And so she was just like, wow, you know, if I have a son, then I'll get most of the inheritance. So she's like, okay, I can't wait. I want to get ahead of myself here, right? So what I'm going to do, I'm just going to open myself up and check to see if it's a son. So she cuts herself open, finds the baby and dies before she can figure out if it's a boy or girl. And then the baby dies as well. So Mahakasyapa says, don't get ahead of yourself. It never works out well. In terms of, you know, killing yourself. Yeah, because, you know, really, if you're, if you really are a virtuous person, killing yourself is going to send your virtue in the opposite direction. No matter what you think. You're like, I'm going to kill myself because I'm virtuous. And then oops, that was actually a truth against truth. And then you experience all sorts of bad states of mind, dark states of mind. And you'll hit that reality and say, oops, maybe I shouldn't have done that. Not a good idea. In Theravada Buddhism, killing yourself breaks the first rule. So you get the Four Noble Truths, and then you get the Five Precepts. And the first rule of the Five Precepts is, don't kill. Don't kill anything. Don't kill another person. Don't kill yourself. Killing is the first thing that you don't want to do, because it's bad. So in Theravada Buddhism, if you would break that rule, then you'd get kicked out of the Sangha. So all the monks who wanted to kill themselves, they're like, oh, I better not. I don't want to get kicked out of the Sangha. But if you're dead, does it matter? Yes, it does. Then you won't have the help of the sangha. So what some Buddhist monks did, honestly, truly, if they wanted to die, they got someone to kill them. They're like, oh, I can't kill myself because that would be breaking the first precept, so could you please kill me, okay? So they would just go over to some bad people and do that. It's totally true, they did.

1:36:32
Losers.

1:36:33
And then there was Mahayana Buddhism.

1:36:36
And in Mahayana Buddhism, that's where they started getting a little weird. They started going, well, you could kill yourself for selfless reasons, because this is the path of the bodhisattva, the path of compassion. So they take that story of Buddha in a previous incarnation when he was a bodhisattva, and there was a hungry lion that needed food and was gonna die, so Buddha goes over and says, I will give you my body so you can live. And then the lion is like trying to eat him, but the lion is so weak that he can't eat Buddha. So Buddha like cuts flesh off of his arm and gives it to the lion. Then the lion gets a little stronger and then eats it. Right, so the Mahayana Buddhists say, ah, that's so beautiful, that's so amazing. And they say, yeah, let's do that. So, you know, for Mahayana Buddhists, they could see that a really selfless, compassionate act of suicide is okay. And we'll get into that a little bit later. All right, I'm gonna let you guys take a bit of a break. I'm going to keep you captive.

1:38:03
All right, thanks everyone. Please have a seat.

1:38:05
Agni Kala. Introducing Agni Kala.

1:38:09
Oh man, me and Agni Kala, we go back.

1:38:12
We were on security together. Yeah, so let's see. We did a lot of yoga together. They all did. I think Oliver was our, he was our ed.

1:38:31
We have a salesman teacher.

1:38:36
And let's see, but security was like, that was the thing. We did a lot of security together. It was really awesome. And I think that was where, in terms of a yoga project, our teacher was very happy with us. So that was good. Anyway, so I'm just gonna hang out,

1:38:59
and he's gonna tell us.

1:39:01
I'm gonna tell us.

1:39:01
I'm gonna tell us.

1:39:02
I'm gonna tell us.

1:39:03
I'm gonna tell us.

1:39:04
I'm gonna tell us.

1:39:05
I'm gonna tell us. I'm gonna tell us.

1:39:06
I'm gonna tell us.

1:39:07
I'm gonna tell us. I'm gonna tell us. I'm gonna tell us. I'm gonna tell us.

1:39:11
I'm gonna tell us.

1:39:11
I'm gonna tell us.

1:39:12
I'm gonna tell us.

1:39:13
I'm gonna tell us. I'm gonna tell us. Yeah, so as you said, we've done a lot of really cool things with our teacher. And it's been a magical experience all throughout. And he's a magnificent being and you're in such good care. It's unfortunate of the situation that just happened, but perhaps, as you put it before, it is a lesson that we can learn from and grow and not let it affect our sense of spiritual commitment to continue focusing on the light. And tonight I had sort of an idea as far as what I wanted to share some experiences that I just discussed outside because he told me that you guys love the Anza Roca Desert. And it's a beautiful place, and I'm sure he's taking you to some really, really powerful spots. And to be able to put yourself in such dimensions is as if you're being put through a pressure wash, where all your karma just gets completely washed away. And suddenly your entire world, your personal history as it was described before, stops. And there's just this feeling of complete stillness. and you're filled with the sense of eternity and you can connect with that sense of spirit and that personal history again has no place to connect with it because it doesn't reach to the being and in most places over there, not even cell phone reception

1:41:06
is able to get in touch with it.

1:41:09
So the good thing to know when you go to the desert is that if your phone doesn't get in your reception,

1:41:12
then you're starting to enter some really good spots. The world is not going to be hooked to your mind into, oh, what you have left undone, or people trying to contact you through email or text messages and things like that. So it's a good thing. And you're again, feeling in good care with Sambara. He's an amazing being and I love him very dearly. So, I wanted to just first begin to share some places in the Aztec-Huerta Desert that at some point in the future perhaps if we happen to coincide, I will take you to those places. We'll all go together and spend some beautiful time there. This place is called Bias Cave. It's a place where, again, no self-reception. As you enter the wash, it's as if you're entering a spiritual dojo, where you leave all your story behind, and you drive in. Sometimes, because of the flood, the landscape changes every year. So, and sometimes it isn't accessible for cars, so you have to park on one side and just walk the rest of the way. But the place, the time to go and see is the full moon, because everything there just glows. And it's not so much as just a description, but when you're there and nothing, the rest of the world outside reaches out to you, then you're able to just feel completely the oneness of the desert and the loving care of all those carping beings in there. It's an amazing place. So, I've spent a lot of full moons there. And it's just my way of being able to kind of use the trainings that our teacher imparted to us, but at the same time, honor a tradition of my grandfather to be able to connect with the desert and the beings in a time of power. And the full moon is when basically, as we all know, full moon, tide gets pulled right closer to the shore, right? Up the ocean. So the same thing with our energies, they get pulled out. So every aspiration that we might have to unfold, to be able to expand, is much easier to do at that, and especially in the desert. So, this I was there. And this is the time when I was helping Ganesha as well. And when I was calling the allies and doing the drumming, and as I started to arrive, rocks started to roll down the rock walls. And for a moment, I had to kind of stop. But then I just took a deep breath and I just allowed it to happen. So, it wasn't just the things that I was able to help with, but it was also the help of all those beings because they understand the process of the Bahá'í Plains and also living and dying. And if we're able to connect with those beings in a very beautiful way, in a very natural way, they're there to help. And in our daily living, we forget to connect with beings like that of purity, because we are so drawn away with what happens during our calendar of the day, you know, the process forget to center and remember that. So, some of the things that Samara was mentioning earlier about personal history is definitely something that takes our sense of, you know, it's okay. Things will be okay when things get hard. And the interesting thing is when things get hard, that's the time when we should mostly focus on the spirit, on the energy of purity. And whatever thoughts we had in the past, just disappear. And they are no longer able to hook us. In a way, as he was describing before, when the Buddha and the Arhats were being shot at him, and then they turned into flowers, it is exactly the same way. So, as we connect with that energy field and we're surrounded by it, that any thoughts that either comes from us trying to hook our mind or it comes from other beings out there that they might know about us, it comes in and it just dissolves into pure light. It does not reach us. So it's important to be able to always be aware of where your thoughts are every to also think in terms of your words, what kind of words are we bringing into the world. It is also important to think in terms of the kind of life, the quality of life that we live and the kind of food that we eat. And that was part of some of the thoughts that I wanted to share with you this time about appreciating life, about connecting the virtue of this beautiful gift that we have been given. It is in this life that we begin to unfold, we begin to reconnect back with that sense of eternity with us. Because we are spiritual beings who are having a human experience. But as we are born in this life and we are basically being imprinted with all the thoughts of culture, all the thoughts of where we come from, and all this kind of stuff that suddenly we forget that. We forget to connect with that spirit. And as we become aware of our thoughts, then we're able to connect with that sense of eternity, that sense of divinity within us. Because every single one of us are divine beings. But our mind tells us otherwise. Society tells us otherwise. It only shows us the temporal state of our existence. The age, the ethnic background, the name. And most of you, I would tend to guess that, already have spiritual names. So when you have that spiritual name, then basically every single time someone says your name, they're seeing that sense of eternity, that sense of divinity in you all the time. There is no sense of duality where at your job or with your friends you have another name and with your spiritual friends you have another name. You're not trying to maintain two entities in a way. It becomes water. So, in our path, we were introduced to mysticism. And mysticism is a very pure and natural way of looking at life. And life is magical all the time, but we don't connect with it because again, our mind is connected to our temporal sense of awareness all the time. So when we start to become more aware of that, then our thoughts, like I mentioned before, are we bringing in the chicken shit? Are we bringing in the eggs? Right? So, because those two types of thought energies do exist in us all the time. But we have to consciously choose the eggs. We always have to think of something that is beautiful, that produces, that creates, rather than something that degrades, that stops life from continuing. So, becoming aware of your thoughts is extremely important in the practice of the Dharma. Because we are, like the Buddha, sitting, connecting with a sense of eternity all the time. And every time we choose the temporal, then it has a strong pull. It's like a huge planet that just sort of gravitates towards us and just pulls us right into its own gravitational field. And then if we're not aware of that, then suddenly we find ourselves attached to that gravitational field, and we cannot escape. Until either someone or a thought sparks into our mind, something that is positive, something that is beautiful, something that is full of light, then suddenly we start gaining our own sense of energy, and then we pull away from it, and we become ourselves again. So the other part of it is the words, the kind of stories that we tell to our friends or to ourselves every single day when we wake up. Sometimes, yes, it is true. Perhaps we thought work would be extremely demanding of our attention. When we wake up, it's like, I'm an actor, I'm out of the office. That thought right there, basically, it eats you an entire day. That one little thought. It may sound as innocent as that, but it sets a change of events that at the end of the thoughts, not just of ourselves, but also of others is very important. And it's not to say that we're better than anyone else, it's just that we're a little bit more aware. We're not just following the same drama story that we see around all the time, whether it's on TV, or the internet, or just in our social circles. And you will notice, it's kind of interesting, that as we have outside social circles, the kind of stories they tell is always about the victim mentality. It's always something bad that happened to them, or something that is not even real, like this character in this movie or this TV show was saying this about the other character. When we really look through that, that doesn't exist. It was just completely made up, but somehow in our minds it's real. So, important of our thoughts,

1:52:32
of where we place our thoughts,

1:52:33
it's almost like think in terms of like, you know, investing. You invest your thoughts in things that will produce dividends, or you invest your thoughts in something that will basically be an empty investment that suddenly you'll realize you have nothing to show for. The other thing is something very important that all of us have to use it in order to exist, and that is food. And from a mystical perspective, food is alive. And as we may go to the grocery store and buy a nice, delicious piece of steak or a fillet of fish or a chicken cutlet or a beautiful green full of prawn vegetable, right? So bringing it home in our minds, we're not thinking it's just a piece of thing that we're going to put it together and eat it. We're not consciously aware of the amount of energy that it took to have that one small vegetable down from the field over to your plate. A huge amount of coordination in terms of people working the field, people driving the trucks, and unloading the trucks, putting it right into the shelves so that we can reach out and grab that one piece of vegetable bunch.

1:54:04
So we pick the best one,

1:54:07
the one that has a really bright vibration from it. Then we look at a piece of steak. And as we look at the piece of steak, it might look really nice and fresh, right? So we take it home and cook it and say, okay, I just ate a nice filet mignon. I'm sorry, I don't mean to insult anyone who is a vegan or something like that, but even in that case, if you're a vegan or if you're a vegetarian, there's still life that basically is sacrificed so you can exist. So we are beings who consume other beings, but we don't respect what I've just given you. I've given you my body for you to exist. So anyway, so we get the steak, we bring it home, and taking the mystical approach, you wash it with the Purifying Element which is water. And at that moment you realize that you are actually honoring that living being that probably three days or a week before was ideally walking in the field, eating grass, was a living being that you are having a peace outlook right at that moment. So then that's when magic starts to happen. You begin to see and honor those living beings that have just been sacrificed so you can exist right at that moment. And then magic starts to unfold right before your eyes. you may need to already go with the mindset of saying, OK, I'm going to bring a bag full of groceries. But instead of groceries, you'll say, I'm going to go and bring a bag full of living beings to my house. And when you get there, you clean them, you honor them, you give them thanks for sacrificing their lives so you can have a meal that night, or that day, or that morning. And by doing so, we are basically honoring the circular flow of life. So as we begin to give a sense of magic around you all the time. And when we walk outside and you see someone completely being unaware, not conscious of what they're doing, then naturally we'll feel a sense of compassion to maybe try to make their day better. Right? Someone could be having a bad day, you know, they could be sad, they just lost them, like for example in this case, Dinesh, alright? And wouldn't it have been nice if for example some of you were walking in some place thinking of what happened and some stranger out of the blue just came over and said, It's going to be okay, I love you, have a great day. Or just, not even their love, because in some cases we'd be like, well, you're kind of weird.

1:57:41
And just say, have a great day.

1:57:47
And just because of that simple gesture of that person, people set a chain of events where your day really becomes much better, much brighter. Because someone was able to acknowledge that there was something not quite right with you at that moment. So likewise, you do the same. It doesn't take much to go walk up to somebody and if you happen to notice that they're really not having a good day, just smile and say We say, have a great day. And that in itself is a Buddhist way for us to try and help them. Because sometimes, as soon as we engage, they want more. And they keep on drawing us into conversations. And then when you get to that place, it's like, OK, well, I've got to go now. It's a sense of, you don't want to leave them, but you really have to go. Because they were in such a bad emotional state that it's almost like a,

1:58:55
you guys know what a remora is, right?

1:58:57
It's basically like a sucker fish that sticks right to a shark. So that person, because of their emotional state, it kind of shrivels. And as soon as they see someone bright, someone happy, they want to stick to it because they want to be able to feel that sense of light and the sense of happiness in you as well. So then that's why we just wish them well and just walk away. You don't engage unless you really feel called to engage with that person for a bit longer. And for all you know, it could be the person who is just the right person at just the right time, that they were waiting to hear a little bit more about perhaps what you do. And then it's like, you know, I'm interested in Buddhism. I'm interested in meditation. I'm interested in becoming a better person in this world. Because this world as it is right now, it's extremely thick. The consciousness of this world is filled with drama and pain and suffering. And it's hard to look out there, especially for us that we have worked the ego away and we've been able to kind of be conduits of our lineage, to say, we want to make this world a better But as we look out there, there's so much suffering, there's so much pain and suffering that it becomes overwhelming. So while we want to help, we also want to be able to conserve our energy. We always want to conserve ourselves so we can be helped tomorrow, or the day after, or a year after. In some cases, if we get drawn into a situation where we want to help right away and we get drawn into a place where suddenly we lose our sense of direction, then it's kind of hard to get back to it because we've lost all that power that we have accumulated through dharmaic practices. Meditation is definitely one of the ways to be able to get into that center space and to be able to gain, I'm not game. It's almost as if when we meditate, we go into a place of self-creation of energy. And the more we let go of the ego, the more energy creates within us, and the bubble of energy grows around us, and it keeps on growing. It's almost, it's called like a self-fulfilling light experience. It keeps on happening always, all the time. And that's something, a practice that has been practiced for eons and is still true today. So having that appreciation for life is extremely important because we're not just saying we value our life, but we also value your life and also the beings who are not able to speak, we also value their life and their participation in this human experience. So by having that mentality, we're able to karma points or... So, and as we become older, and I'm sure a lot of us are already at that place where our parents are getting to that end phase of their life. And some of us have already gone through the process of losing someone who we love, someone very important in our existence in this life. So the other part of it that I wanted to touch base or to share some thoughts with you is about being joyful about the dying process. Life and death are natural events and we have the opportunity to choose to see it as a transition process or as an end phase. And most of us, we are extremely afraid of dying. But in reality, what that means, we know when we look at it from a Buddhist perspective, death is absolute. It will happen. But what we do not know is all that life that occurs between the process of now to the dying point. So, since death is absolute and life is uncertain, then we kind of go, as he said before, we identify with the personal history that we know. And we bring the past to the present, and then the present becomes the future. So if we were told, if we were telling ourselves, I was born with this particular way of thinking, and that becomes the present, and that also becomes the future. So by being able to recognize those stories that of our past, of our family, that we're able to bring it into the present and change that. Change it into something that is happier, more beautiful. And then we begin to develop a sense of gratitude for life. And we begin to then share it with our friends, with our family members, how much we love them. And we take this opportunity to basically express to them how we feel, rather than waiting, like in most cases, to the point where they're in their deathbed, to then go and say, oh, I am sorry, mom or dad, or brother or sister, for, you know, I'm sorry I did this to you, I hope you forgive me. It's too late already. All those years in the train, they could have been used to drop that history and free them from that weight, Drama does have a weight. It weighs heavy on people. And if you notice, just physically, someone who's sad, then naturally they just kind of go like this. Because they're under this weight, this emotional weight. So, start embodying that appreciation and gratitude for life, and express it to your loved ones, specifically your family, your mom and dad, because whether it is a good or bad relationship you have, they were the ones who were the participants in bringing us into this world. So we go to them and if we did have some emotional things that we have to undo with them, then we go to them from a surrender state and we express our love and we ask for their forgiveness while they are alive. Not wait until they are almost dead to then say. Because what will happen is that they will be liberated from that wait and so will you. And then the time that is between that time and their death, it will be spent in a joyous way. Where every time you would spend time with them, it's beautiful and you're grateful to them. So yes, it can be difficult to embody that sense of surrender because we have the ego and the ego is this really strong foe or ally. So we can choose to undo the ego by undoing our history or we can choose to have that ego predict the outcome of the future. So having an awareness of our thoughts in terms of telling us certain lies that we couldn't do before is a way to basically perpetuate that ego mentality into the future. So if there's anything that you ever wanted to do now, you were attracted to, but you, because you didn't have the right training, but you didn't take the right courses, didn't meet the right people, there's this feeling saying, well, I don't know how to do that, so therefore, I will not know how to do that. Take the time today to do it, to experience that, because as we give ourselves to that experience, we go to that place of authenticity where the structures of the mind just dissolve, because we're looking at it from a child's, wanderer's perspective, because it's so new, it's so beautiful. And in some cases, it could be a musical instrument, in some cases it could be a beautiful painting that you might have wanted to create. Because part of our training was to be able to go to that place of creativity. Because in that training is where we're able to release energy. We're able to kind of put ourselves in the way where eternity basically speaks through us, through creation. and sometimes in the past that message got sort of crossed and went into procreation. So most of us, we are part of this social structure, we are told by a certain age you are supposed to have a degree, amount of money and then kids. And the pressure is extremely strong there from our families because they have been perpetuating that mentality for centuries. And for all we know, we could be coming from the same family. But because it's been so long ago, it seems that we come from different places. But if you look at the experience, the human experience in this world, it all goes back to, from an anthropological perspective, it all goes back to one place. It all goes back to that first female and male, right? That the entire human experience spawned from there. perhaps having an understanding of that flow of life, then it gives you an opportunity where you can have more choices here in this planet. To choose whether to perpetuate the story of society, that kids and family that has to keep reproducing itself or to a place where you want to give birth to the Buddha within. And we've heard the saying that, you know, the seed is in the lotus, right? The jewel is in the lotus. And that is the Buddha within us. And the more we work on peeling the petals of that lotus, then suddenly that jewel is revealed. And that is the Buddha within all of us. So we have to choose that. If we choose that, then we can get to that place of purity. Everything else is all temporal. And yes, we will get a lot of slack from society because we don't have kids.

2:10:53
But that in a way, especially nowadays,

2:10:58
it's extremely important to think in terms of what's the human experience currently, right? We're seven and a half billion people so far. And within 30 years, if we keep going the way we're going, our entire species, our planet is going to be destroyed because of the amount of energy that it requires to maintain all these people and suddenly the natural resources are going to be completely depleted and Mother Earth is not going to be able to renew herself again, or be able to create the nurturing elements that we use to exist. And then we'll go into pre-packaged food, which we're already in now. And that's something that part of the awareness of the kind of food that you put in your body. Fast food, not so good. And pre-packaged food, very convenient, very easy. You get home, put it right in the microwave, done. But what you're actually doing is you're putting into your body something that is extremely, extremely damaging to your system. Those preservatives do a great job of preserving it in here. And then suddenly we start having digestive problems. So, but because the industry doesn't want us to know that. They just want us to focus on look how convenient it is. You worked all day, come home, here's the pizza, here's the whatever, put it in the microwave, all done. And as you probably know in Europe, the use of microwave has been discontinued. Actually it's not recommended because of the way it So, being aware of just those simple things like that, it creates a deeper awareness, a deeper respect for life. Not just life that surrounds us, but also that life that is within us. There is this feeling, this pain, that as Sumbara mentioned before, when we meditate, suddenly there is this feeling of something like needles in our bodies, right? That is part of the external ego, this structure of the matrix, of the social matrix, that is trying to come back in again to let us know, You cannot do that. I want your energy. You must be my domain. So, and part of that is also our own doings, our own history, that is trying to come back to us. Because that's what we know. That is what is concrete. We have direct conscious contact with it. So therefore we believe it's real. What is unknown, the experiences that we haven't had yet are not as clear. Therefore, we're not able to just go into that mode of wonder to say, you know, I'm really curious, what's going to happen tomorrow when I wake up, the kind of experience, the thoughts I'm going to have, ideas that I'm going to have. And especially since all of us are in technology, we might somehow when we wake up or even in the dream plane, we could dream up an idea that as we wake up, it is a brilliant idea that we can make lots and lots of money with, right? And then we can use that money to take care of us, our families, our sangha, and then we can focus on truly unfolding, being pure light. So there are many mantras out there, mantras of abundance that perhaps you've been told about before or that you know. All those mantras definitely do have power and it will require the commitment to repeat those mantras. So then it can bring your consciousness to that place of creation. It can bring that consciousness to the place of multiplicity. From one, many will become.

2:15:25
So...

2:15:27
When I heard the news, I truly felt the pain and the ripples, the emotional ripples that Ganesha's passing caused in the sangha. And even though I didn't have that connection like you or Sambara had with him, I cried. I really cried. I just felt, this is not real. Why? I just could not make sense in my mind as to why it happened. Right? But sometimes there's a reason. Sometimes it may be the time that that person has to leave his plane So he can go through the process of renewing itself again, back into this world. And he can take whatever, as he puts it, perhaps, you know, 40 years, which is possible. And at least he would have that ability to go through the process of purging of what he did. So we learn from those experiences. We look at it as a growing experience, not as something that we would focus on how sad it was, although the reality is, but we can learn to see the beauty and the growth of that, and for ourselves to begin to be more grateful for our life, for the opportunity that we have to be on the path of Dharma. I look around, everyone's happy, bright faces, right? We're talking about something beautiful, something timeless. But I can promise you, right out there in some other place, there is some partying going on, or bars, or just having a great time, completely immersed in the temporal world, not even considering that their spirit also needs to be nurtured. Because our spirit, if we don't put it in the line with Dharma, eventually atrophies, eventually becomes small. And everything else around is all temporal. And then we're born back into this life or some other life. But because we're here, that means we have been attracted, at least we've been open to the possibility that our spirit has more of a magical element than just partying around like most people are doing right now, Saturday night, right? So yeah, it's very important that we grow from this experience as human beings but also as spiritual beings and we continue with the journey, with the experience of enlightenment. Because enlightenment, it can happen like to connect with that light immediately will require an intense amount of energy, but at the same time just letting go of everything. And some of the practices that we were recommended was to, it's just like doing spring cleaning, right? We look at our light and say, well, are the things that are working for me? What are the things that are not working? So we take the things that are not working and we don't look at it as something that did not work or we cannot look at it as something that is negative. More like negative experiences of showing me what I will not do in the future. You let it go. You put it in a little, you know, bin where it could be said to someone who may truly need a pair of shoes or a shirt or a t-shirt or perhaps some other things like furniture that you've had there for so long that you need to change it around a little bit. You may notice that when there is this sense of changing around in your own living space space, then suddenly things begin to sparkle. Because our living spaces are literally our monasteries. Because we live in a modern society right now, we don't have that mental or direct experience of going to a monastery to practice our mantra or our dharma. We don't live in a monastery, we live in the world. That's why it's called counter-mentalism. So, as we begin to work and to clean our environments around, then light flows, it starts glittering, and the more we put ourselves in it, then it becomes something sacred, our place becomes something sacred. And we have been told, it was more like a gentle suggestion, that our meditation area has to be clean, where we have to honor it like an altar, in this case, have flowers there. Because as soon as you walk into your meditation place, you are basically greeting the divine within, the Buddha within, that is the one who is sitting in that meditation mat. So by having flowers there, you are acknowledging that yes, I am also the Buddha. The Buddha is within. And I will do whatever it takes to shed all this external crazy things that I've been carrying in my life, all this weight, this emotional weight, dramatic weight, and connect with the Buddha and be here and now in this present. Because every single time we choose light and the Dharma, it's the time where we gain more merit, where we're able to advance quicker. So we have to be aware of all those thoughts and all those environments as to where we place our own bodies, ourselves too. Sometimes, like we're,

2:22:07
kind of interesting,

2:22:08
we could be training in martial arts for two decades, right, so we know the techniques really well, we know how to defend ourselves, and sometimes, some foolish people, they would put themselves in a situation where they actually have to defend their life. They go to places just so they can practice their martial art. And I can attest to that, because I did that when I was young. When I started Goju-Ryu, which is Japanese martial artist, our sensei used to, Aaron Banks, crazy guy, but man, that guy can punch through, as mentioned before, through walls. The dojo was quite as big, a little bigger than this one, like kind of towards the back where the hallway's outside. When he would walk in, he had it worked, his knuckles really, really well, right? So he's got a nice padding up here. So I look him over and say, I want to teach you how to punch really. And he'll come over and just punch the ground. And you can, I mean the floor, the wooden floor, and you can literally feel the vibrations all the way to the other end of the floor. So, and yeah, of course you're young, he's like, I can do this, you know?

2:23:38
I can do that.

2:23:39
I can do that.

2:23:40
So, I lived right about three blocks away from Central Park. So, my friends and I, from karate class, would actually go into Central Park at night, just so we could perhaps find a situation where we had to actually get to practice. But like the rest, we never really had to be confronted with a situation where perhaps our life or her life could be threatened. Because part of a martial arts training is to not just develop the ability to be able to kill someone with a blow, but also to develop that control to not kill someone with a blow, to not put yourself in situations where you actually have to use that technique. So again, we don't go to places like that. And that works the same way with social environments, right? Do we go to a bar to have a social good time with our friends? Or do we get together at home and again we've got the vegetables and we've prepared a beautiful Dharma meal right at that moment for all for our guests and we enjoy each other's company and engage in dharmic talks and delight. So by doing that, then we're basically foregoing all kinds of potentialities that could have happened outside. Because we could be completely aware we're driving our car down the street and suddenly some crazy guy who was just partying next door comes over and crashes into us. And there he goes. So then we're put with a situation where we either could lose our life there, or we have to deal with an unfortunate situation that then could create a lot of stress in the future. So we're very careful as to where we put our bodies, where we put our thoughts, the kind of food we eat. And as you start becoming, again, embodying that awareness, magic will be revealed. In every single thing you touch, in every single thing you see, you will see the vegetables will start vibrating with energy. The meat, so we'll do the same. The prana in there. So then as we go to other supermarkets to get more in the future, then we're able to recognize the vibration of what's good. And as soon as we get there, it's something that's just there, vibrating, just shining. Just grab it. If it asks questions, grab it. I mean, pay for it, but... I just walked away. Because eventually I have to take down the card. So yeah, it's very very important to be grateful about life. To be grateful about the opportunity that we have to be aware of that all the time. And again, the more we practice it, the more we do it, it becomes an innate body knowledge. Just like every single one of us, right, when we're riding a bicycle, when we first learn to ride a bicycle, we've fallen many times, right? But as soon as we got that, oh, I gotta balance. So, a block, two blocks, three blocks, and then suddenly we keep riding the bike. So that actual experience, that knowing, becomes part of our bodies, and it stores in our bodies. So the next time in the future, when we hop in the bike, we're not consciously thinking, okay, so I need to grab the handlebars and then start pedaling. And then kind of bounce around, we don't think about it. It's just an automatic reaction. We just get on it, keep going. So it's the same thing with choosing where your thoughts go, with choosing the kind of foods you have, with choosing kind of places we go to, or the kind of people that we surround ourselves with. So it becomes an innate knowledge and then the struggle falls away and the more beauty, happiness and joy we'll have. Alright, now laps. So, unity is something that brings a lot of power to a group of people or to a sangha. And in this case, as unfortunate as it may be, Ganesha's passing, but it is a moment when unity is most needed. And as we either see his residual energy or part of his spirit, instead of, oh, you know, sorry, oh. Ganesha, thank you for being part of our life and we wish you well. Go into the light and with that love all the time like that. And you let him go, you wish him well. So he's not, so that the energy of the spirit doesn't get pulled back in here because in the ritual of death, right, in the past I'm sure most of us have either been present or seen it within our families. There is the procession of the body taking them to the cemetery and then there the mother or the whole family is just crying. That spirit, all it wants, it just wants to be able to go into the spirit world. It wants to go through the process of cleansing itself, but because the conscious being who were part of his or her life are pulling him back with those feelings of sadness down. It's almost like getting a harpoon, right? The spirit is trying to fly. In a way it's a very selfish act from us, the living, to do that to the spirit. Because by trying to kind of bring it back, it's almost as if he or she is going to comfort us, but in reality, he or she is already done with his life. They're gone, their body is no longer animated, meaning the anima in the body is no longer there. So, he or she wants to go. So now, perhaps, in your own experiences, and the lines of emotional lines that you have had with Ganesha, every time there is a thought, a feeling that comes, or is aroused by the memories, just send them a light. It's almost as if you're saying, oh thank you, and you're just letting the balloon just fly, just severing the lines, letting him go, letting him do his thing. So yeah, unity is very important, and I think from what I see and feel here, everyone is very united, and it's a really beautiful thing to see. So this experience, instead of creating any kind of uncomfortable feelings or emotional feelings, it should be considered more of a unified act. That now, by being together, you're stronger, you're more powerful as a Sangha. And any external forces out there that probably hear stories about... And that's something that I just sometimes when I think about it, it makes me feel somewhat a deep level of, not sadness, but almost pity for our Siamese, the first generation. You know, they have somehow been introduced or they started to pick up the practice of energy beings from the mystical perspective and live in a false sense of power where they are able to connect with those beings and then those beings, because there are beings who are doing their work in a way, they sort of make them feel as if they're empowered. But in reality, it's a temporal power that eventually once that living person no longer is able to feed those beings, they just leave. And that person is basically just like a... I can't think of a movie, but it's an image that comes to my mind of a being coming in and just draining the body and the body just becomes like completely dry and stale. So once the being is actually like that, then their spirit is completely consumed by those entities. So, and maybe perhaps as a word of caution for us to, even if we come across that, to always choose the And we know that they may be practicing certain things, but we feel compassion for them. And if we have the opportunity to let them know that there's more power in being in light, as opposed to being in a false sense of power, like mystical power, then perhaps they might see the light and gravitate towards us and start to see more of themselves and awaken that sense of divinity inside. So, embracing our sense of divine self and the Buddha within us and nurturing us as if it was the most precious being that we have been given. And I'm sure everyone who has dogs, right, can relate to getting this beautiful puppy. It's just so small, so... Oh my God, you can just give it all the love you want, right? And you want to do anything you could in your physical presence to make that little dog happy. To just feed it, to make it feel completely taken taking care of. The same physical way we take the approach for the spirit. Because the spirit, even though we cannot touch or feel it, but we have to nurture it like that as well. Because sometimes when we are completely overtaken by the drama of the world, of the social matrix, our spirit sort of becomes, goes into this child state. But then we have to nurture that child, we have to help it grow. So it can be the same level of our mental, physical, emotional, and spiritual state, as opposed to focusing just on one thing, it's almost like a physical, a person who lifts weights, right? Just do this, and it's growing this muscle, so huge!

2:35:17
You know, it's like, look at this muscle!

2:35:21
And then there's other ones. And then, you get used to this.

2:35:30
So it's the same way with the spirit, you know, we have to be able, I mean, taking the mystical approach, is that we have to be able to nurture not just our bodies, our spirits, our emotions, and our minds. And the other aspect of this, the appropriation question, right? I'm sure this comes up, and for most of the ladies in the room, you know sometimes the clock is gonna be ticking like this, right? And, but it's okay. That's just the actual code of humanity embedded into our being that is letting us know it's time for you to perpetuate the human experience. So as women, or even us, as guys, sometimes, you know, it's like, we could be meditating so peacefully and suddenly we get into this really loving state, this bhakti consciousness, and a fleeting thought just comes in from somewhere that, wouldn't it be great to have a child? And in a way it experience. It is so magical. But the human consciousness overall does not practice an awakened or a conscious way of procreation. So it's either like, oh you know, so passionate, either they took the blue pill or, you know, or they had a little bit too many drinks and suddenly, oh, we're pregnant. In a mythical and spiritual approach of procreation, it's like you go through the process of purifying the body way before you even think about procreation. You get the body ready. It's almost like you prepare a clean room in a hospital. So is your body. You prepare it. And once you're ready to that place where you say, okay, I've spent three years preparing my body. Now is the time when you start calling the entity down consciously. And the person that you're doing it with, in a tantric approach, then he also, or she, would also have to go through that process of cleansing and then call that life into this world. Because when that life comes into this world, then it is an expression of eternity. It is the act of God, the creation of life, that we as humans, we completely forget. In the old times, in the time of the tribes, there was this conscious practice to be able to do something like that. And when that life came into this world, she or he was kept in complete isolation from everyone else for at least three months. Only the midwives were able to come in and help feed that baby. And especially if it was a baby that had a spiritual sort of association with, like, the shaman, for example, the savage procreator. That baby would create that, and it would be a magical being. It will be perceived as such. So after three months, then the baby will introduce to the rest of the tribe. Kind of like Simba.

2:39:16
Wooo!

2:39:17
But yeah, anyway, please do not misunderstand. I'm not saying you are free to do that. I'm saying that that is a practice that as humans, as conscious beings, that if we decide to procreate, we must, must be aware of the irresponsibility of bringing a life into this world. There must be a sense of purification from the house, from the body, from the mind, and the emotions. That life, since he or she is not able to speak, only feels emotions. And sometimes, just as an example, as a practice perhaps for you, when you see a woman that is pregnant and she's having a hard time or fighting with the husband or boyfriend, right? Well, guess what? All that energy, all that negative energy, is going right into the baby. And all those memories that baby is actually feeling. That's the most unenlightened way of their idea of procreation. Because they're hurting that baby. They're literally putting it through torture before it's born here. And then when he or she is born here, like sometimes when I go to the movies, I see a baby that's probably like 3 or 4 weeks old in a movie theater with the parents that are watching a horror movie. When I saw that, I almost felt like walking over to them and saying, how could you bring your baby to see images like that? But all I could do is just feel compassion for that life, for that being, because hopefully she or he will have the right timings where she will then choose to gravitate towards the light and not live in that world of drama. So again, I guess we all go back to that same point, which is appreciation for life, because it takes a lot of energy to not just exist here in all the material things that we may have, but the ability to be able to then give back to the rest of the beings. Because as we begin to unfold, there's this innate calling, this push, that we want to help others. We want to be able to come out and show someone a potential path that can free them. And some of us, within our own ST1s and ST2 journey, we took the idea of inaccessibility to the extreme. And we disconnected from the child. Now we're facing with that sense of I'm all here on my own, I have all this money, I have all this success, but I'm afraid to interact. And then the sense of loneliness is setting in, because the sense of mortality is also setting in. We're beginning to see that either our dogs have died or are dying, or our families are also dying, and suddenly we're starting to remind ourselves that we are going to die too. And what do I have? All the Dharma points that I mentioned before, those are the Dharma points that the spirit will take with itself or him or herself into the spirit world, not the amount of money, not the amount of possessions in this world. All those are nice things, but they are not the things that we take with us into the spirit world. And also feeling that sense of aloneness isn't so much about being alone, but it's also about considering that what it all means is just that we come from a place of being one to become an individual and then go back out. In a way, we are born here alone and we die alone, in a sense.

2:43:36
Right?

2:43:37
So, accumulating Dharma points, for sure. And some of the suggestions that I pass on to some of my friends is that during the holidays, specifically Thanksgiving or Christmas, we go out to the supermarkets or maybe some other shopping stores and we're in line and we see a family or a man or a woman who is truly having a struggle, thinking like, should I just buy this for my kids? Or, because I don't have the money, like you can see them counting, right? And, an opportunity for a down payment. So, without saying anything,

2:44:15
you just tell the alert,

2:44:17
I'll pay for that. Here is, if you look at it and say, well, that will cost maybe $40 or $50, right? So if you have the cash, just give that $50 to the clerk and say whatever change it is, just give it to him or her. And you walk away. As soon as the clerk tells that person that, the whole world changes. He becomes completely bright, hopeful, beautiful. Oh my God, I can't believe someone did this for me. I'm so thankful. So their spirit rushes up to the surface and it just explodes in gratitude. And that energy is completely a Dharma point. I say, whoop, right here.

2:45:05
Right here.

2:45:06
And then you go up.

2:45:07
So, yeah. Again, I really want to thank you for having me here. And I feel what you've

2:45:08
all gone through and just want to let you know it's all okay. And focus on unity and Because to be able to be holding the lines of all of you, it takes an immense amount of power. It is not easy to be holding the lines of people within the Sangha, or spiritual beings. So, make his days happier, make his days so blissful, you know, make him smile all the time. Look for ways to make him smile. It's extremely important because as he smiles, then eternity shows itself through him much, much more, and he's back to you. important that you take care of him. Because he's an extremely strong guy and he can take down anyone with a kick in the head. I can guarantee you that. But still, make sure that he's smiling, that he's happy with everything that you do with the projects. The more there is a sense of creation, a sense of unity and happiness, then the more he can do for you, the more he can enjoy life with you, the more things can be accumulated in terms of not just individual Dharma points, but the collective Sangha and the sense of unity will carry on. Because eventually, you will be the one standing in front, talking to a number of people as well. And once you do that, then you would know the amount of power that it takes to connect with each and every single person. Because we could be meditating, you know, in our place, and suddenly, there's a line. Someone is trying to connect with us. Or someone's not having a good day. So we feel that. It's almost like, you know, I'm sure you've seen that. You walk out by, especially in the Bollywoods, you would see like webs, right? Spider webs. So the spider stays in the middle. So that in a way would be him. So he's in the middle meditating, and suddenly a fly, or a thought, hits the energy lines, the luminous lines. He feels that. And if that thought wasn't a happy thought, guess what? He's going to feel it. He could have been meditating in a completely blissful space. And suddenly now he has to deal with that. So being mindful of your thoughts all the time is extremely important because it helps you, but it also helps him, and it helps everyone in the sangha. So, thank you so much for the time, and why don't we sit and meditate a little bit? But I need time.

2:48:36
So wonderful.

2:48:38
Can I just say, on the make me happy thing. I appreciate that. It's totally, totally true. I remember say, every time I talk to our teacher, I'm trying to make him laugh. Not just smile, but laugh.

2:49:16
And I was like, whoa.

2:49:18
Every time I'm talking to him, I'm trying not to like, wet my pants.

2:49:23
I had a bad attitude.

2:49:25
I did, I was all, ah, freaked out. I was like, oh boy. I like that. That's a good attitude. Now, I just want to reflect on what Aki Kala's been talking about. It's looking at life and death in a magical way. I mean, it's just like that perspective. We miss that perspective so often. We just look at life and, oh my gosh, I've got to do work again and yoga and... Right? We just really don't have the perspective of life being so magical. And it is. seminars. It is a meditation. Listening is a meditation. The words guide you to a way of looking at things, a way of understanding, a way of seeing. How could you look at life in such a small way? Life is so magical. I might also mention that in our great feat together of working on security, there were six black belts. And our teacher said that we pulled off something that none of the other students ever pulled off, which was unity. Working as a team perfectly. And he said, yeah, you guys are going to go off into the future and do things where you create unity. So this is one of those things. A lot of the older students who are too much into it. Yeah, they're like, so they're trying to be so inaccessible. And, you know, it's like, they don't have the ability to experience the power of unity. So that is a very, very, one thing and a powerful, really a powerful lesson that Agni Kala has for us. It's the unity of the Sangha, of the lineage. Okay, let's focus on the third eye.

2:53:08
the the the the the the the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. So So So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. the the the the So awesome. Okay. All right, so we're going to take a break. We're going to come back and talk a little more. Because I have something to say. All right, so 10 minute break. So, suicide's bad. It's horrible. My Buddhist teacher committed suicide. So I've been around suicide in my lifetime.

2:59:01
I've been affected by it. You're like what? So basically you know that's why tonight is a suicide night. The last time was just death night. That was just death Kool-Aid. Tonight we have the real thing. Suicide. Yeah, so I'd like to continue our conversation on suicide. Yeah, so my teacher, when he committed suicide, it was shocking. And I was all like, whoa, what's going on? And he really condemned suicide when we were students. I remember when, what was that guy's name from the Nirvana thing? Kirk? Yes, that guy. When he killed himself, a few days later we had a meditation seminar and then that's where my teacher said, this guy was a pussy. You know, and he talked about how he was weak, and how committing suicide is bad and wrong, and ad dharma, against the truth. So I was all, yeah, okay, cool. But then my teacher killed himself. Oh yeah, but there's different ways of looking at it. So as I mentioned before, the Mahayana view, there's the bodhisattva's sacrifice of life could be considered dharma. So that's a way of looking at it. Now, when my teacher was teaching about suicide, saying how Kurt Cobain was weak. He said that there are three times, three places, three areas where you can commit suicide, where it is Dharma, where it's not just a, you know, in general, it seems to be a bad thing, but it also could be a very liberating thing. See, had I known that, see, when I was 17, I worked for a suicide hotline. I volunteered for it. And I was really bad at it. You guys don't believe me when I say that I was very introverted. And so I was just thought. So I had some things that were written down for me to say. Questions to ask and I'm all, what's your favorite color? Yeah, so, you know. I should ask questions like, are you doing this as self-sacrifice?

3:03:26
No? Consider doing it as self-sacrifice.

3:03:29
Yeah, so, I mean, so that's the first exception

3:03:34
that my teacher pointed out. He said, if you're doing it as a sacrifice for another, such as someone pulling a gun out and they're about to kill someone, and you step in the way to save their life, that would be called a suicide. And that is a very high death. So I call that the tale of two cities way to go out. You know, it's a fall, fall, better thing I do. By accepting death so that someone else can be free, so that someone else can live. That is actually a very, very high way to die, even though you are committing yourself to death.

3:04:27
The second way is the

3:04:31
way of commitment to an ideal, to an ethic. This is what we'd call the samurai. This is also a very selfless thing. You say, okay, so I'm going to commit myself completely to this code of conduct. And if in that code of conduct there's a rule that says if the boss says, kill yourself, you just pull out your knife, stick it in, cut yourself, fall down dead. So if you are completely selflessly committed to a code of conduct, then that is also... So the summarized death, let's say, is a very high death. Because you go, it's again, selfless. It's not about you? You have committed yourself to a higher ideal. Sometimes it doesn't make sense. You might have a bad boss. But it doesn't matter. It matters that you are selflessly committed to this ethic. The knights of the round table kind of thing. So, there's exceptions in killing yourself. If you do it for the right reasons, it could be very high. The third way of a high death of suicide is what we call the Thelma and Louise method. If you've seen that movie, they go from their stuck lives and they're running around doing all sorts of crazy stuff but they're alive and powerful and then they finally get to the point where all these cops are chasing them and they're going through the southwest and there's like this jump into like a giant canyon ahead and otherwise the police are behind. They just decide we're going to jump into the canyon. We know we're going to die but we're going to do it because this is the highest point of our lives. And if we get caught now, we're just going to go to prison and our lives are going to be diminished. So this is a case where it is actually a high thing. So this was the case also for my teacher. He had liver cancer and he got to the point where he was just going to be in the hospital going for a slow death. He didn't want to get the donor organ. He's like, let someone else have it. I'm ready to go. So he's like, right now I'm healthy, I'm not in the hospital, I'm not gonna just waste away, I was looking through, in the past week, the Pali Canon and also the mid and long range discourses of the Buddha. I was like, I've read these stories of Buddhists having trouble. Buddhists and suicide. I've been around suicide. It's not a happy thing. Even attempted suicide is very unhappy. It's an unhappy condition. I remember one time I was hanging out with a friend, Agni Kala, you might remember, Barsh. And I came and visited him. He was in the study for a while and then left, but he's an old, cumbersome friend. And his girlfriend was mad that he was going to go out with me and some other guys or something. And so she was so mad, they were having trouble, that she decided to kill herself. And so what she did was, they were arguing, he's all, no, I'm just going to kill my friends. She's all, no, you're not. Just, you know, those inane things that you get into. And then she ran over to, you know, the first bottle of pills that she can get, and she just started taking them, and drinking water, taking them all down. And he was like, oh my God, what's she doing? And then she's all, see, I'm gonna kill myself. And then he said, and she meant it, she's trying to kill herself. And he said, I highly doubt that I've ever heard of someone ODing on vitamin C.

3:09:56
Still a sad situation, didn't it? Not a happy thing. But maybe she didn't catch a cold or something.

3:10:05
So I was looking at the stories where Buddha had to deal with these situations and there were times, plenty of times. So, we have all these, like, hallmark card views of Buddha's life and being a monk with Buddha, it's really great and stuff. But, you know, there were some people who got confused and who actually killed themselves. a layman. There was actually two students of the Buddhas who were lay. They were married. They loved Buddha, loved his teachings. They were following him for years. And then what happened was the wife came from a Brahmin family, and they were mad that the husband brought her into the Buddhist thing. So they were like, we want you to get divorced and marry some other guy. She's all, I don't want to. But she brings it up with her husband. She's all, this is what's going on. What are we going to do about it? And he goes, oh, I have an idea. And he kills her and then kills himself. And his intent was to use reincarnation for his benefit. He's all like, oh, since we're students of Buddha, then this is gonna be really good for us because we're getting out of this trouble and then we'll reincarnate somewhere else together and it'll be really happy. And when that happened, Buddha said, oh, what, who would think such a thing, right? Oy vey. So Buddha says, no, this is completely deluded. This is wrong. And in fact, what happened was this guy ended up going into a horrible lower incarnation. And they're not together. She went to a normal rebirth. So Buddha commented on these times where death actually occurred in his sangha. The next one was, I think, probably the worst. It's quite shocking. There was a time where Buddha went to a new area, and there were hundreds of students there. And he sat down, and he saw that lots of them had lust and sexual desire. So he started talking about, he gave a teaching about, you know, how disgusting the human body is. And Buddhists love doing this talk. They're like, the body is full of disgusting grossness. You ever look in a body?

3:13:02
It's nasty.

3:13:04
It's full of crap.

3:13:05
And then, you know what happens when the body dies?

3:13:09
Jers.

3:13:09
That's jers. And then he takes them over to a funeral fire, I think, you know, just a place where they're about to burn the bodies. He's all, look at those bodies. Then the monks are all, oh. So usually that shocks you into like, you know, not having lust and also seeing the impermanence of things. But for these guys, they took the reading, the teachings incorrectly. So after that, you know, after Buddha's teaching, Buddha went away for two weeks to meditate alone in a cave. Then he came back to the same place and he looked around and he said, Hey, last time I was here, there were so many more people. It was like, man, it was just like he said it was a thing with, with, uh, Sanyasi, Sanyasi, with monks. And then Ananda was like all freaked out. He's like, when you left, they started killing themselves. And then Buddha was like, like, what? He said, yeah, he said, they thought about the teachings, and they thought that the body was bad. So in that two week period of time, somewhere, they say somewhere between 200 and 500 monks killed themselves. Wow, how horrible is that, right? Did they really take it that way? It's taking a teaching incorrectly, being really deluded and some really bad influences going on there. But Buddha had these hundreds of monks kill themselves and then Buddha brought together the whole Sangha in the region. Then he taught them meditation. It's funny because the commentary on that is like, why would Buddha just teach the meditation? And they're like, shouldn't he address it or say something

3:15:20
about it?

3:15:21
But then you're like, no, it's meditation with Buddha. It's a different situation. One meditation with Buddha can clear up all emotional disturbances and can clear everyone's viewpoint. So that's what I think. But the commentators were like, we just don't understand what the hell happened here. So, you know, in the Buddha's Sangha, there was super trouble sometimes. There were weird, bad problems. And sometimes the monks were bad. Like, they would, like, one time they went over to this layman and they said, you have so much virtue. He said, thank you. And then they said, you know what you should do? If you kill yourself, you'll be reborn in the high heaven. And he's all, really? And they're all, yeah. And this little group of monks, they were tricking him to kill himself, because they wanted to seduce his wife, which they did after. And you're like, oh, so he kills himself and then they go off after her. And then Buddha finds out, Buddha's like, ah, these monks, you know, it's such a trouble. So he's like, you, so he makes another, he makes a rule. You guys can't trick people into killing themselves. Because they were like, we didn't kill them. We didn't break the first precept. Then Buddha's like, I can't even convince people. So it's like crazy stuff going on back then. We think that Buddha's just sitting around, you know, chilling, being all happy, and everything's going great around him. People are going nuts. You think you have it bad? You think you have it bad. Yeah. And they were going through the same feelings, same thoughts that you go through. And they had, you know, Buddha, the enlightened master, as their teacher, and some of them didn't handle it very well. Many did. There were many enlightened students of the Buddhas, but some didn't. And then, here's one of my favorite ones. This one monk, he was on Vulture Peak, this one place where Buddha would sit, a high cliff, and Buddha would give the discourse of the Dharma. So this guy was mad. He was like, oh, I'm so full of desire. And he says, I feel so horrible. I'm never going to get rid of it. I'm going to kill myself. I'm going to jump. So the monk wants to jump, goes over to the edge. So there's two blondes watching the 10 o'clock news and there's a picture of a guy standing up on a bridge threatening to jump and one blonde says, I bet you 10 bucks he's going

3:18:32
to jump.

3:18:33
The other one says, I bet you 10 bucks he won't. He jumps. Then she goes, yeah, you don't really have to give me the 10 bucks because actually I saw this. It was on the 5 o'clock news. And then the other one's like, yeah, I saw it too. I just didn't think he would jump a second time. Okay, so back to our and this one's not a joke. He jumps and you know, he's just like, farewell cruel world. And he jumps and he falls down onto another monk who was walking by, killed the other monk and survives virtually unharmed. And then at this point, Buddha said, enough already with the killing yourself stuff. So, there's like, there was monks killing themselves, monks tricking people into killing themselves. It's interesting, right? Yeah. It's interesting that this kind of crazy stuff would happen even for Buddha. We never look at his situation that way. You never look at things like there were three assassination attempts on Buddha, and monks killing themselves, and the monks getting killed by some of the Hindus and Brahmins. You don't hear about that stuff very much. But it's in his discourses, because he would talk and teach about, well, here's what should happen when this happens. So Buddha taught, killing yourself is breaking the first rule, which is don't kill anything, including yourself. But he also had three exceptions. They were a little different than my teacher's exceptions. His first exception was, if you have a fatal illness, you're gonna die anyway. This was kind of what my teacher did. He's like, oh, gonna die anyway. So he took the film on the wheeze, and the first one, they crisscross. And there was a time where one of the monks who was an arhant, he was in great physical pain and he was dying and he just picked up a knife and cut his throat and died. And this was very controversial in the Sangha because they said an arhat can't do anything that's against the Dharma because they're enlightened. But this guy broke the first rule. And then Buddha said, no, no, no, because he was going to die. And if you're going to die anyway, then it's okay. And they went, oh, okay. The second rule was, if you hit the highest state of mind of your life, it's okay to kill yourself when you're in that state of mind. Which is like the Thelma and Louise thing. So there's a story of a monk who was meditating, trying, working on it really hard. He was a non-returner, but he was not enlightened. And he got into a really high, beautiful samadhi. And then he recognized in that high moment that that was the highest moment he was going to have. So he saw that as a truth. And then he said, If I die now, I go to a higher rebirth. And if I come out of it and go into my normal state of mind, then no matter what in this lifetime, I'm not gonna get this high. So then he kills himself with a knife while he's in his body. And then Buddha says, this was a very high death. It's kind of crazy. Now a lot of times when people killed themselves, Buddha was just like, oh, these people were deluded, had problems. But there's these couple of occasions, strange occasions, where he's like, no, that was good. That was okay. If you're in a high state of meditation and eating and drinking will lower your state and it won't be conducive to your awakening, you could stop eating and drinking, stay in that samadhi until you die. So on one occasion Buddha took a non-returner and said, go to that cave and meditate. You're going to become enlightened. And then the monk goes there, and he's meditating really hard. He goes into samadhi, and he's going for it. So three weeks later, Buddha's like, can you go check on that guy? And Ananda goes, oh my god, he's dead. And then they bring the body up. Oh, he's dead. And Buddha's like, no, that was a good death. He became an arhant. But he didn't stop meditating until, you know, he kept going for it the whole time. It was actually at the moment of death where he became an arhant. He didn't stop to drink. He didn't stop to eat. So he ended up dying.

3:24:45
Buddha's like, cool.

3:24:47
So it's possible to have a high death through suicide. But those are very exceptional situations. Most of the people who kill themselves are just, you know, they're not seeing the magic problems, boredom, unhappiness, difficult situations. And they think that killing themselves will solve that problem, and it certainly doesn't. It sends them into the third bardo, where there's what they call the gods of death. There's a procession of Herukas, wrathful gods. And they have a really difficult time. Have you ever been bitch slapped by a six-armed goddess? Some of you guys saw that movie. Yeah, so it's a difficult, difficult situation. So someone who dies following my teachers or Buddha's exceptions, of a high death, where you make the choice yourself to die, is fine. Those could be high So, you know, you got to think about, you got to understand those are selfless deaths. Or those are deaths that get you higher. And they're very, very, very different than someone who's just like, I want to kill myself because I feel bad. So I just wanted to tell you a little teachers' teachings on suicide and also Buddha's experiences and teachings on suicide. And to recognize that those exceptions are selfless, selfless exceptions. But the person who takes because they're in a bad mood, they're sad, depressed. They're giving up. They're giving up on life, they're giving up on enlightenment. And that is a terrible thing. My teacher used And it's so important, you know, when you feel horrible, don't give up, you know, don't

3:27:36
give up.

3:27:37
Be mindful. Practice bodhicitta. You know, when you're doing yoga, don't give up. Don't get caught up in your head and your desires, you know, don't get caught up in your self-cherishing. Don't get caught up in your self-cherishing. Don't give up. Your yoga projects can be fantastic. We can build powerful, multi-million dollar companies. You wouldn't have to go out there and work in the world. We can work in our companies together. We can have our companies acquired and make money so that you could retire early. But when you're just like, I don't feel like it, I'm tired, I'm lazy, I'm selfish, that kind of stuff, you're giving up. You're giving up on yourself. Same way Ganesha did. And that's as foolish as Ganesha. You have to see the dream, you know, you have to see the light in what you're working on. It's amazing. And this is just talking about the physical aspect. You got to see the light, the spirit in it. Because when you are connected to the spirit of the yoga project, you're connected to the structure of life that is helpful for you. It's a shelter from negativity. It's a shelter from self. It's a way for you to take your mind out of yourself. And if you follow the karma of self, you'll be miserable. Absolutely. If you take your mind out of self and you plug it into selflessness and impeccability, working for a cause where we all come together, in a united organic fellowship, seeking enlightenment, seeking rightness, happiness, success, unity. Then you enter into a whole different world, a beautiful world. And when you're sitting there going through the self, the self, the self, you're completely caught up in self. And it's no fun. That's giving up. Don't give up on your yoga. You have to see the light in it. You have to see the magic in life, right? Like Agni Kala was talking about, this is magic, magic, so many dimensions, a whole much brighter, more multi-dimensional way, so many more opportunities for seeing that life is good, powerful, bright, instead of looking at it in such a selfish, negative way. It's ridiculous.

3:30:46
It's ridiculous.

3:30:47
It's as ridiculous as Ganesha killing himself. That's giving up. Don't give up. Never give up. Always fight for light, for selflessness, for impeccability. Giving up, doing a bad job on your yoga, giving up on your yoga, not believing in your yoga. It's like you're missing the spirit. You're missing the spirit of things. That's giving

3:31:19
up.

3:31:20
Now, it's really important to understand. When I'm always in every moment teaching to that. So I'm talking to you about the really hard difficult stuff you go through. When you're lazy, when you don't want to do yoga, when you don't believe, when you don't want to meditate, when you want to kill yourself, when you want to quit the pathway to enlightenment. You want to say, fuck all, I'm out of here. Off of the path, off of life. This is the shit of the self. And when I teach, I'm teaching to that.

3:32:41
I'm not fucking around.

3:32:42
This is not an ordinary affair. This isn't just like ideas. This is truth. You know, in Hungary, I was in Hungary teaching. While I was there, this one of my students, she lost the electricity in her house because she couldn't pay for it. And then winter's coming, and gas costs more. So she's all, hmm, I wonder if I can get enough money to pay for gas. It's going to get shut off, according to the money I have now, it's going to get shut off in December. She's just struggling with that. Can I have at least gas during the winter? And it gets cold there. It's not like California. It snows. So when I'm in Hungary and I'm sitting there talking to this group of people about succeeding in hops and sales, it's because it is the strongest option for the Sangha. So when I'm talking to them about succeeding in sales, I'm not like, hey, let's just try it out and see what happens. You know, it's like, I am aware. I think probably 75% of the month. Just has enough money for utilities, food, transportation. Just enough. So I'm not just like fooling around. I'm serious. I understand their situation and I want to make it better. I want to make a million dollars in sales there because that will help the whole sangha. It'll take so much worry out of their lives. I'm teaching to that great difficulty that they have. That's why yoga is so important. And that's what I'm teaching to you. I'm teaching to you about the great difficulty you have. You guys live in America where you can make a lot of money by learning computer science. Take advantage of that. In Hungary, there's far fewer options. The best option is hops and sails. But you guys are so filled with crazy desires that you get all like, you're like, oh, I don't, you know, I want to kill myself. That's a desire. I want to kill myself I want to quit the pathway to enlightenment. I want to quit yoga. You have all this. I want to quit. I want to stop I want to check out Because you desire something crazy if you examine what you desire and you weigh it against the teachings You'll say okay, it's selfish Maybe I should follow that eightfold path thing and not create my own ideas. I don't know. I mean, this is the process that you're going through. You've got to figure it out. But you've also got to realize, what I'm talking about is liberation. When Ganesha was here last time, I was talking to him. Right? I was. What did we talk about? We talked about pain, we talked about being able to deal with life, and guess what he did? Not, not, did the opposite. So, I'm talking to you guys about your lives, about what matters, about how to get out of suffering, about the real stuff. You gotta not give up. You gotta keep fighting. Whenever you have doubt, negativity, darkness, don't give up on light. Don't give up on the teachings. If you can just logically think through, what if I follow my stupid desire? What if I follow this stupid idea? And you go, what if I followed the teachings? You could probably reason that the teachings lead you to liberation. You need that perspective. You need that perspective that life is magic. Now, in death, for Ganesha, it is not easier. And he has the same choice that you have right now, to either go up, follow a higher enlightened nature, or go down. It's really easier for him to go down because he got so much bad karma from killing himself. So once you start being negative and angry and go into the darkness of the self, it's easy to spiral all the way down. But it's important for him not to give up on life. And it's important for you not to give up on life. And in this way, we are going to enter the bardos in our Buddhist observance of saying to a spiritual friend. This will be a consideration primarily of bodhisitta, compassion. This will be Ganesha's transference from the second part to the third bardo and then into a new existence in a while. So we're going to sit together in this consideration of compassion. And this will be a consideration where we know from our our experience that you shouldn't give up and our wish Our wish for him not to give up

3:39:47
We're going to sit for

3:39:49
One song. One song where those of you know how to practice bodhicitta will practice bodhicitta. Those of you who don't will just feel what we're talking about. Okay, open eye, looking up here because I'm going to do the thing. You're gonna join me.

3:40:48
Thank you. In this proud land we grew up strong We were wanted all along I was taught to fight, taught to win I never thought I could fail Nobody's left, or so it seems I am a man whose dreams have all deserted I've changed my face, I've changed my name But no one wants you when you lose Don't give up, cause you have friends Don't give up, I know you can make it good Though I saw it all around, never thought that I could be affected Thought that we'd be lost to go, it is no strange the way things turn Drown the night to one mile Of the place that I was born On the lakeside As daylight broke I saw the earth The trees that burned down to the ground Don't give up You still have us Don't give up, we don't need much of anything Don't give up, cause somewhere there's a place where we belong You're gonna leave it all You lost your head You worry too much It's gonna be alright When times get rough You can't fall back on us Don't give up Got to walk out again, I can't take it anymore Gonna stand on that bridge, keep my heart standing up Whatever may come, and whatever may go That river's flowing, that river's flowing I moved on to another town Tried hard to settle down For every job, so many men So many men that no one needs Don't give up, no reason to be ashamed You still have us Don't give up now We're proud of who you are Don't give up You know it's never been easy Don't give up, cause I believe in this place This place where we belong so Don't give up, don't give up, don't give up Don't give up, don't give up, don't give up Don't give up, don't give up, don't give up Don't give up, don't give up, don't give up Don't give up, don't give up, don't give up

3:46:28
If your suffering is really so bad, if you're really so dissatisfied, don't give up. Don't give up on life. It's like, if it's so bad, then do what it takes. Follow the Dharma. It leads you to a way through. Following the way of self, desires, being inhibited by fears, this limits you. You never find a way out. The teachings of the Dharma help you to overcome all of these self obstacles, all of these dissatisfactions, all of this suffering is overcome by following the Dharma. opportunities. It is. This is an opportunity. It's an opportunity that we've just taken to understand our suffering, where we want to give up, where we pull back, and to see that this is the same case for a guy who just killed himself in our group. You think you have a bad time. He had a bad time too. You think you have hard times. Your self gets in the way and stuff. He had it too. And look where it leads. Not a good place. So if it's so bad, don't give up and kill yourself and quit and be a loser. It doesn't lead to anywhere good. It leads to more suffering and more self. What you should do is you should say, well, if this enlightenment thing's real, if this teaching that Buddha gave is real,

3:49:22
I'm going to do it.

3:49:24
This is what has been my secret to success on the spiritual path. I fucked up all over the place. Oops, messed up. Oops, sucked in yoga. Oh, did all this thing. Oh, got angry. You know, all sorts of problems. But when I found myself face down in the dirt of self, I didn't just get up and say, to give up and say, oh, stay here, I quit. I said, oh, I screwed up following self, and I feel horrible. And then at the worst feelings, at the darkest times, I said, I am going to meditate for real. And those were the times where I had a spiritual breakthrough. Or I said, is Bodhicitta. We've seen some hardships in the Sangha, and sometimes when you see someone in the Sangha have a hardship, you really get some compassion going. And you say, bodhicitta is real. The light of compassion is real. You break beyond yourself. It's like such a difficult situation that you're either going to just be depressed or you're going to actually practice the Dharma. So don't give up. If you really have such a hard time, then put the Dharma to the test. Don't give up on it. Do it. And the last consideration for this evening is suicide. Your suicide. suicide. So now we're going to do the suicide thing. Bring in the cool ladies. Some of you people who know Bodhicitta actually did Bodhicitta. The light of compassion is so amazing. So suicide, let's just take a clean slate, look at it in this way.

3:52:27
Suicide is great.

3:52:29
It's fantastic, in fact, we're gonna do it tonight. Okay, so when people want to commit suicide, it's because they are stuck. You know, generally, I'm talking about people who feel bad and they want to kill themselves. They're stuck, right? stuck. They have something in them that needs to be destroyed, but the thing is they think that it's not you. Someone who commits suicide, they have lots of thoughts. They think about bad, dark, unhappy things. They think that those thoughts are them. They think that killing themselves will stop those thoughts, but it's not true. What we see in meditation is that our spirit is separate from our thoughts. That our thoughts are so little compared to our spirit. When we meditate, we experience a tremendous, amazing experience of life. Something that you can't even explain in words. And it's so much bigger than thought. Thought is consciousness wound up into one little idea. When you stop thought in meditation, then there's spirit. So you've got to ask yourself a question. What is it that needs to be destroyed? What needs to be killed? What needs to be suicided? It's not your spirit. It's not your body. But there's stuff that needs to be destroyed. Negative outlooks, negative thoughts. What needs to be killed? Something needs to be killed. Something's gonna die tonight. We're gonna commit suicide on that. The self clings to personal history, the self clings to thoughts, to feelings, and that's the self, that's the ego, that's the ego reaction. But when you let go of those things with an open mind, when you let go of those things by stopping thought. Personal history is gone when you stop thought. Bad thoughts are gone, bad feelings are gone. The whole world is gone. And that's an experience of spirit. So what needs to be killed is that grasping onto personal history, that grasping onto pushing life into a small little ball, that grasping needs to get killed. Nothing else needs to be killed. You don't need to kill your personal history. Go back there and start smashing it. You don't need to go out and deal with all the things that your mind has trouble with, that makes you sad, things that you grasp in your life. You're like, I'm having trouble with work. I need to go kill work.

3:56:08
Right?

3:56:09
That's not what you need to do.

3:56:11
Your bad feelings and stuff.

3:56:13
It's actually nothing out there needs to be destroyed. Your physical body doesn't need to be suicided. What needs to be suicided is that grasping. That needs to be killed. So I like suicide. Enlightenment to suicide. It's suicide. Suicide of the ego. be clear here because we are in, you know, Mercury is in retrograde. That means communications could be difficult. So I'm saying kill the ego. Killing the ego is good. I'm just separating separating this sense of attachment to self and spirit. The ego needs to be killed. Because this awareness of suffering is a catalyst to transformation. Another story of the Buddha's. One of his monks decided he was going to go kill himself, totally pissed off. He goes out, picks up a knife, he's going to cut his throat because he's so filled with all these emotional disturbances. And in that realization, he becomes enlightened, puts the knife down, goes back to the Buddha, and everything's good. This is the kind of thing we should do. Like Dojin Zenji said, when we meditate, fog goes away. The delusion of self goes away and we see the Buddha, we see enlightenment. So the proper way to commit suicide is meditation. We've already explained, when you stop thought, you stop the self. The fault-finding mind, personal history, emotional disturbances, your whole world goes away. And all you experience is that transcendent experience of elevated consciousness, of light that you can't even put into words. And that's Buddha. That's spirit. That's you. So when you look at all the other hardships and problems and hard feelings and ego, don't give up on the light. Kill the self. And remember, by killing the self I mean meditate. Meditation is killing the self. Compassion in our meditation for Ganesh crossing over, that was an experience of going outside of yourself. It was an experience of the light of compassion helping a friend.

4:00:00
Compassion.

4:00:03
Okay, it's probably very late. A little later than we usually go, but it's important. This is our way of saying goodbye. And, don't give up.

4:00:20
Okay, thank you.

4:00:24
However, I have a couple announcements. Tomorrow, for those of you who have earned the merit through countless hours of Bode Woods Workdays, we're going to have a special outing. So Eva emailed you, if you're on the list, you can come on the outing. The outing is going to be at Mount Tam. It's gonna be a very special outing because Agni Kala's coming with us and it's gonna be awesome. So we're going to have another Dharma talk, Dharma consideration, another powerful, magical, super cool experience for those of you who have graciously helped out when we're getting so close to the rainy season with Bodie Woods. So if you did that, thank you. And tomorrow it'll be all worth it, because we'll have moments of enlightenment.

4:01:34
Yes, very good.

4:01:36
Let's see what else. Ah, yes. Agni Kala has invited us to a special meditation concert which is going to be November 16th. So you're invited if

4:01:49
you are

4:01:50
if you if you make

4:01:52
your

4:01:54
you are if you make your spiritual salary, your yoga salary. So if you don't make your yoga salary, you can't go. But if you do make your yoga salary, you're in. See, your yoga salary is worth something. You guys keep thinking it's not, but now it is. Additionally, Agni Kala has invited us to the Anza Brego Desert. And Agni Kala's got some cool sit-ups. So we'll be going. It might be in two months, in four months, or something. But from this point forward, I'm counting spiritual salaries. If you miss getting your spiritual salary one month between that time, you're not invited. See? That's great. And you'll be missing out on something super, super cool just by the way. See? So don't miss your spiritual salary, because I will probably just say, hey, we're gonna do this thing for people who've made their spiritual salary. If you're not making your spiritual salary, then you're full of shit. Then you've given up. It's true. You've just given up. Then you're full of shit, and you need to correct yourself. Have you given up? Are

4:03:52
you having a laugh? Someone's been English or watching English?

4:04:01
So have you lost the plot?

4:04:09
The plot is don't give up, do yoga.

4:04:13
Yeah.

4:04:14
Let's see, what else is going on?

4:04:26
I don't have my little book anymore.

4:04:28
I was going to pick it up to write my announcements down, but then I thought, where's the garbage bin?

4:04:39
Why do I still have this?

4:04:41
Inside joke.

4:04:44
So for those of you who are coming tomorrow, we're going to meet at the same place on Mount Tamalpais that we met last time, which is the big parking lot. And we'll be meeting there at 3 o'clock fantastic, amazing, wonderful, magical time. It's going to be great. I'm really excited about it. So, 3 o'clock. Plan it. And if you're... you can do yoga in the morning. Plenty of time to do yoga in the morning. Plenty of time to do yoga in the morning. So, that's good.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
