0:00:00
Tonight, on our Equinox meditation session, we're going to do something wonderful. We're going to get up. So in Jiu-jitsu, when you're on the ground, when you're going to stand up, there's a technique that we use. And it is a technique fundamental to the martial art of Jiu-jitsu. And, oh, I know. And when we, when we, you know, when we're getting up in Jiu-jitsu, we're practicing a powerful technique where if we're down on the ground for tangling with an opponent, we have a way to get up. So in Buddhist mysticism we have a way to stand up. So tonight we have been knocked down. We have been pushed and pinned by an opponent, by opposition, and we found ourselves in a bad condition. But now tonight, we're going to get up. Let's begin with meditation. We're Let's begin with meditation. You. the

0:01:50
So. So So, So, So you Very nice. So today is the equinox. It's what we call a time of power. It's a time in nature where

0:07:00
there's balance. It's where there's as much daytime as nighttime, and that's open. And it's a time where we find it easy to be still, easy to meditate, easy to make changes. It's easier for us to shift, because we can go through this door at this time of balance. It's a time where you have a greater footing, a greater ability to be personally balanced. And when you have that strong footing, that's when we can make strong shifts. And that's why we can take this opportunity to get up. We got knocked down. We had a competitor putting pressure on us without being aware, and it affected the whole Sangha. We started to suffer. So over this, it was really like a six month period where we went into major decline as a group. We lost personal power. And before we knew it, And we almost got evicted from the Dharma Dojo. The property manager has been fighting me to get us evicted. So that's why we had to change things. So we had a bad period. It was difficult. However, I talked to you guys and I said, hey, let's rally, let's fight back, let's be aware that we're in a bad condition. We've got to wake up and realize what happened isn't good, and that we have to do something. So I rather sternly refocused the group. Now the good thing is that you guys from there have been doing a good job. So I'm kind of like, you know, the coach in your corner, you're the boxer, you get knocked down onto the ground. And I'm sitting there at the edge yelling at you, get up you idiot! What the hell are you doing down there? And you're like, and the rest all, three, four, five, you know, I'm like yelling. And that's my way of showing love. So, but fortunately, we are now headed in the right direction. So you guys have made a correction. You guys have turned it around. There are very, very few people who got taken out by the opposition. So that opposition that hit us, it affected everybody in the group, but some people made powerful, powerful pushes to bring energy up. And then that influenced other people in the group. And so then a lot of people came up. There's a few people who stayed down, but we always got that. We always have a few people who are having a hard time. But when the majority of the sangha is going in the right direction, then the personal power and the opportunities are always going to be elevated. So we're working on getting back. I've worked it out with the property manager so that we're not going to get evicted from here. So that's a win. Let's see. I think in the past two weeks, we have seven people who've gotten jobs. Really good, right? Yeah. So things definitely are going in the right direction. People have a good attitude. A very good attitude. I see that in yoga, people have a very, very positive outlook. I see that people are working harder. And even the few more people left who don't have jobs now, what they report to me is that there's a lot of motion, things are happening. So when the whole Sangha is working right, when we have the right intention, when we're going in the right direction, then the energy supports achievement and success for everyone. So that's what we want to do, right? We don't want to just sit there and be all sad and weird and strange and get all lost and drag each other down. We want to drag each other up. Drag you up the mountain of enlightenment. Yeah, so we're making, we're going in a positive way. So during the difficult time, the Dharma Dojo has been a place that's been very helpful for us. The Dharma Dojo has been our little anchor. So we've had Dharma talks most nights. So it was really the Dharma talks and Wu Wei Do that kept the group strong when it was imbalanced. But then everybody became stronger and balanced. So this is the correct way. So now we're taking the high road. So I was in San Pedro Park today, and I took this trail called the Hazelnut Trail. It's like about four miles, two miles up, two miles down. And you go way up, and it's really beautiful. And so I was way up there, beautiful view, in a beautiful forest, and it was really wonderful. It was raining on me, though. And then I thought, isn't it that we take the high road in life? It is. And I'm not just talking about going to Scotland. You take the high road, I'll take the low road, and I'll be in Scotland before you. Who wants to go to Scotland? I kind of like Scotland. But yeah, we take the high road. Not many people take that road, because it goes way up. It's long and it goes way up the hill. But it's beautiful. And so I think this is analogous of what we do in life. We take the high road. We seek to be pure. We seek to be harmless. We seek enlightenment to go beyond the physical. I mean, the low road is the easy path Where there's all the people where there's you know Body consciousness, there's the physical world. There's toxicity. There's traffic, you know, there's there's greed desire fear and that that that's the low road of the spirit and We always seek the higher way, the pathway to enlightenment. Now, just because we failed, we had a hard time, we got knocked down, doesn't mean that that was horrible, because you gotta get knocked down. It always happens. When you get knocked down, you get stronger. Every good martial artist has been knocked down. And they become stronger because of getting knocked down. And the wise, someone who you would call a wise man or wise woman, they've been through hell. That's how you gain wisdom. You don't gain wisdom just by sitting around on a silk pillow. Well, sometimes you do. But you also gain wisdom by really facing things that are so difficult that they knock you on your ass. And then you go, oh, well, now I know more. That's how you gain wisdom. And it is through this act of falling that you gain strength. Buddha had the simile of the three horses. I think there were five horses, but I don't know all the shades of what happens. But basically, it could be two horses. So some amount of horses. Buddha said that, you know, first there's this good horse, and then the good horse just, as soon as the rider intends to do something, the good horse knows and just goes the right way, does the right thing. And then there's another horse, and then that horse doesn't know until it gets hit with a whip. Then it goes, ouch, oh, I'm supposed to do that. So life does that to us. Life hits us with a whip. And then we go, oh, okay, I get it. Now I understand. So we make these little shifts and then we learn. And then we learn to be eventually the good horse. Right now, we're the beat down horse. And we're learning. And we work. We learn through our work. A lot of people don't want to work in this life. But it is through work that you purify the dross of the self. You go from a heavy, selfish individual who just wants to follow desire and is averse to anything difficult, and you're just in the self. You don't want to grow, you just want to get through life in an easy way. But then when you work, when you face hardships and difficulties in your work that are beyond you, that's where you grow. This is how Milarepa, in his experiences with Marpa, in building stone towers, he totally transformed. Marpa always said, oh yes, do the work because it burns off karma. It was a very simple way of looking at it. Burning off karma. You burn off karma, you gain personal power. You face greater challenges in impeccability and selflessness. And this is the way that we learn through work. when you suffer a loss, it's also good because it gives you a new perspective. So there was a story of monks in India. They had an ashram, meditating. And then one year, a forest fire came, and they had to abandon the ashram. The forest fire leveled the ashram, burnt it completely down. So they came back to the land, and then they rebuilt, pretty much the same thing. They're like, okay, we need the barracks for the monks. They need a meditation hall, a library. They had to build the same buildings. But as soon as they sat down in the meditation hall, they all meditated far better than how they meditated before, immediately. Just from their first meditation. And this is because they had a certain routine, or a certain way of looking at things, and the fire shifted that. It just washed away what was there, and then gave them a new perspective, a clean slate. So, when you get knocked down, you get perspective. You're able to shift. You're able to say, okay, I'm not going to go at this the same way. I can see another way. And it creates real improvement. Now, when you get knocked down, it gives you transform. You could take something bad, you can take a loss, and then you could do something great with it. You could fumble a football and then recover it and improve your play. You can take a plan that broke. It's like, I planned this, I did it, and then something happened and it broke, and then you could reformulate from that loss and make a stronger success. So somebody dumps a load of crap on you, you take that crap and then you work it into the soil of your apple tree. And then you've got better apples. How do you like them apples? So it's true. This is what happens. We can take bad things and we can use them to be a catalyst, to be stronger, to be brighter. It's amazing. There was a Buddhist monk whose master said, I would like you to go to the southeast of China and start teaching Buddhism there in this one area. And in that area, they were mostly Taoist. And they didn't take too kindly to Buddhists. So some of the other monks said, so what happens if you go down there and then they yell at you, give you a hard time? He's like, I'm just gonna go and do my best, I'm just doing the Dharma, and if they yell at me, you know, that's not so bad. And then they say, well what if they like hurt you, like punch you, kick you? He's like, I'm just gonna go there and do the Dharma. That's not so bad. And they go, well, what if they kill you? And then he says, well, at least I'll die doing the Dharma. So when we face hardship, we always have the abandon of doing the Dharma so that it doesn't matter what happens to us. great sales guy, Dharma and I worked with in Chicago, Tim, Ted, sorry, I always called him Tim when his name's Ted. He hated that. Just kidding. Anyway, so he, we were talking about sales, and then he would say, yeah. He's like, I'm not gonna die. It's not gonna kill me to ask. It was just a total abandon, a selflessness for the sale. So we align ourselves with the Dharma and whatever we have to do, we have to learn a new technology. We have to become better at interviewing. We have to make sales. We have to stay up some extra hours to code something. We have an abandon. We say, I'm just gonna do it because it's the Dharma. Whenever you follow the Dharma, there's tremendous light. That's the high road, following the Dharma and not letting whatever your your fear, or your sloth and topper, or your aversion. Don't let those things stop you. Follow the Dharma. Okay, let's see. All right, so the actual time of the equinox. It's at 9.30, so it's in 10 minutes or so. And I always like to try to meditate right at the time of the equinoxes and solstices, because right at the minute something unique happens, there's that perfect balance and that perfect opening. And it's very special. But of course, the transit of the equinox has been happening for days. So the door starts to open. The best part is a few days before to a few days after. So it's good to get to that one perfect moment. So we always do that. And tonight we're going to do another special thing. So today's my birthday, and I was born at 10.10pm. So What a birthday is a powerful thing You were brought into this world at a certain time and for Whatever reason it your your karmas were drawn To be born specifically at that time. It is another opening It was an opening when your life came into this world and so your life came into this world. And so we always meditate on our birthdays, and especially meditate on your birthday, on your birth time, because that's like that perfect moment of opening, and you can feel the dharma of your life being brought into this world. And so, since I'm your teacher, and I have some Dharma to be brought into this world, and I'm here with you guys in this world, we will meditate together on that moment that I was brought into the world, so that you guys can have the best experience of Dharma, whatever I have to offer, you guys can experience it through a meditation with me. So it's kind of a special thing. It's nice to have an equinox and the birthday at the same time. It's very rare. I mean, it's happened a few times before the equinox is on the 21st. And I think only it only happens I think there's only going to be like one more time in the next hundred years where it's March 19th. So we'll sit for three songs. First song will focus on the navel chakra. Second song on the heart. Third song on the third eye. And it's kind of nice that it will be happening on the heart chakra, because the heart chakra is the chakra of balance. So the heart chakra has a special balance, it's the chakra three above and three below. It's the place of spiritual balance

0:30:29
so

0:30:30
The equinox is the time of balance day and night are balanced So it will be a supreme moment of balance and Hopefully we can have a beautiful experience. So in this meditation, don't strive in your concentration. Be balanced. In your meditation, just have a soft focus. When thoughts come up, just let them go, and just bring your awareness back to the chakra. When you're meditating, we want to open our awareness. We want to just kind of get out of our self-focus or trying to strive to have a certain experience or something like that. We just want to feel this moment, together meditating on the equinox and we're fortunate to be in a process and in a process of getting out of a Difficult situation and going up to a brighter stronger condition so it should be kind of nice Okay, let's begin Okay, let's begin. the

0:31:59
the the the the the the the Thank you. the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the the the Oh, So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. so So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. the the the so you You're not alone. you Thank you. the the the the so the the the the the the the So Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the the the the the the you you Very nice.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
