0:00:00
So here we have a guest teacher from America, Agne Kala. We might have a harp accompaniment. Now, we use meditation music as a way to enhance our meditation. A lot of times when you sit down to meditate, you have lots of thoughts and ideas and things. But when you have meditation music, you go into a disposition of listening. It's one of the great things about music. We're kind of trained to listen. And that's a good way to be when you start to enter meditation. So, from many different traditions, Tibetan Buddhism, they have music along with their spiritual practice. In Japan, the shakuhachi flute is part of meditation. In the Native American tradition, the flute playing is a meditation practice. So, there's many different types of spiritual practices, meditation practices associated with music. So it's not too strange. However, the music we'll play tonight is a little strange. It's more modern, what would we call it, new age music, but it's been created by Buddhist practitioners who specifically create this as their yoga, as their spiritual practice to create music for meditation. Okay, so we're going to meditate for three songs, about 12 minutes long. We're going to focus on the first song on the navel chakra, the second song on the heart, the third song on the third eye. If you don't know what the navel, heart, and third eye are, you can just sit trying to still your thoughts for the whole period of time. And we shall begin.

0:02:19
so so so so so so so the the the the the the the So so uh so so uh so So, I'm going to play a little bit of that. the the the the So So the the the the the the the the the the the so so you Very nice. Can I have someone go get my sunglasses for me? Yeah? Yeah. I usually wear sunglasses and it's not because I'm just trying to be cool, even at night. It's because when I start meditating, my eyes become very sensitive

0:12:55
to the light. So I'll just talk to you with my eyes closed until my sunglasses get here. We've been having wonderful problems with our audio equipment, but Attila's on it. Good job. Oh, Attila, when you're done checking over there, I think that speaker's not working. And then when you're done with that. All right, everyone. I thought I would give you guys a spiritual teaching. So a spiritual teaching is different than an intellectual teaching. It's different than something that you can understand with your thinking mind. It's something that is understood and experienced in spirit. So, normally, when you think of learning something, you think of learning it in terms of intellectually processing it through words, right? We get these words, concepts, ideas, and we say, ah, now I can grasp it with my thinking mind. However, words fall short in showing some of the more subtle and profound truths of being. spiritual illumination, dimensions of light and wisdom, experiences of love beyond attachment. These are things that one can come to know in a spiritual teaching, but if you say the words they're kind of meaningless, they're useless. It's like if you go to a restaurant, you sit down, you get the menu, open it up, you read this beautiful description of a meal. You say, oh, that sounds lovely. You go to those fancy restaurants and they give you giant, long descriptions. It doesn't just say chicken. It gives you a long description of everything that's on the plate and you could say, well, I have a question. You can ask the waiter 50 questions about that dinner and hear all the words. And then if you got up and left, what would you know about the food? Would you know if it's good? No, you wouldn't know the truth of the food. You would just know a description, meaningless, and it ends up not being nourishing for you, and you don't even know whether the restaurant's good or not. So when we come to spiritual understandings, they are not in terms of words and descriptions. They come down to a truth where you actually get to eat the chicken. So tonight we're going to go from words to an actual spiritual experience. Enlightenment is described in many spiritual books by many teachers. And in the description, you'll hear all sorts of interesting things like truth and humility, blamelessness, love, all sorts of stuff. But that information is useless without spiritual experience. So tonight we will go to the spiritual experience. It won't just be a description. Like I know this really beautiful place in Hawaii. It's called Huaunaunau. And it's this beautiful little cove. The coral reef there is outstanding. It's very beautiful. There's palm trees, white sand, lots of turtles. Beautiful place to go and meditate. Now, that's my description of the place. I've been there, so I know everything about the place, but if you haven't been there, you might just say, well, that's kind of a neat description. I could talk about it a lot more, because I've been there many times, and then if I talk about it more, you'll have more of a description, but you won't know what it's really, really, really like unless you've been there. Now this is how enlightened descriptions are. So even if there's an enlightened teacher, they're talking about enlightenment, it's like talking about a really nice place, but if you haven't been there, then you really don't know. So the important thing is to get from a description to actually being there. And tonight we're going to get there. Experience is vital. most spiritual books are just descriptions. And even the people who write them don't know that much. They kind of are like people who are talking about and writing about flying rocket ships. And they're like, oh yeah, rocket ships. I know everything about a rocket ship. But have you ever been on one? No, but I can tell you all about it. You end up in this world that is obscured from truth. So in any words, if it doesn't bring you to an experience, then it is very, very, very limited. So tonight, when I'm talking about rocket ships, we're going to get to the rocket ships. We're going to go on a rocket ship. We're going to blast off and end up in Juana now, with a chicken. See, it's all coming together. So, with Buddhism, towards the end of Buddha's life, his students asked, who will be the successor? He had, at that time, about 500 arhants, liberated students. And Buddha said, no one. The teachings themselves will be my successor. And his students said, okay, well then we have to write them down. Should we write them down in Pali or Sanskrit? Sanskrit is a more holy language, maybe Sanskrit. And he said, I don't care what language it's in. what you write it down in or what words are spoken, it matters that it is known to someone, that the truth behind the words is known to someone. At the time of Buddha's death, he thousand years. That was 2,500 years ago. And so the Theravada Buddhists, they say, see, his teachings are still here. What did he know? But his teachings now, I think, are very, very different than when he was there. You could read stories about Buddha teaching someone and then them becoming enlightened. But now, when all the monks, all the Buddhist monks around the world read that same story, there's no enlightenment. There's a transmission in between the words that transmits and shows something about spirit. It was his awareness, his consciousness. These teachings are something that are not just logical, they're illogical, they're beyond logic. They're something that you feel, something that you are aware of, not just in thoughts. so refreshing because after 1500 years Mahayana Buddhism became very philosophical. They would sit there and talk about things, but there was no real true experience. The spirit within the structure of Buddhism was kind of lost. So Bodhidharma came along and created this whole new thing. And he said, alright, he said, forget the words. We're done with words. There has to be an experience, a knowledge, a wisdom beyond words. And that's why Zen is such a strange little practice, because they do all these weird funny things and then somehow they experience liberation from it. So a monk goes to see a Zen master and he says, Zen master, show me the way to enlightenment. And the Zen master says, it's that way." And he points outside of the room. Zen, the monk comes into the room, asks the question. The Zen master points outside of the room. Simple enough answer, right? But for some reason, in that interaction, the monk sees a profound truth. Not just the words, it was a silly little experience, but the monk sees a profound truth and experiences this thing, instant enlightenment, satori, from a strange little interaction. So there's these funny little things in Zen that seem very simple, sometimes a little strange, but they always direct you to knowing your own mind, to seeing the truth, to being aware of enlightenment. When Buddha said enlightenment, he created a new definition of experience, of awareness. And since then, it's been overwritten time and time again by different concepts and ideas to the point where in a Buddhist monastery when they're reading about enlightenment, talking about enlightenment, there's no enlightenment. They've redefined it to be a concept when Buddha never meant it as a concept but as an experience. So it's kind of sad because there's so many Buddhist monks out there teaching and learning and trying and just trapped in words, not experiencing the truth. This is why it's important for people like Bodhidharma to come along, to know the truth and be able to share the truth, not just to be able to repeat words or ideas that have been changed over time. we were watching a Tibetan Rinpoche giving a Dharma talk, and the Rinpoche, it was kind of a long talk, and he was doing things like itching his head and sneezing and coughing, He's speaking the Dharma when he's coughing. He's speaking the Dharma when he's sneezing. He's speaking the Dharma when he scratches his head. And I said, oh, when does he not speak the Dharma? And he said, when his mouth is moving. It's very interesting because it's true. It's very often true. So the didactical, logical mind that processes logic and reason is a good mind. We call it the thinking mind. The thinking mind is good. We use the thinking mind to do a lot of things. The thinking mind is a tool, but you have many different aspects of being and sometimes intuition is a better tool to use. And there's other tools of awareness, of perception, of spiritual knowledge, of a deeper wisdom that you can gain from the practice of meditation and mindfulness and compassion and yoga. So the thinking mind is a good tool, like a hammer is a good tool. It's very useful for lots of things. You don't want to take a hammer fishing. It's not really useful. You don't want to take a hammer into a teapot store. It's not a very good tool for that. So you have to recognize and develop your tool kit and use the appropriate tools at the appropriate time. Now, most people just walk around with their hammer and they go, I can do everything with my hammer. But when you start to develop different spiritual insights, intuition, wisdom, seeings, abilities, then you start to develop additional tools to approach life. The hammer is really not a good instrument for the spirit because in the world of spirit things are very, very delicate. So the hammer very often breaks spirit. You can't see spirit with your thinking mind. Meditation itself is the practice of stopping thought. So then if you think you're going to understand spirit, then you're never going to, because you'll always be thinking. But when you go into the awareness of spirit, it's beyond thought. That's quite an initiation. All right, I won't go on too much longer, but I'll tell you two sword stories. It's the sword of routine and the sword of liberation. So I was in Japan watching a sword demonstration. During the demonstration, it's called Iaido, the art of sword drawing, and Kenjutsu. Anyway, wait, who cares? Anyway, so at one point, they're going around, playing with their swords, and it's really pretty to watch. And then at one point, these two guys face each other. One guy pulls out a sword, the other guy pulls up two pan lids, like from pots and pans, and he defends the sword and he wins with the pan lids. Ching, ching, pshh! So I learned later that what that was, was one of the founders of their school, at one point, a long time ago in Japan, he would always have a sword with him and there was people who wanted to kill him. Somehow they tricked him into going to the kitchen and he left his sword and walked into the kitchen and he was attacked by assassins. And he just grabbed the pan lids and he fought them off successfully. So this demonstration was to commemorate this great swordsman. So I thought, this is the perfect example of religion. This is taking a spontaneous act of power and then making it into a ritual. And then, no one can gain that spontaneous act of power from the ritual. Now, in my second sword story, we leave ritual and technique and we come back to what really

0:32:09
matters.

0:32:10
So, a long time ago, in China, there was a guy who wanted to learn sword. So he goes to a sword master and says, teach me sword. And the sword master says, I'll teach you sword, but I need you to, you have to prove yourself to me a little bit, or you've got to do something for me. So go into the kitchen and you'll clean up the kitchen, you'll cook and clean for me, all in the kitchen. So he's working in the kitchen for days and days, learning nothing it. When he complains, then the master takes out a wooden spoon and attacks him with it. And he hits him and then chases him. And then, you know, the guy gets sad about that. But then a couple hours later, the master comes back, sneaks up behind him with a spoon and hits him again, chases him. And he's like, wow, this is really strange. He got really mad that I bothered him about this. And then this went on day after day after day. The Master kept on chasing him and hitting him with a spoon. And for a long time he felt bad about it, but after a while he started to gain a sense of the Master sneaking up. So he started to be like, wait a second. And he would be able to notice the Master before he attacked. So after some time, the master said, Okay, you've learned very well. Now you can leave. And the young man said, But you haven't taught me any techniques. And he said, All techniques are useless if you don't have the spirit. What I taught you is the spirit. So, all words, all concepts, all teachings are useless unless there's awareness of Spirit. So tonight, I'm teaching you the Spirit. Now if you've been listening carefully, not to the words, then you have seen the Spirit. But just in case you've been listening to the words, I'm going to show you the Spirit. So we're gonna sit in a meditative silence listening to music. How about that? And we're going to, I'm just going to have you guys look up here towards me. And this will be our rocket ship to Huana now with a chicken and enlightenment.

0:35:33
the the the the the the the the the the the the uh so Thank you. the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the All right, very nice. So this is what we call a transmission. Not just in words, but in experience beyond words.

0:39:50
Okay, now... That was my voice. Now... I can't say now. Okay. Now... Now I'd like you to say in words what your experience was. So I just would like maybe two or three people who saw something, experienced something that was more than words, I'd like you to put it into words and share it with the group. Raise your hand. Oh, yes. Here, give him the mic.

0:40:50
Okay, you've got to tell me what he said.

0:40:51
So what I experienced, it's what I usually experience in open days, that the whole room was like a golden coin imprinted with these 3D decorations. And the other thing is that I had a feeling that I'm going to laugh out loud and I just had this tremendous happiness.

0:41:20
Really nice.

0:41:23
Very good. Okay.

0:41:28
Anyone else?

0:41:29
Yes.

0:41:30
Yes, you. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.

0:41:33
I'm looking.

0:41:34
So my experience was a feeling that I experienced already once I've been on an open day before that when I concentrate on your face I have the feeling that the things around me get blurry and everything gets a goldenish light and nothing can be seen sharply and if I see your body I see something white coming out from it but it's really hard to describe what I mean.

0:42:09
Okay, that is also things I've heard before. Golden light. Okay, that's good. How about one more?

0:42:21
So this time I couldn't see any colors like I could last time when I was here, but now, as I concentrated on your face, I felt like you were lifting up from this stage, and also this wall behind you started to turn around, and the whole place started to have no form anymore, but to turn around, and it was a very good feeling.

0:42:49
Okay, good.

0:42:52
Sounds right?

0:42:54
So, part of the transmission, especially when I direct you to look at me, you'll see things. Very often people see gold light, they see the whole world become soft and changing, things like that. So the things that you guys described are accurate. But more importantly, for everyone in the room, even if you think you didn't see anything, you did. And more importantly, there is a light, a spiritual light that touches your spirit. And that's why we're together tonight. Okay, so it was a pleasure being with you this evening. I'm going to go outside and if anyone would like a book signed I will sign a book. If you want you can come out. You don't have to wait in a big line, you could wait in here is going to play his flute for you. Now Agni Kala also does transmission. He's also an esoteric teacher of enlightenment. His teacher was my teacher, so we're fellow students of an enlightened master. And through his flute playing, he makes a transmission. So if you want to have a whole other magical experience, stay in here. But if you want the book sign, then at some point you have to come out. So I'll be signing a book. I'll be doing book signings for about an hour. So I'll be signing a book. I'll be doing book signings for about an hour. So thank you all very much. You did very well tonight.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
