0:00:00
So, what about those monkeys, huh? That was so super fantastic. Wow. That's, in a way, what we were discussing the other night about getting in touch with your authentic self, right? You don't care about what and and also saying about you i'm grabbing something itself

0:00:31
is that i'm running away Okay.

0:00:41
Just like Gagana, I've always wanted to play music, but the structure of the mind that I was... how it was imprinted, I loved to hear music. So, and it took a little bit of letting go of that structure and just throwing myself in it. Without thinking, I'm creating a song and I title it such and such and then will keep we'll keep playing that song over and over again. Part of what you're going to hear in a few seconds, it's about getting in touch with that level of creative fluidity, which is life itself. And if we're still enough, we can hear the beautiful symphony, especially if we are out in a desert or out in the woods, up in the mountains. We'd be able to hear beautiful music. Should we at that moment have an instrument and just kind of try and play what we hear would be just amazing. But most of us, because we come from the world of structure, we want to be able to, okay, I'm going to capture that and, okay, I'm going to title it and that's the end of that. So therefore, we always try to go back to that same experience to try to repeat it again. But as we know, life doesn't repeat itself. It just keeps moving. It keeps flowing. And every time we pick up an instrument, it's pure flow. And when we listen to it later, we can touch that part of ourselves with our own serenading, that spirit inside of us we serenade it out, out of ourselves. So even though this may not have the sound effects that general requires, but I still hear a little bit of echo here. So, and this would be an honor for Rama, our teacher, that gave his life so we could have this opportunity to be standing here before you. So this exercise, if you close your eyes and just let go of any thoughts. Just focus. Try actually not to focus, but just feel the sense of emptiness and just stay there for a minute and see what happens.

0:03:50
the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the The. Thank you. Oh. the the the The. the. the the the I'm going to be quiet for a moment. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the the the the the the the the the the the the I'm going to put this on. the the the the the the the Oh, the the the the the the the the Open your eyes. That's just pure flow. And each and every one of you have the ability to do anything you want. You just have to not believe the lie that you can't.

0:15:40
You have to always know that you will be able to do it, anything, whatever that is. As subtle as enlightenment can be, but you can. And in fact, enlightenment is within you already. It just needs to come out a little bit more. And it's a beautiful thing to sit in your meditation spot, especially for After listening so many times to music while I was meditating, I thought, what if I serenade and I listen to my own music? So I would put in the headset on, get my flutes, get the software going, add the special effects, and I would play Pure Flow sometimes an hour, sometimes two hours, sometimes three hours. When I was done, it was the most amazing meditation I could have ever had without trying. So creativity has a lot of power. The creative dimensions that we open ourselves to by allowing ourselves the possibility that we could do something beautiful in our lives. And in fact, part of the job of the Bodhisattva is to bring beautiful things in this world, to make this world a better place, not just in terms of thought, but in things that we see, in things that we hear. Everything else may not be as beautiful, but whatever we bring into this world basically takes over. And if we're in that flow, we're in that field of awareness, then the rest, the chaotic nature of the world doesn't touch us. And that's a beautiful place to be, a place of authenticity. So, one, if we could take just another maybe five minutes of a little break, and then we're going to set up the computer up there, and I'm going to show you another piece of beauty that can take your mind to a place of pure light. Zeros and ones. And zeros and ones, as you know, is electric things that go pshh pshh pshh, and it makes, you know, the zero and it makes the one. So therefore the information flows, but it's pure light. And that's one of the things with the tankas you're going to receive tonight, those you guys who ordered, while I was painting it, it was all in that pure world of light. And when it's reproduced in a physical thing, it embodies that energy, as opposed to having a thangka that someone has spent perhaps weeks or months painting it. And sometimes if that person, his attention is that clear, it's imprinted into that piece of art. And if you're quiet enough, at some point you'll be able to see that. And it's always beautiful to have your place adorned with beautiful things like tankas. For me, it was an inspiration. And I thought another beautiful area that I could perhaps put my mind and engage my mind with. So, okay. So let's take about five minutes. We'll sit up and then we'll see the movie and then you'll receive your tankas.

0:20:55
You. the the the the You. the the the the the the the. The. You. the the the You. the the the You. the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the The. The. The. You. the the the the. So so so So, the the the the the the the the the the The. the the the the the the the the the the the...... Thank you... We're seeing the blood moon come up and all this kind of stuff. So all of that literally has been recreated because the images and videos that we worked out of,

0:37:40
they weren't really that crisp, but at least it gave us an idea. So for next time, if we go back to the desert again, we'll take better pictures and all this kind of stuff, so especially sound. So the idea behind that is that there's a lot of power in the desert. We go there, we absorb it, and then we come back home within a week. We forget about that, right? But if we document it like this and part of your recap as well, if you go back and reread it and now once it's all completed, you'll get a link where you can actually get to see the whole movie to inspire you. And then, you know, it's a to remember how you felt over there, the purity, the silence of the desert. So then you know, oh, okay, now visually, right, it's a visual trigger to get you back to that power place. And it'll be there 24-7. However many times you want to see it, it'll be up live, where you can, only you would have access to, no one else. So, so you'll see and you know if you guys have any ideas or feedback or something like that after you see the complete movie then that'd be really great so why don't we Raja and Ketu. Would you mind getting up, please? Great. Yeah. And Maya Davis is going to hand you the tankas over here.

0:39:25
Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay.

0:40:34
Okay.

0:40:35
Okay. Okay.

0:40:37
Okay.

0:40:38
Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. I don't know how my head feels. This is one of the... This is one of the... two... Om Namah Shivaya. Om Namah Shivaya. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay.

0:41:44
Okay.

0:41:45
Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay.

0:41:51
Okay.

0:41:52
Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. I think from our lenience, I just feel overwhelmed as to how special it is to have that opportunity to be able to go into those worlds that when you open up the chakras in your house, stare stare at it for a while with your meditations if you like. You can meditate to it. But it's

0:42:30
just beautiful to walk in and remind yourself, that's right, this is where I'd like my mind to be. So in your own way, you can have your music, you can have your own drawings, just put it up there. Beautiful things, especially the type of artwork that sometimes it looks pretty, but it doesn't really inspire that inner spirit, right? So yeah, thank you so much. The last words of wisdom. Remind them about monkeys.

0:43:43
This reminds me of when we would sit with my teacher in New York. We'd meet on a Thursday night, sometimes, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, and Sunday once a month. We'd start at seven and end up about two or three in the morning and then go to work the next day. So, you get home at 3 and then of course you are up at 4 because you have to meditate and do your run. But, the energy of the meditation, the power that you get from an evening like this, you don't need sleep. You will be fine. The only way that you will be tired tomorrow is if you think you will be. But with this much energy that's been in the room tonight, I can guarantee you that tomorrow is going to be bright. I have one song I want to play. This will be our final song for the evening. And this is actually a song that I won't play at my memorial. Another one. Close, close, close. Let me get this up here. Hang on just a minute.

0:45:41
Oh, it's on my other one. Oh no.

0:46:06
Dang it. It's Johnny Nash. I can see clearly now. It's one of my favorite songs. We're just singing a cappella. I have it on my other little thing. I can't... You can get it on YouTube. Just go to YouTube and see it. Okay. Plug it in.

0:46:56
This...

0:46:57
It's Johnny Nash. I can see clearly now.

0:46:59
This is an old song.

0:47:00
I'm not sure if you can see it.

0:47:01
I'm not sure if you can see it.

0:47:02
I'm not sure if you can see it.

0:47:03
I'm not sure if you can see it.

0:47:04
I'm not sure if you can see it.

0:47:05
I'm not sure if you can see it.

0:47:06
I'm not sure if you can see it. I'm not sure if you can see it. I'm not sure if you can see it.

0:47:09
I'm not sure if you can see it.

0:47:10
I'm not sure if you can see it. I'm not sure if you can see it.

0:47:12
I'm not sure if you can see it. It's Johnny Nash, I Can See Clearly Now. This is an old song.

0:47:19
Can you find it? Okay. I can see all obstacles in my way Gone are the dark clouds that had me blind bright bright sunshine i think i can make it now the pain is gone Here is that rainbow I've been praying for It's gonna be a bright, bright, bright, sunshiny day Look all around, there's nothing but blue skies I can see clearly now the rain is gone I can see clearly now the rain is gone I can see clearly now the rain is gone I can see clearly now the rain is gone the rain It's gonna be a bright, bright, bright, bright, bright day. It's gonna be a bright, bright, bright, bright day. Oh, what a bright, bright, bright, bright, bright day. This morning is how you greet eternity. Don't hit the snooze. And he suggested that we pick up, that you wake up happy, hopeful. There's always hope. You are nobly born. You did not come here to be a prisoner. You came here to be a liberator. And the way you liberate

0:49:59
this world from all of this darkness is to get rid of it inside of you first. this world from all of this darkness is to get rid of it inside of you first.

0:50:53
Namaste.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
