0:00:00
The High Road is a way to the higher self, beyond the limited self. It's where we strip away all of the mental modifications, all the ideas, concepts of who we are. Strip away our personal history and just experience life directly. And it's both extremely simple and extremely ecstatic. It's like nature, simple but also very, very, very deep in its original aspect of purity. So we just seek to experience life directly. In Tibetan Buddhism, they have that concept of bare attention. Nothing added. That's what they say in Zen. So bare attention or nothing added to the experience. In Zen, there was a Zen master who made a haiku explaining nothing added. It's just complete perfect awareness. So simple but so profound. And the haiku says, Old pond, frog jumping, plop. But it expresses such a beautiful simplicity. Nothing added. It's just what it is. When we come to understand ourselves with nothing added, we find the higher self. When we add desire, and aversion, and all these other things, when we add concepts, ideas, personal history, then everything's Completely different. It's like There's this old pond where I used to go fish But then my neighbor Jim started coming over to the pond and he started get catching all trout and then I got mad at him I mean, you know, you just lose the whole thing. You even forgot to see the frog jumping You know because you were caught up in this whole story So we try to get past the story and try to see life and ourselves The way we are once we get to that awareness. There's a tremendous perfection Let's see there is another Zen story of a monk who says Zen master I wish to I wish to experience the Tori. I want to see you know, I want enlightenment so what should I do?" And then the Zen master says, sit by the pond and you see that frog? I want you to look, look at that frog. You will find Satori in that frog. And then the monk is like, okay. So monk sits there staring at a frog. Frog sits there staring back. In Zen stories, they love frogs. They really do. So, then after a while, the Zen master comes and says, what do you see? He's like, I don't see Satori, I just see a frog. Well, what do you see about the frog? I don't know, it's just a frog. You're not seeing it deeply enough. So then, he sits again, maybe the next day, maybe for next week, I don't know, some period of time, where he's looking at the frog, and then he notices lots of details about the frog. Oh it's not just a green frog, it's got like these different colorations, its eyes are this color, you know, there's like he starts to find out, just see a lot more detail. And then the Zen Master comes back and says, what do you see? He's like, I don't see Satori, but I see all of these details about the frog. Then he says, oh you're not looking close enough." And then the Zen Master goes away. So he's like, what? I'm not looking close enough. He looks at the frog even more, looks at the frog even more, and then he starts to see his own thoughts, his ideas of what a frog is. And then that leads to his ideas of who he is and what his life's about. So then Zen Master comes back, says, Says what do you see he starts to tell him, you know, like I saw that, you know Here's what I think and here's my personal history and stuff like that. You're not looking deep enough Zen master goes away. So he goes through this process of seeing His whole life his whole self life the universe and everything You know, so he he does he completely sees everything. He goes through every consideration and still the Zen Master says, you're not looking close enough. And then he eventually is looking at the frog, he's considered everything in the universe, and then he just abandons it, sees the frog as the frog is, with bare awareness, nothing added, and he experiences Satori at that moment. Enlightenment is everywhere and in everything. We see ourselves when we look at everything. We see our ideas and then ourselves. But bare awareness is seeing beyond the self and seeing what actually is in its profundity. There's a Tibetan exercise to come to this seeing that I'd like to do with you. It is a mandala that we create in our mind. So I'd like you to imagine yourself. I'd like you to see yourself, envision yourself, as if you're standing or sitting in front of you. And behind you is just a white background. So this is some work, you're going to do some visualization, and it's very important that you focus tremendously and that you visualize it. Do not lose the visualization It's not too complex. It's not like have a look to schwa with a thousand arms There's five things Okay, so you see yourself Behind you is the white light the white lights everywhere, and you're in in the white light.

0:06:50
Above you is the sun.

0:06:52
See yourself and the sun. Backdrop, white light. Below you is the moon. See all three things with the backdrop, white light. On your left is a lake, a vast lake of water. See them all at the same time. On your right is a mountain. See yourself, see the sun above you, see the moon below you, see the vast lake on your left, the mountain on your right, all at the same time. Hold that image. And behind all of this is this white light. Now the mountain disappears. There's you, the sun above you, the moon below you, and the ocean on your left. Now the ocean disappears. There's you, the sun above you, the moon below you, and the white light behind you. Now the moon disappears. There's you, with the sun above you, and the white light behind you. Now the sun disappears. There's only you in the light.

0:08:55
Now you disappear. Okay, that is a little experience of bare awareness. In this Tibetan practice, there

0:09:19
are certain elements that draw your mind to an understanding of this visualization. And as they go away, little by little, you come to a simplicity. But when the self goes away, and there's only that white light left, the void, shunyata, that light, then you experience, or you have an opportunity to experience, direct awareness. It's very still, quiet, and empty. You know, on the spiritual path, when we take the high road, we start to understand the greater dimensions of ourself. We often think that we're just one way, we're limited, but we start to see that we are more than what we thought. We're capable of more, and that our spirit is much more vast. So take for example a painting of flowers. If you've got a painting of flowers, very often there's flowers and a vase on a table. And what you come to understand there is there's a focal point. It's the flowers. That's what it is. But then the rest of the canvas is just nothing. It doesn't matter. What matters is the flowers. This is how we kind of like look at ourselves. Now in Japanese painting, they demonstrate a way to see a bigger picture in the bottom corner. And then up in the top other corner, they have a couple little lines. And then what comes to mind when you see that is you're looking at a pond or a lake. So there's the flower, which is meaningful, but not the focal point, not the only thing where everything else is useless. You extend to a new dimension of perception when you say, there's a little flower and those little lines are ripples. And you go, oh, this is a larger body. And then the whole painting means something. The whole canvas meaning versus is useless. So we tend to look at ourselves in the dimension of here's the flower that's our focal point. The rest of the stuff is unusable garbage. But when we see another way of looking at things, we see the whole picture and beyond the picture because you you're like oh this is like a little snapshot of a big lake. So we start to get an awareness that we're bigger, that we can do more, that we have just a great vastness, and that what we try to do as an individual, is that little fixed idea of the flowers, is very limited and weak. So, you want to be happy, so you do something to be happy, and then you're not happy, because you're not seeing the big picture of who you are. So what we got to do is we got to get beyond the self. Buddha said the essence of his teaching is that nothing belongs to I or me. It's detachment from the self. And when you can detach from the self, you have no desire, no fear. The self is that limited being that just tries and strives for fulfillment as an awareness of individuality, when the greater truth of your being is infinity. So therefore, in individuality, in the transient, you're always stuck. It never works. So we try to become aware of our eternality, and we see that there's great balance. So we try to abandon the self. Sometimes we practice abandoning the self by abandoning through karma yoga, let's say. So selfless giving. And we find self even in selfless giving. So like, my teacher used to say, hey, before you help somebody, make sure they want help. Otherwise, you might be doing something to them that you think is helpful, but it's not. Like, let's say, oh, I did something really good today, I saved a fish from drowning. Did my best. You know, or, you know, just everybody. I mean, the Spanish Inquisition. No one expects the Spanish Inquisition, but when it happens, I mean, they had all the best, they had all the best intentions. They're all like, oh, we have to save these poor heretics by killing them and torturing them. So, you know, it's really funny, but that's what the self does. It does what it thinks. So we start helping, and we start to see the self in our selflessness. And then we go to a higher selfless giving, Bodhisitta, compassion. And there we find a great selflessness, but then we find it's hard to be selfless. We're like struggling to actually experience the light of compassion. So we have to go beyond the self that desires, beyond the self that's selfless and beyond the self that struggles with selflessness. At some point you got to abandon the self altogether. And you can. And you do. Some of you do. Some of you do from time to time. But you start with doing something. Meditation for a reason. Yoga for a reason. You go, oh, I want peace of mind. So I'm going to meditate to try to get that. But then you're trying to get something and you're never happy. I'm going to do yoga so that I get whatever you get from yoga. I get enlightenment and money. And then at some point in yoga, I love to see this. This happens. You're doing it for a reason. And then at some point, you're not doing it for a reason. You're just doing it. And that's where the light comes in. Because that's selflessness. You got to get to the point where you're just doing it. You're impeccable, you work hard, and you let go of any reason of self, any idea of reward. And then what happens is something amazing. It's called magic. It's called grace. Once you are working in yoga and you go past the self, abandon the self, no desires, just impeccability, then some kind of light starts to push you forward. There's a power. There's a power in yoga. There's a power on the pathway to enlightenment. The Dharma has a great momentum of truth that pushes you forward. And you say, where did this power come from? It wasn't me. No. You were blocking it. You were blocking it. You got to let go. You got to find the reason beyond the self. You just go past the self. The self just creates trouble. And then you enter into the flow. You enter into this bright energy. Where there's great light, success, there's happiness, there's joy. You got to do this in meditation. If you're meditating to become enlightened or to become peaceful or something like that, you're always going to be unhappy until you go past the reason why you meditate. You just meditate. You meditate as impeccably as possible. You don't judge it. You just do it. And then at some point you're not trying to get to a Jhana or Samadhi, or an Enlightenment. But whenever you're trying, then you never get there. So we have to abandon the self. So we find that there's challenges, that we can face them, there's pain, we can handle the pain, we find that we do things, as in our recapitulation, that are very powerful, It's a wonderful path, the high road. Okay. Thank you all very much. I would just like to meditate with you for one more song. So we're going to do a meditation on the third eye. This will be our final meditation for the equinox. So, thank you.

0:21:04
the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the So, So, Thank you. Thank you. Alright, thank you all very much. It was a beautiful equinox meditation.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
