0:00:00
There he is.

0:00:07
Nagaraj is here. I told everybody. Hopefully someday you can come and meet the rest.

0:00:27
All right, well, definitely gotta say,

0:00:31
y'all look real good in your Southwestern cowboy costumes. I don't know why I'm doing this with my hair. I don't know if cowboys do this.

0:00:39
I think I've seen them do this.

0:00:40
I think this is the reason why cowboys have stinky bums. Yeah, but you guys, your costumes, they're very beautiful. This is cool, right? We're in Santa Fe, New Mexico, and we got our getup. And I apologize if I break into Southern accent. It's just going to happen. Okay, so, so we've had a very, very, very beautiful, very powerful solstice season. So this is the ending of the solstice Cycle, has been a big, powerful transition. And we had so many very beautiful, powerful moments. We went to so many places of power, of pristine energy, and sacred places. We practiced mysticism. We learned all sorts of beautiful Dharma teachings. And tonight we're just going to have a party. No, but from here we're going to start putting our insight, our energy, the teachings into action, into work. So we're We're going to improve our compassion, improve our yoga. We take all of these beautiful teachings and all of the insight that we've gained and we're going to improve our Dharma practice. It's been just a really beautiful time, really a time of power, a time of acquisition. But when we get out of this party tomorrow, well tomorrow when we start heading back, we're going to start really working. and improve the shift.

0:03:29
So this is good.

0:03:30
Yeah, so, um, yeah, so tonight I just wanted to talk to you a little bit.

0:03:36
Um, I just have some administrative things. Nothing... Nothing big. You guys have already done the big stuff. That's why tonight's a party.

0:03:46
We get to wear our costumes and have a dance party. Now, Gurav has reminded me of something. I think he might not be happy. He reminded me, whenever I go to India, like I saw him, and I was like, oh, that makes me so happy. But every time I go to India, I always, you know, I meet these Swamis, and gurus, and masters, and I always notice that noticed that their students or their devotees have very good etiquette. And then I come back here and repeat that in Kriyayoga. So, like with Guru Ramana, his students have very, very educated. And then the light of teachings reflects in their mind. If you have poor etiquette, then you don't open yourself. You're closed. And you see self-reflection. You could be standing in front of Buddha and Krishna and nothing happens. You don't get it. They could be talking about the Dharma and you won't even hear it because you have poor etiquette. The self is in the way. So, in Buddhist etiquette in our school is very sophisticated. It's an inner way of opening your attention to see what. So there was Wang Zi, the girl, I showed you guys this girl in China. She was wearing a little pink pajama when I was wearing a little black pajama. So she had good etiquette. She was told by Yuan Miao that there was this American Buddhist master coming, and then she had very good etiquette. And so as soon as she saw him, then she had a satori moment. And she said, Oh, master of compassion, and it's a myth, a light to me. And she said it all in Chinese, and I was all like, what's happening? But enlightenment is everywhere. You can see it in the stocking of a bottle, in the still meditation. You can see enlightenment in nature. But you can also see enlightened people and esoteric teachers, people who have some attainment or some awareness. It's always good to have the proper etiquette. So it's very often that you kind of look at what we're doing, you get caught up in a small view. You say, oh, this flower's wearing a sorape and a hat. That's who he is. He's a cowboy. I'm not just a cowboy, although this is my first rodeo. But you often get caught up in looking at things in a small way. This is no ordinary affair. It's not a regular situation of karma and events. Even when we're having lunch or shopping, it is a teaching. That's what I do. I don't stop doing that. I don't take a vacation. I don't. Even if I'm away from you, I'm still teaching. It's the inner teachings. So it's not an ordinary thing. And many of you know that. You have these magical experiences from time to time. But you have to be aware, because then you'll have good etiquette. You won't just start trashing a situation. Oh, we're stuck in traffic. So I'm going to get into a bad mood or something. You hold your attention in a good way and then you'll be stuck in traffic. And it will be beautiful. Being stuck in traffic can be miraculous. Yeah. You sit He's eating a chicken sandwich. It's kind of like if you were with a 50 degree black belt, a sensei. You know, I don't know, what's the big deal about this person? They're just, they're waiting for their guy to sit there and eat a chicken sandwich. There's a tremendous power that they have. Tremendous power that they have. So in the right situation, they can do something that can save a life. Whereas the other person sees them eating a chicken sandwich and doesn't think that's anything. So, you know, if you see the Japanese go out with their sensei, they have very, very good etiquette. They're going to dinner, they have very good etiquette because they know this is a person of great power, strong intention, something that they can learn from. Versus going out to dinner with Pittsburgh sensei. It's a different situation. He doesn't have that Japanese etiquette. So, it's important to recognize that how you hold yourself and how you can connect. You connect with the spirit through proper etiquette, holding your mind and your care in the right way. It's very important. So today we were getting ready for a dance, or I was getting ready for a dance. So somebody texted me and said, oh yeah, so are you shopping in the Plaza? And I'm like, no, I'm preparing for the party tonight. And they're like, what are you doing? I'm like, well, I'm meditating. And then they say, why do you have to prepare for the party today? It's just a party. And I'm like, it's not just a party. We're going to be on a dance floor dancing, but this isn't just a normal dance. This is a meditation. And there's beautiful teachings in this dance, in this party. So it's not a normal thing. So when you look at things in small ways, you're looking at things in self-view. So you're like, I'm just going to a party. I don't see any magic in it. Oh, I just went to lunch. I don't know.

0:12:49
You're seeing a reflection of yourself.

0:12:50
Your karma. And the worst thing is when you lack etiquette towards me, then you start trying to fit me in to your karma. I am not your karma. You start to put me in, you'd like to see the first mind.

0:13:03
You're going to fit into my awareness of your life, into my ideas, into my concepts, into

0:13:04
my ideas, into my concepts, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas,

0:13:05
into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas,

0:13:06
into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas,

0:13:08
into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas,

0:13:09
into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas,

0:13:10
into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into

0:13:11
my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my ideas, into my concepts, into my desires and fears. And I say, uh-huh. You're going to drive yourself crazy if you do that. So, it's like, it's like Neo and Agent Smith. Agent Smith was going around trying to make everything into agents and then he has like, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh,

0:13:50
uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh,

0:13:51
uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, You've got to look deeper into our connection. In the things where you just become mundane, or the mundane things in life, if you start to see more deeply, you'll see a lot of light in simple things, in beautiful, simple things that we do every day. So my teachings aren't just in places of power and sitting in seminars. And when we're driving in the car, having a dance, there's magic in it. There's great teachings It is how you regard the mind. That interconnection opens. Otherwise you don't see it.

0:14:59
I remember there's a story of a Buddha.

0:15:02
He's going over to this one area where the monks are, and there's like, there's like this guard, a monk guarding the other monks. He's like, those are some serious monks meditating there. So I'm not letting you in. He couldn't tell it was Buddha. He didn't know. He was definitely, you know, like he had a thought, an idea. He couldn't see. So in Tibetan Buddhism, they say, don't turn a god into a demon. And that means that you don't take something that is pure and bright and beautiful, and then start thinking about it, and then producing it into yourself, and your concept, and your idea. Because then you're going to be left with just that. So this is something that you all need to reflect on because your etiquette has been very poor. And I give you some time to work things out. But now it's time to change. It's time to learn more. It's time to grow. So yeah, I wanted to talk about administrative

0:16:42
administrative things.

0:16:45
But I loved it so much. So, we made a change in that way,

0:16:53
in our yoga projects.

0:16:56
And, it's also very important, very important to think very well of your yoga leaders. I have a lot of people come and complain to me about their yoga leaders. They say, my yoga leader is mean, my yoga leader doesn't listen. Every problem I've heard. To me, when I hear you say that, this problem, that problem, this problem with the yoga leader, all I hear is that you are not practicing selflessness in your yoga. Now, yoga leaders, maybe they are not perfect, but they are trying, they are working on it. But the position of yoga leader is a very powerful position. And it is a position that has great dimensionality to it that yogis don't have. It's the yoga leader who has those dimensions. So a lot of you are teaching meditation now. You start becoming aware of greater resources, inner resources. And you say, wow, I didn't know that was there. Oh, I can do this with this. Oh, wow. You learn so much. But it's a bigger vehicle. whether they are perfect or imperfect. They are working through their position as best they can. They're doing the best that they can. If they were not doing a good job,

0:19:00
then I would say,

0:19:01
okay, this yoga is not working out. We start things with endings. So you should think very positively about your beliefs. So, we had to make some changes, and I want to go over those changes.

0:19:38
So first of all,

0:19:40
most of the people who are on Athletique are going to stay on in a part-time capacity. So just, you know, regular yoga practice. So This means that even though you might roll off in six months or nine months, who knows? We don't know for sure. We know that we still need you to be a strong, focused, positive yogi. A lot of you got confused, right? But it's because there was changes in the business. It's actually that's why we made changes and we didn't know all the answers. We had to wait for our lawyer to figure things out. So the changes in resources were changes that were illegal. So we had to say, OK, well, what's going on? We found out this, so we have to make this change. Oh my gosh, oh no, it was going to go this way. So it was just figuring stuff out. So selfless practice in yoga is to be patient during those times. And the yoga leaders didn't have all the answers. So we had to kind of wait and see. And so this happens a lot. There's a lot of uncertainty. It's just that this was a very powerful one, right? Because we were moving towards this big acquisition, and then because of our resource planning, there was an issue. One of the biggest reasons that the acquisition didn't go through was because of the way that we had done our resource plan. And then they had a big problem with that. And then we worked with our legal team to fix it. So now we've been able to fix it. So this is the... So, you know, so if you're like... If you get upset at your yoga leader during a time like that, it's like, they don't know yet. We're just learning. We're going with what we find. Okay, so the changes that we're bringing Ishta, Chandi, Surya, and Ananta onto the Golden Rite Team. And or R&D for for Apple. So they get to kind of just work on their own project for Apple. But they say, hey, I feel like doing this feature just to see if it's a proof of concept. they're capable of that. And if they come up with something strong, that's good. So the rest of the Appadis yogis are still on Appadis. And you just want to work on being impactful in your work and being very selfless in your work. of transition when you might get thrown out of the yoga team in six months, it won't be because they didn't like you. It will be because that's what we have to do for the business. A lot of it is a needle in the hay. So now that we're moving from yoga project to $10 million a year company, that transition, we have to go into complete business structures. Our structures of, we're good for development, but when we're doing due diligence for an acquisition, they look at what we do and they go,

0:24:16
what are you doing?

0:24:17
Why do you have all these people

0:24:18
who are just working for fun? By the way, working for fun for a corporation is illegal. People have to get compensated. Oh, well. Oh! We were just doing this because it's like our religion. That's... Okay, so, and one other thing about money. So, all of you have invested stock options and stuff like that. And some of you didn't invest all the way, you might be off before it invests completely. Everyone will either get their investment or you will get a bonus. So everyone's going to get money.

0:25:02
Everyone's going to get money.

0:25:05
That's kind of it.

0:25:07
So don't worry about that.

0:25:10
All right.

0:25:12
Alright, I wonder if I covered everything. Did I cover everything? Yeah, okay, good. Yeah, so, you know, that's important. We definitely have to make sure that we're positive and strong in our yoga. Positive and strong with our yoga leaders. Yeah, you know, Mandala, when she was a yoga leader, she was an enlightened yoga leader, but people still had complaints. Yeah, every time you go to Vagba, I have some complaints. I'm hearing this, are we yoga? The self has trouble, it always finds problems. Things aren't fair, things are difficult, whatever. And it is the job of the karma yogi to really observe the self's reaction and work through it, let go of it. You can do that. It's possible. This is the magic of Karma Yoga. When you're working on something and you see hard thoughts, feelings come up, you're dealing with your mind through work, through action. And then you do the actions in the most selfless way, with the highest intent, with the most positive thoughts, and then you actually change your karma by doing that.

0:26:51
It's fantastic.

0:26:52
You guys are familiar with this. Very, very, very helpful. And some of you get comfortable. Get comfortable with your job, comfortable with your yoga, comfortable with your attainment. So, Kyoko, she went to this palm leaf reader in New Delhi. And they have these palm leaves that have your, you know, they tell you about your past lives

0:27:37
and they tell you about

0:27:37
their current lives. Maybe they tell you future lives too, I don't know. But they're pretty uncanny. But they tell you the name of your parents, tell you all sorts of details about yourself. And they can tell you when you've died too. So it's really, really cool. So the next trip, when we go in March, we're all gonna go to the Palm Leaf Reader. So that'll be kind of fun. So anyway, so the Pompili creator was like, okay, this is your parents' names, and this was your boyfriend's name, and middle school, and stuff like that. And so she thought, wow, that's pretty interesting. And then the Pompili said that she was a one-time returner. And a one-time returner... So Buddha had four levels of enlightenment. And a one-time returner is the second level. Stream-winner, that means the first enlightenment. One-time returner. Non-returner. And then the Arhats. So she's all, yeah, okay, that's pretty good. And I was like, well, this can change.

0:28:53
This can get better.

0:28:55
This can get better. Because the difference between a one-time returner and a non-returner is huge. But the difference between a non-returner and an art hunter is giant. It's the key. The key is to become the Archons. That's where it's significant. I mean, all of them are significant. But if you're a non-returner, you'll still have something in you where you're like, I still get bothered by things. I know I've had a realization, from some attainment of course, but you still have some hard edges inside. And that's why I sit here and I poke those red buttons. I'll just sit here next to you, smiling. I'm sorry, I'm wearing costumes all the time. I need chicken sandwiches. And you'll be looking at me like that. And then I'll start pushing your buttons. And then I'll say, see? You still think you can work on it. Yeah, I do. And so you non-returners out there, don't get comfortable. Not at all. Once you become an artist, that's the perfected saint, that's where the self dissolves. And it does come back, but it comes back completely connected with Nirvana. Anyway, it is anyway. Nothing's not, but you know it. And then when people start pushing your red buttons, you don't have any. So don't get so comfortable. So, oh wait, we're supposed to have a celebration tonight. But I first have to say, Hawaii, wow, so many really beautiful places, beautiful meditations, powerful teachings. And then at the end, I'm like, you guys did a good job dealing with all the hardships of a strenuous trip. And then later on, it's like, gosh, I spoke too soon. You know, it's very important to maintain good etiquette amongst each other.

0:31:48
And we had new students.

0:31:51
This is the first trip where we had new students. It's very important to have good etiquette as a way of showing and teaching the new students. Otherwise they'll grow up with bad etiquette. So, you know, it's like the black belts in the dojo, they're the first ones to clean the mat, then the wife helps see what they're doing. And then they go, oh, I want to do it. It builds a spirit. But if you have bad etiquette towards each other, and bad etiquette towards the law, I mean, fuck it, well, then it creates a bad situation in the village, which I will not have at all. No bad situation in the dojo. Hmm, hmm. Understand? So, it's very important, it's very important, I mean, you know, long trip and all sorts of intensities we went through, really, really intense and beautiful, but it's very important that you always regard each other in a very beautiful way. Always, you know, when someone's upset, you have compassion. When someone's doing something wrong, you have compassion. It's very important that we start with bodhicitta, having that beginning of compassion. And then what's going to come out of that is going to be the right etiquette. So when they see you having good etiquette towards each other, then they start to learn something. And we have to have good etiquette towards them. So very important. where there's a very strong emphasis on enlightenment for women. So, in the school, you have to have really good etiquette with the guys. You have to have good etiquette towards women. Women too. Because the new girls will walk in and they'll be throwing around all this sexual energy and it could be something that really bothers a gal. Why is she doing that? God, you know, she shouldn't be doing this. And really, my father, your compassion for her will guide her. And guys, if a pretty girl is walking around and you're throwing sexual energy back at her, then it's going to teach her to continue to do that. Which will make the school dirty.

0:34:44
And I don't like dirt.

0:34:46
So, it's very important that we get this right. You know, spiritual schools are like a hook-up zone. This etiquette is extremely important. Because there's going to be lots of new gals coming in, lots of new guys coming in. And they have to see that you, you guys have such good etiquette, such strong etiquette, that they learn from you. You show them the way, the way they hold their attention, the way to be. And then everything becomes very clear, right? So, it's not hard when you're doing it right. You just have to do it right. Very important for you guys. Don't have a fixed idea about anybody in this room. Don't be like, oh yeah, she's always like this. Oh, he always does that. Never do that. Because when you do that, you are fixing that person into that way, into that attention. Your thoughts are very strong about other people.

0:36:18
So if you say,

0:36:19
Oh yeah, he's always angry. Then you're going to be pushing that on him. You are that definition. And then it will make him angry. And he will continue to act that way. So if you see a behavior that you don't like, come to it with compassion. Don't come to it with a judgment and an idea. Really open it up, compassion. Because those fixed ideas, they will just hold you. They will hold you in dissatisfaction. And they will hold the other person in the activity that you bother about. So compassion is very important. I was supposed to just talk about that and party with. But these are important things. We need to make some corrections. But we are here for a celebration. This is very good. has a very beautiful energy, very beautiful light. When you do it right, it's beautiful, it's so happy, it's so wonderful. And you guys do it right a lot. We're just going up to the next level now. I mean, all the visiting teachers, whenever they come, they say, we love you guys. Right? They're not kidding.

0:38:05
Yeah. They were like,

0:38:07
you're the best song that we ever met.

0:38:09
I think so.

0:38:10
I think you guys are the best song that I ever met.

0:38:13
I think too. It must be. If I see a better song, I'm going.

0:38:17
I almost did that once.

0:38:24
I was like, sitting there going, hey, the Hungarian song.

0:38:30
I might go over there.

0:38:33
But now, they all came over here. Yeah, so I was sitting at the banks of the Ganga, and then I, after meditation, this thing came to me. Teach in Paris. So I was like, okay, where can I find time to go to Paris? Because I like Paris, I love Paris. It's a beautiful place, beautiful place. It's a place where I have great energy, beautiful notifications.

0:39:26
So I love to go to Paris.

0:39:27
I'm like, where can I find time to go to Paris? And it was not on any of the teaching times. So I was just like, okay, I'm going to go to Paris.

0:39:30
And I was like, okay, I'm going to go to Paris.

0:39:31
And I was like, okay, I'm going to go to Paris. And I was like, okay, I'm going to go to Paris. And I was like, okay, I'm going to go to Paris. And I was like, okay, I'm going to go to Paris. And I was like, okay, I'm going to go to Paris. And I was like, okay, I'm going to go to Paris. And I was like, okay, I'm going to go to Paris.

0:39:38
And I was like, okay, I'm going to go to Paris.

0:39:39
And I was like, okay, I'm going to go to Paris.

0:39:40
And I was like, okay, I'm going to go to Paris? And it was not on any of the teaching times. So I was

0:39:41
just going to find like three or four days sometimes where I could fly up to Paris and just come back. And then after that teaching said, boom, teach in Paris. I said, why? And they said, oh, why not? I'm going to be in Paris for a few days. Don't I have a day for the Parisians to teach? Absolutely.

0:40:04
So I was like, okay, I'll go teach in Paris.

0:40:05
So it's going to be Friday night, Paris, Saturday night, Vienna, Sunday night, Vienna.

0:40:06
Then I go to Hungary for a week.

0:40:07
And I'm going to do that quarterly. So, I'm going to do that quarterly. So, I'm going to do that quarterly.

0:40:10
So, I'm going to do that quarterly.

0:40:11
So, I'm going to do that quarterly. So, I'm going to do that quarterly.

0:40:13
So, I'm going to do that quarterly.

0:40:14
So, I'm going to do that quarterly.

0:40:15
So, I'm going to do that quarterly.

0:40:16
So, I'm going to do that quarterly.

0:40:17
So, I'm going to do that quarterly.

0:40:18
So, I'm going to do that quarterly. So, I'm going to do that quarterly.

0:40:20
So, I'm going to do that quarterly.

0:40:21
So, I'm going to do that quarterly. So, I'm going to do that quarterly. So, I'm going to do that quarterly. So, I'm going to do that quarterly. So, I'm going to do that quarterly.

0:40:26
So, I'm going to do that quarterly.

0:40:27
So, I'm going to do that quarterly. So, that should be really wonderful. Now, we're going to be doing a beautiful Sangha Unity event in July. And the Sangha Unity event is going to be called Iceland. So, Iceland is one of the purest places on earth. And it's beautiful. I love it. So we're going to be going there. Any of you who want to are welcome. We're organizing a Hungarian sangha to go there as well. So we're going to do a meet halfway kind of thing. It's in a beautiful place. to sit down and meditate together. Beautiful rolling hill. So that's going to be a wonderful Sankha unity event. That was so beautiful. Fantastic. Okay, so, yeah, when we get together, there's tremendous light and happiness and joy. Just getting together. Just sitting here, talking. Even if it's a correction, when you hold your attention right, when you have the right etiquette, then things are beautiful, right? Wonderful. So this is good. And this is because we're doing it right. This is because we're doing it right.

0:41:50
If you do it wrong, it doesn't work out so well.

0:41:52
People sometimes get confused in sanghas about what it should be like, right? Like, you have expectations of what the people in the sangha should be like. You're like, you should be nice. You should, you know, you should give me stuff. You should do what I say, you know? There's all sorts of expectations. But when you have expectations, when you have assumptions, when you've got assumptions, make an ass of eating. Assumption. Okay, so, yes. It's very often, I'm joining a spiritual community and people should do what I think they should do. They're not nice the way I think they should be. So, really, we're here to just practice together. We're here to practice mindfulness and compassion together.

0:42:59
That's it.

0:43:01
So you don't have to worry about expecting people to act a certain way, because then you'll throw it all off. There was this doctor, healer, and he was healing for a while, helping people. And then he was working with this one woman and she didn't have something too bad, but then all of a sudden it got worse and then she died.

0:43:28
Boom.

0:43:28
And he was kind of shocked because he was like, whoa, I was here trained to heal this person and she rapidly fell apart and died right in front of me on the table. And he was like, oh boy, this is horrible. So he goes over to his Buddhist master and he says, I guess I can't readopt her anymore because this was terrible. I was trying to heal this lady and I couldn't. I just can't take this. And then his Buddhist master said, your job isn't to cure the people.

0:44:19
simply to care for.

0:44:23
I think it's important because he had an expectation as a doctor that he will cure everybody. But you know, if he's going to have any sort of long career, people will die. So instead of having that expectation, his job is to care for people as best he can. And hopefully there's some cure in that too. I mean cure But it's like that in the Sangha. You expect the Sangha to be a certain way, to be a cure. You're missing the fact that you're supposed to practice care, compassion, mind-care, and yoga. So we also do yoga in the right way. So yoga, no expectations of yoga. No expectations. And we do it in a very solid way. Buddha had a story of two acrobats, right? And there's a guy, a man, and then a little girl. And they would like get on a rope, and the girls get on top of the guy's head

0:46:13
or something like that.

0:46:14
And they both had their part in the act. And then the guy said, hmm, I'm really concerned for you in the act because it's dangerous, right? You can fall and hurt yourself. He's like, so I'm going to, I'm going to take care of you more. I'm going to try to help you. And then Buddha said, no, the girls are at loss. Because she said, no, rather than that, we will take care of each other by doing our part perfectly. If I do my part perfectly, and you do your part perfectly, then our act is successful. If you get too worried about me, then you're going to take attention off of what you have to do, and then it will fall. So, this is how we do our yoga. We do what we take responsibility for our parts. And it works out pretty well. And that's doing it right.

0:47:26
Doing it right.

0:47:29
So, we're going to have a party tonight. I digress. We're going to have a party tonight, and let go of the self and dance. Let go of the heaviness of the past year. in Mexico, they've got this character called the Zobra. And it's like a burning man. It's like this 30 foot tall thing that they build. And it looks really funny. And then they burn it. And they call it like old man gloom or something like that.

0:48:16
Gloom.

0:48:17
Thank you.

0:48:18
And they say, let's just get rid of all the bad thoughts, all the gloom, and everything bad of the last year. And then they burn the man, work their little voodoo, play some kachina dolls, and then it's kind of a release. So here at the time of the transition into the next year. This is a time where we can let go of the past, forgive people who made us sad. This is where you think you've not done a good job, you can just not think that anymore. Move forward into the new year in a positive way, in a strong way. It's very, very good. You can look at places to improve, but you shouldn't hold yourself back and be negative. You shouldn't be like, if I did this last year, I'd be better now. If I did this last year, I'd be happy now. If I did this... No hits, no regrets. It's just time now to put yourself in a good way. Say, now I'm going to improve my meditation, improve my compassion, improve my yoga. That's it.

0:49:51
You just move forward. Now we've done the mystical seeing on the mountain. And your

0:49:52
seeing was very, very, very, very correct. It was very good. So now you know the way forward. You know the way around the obstacles. You know the way to listen. You've spiritually seen it. So we're moving forward in the right way. That's something I feel good about. So tonight we have a very special dance party because And we're going to have two types of dances. The first dance that we're going to do is going to be a Western line dance. Yeah.

0:51:00
Not funny.

0:51:02
Yeah, it's great. And Lauren Anderson is going to guide us on that. It's not like she's a pro line dancer, but we're at a party and she can move, so it's all, you know, the fundamentals of moving will feed you.

0:51:22
Why not show us?

0:51:24
So, yes, sir, thank you, Lauren. So we're going to begin right after dinner with a line dance. Isn't that silly? And then, once we get our line dance down, then we're gonna move on to

0:51:38
Panchal.

0:51:39
And Panchal is going to teach us some of his moves. And we've all seen him dance before. A lot of us have seen him perform. And he's an amazing dancer. And he's gonna teach us a little bit, and then we're just gonna have a Mexican fiesta dance party.

0:52:05
And so this is really good.

0:52:06
And I'm really glad that we're doing this because we kind of got into some weird habits in our dance party. Like I remember one time, okay, we're sitting there listening to some gangster rap. And then I'm dancing with Quan Yin, and I'm doing this, you know how they do those dances? I'm sitting like dancing next to her like this and I'm like,

0:52:31
well I might do that.

0:52:33
No, this is ridiculous.

0:52:36
I was just, because that's the way they dance. So that music had dance. I was doing the dance. And I was like, what the hell? It was so funny. Anyway, so. good job everybody

0:52:55
tomorrow here

0:52:59
you get

0:53:01
you to reflect you will you reflect on your etiquette. You will reduce enlightenment to the self if you don't have proper etiquette. And I'd like you to be excellent to each other. Really, really, reflect on that too, be excellent to each other. And thank you all so much. Now you guys can mosey on to the next slide.

0:53:31
And thank you all so much. And thank you all so much.

0:53:33
Now you guys can mosey on over...




Transcribed with Cockatoo
