0:00:00
So we're going to meditate on one psalm on the third eye, the psalm Anzabarago. So these teachings of the solstice, they come from the Anzabarago. So we're going to meditate and we're going to draw in our attention to this place of power because the teaching of this place of power because it teaches us power. Okay, is the US Sangha ready? You have to text us and let us know. Yes, sir. Okay, so sit up nice and straight. Focus on the sign. Let's begin. Let's begin.

0:00:48
So, So, the All right, very nice.

0:04:26
So as I was telling you last night, in the Anza Boredo, there were many teachers. A group of the people from the Arya teachers from Guam, lineage, came together. We came together for the first time to have, you know, our different Sons of our different groups get together at a time of power for teaching. It was a beautiful event. Aki Kala was there. Aki Kala had powerful teachings. The power of the desert he knows very well. It's really wonderful. Shiva was there. Very, very powerful mystic and occult teacher. That was really good. Then we had Puriya there. This was the first time... I guess the second time she came ever to one of our events and Turia was the only enlightened woman there, but her teachings were so beautiful. You know, it's just a bunch of guys going, boom, like exploding like power and then all of a sudden she comes and her dimensions are really important, because you know the guys... The guys enlightenment and teachings is good, but remember when Trey was talking it was so... And if we don't have the women's voice, then there's something wrong.

0:06:25
Yeah.

0:06:26
Yeah, so we had, you know, and then Yana. Yana taught miraculous things. Like, it was amazing. And he taught it through wu wei dou, but even went beyond wu wei dou. He showed the wu wei dou and then he brought it back down into Wu Wei Do and the body. And it worked immediately. It was like this really enlightened teaching, a very high enlightened teaching through Wu Wei Do. And it was, you know, it was just amazing. Just really the highest, most amazing, powerful thing that ever worked. It's a thing that just works, which I love about Wu Wei Do. And when he brought this much, really high enlightened dimension into it, then you have all of them, this enlightened dimension in your body. Yeah, I'm just really good at that. I will teach similar things, but I don't think I can teach what he taught, because we're going to do Wu Wei Do here in Hungary. Yeah, so we just had so many teachers teaching these powerful, beautiful things. Skagandam and Tara Lila were there and they're amazing. I just can't... It was really, really, really powerful. So, this was the first kind of our event where we got together a bunch of teachers promoting Lung Clinics and then we talked about it. And this is something that I'd like to do more in the future. Um, definitely for my students, but actually I would really like to sit with STTs and if you want older Raman correct students, it would be very, very helpful to them as well. So, from creating the RIM, the alliance of RMS and the connection and alliance with the Foundation, we've created something. It's a thing. It has a light, it brightness and structure and Dharma of Sangha unity and then a natural outgrowth of that was the Aryas meeting in the desert. And now what we're going to be talking about is the natural outgrowth of that. Did they miss the Hungarian part or did they miss me talking? Maybe she's talking about everything after she mentions Turia.

0:09:16
We have a recording.

0:09:18
Okay. What did I say about Turia? Turia was cool. And so, this is the important part. So, as a result of creating the ARIA, the alliance with RMS and the foundation, the natural outgrowth of that was that we had all of the teachers in the ARIA, a whole bunch of them, come down to the desert. And then what we're going to talk about now is the natural outgrowth of that. You don't have to leave it. Okay, yeah, and thanks for letting us know when I get cut off. Okay, so, in order to create...

0:10:09
I was talking with the US Sangha.

0:10:11
It was actually a very powerful teaching that they screwed up on. Was it the last winter solstice? Gosh, it seems so long ago. That's where the US Sangha went awry. So, I was showing them this teaching of creating the ariya and creating structures to help the greater, the whole Mahara, Rama Sangha. And they rejected it. They were like, no. And it's just that you're, you know, not that you didn't like the idea. Some of you didn't like the idea, but your spirit said no. Your spirit said, I reject this. And then that's when the American Fonda went for a spontaneous trip, went the wrong way. And then they found themselves going down. And then they ended up in the doghouse of the red alert list. And it didn't go so good. And I had students leave the Sangha. And it's like, you have to do this right. But I guess the US Sangha couldn't understand the teaching. They couldn't keep up with the teaching, even though it was so awesome and clear. But I said, I'm going to do this anyway. I'm like, I see this dharma and even if you guys can't keep up, I can do it with Dholmajit, with Uttara, with Jana. Jana is very helpful. And Barb Smith. So, we were the people in our team doing our yoga projects where we were able to actually like focus on this, see that dharma and actually carry it through. So, we were able to accomplish it, and that's where we are now, at a point of accomplishment, but my students weren't able to help. I wanted them to be those people who could accomplish it, but they were unable. So, now, for my students, as a natural outcome of the aria being created. There's a dharma for you and it's a dharma that, without a doubt, you can do. It won't be one that... The one that I talked about in the winter solstice, it would have been a jump. It would have been a good jump, but my students weren't able to. So this one is not a jump. It's just the next step. So this is a teaching that I call, and I'm just making this up, but I call it the Rama Charya. Rama is our root guru, our great teacher and founder. And charia means vehicle. So Ramacharya is what I call Rama's way or Rama's lineage. So I'm going to give you the Rama lineage teachings. And Rama went about giving it to us in a way that was very challenging. And he also didn't say very much about it, in the lineage teachings you are given access to all of Rama's structures. So, one of the things that I'm very aware of in teaching is how Ramana taught me and what structures he used. And I'm able to actually gather and have awareness of that and utilize that from the lineage empowerment, from the lineage teaching. So, I'm going to give you those teachings and that empowerment. In the desert, Turia was meeting with...saying that she met with a lot of people who read a lot of books, did some Zen study, studied with Tibetans and stuff like that, and that when they would sit with her, they would have a very different experience than anyone else they sat with. They would see light. They would feel energy and power, and they would ask her, why is this? And she said, it's because I am from a living lineage. Now, most lineages are dead, even the Buddha. There's no one who's alive anymore. But in our lineage, there are direct students of an enlightened Master and that enlightened Master, the light comes through them. This is a living lineage. I greatly appreciate being part of this lineage. If I were not a part of this lineage, I would be miserable. Um, in this lineage, it works. And all the things that Rama taught, all of the structures, technology, career, martial arts, meditation, compassion, He taught in such a beautiful way and by having the lineage empowerment and teaching, you'll be able to utilize those ways. You'll be able to embody his teachings and bring those teachings to others. And that is a valuable thing, because if you put on a salami hat, put on a robe, read some old books, get some old teachings, it doesn't seem very much to people. I think people go, hmm, interesting. Right? But when you embody the lineage, you can wear whatever you want to wear. You could, you know, whatever. You could do it in whatever way you want, but those dimensions, those powers, those second intention structures will come through you because you would be a lineage holder and you'd be able to really help someone with this living lineage. The light will come through you. It's a very valuable thing in this dark age. So, I was saying in the desert that in order for this lineage to go on, it requires transmission. So, if students don't come up to the right level in their practice, then I cannot transmit the teachings. And therefore, that's why I really push the students and I really get you to learn right, get you to push your power, work on your meditation, a little bit of mindfulness is a good one to have, work on your yoga. And by doing that, you refine yourself and make yourself a proper vessel. And then I'm able to transmit the lineage. I'm able to transmit the light. And this is, since we've been working with the Arya and creating these relationships and ways to empower Rama's sangha, it is showing the way forward of Rama's lineage. And therefore, I want to make sure that I'm doing my part with my students to get you guys into the right place so that you can...so I can transmit the lineage to you. In order to do the teachings with the lineage, you are going to teach. You learn the teachings by teaching. So, in the US and in Hungary, we're going to start a new teaching program. In the US, it's about time anyway. In the US, I only, you know, I do a new teaching program about once every eight years and now it's about eight years. For some people, a little longer. I think the last time we actually kept the teachings open for about four years. So, we are going to start a new teaching effort and this is to open the FONDA to new people, new people who can use these teachings, for people that are thirsty for light. I mean, for someone who's a true seeker, it is a tremendous opportunity and gift. So we're going to share Rama's way with others. And in the process of doing this, I will teach you the lineage teachings. teach meditation, to share Ramana's way with others of like mind, those vessels that are thirsty to be filled with light, and to do it for a one-year period. So, this will be Here in the Hungarian sign, we're going to teach you a little bit. And that's fine, but it's actually not a focus intention. So, now we're going to shift it and we're going to have a very focused period of time where we actually do it correctly, because when we do it correctly, that's how you can learn the lineage. Now, at the end of this year, next summer solstice, I will be giving the... If you do the work right, at the end, I will be doing a lineage empowerment. Now, in order to do the work right, yeah, you're going to find a place. You're going to put up posters. You're going to have people come. But you're also going to work with my teachings, which is drawing the right people in. And then the right people come, you will teach the class properly. your intention, your goals, every individual will... What is it? We lost them? Yeah. Go ahead and find them again. Okay, good. You guys are still there. Okay, so... So, you will do... Yeah, the meditation class is the way that I teach. And then, as a result of following the teachings properly, every person, every individual will bring 10 new students to the class. So, that is within one year the goal. And these will have to be the right kind of people, because if they're not the right kind of people, that would scare them away. So, they have to find the proper vessel for this lineage. You are the proper vessel. vessels, so I can transmit the teachings to you. And if you bring somebody who is like, you know, what is that? You know, their glass is full already. They're not the right kind of vessel that's full of crap. And then you like start pouring the teachings in their hands. That old Venn story, right? Um, or you know, yeah, whatever. Some analogy of some vessel. That doesn't work. An upside-down bucket, right? Can't pour the teachings into it. We're looking for an open vessel, a proper vessel. A vessel for the teachings of enlightenment. You know, Jesus said, you know, don't throw pearls before a mongolian set. So, they won't know what to do with it, right? So, we're not going to pour these teachings into the wrong vessel. We're going to find the proper vessel that can take these pearls and hold them and then maybe later share them with others the way that you are going to be sharing these pearls with others. How very nice. Yeah.

0:25:28
Okay.

0:25:29
So, I remember when I was with the ST3s, just about a dozen students in the US. We had done a big round of yoga and I said, now we're going to teach. So, they became strong. They were like black belts. So, I'm like, okay, now we're going to teach. And I told them it's very important who you teach. So, I said, you know, from my teaching, you're like a fire, a lit fire. Like you're a log that is on...enslaved, burning, right? So, if you take the wrong person, which would be like a freshly cut green log and you put them next to you, there's just going to be a lot of smoke, a lot of fuss and problems and everything's going to stink and be smoky and you're going to be like, oh my gosh. But if you get the right log, that's like old, dry, perfect condition, you can just put that log right next to you and it will light and be on fire as well. So, when I was describing that to the SP3s when they were going out to teach, they started talking about the students they were teaching. They were all like, okay, I think I found a good log. All the SP4s were called logs. But, not anymore. That was the beginning. They started off as logs. And then, yeah, so this time we're going to go with the right vessel. We're going to go for a vessel. Like ships.

0:27:36
Like the right sheep.

0:27:38
Yeah. Ahtikala in the desert had an analogy of the sangha. It was coyotes hunting bunnies. And I thought, oh yeah, we can be coyotes. Oh, we can be bunnies. And I'm all, nah. We'll be logs. We'll be vessels that we see. It's like a bucket. The right bucket. It's a new term for the bucket list. A new way of looking at it. My bucket list is this bucket, that bucket, this bucket. Buckets that can hold the Starbucks. Starbucks bucket. Yeah, we'll do bucket. I like that. All right.

0:28:37
Okay.

0:28:38
We're going to take another break, so another 15-minute break, and then we'll come back, and then hit a little bit more, and then I'm going to tell you and then I'm going to tell you the structure of the teaching.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
