0:00:00
Thank you for speaking with me. I really appreciate it. It's great. It's beautiful. Let's start with, again, the sort of setting the tone, the beginning, what year was it, what, you know, your geographic encounter and the drama, and then we can go from there to some sort of next step in your particular path. So, yes, let's begin at the beginning. And what were you up to when you met Rahman? It was 92 or 93 and I was 19. I wasn't really up to anything very interesting. I can just maybe speak to more of my state of mind. I was outgoing, not spiritual, not seeking, very physical. Yeah, I was just kind of like playing, you know. I was young and selfish and immature and terrified of the future. So, yeah, I was just in San Francisco, enjoying the city, and playing, and extremely, I guess, extroverted would be the term, although I'm no longer extroverted. But actually, I was, at the same time, really sad. So that was my secret. No one knew. I was really sad and I was really scared about the future. I was in this world, I was totally engaged with it, I was very physical, and I knew it was kind of not what I wanted at all and that it was really scary to me that I had to move forward in this direction, in this world. And then I knew there was something more, and I didn't know what it was. So, like in my soul, my spirit was very sad, but I didn't know. I didn't know what it was. I just knew there had to be something more than the reality that was kind of my state of mind. And then my good friend from high school started meditating with one of Rama's students. And she told me about it. And I'm extremely skeptical and suspicious and guarded. So I was like, oh my God, who is this person? Do you know this person, meet him in public, you know, make sure he's not a creep or a weirdo. I grew up in San Francisco, you know, so she met him and then a few months later I think I saw her again and she was so bright and radiant and happy happy and this is not the person I knew from high school at all and I asked her you know what happened to you you know did you meet some guy world a better place and she's like you know as a matter of fact I did and and she said I met this guy and he turned gold and and I'm again really guarded, super skeptical. I grew up in San Francisco. I hated anything new age. I just didn't like it at all. But when she told me she met this guy who turned gold, I said, well, what did it look like? What do you mean? I completely believed her. All I wanted to do was understand what she meant by gold. Like, did he physically turn gold? Did the walls turn gold? You know, what do you mean he turned gold? And at any rate, she, so throughout these months, she was trying to encourage me to meditate with Rama's student, and of course, no way, no way. But that's when I saw her just so radiant and beautiful, I said, okay, okay, I'll try it. I'll do it, I'll do it, I'll try." So I went to his meditation class and sat in this room, I think it's like a Unitarian Church or something, and he was talking about meditation or whatever. Actually, I couldn't follow anything he was saying. He was like a flibbertigibbet. He was like, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, and he was like all over the place, and I had no idea what he was talking about, he didn't make any sense to me, but I was sitting there, and I was looking at him, and he was dissolving, like the whole, like his whole being was dissolving, and I could see the window behind him, and I was just tripping out the whole time, like, so he was just like, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, and I was just like, oh my God, what's Oh my god, this is amazing! This is so cool! And we meditated at a mystery school, which I don't think we're supposed to. I heard later I don't know. And I was like, wow, this is just really trippy. I feel like I'm on drugs. I never took drugs. I was never into drugs. I feel like I'm hallucinating. So I was just fascinated by it. So I went again. And then I kind of went again, and I still didn't really understand what he was talking about, you know, about the, any, anything, about enlightenment or anything, but I just was so fascinated that something supernatural was happening, or, so, at any rate, finally I had the opportunity to meet Rama, to sit with Rama in LA, I think at the Four Seasons, maybe, but it's a really beautiful hotel. And that was, okay, and so we drove down, a bunch of us from San Francisco and some, I don't know, we were just so young and broke, and just, it was really fun. But we drove down and so we sat with Rama, and when Rama sat with us, and unlike other people, I know they've described these fantastic experiences with Rama, but mine wasn't like that at all. It was so grounded. I could understand everything he was saying, and he spoke to me. He was speaking to everybody, but I felt like he was speaking to me. And it all made perfect sense. And when we meditated, I didn't see gold, but I felt, now I recognize, I felt the gold. I felt uplifted and I felt full and I felt like empty and full at the same time. My whole spirit was alive and happy and content and ecstatic at the same time. And I knew, I knew I had to study with him and be with him. So, that's how I started studying with Thomas. Okay. What did...when she started studying with the...first, I would call it like a branch of some sort, meaning, again, maybe involved in one of the businesses or one of the projects or how did it, how did the next sort of steps of learning happen for you? Okay, yeah, so I started studying, you know, I just went to, I think, the Computer Learning Center and started studying programming and I loved it. I just loved it. And then when we moved to New York, I think I started working on, I'm going to need help remembering the project, but it was with Senada, and so I was a coder for insurance. It was data mining for insurance, maybe. It was like a data mining project, working on that. And then I think later I started working probably the more I mean learning computer programming was super transformative and moving was incredibly transformative and everything with Rama was so transformative. But I think maybe, then I worked on client server as a salesperson and that was That was quite transformative So I guess those are some of the branches What stands out for you in that client server thing where you saw Rahma using that for teaching?

0:08:59
Oh yeah

0:09:01
Well, I know one lesson a really tremendous lesson I learned, and I think a number of other students had the opportunity to learn. So we were really young, and we were in our early 20s, and a lot of, for me, a lot of learning with trauma was learning how to grow up, but growing up around enlightenment was awesome. It's like the best higher education ever. But so a lot of it was all that, everything we did. But there is one particular lesson that really stands out. So we were really young and we were selling and we were just on the road, learning, OK, I'm going to fly from A to B. I got to get a rent a car. I've got to go to a hotel. Now I've got to go to this corporation, which is quite intimidating, and now I'm going to meet with technology leadership and try to sell this software, and I'm 23 years old or whatever. So it was pretty intense. You had to definitely rise above oneself to try to do that, otherwise I wouldn't have left my house, I was just terrified. So that alone, but we were really, there was a lot of pressure, you know, Ram was always pushing us to just move past ourselves and he set these crazy goals for us. So he would set these ridiculous quotas for sales and we just had to figure out how to push it and make it and dissolve ourselves along the way. But so we were all selling. There were a number of people selling and we had the opportunity to go to a trade show with Rama. There were probably lots of fun trade show stories with Rama. And we were in Vegas and it was the biggest computer convention at the time. I can't remember what it's called. Nonetheless, we were really excited because we got to go with Rama and we're like, we're going to go and we're going to sell and we're going to sell like crazy at that booth, you know. And we were just into it. We were just doing it. And so we did the first day and we were all there trying to sell and we were so into ourselves, like I'm going to make this sale, I'm going to find that prospect, I'm going to drag that person in here and I'm going to make that sale. It's all about me, me, me, me, me, and everybody's in that state and it was really bad and we didn't make any sales, I don't think, and Rama was pretty mad at us, and we didn't really know why though. So this is me in retrospect knowing exactly why, but at the time I'm like, well, we're trying, we're really trying, we're just trying to make these sales and he yelled at us pretty badly. And so afterwards, we all got together. And this was at a time, too, I think, where a lot of the students were in a pretty self-absorbed place, which was very painful for Rama. And so we got together, and we realized that we were not helping each other, that we were being completely selfish, and that was not why we were here. And so we agreed to work together and work together as a team, essentially. And so the next day, we did. We helped each other, and it was more to Dolanjit Spirit. We just wanted to get people in this booth with Rama. And we didn't care who made a sale or whatever. We just wanted people to come into this booth and meet Rama. And we had so much buzz and activity at this booth, it was crazy. Plus, we hired these beautiful models. But, nonetheless, right? But it was crazy. People were like, what is going on at this booth? What is going on at this booth?" And just people were just so drawn to this booth. And I just even remember my friend, my sangha brother, he came up and was like, this is Bob from So-and-So. And so we were just so supportive of each other and helpful. And we made tons of sales that day. And Rama was so happy. And it was just so bright seeing and that's just opened my eyes like oh my god I've been such an asshole you know and and then you just see these people coming into this booth and they're just glowing afterwards they're just lit it was the happiest brightest thing to witness in you know Las Vegas and this convention fire strange but but that was a great lesson. It seems in retrospect such a basic lesson, but it was a really big lesson for all of us, and we felt what Rama wanted this to be. We felt united and out of the way so that Rama's light could come through, and it was really lovely. Yeah, wow. That's great. So, obviously, you probably did some other projects, too, after ClientServer, or, because I know there were so many more. So, did that lesson. Yeah, I think, yeah, I mean, I think, I think that it's just a great lesson about self and how it just, I can always pop up. So, yeah, always. But, yeah, I don't remember a specific example.

0:15:10
What about, are there other products that you worked on? Or, in other words, I guess, how the path that you went on with different, I know you've probably interacted with people through all these projects. So, are there some others that you worked on?

0:15:31
Yeah, I don't know, I guess Client Server had a huge influence. I spent a lot of time in it. So in addition to being a salesperson, I got to work at the office and be an admin person too, which was super fun. Because the attitude in the admin office, the sales people were really intense. And so I got to be both on the intense side and on the super happy admin side, which got to be in the office that Rama would come into frequently. So yeah, I would get to work on both sides, which is very lovely to see, because then it was still working on that self, where people would call, and they'd make sales, and it would be so exciting. We put the name on the board and everything. But I still think there were a lot of lessons at the time around self and people were, it was hard for people to make sales and I think we weren't as supportive as we could have been with each other, unfortunately, sometimes when it came to sales. I don't know why. Because we were selfish and needed to, trying to undo that, I suppose. So it was just a whole wonderful classroom for how to get rid of that ego

0:16:47
because it kept coming up in sales a lot. I remember someone else, it's in the other book, but about working in the office and that it was all about being very mindful, so you would be really careful, you know, and thought and everything really clear and clean and unruffled and all that. Did you experience that for you, working as an admin person? Did that... What were your insights into your own path for that? I didn't feel...

0:17:29
You know, I wasn't being mindful that way, but I'm not trained... But I'm Japanese, and so we tend to be quiet anyway. So I don't know if I really thought about it that much. There were a lot of Asians, I noticed, in the afternoon. And maybe now you're helping me put two and two together. But we're all pretty quiet. And when it came to work, you just did the work. And you tried to do it as quiet as possible, and get the job done and have an order and do it as clean as possible. So, yeah, I didn't really think about that. I just know that when I was asked to be part of the admin team, I think Juan and Calvin asked, and I was just so excited and I thought, I was like, oh my God, this is, I was like, oh yeah, that would be great. I was so excited, I'm like, oh, sorry.

0:18:26
You know?

0:18:27
And she's like, no, that's good.

0:18:28
That's the attitude we want. I said, okay.

0:18:30
I was so outwardly excited about it.

0:18:31
So what years were you part of the Admin team from win to win? Oh, I don't know, Kali. You know, one thing I have to preface, I'm really bad with memory and time and those types of things. Even when we'd sit with Rama, I would just sit with him. We'd sit, you know, all of us, and he was always so eloquent and articulate, and he would take us on these upward spirals, and these journeys of teachings, and I couldn't remember anything he said. I was just so blissed out the whole time. So I was just so happy and in love, I don't know, in those moments. Or just like, you know, one time he sat with us, and I'm sure some people remember, but he would raise the kundalini so high, and he was just messing with us. He would raise the kundalini so high, he had his hand out like he was holding a knob, do you remember? And he was like, one. You know, it's like, he's not saying anything, you can see him, but he's like at level one. And we're all like, and then he goes, and we're all like, and we're just, it was like the TDK commercial after a while. We're all like, oh, just holding onto our seats and we're all like getting blasted. And we're just like, wow, that's so cool.

0:19:55
You know, it's amazing.

0:19:57
So I struggle sometimes remembering certain things because it was just so beautiful and blissful, and that's all that mattered to me at certain times. But I actually love that he, at one point I think, because when I started I wasn't really, I wouldn't consider myself a spiritual seeker, I just wanted to know there was more to life. I knew there was something more, and I saw Rama, and I knew he was it. But when I think a few years after we were in New York, I think we were hiking in Pound Ridge, and he announced, you know, he said, I was so happy. I was like, yes! For me it was like, oh my god, this is great, because Rama to me was so grounded and practical, and he taught me things that just made so much sense. And at the same time I got to learn about dissolving my ego and raising my personal power and developing my mind and not taking myself so seriously, I guess. But yeah. So yeah, I have a bad... I'm so sorry, Colleen, it might not be the best interview because I have not the very best memory of things.

0:21:21
This is totally fine, my dog. And also, by the way, just so you know, I can barely remember a word and I really... When I wrote the first book, I had to rely so much on other people who could remember or like took notes or something because I was in those same thoughts and I literally remembered nothing. Nothing was delivered because the same thing, you know, you get... And I was just on a different plane of like the words didn't even exist and I couldn't remember. Um, I wrote that book. That's why I'm talking. I wrote that first book. It was so hard. I was like, okay, here's a new year, and I think, oh my God, I know nothing about this year. I was there, but I know nothing. I had to interview new people and piece it all back together. Totally get what you're saying. We're all different. That's what's so neat. Okay, let me ask you this because obviously you went to CLC. So let's discuss a little bit of that career path. So you weren't doing computer science before then and then you went to CLC, you discovered you loved computer science teaching that you encountered through Rama affect you and how you, you know, all the way through the time you were with him and where you're sort of marching up the career path really fast in real life and, or you know, in work life, and what has happened a little bit since. I think that's interesting.

0:23:40
Yeah, right. I started at CLC, and I fell in love with coding. And I think we almost were maybe the entire student body, the class. Or maybe there were a few others. Yeah, Odum, right. There were a few others that were not part of the study that were there. I remember one thing, I'm a girl, and this guy was like, oh yeah, who's the best in the class? Is it, I'm not gonna mention his name, and then I won't, and then this other woman, this other girl in the class, I was like, no, it's a care girl, it's me, right, I was definitely at the top of the class. But they, you know, it was a guy, but it wasn't, it was me, a girl. So the career path, right, I loved computer science. I loved coding because it was a way to, you know, Rama sold us on it too. He said, you know, it's clean, you can sit, you're just working with a computer, you're building states of mind, you're building objects and structures, you're holding dimensions in your head. I mean, he just sold it and it was so clean. And you can make a great living. And I didn't have a college degree, and you don't need a college degree. And you can be a man or a woman, meaning it wasn't a male, well, there are a lot of men doing it now. But if you are good, they'll just hire you. And so I really like that. One thing I do want to mention that I love about Raman's study is his emphasis on women and enlightenment. And I was trying to reflect on that a little bit for this interview, and one thing that really stands out to me is Rama, he pushed all of his students to push their careers or martial arts or whatever it was, computer pushed us equally. He pushed us equally. There was never a, you know, he was pushed us equally. But at the same time, there were women in the group that needed a little extra help. And he magically, you know, in his way, he leveled the playing field for women, I feel. a lot of women that had maybe abusive emotional or physical abuse. He empowered us in a way that, you know, I would sit with Rama and afterwards I was, prior to meeting Rama, I was pretty strong-minded, but there was still some conditioning. But I know that other women, my sisters, they had maybe deeper conditioning. And I feel like Rama empowered us all as we needed to be empowered to level the playing field. And then he pushed us all really hard. It was so grateful to Rama for that. So with computer science, yeah, I can't remember what the question was. I just pursued computer science. I love it. And it's very transformative for me, I could probably—I described it to some people in certain ways, but I don't know, it has been a doorway for me to higher states of mind, to open up dimensions and to stay in those dimensions for, in these elevated dimensions for hours and hours and hours has been really transformative. So, yeah, so for a while then I actually in my career started to promote project management. So I started doing project management for a while, but I decided that coding for me was the way to go because one, I love it, and two, sorry I have to say it, there just have to be more female coders. Anyway, I just love coding. It's just a wonderful gift. And I guess I've shared this with other people too. Tibetan mysticism. What is that book? There's a book that's on the list. Tibetan Buddhism? No, no. You can't get it in the Olympics? Maybe. Anyway, there's a passage in a book where the monks sit in a cave for eight hours a day and they stare and visualize the deities and the tankas come to life, the deities come to life and create the tankas. To me, that is coding. Yeah, it's like, yeah, we sit in our queues for eight hours a day, holding dimensions, and they come to life. So it's very meditative.

0:29:07
So while you were a Barmah student and actually, if you were in the physical, I am going to guess that during that whole time you were probably, because you were upcoding and because you were good at it, getting pretty good consulting jobs and marching up that ladder of consulting and making hourly money and all that. Is that true?

0:29:29
You know, for me it took me a really long time actually to get my first job because I was really scared and had some fear to overcome. And then once I did that and I was coding, and I was pretty happily coding, I wasn't making the big rates yet, and then I moved on to sales. But one thing I do know, and this is more related to drama leaving the body, I was making decent living making coding, but not the big jumps. And when I had an interview lined up for a coding job, and this coding job ended up transforming my entire coding career. And on my first day there, because we were just starting in web technology, I think my first week there, the guy, my manager, he was like, we don't know this technology, we have to learn it. It's new, and he just threw down a CD and it had Java. So we just had to learn Java together. It changed my entire coding career. But what's interesting is that interview was on the day of Rama's memorial, and I was going to skip the interview. And so I meditated, and I was going to skip the interview, and I felt Rama strongly that I had to go to the interview, and that I shouldn't feel bad or guilty that I want you to go to the interview. So I went to the interview, and that job was my bubble of protection for those very rough years after Rama had left the body. that protected me. And so, I think that was Rama's gift to me. Oh, quite interesting. Quite interesting. Maybe just one more question. So, you mentioned Japanese. How did your family, were they opposed or in favor of this pathway with Rama? And And when you were growing up, did anything culturally prepare you for Lama, or any little links there? Yeah, I grew up, my parents were Buddhists, or are Buddhists, I guess. And so I went to Buddhist church, but it wasn't an enlightened Buddhist church, so it was very, it was more communal. It was community. And it makes sense. Families coming together and practicing Buddhism. It's like church. So I didn't really have a spiritual notion of Buddhism. practice. This is how we grow up. But I think because I, and I'm very Japanese-American, but I think it's in my DNA or something where I did know that when I met Rama, even though he's white male, I mean, I knew he was a master. And so I always, fortunately, I'm so grateful for my DNA. I always revered him that way. And so there was always that etiquette that I fortunately, thank God, Mom, you're like, thank you. Thanks so much that I didn't have to learn. I could just practice and be so grateful for having him. So that was very helpful. And I know, but although, yeah, sometimes Rama would yell at us when he would yell at us and say, even you Asians! And we're always like, oh!

0:33:42
We're all like, oh no!

0:33:46
Shoot!

0:33:47
So I just loved it. I'm really grateful for the etiquette that was in my DNA to meet Rama, and it helped me prepare to be in his company and in that etiquette. And my parents, I think my mother understood too, the concept of having a sensei or someone to learn from. So it wasn't very foreign to her that I was studying with somebody. So she was pretty accepting.

0:34:16
That's a really beautiful explanation. I liked it. All right, well, you know, this is lovely. Is there anything else you want to talk in here? I think we have all kinds of nice insights here.

0:34:33
Nope, not at the time.

0:34:36
Thank you.

0:34:37
Okay. All right. Thank you, Mandela. And, you know, with any of these, if I have questions to follow up, I'll be back. But I really thank you. This is great. Isn't it fascinating how all these different perceptions and all the different ways Rama taught every single person differently? Yeah With the light in the center, but it reflected back literally thousands and thousands and thousands of ways. Yeah Yeah Amazing




Transcribed with Cockatoo
