0:00:00
Hello? How are you doing? So just stay where you are. I'm going to walk around a little bit because I think we're missing one last person.

0:00:12
Actually, the person's here now. Oh, okay. So we don't have to wait anymore.

0:00:26
So who wasn't at the center of meditation this morning? Wow, you guys missed out a beautiful one.

0:00:32
Who wasn't? Who wasn't? You wanna see the hands again? Okay, that's his sign. Anyways, um,

0:00:53
that was a really good one.

0:00:55
And, uh, part of the technique that we did this morning, uh, we're gonna do later on today, I mean this evening. So, um, I'll explain a little bit more about that, but as you are, you close your eyes, and this noise probably has been there for a while, but consider it more like the sounds that the ocean waves made. So this morning, it was creating this beautiful music, this melody that would just sort of make things easier. Allow our being to just go into the moment of just pure emptiness. And so this sound is that. Because it could, you know, if we really pay attention to it, you can kind of take our concentration away. All right, so close your eyes, visualise the ocean, and hear the sounds of someone walking around.

0:02:12
the the the the the So the the the the I'm going to go ahead and start the video. So You're welcome. the You're welcome. the the the Oh. so the You're welcome. the You're welcome. You're not alone. So So so so so So the the the the So So the the the So So the the the the so the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the you the the the so the the the the the the the the the the the you you Okay. WD40 does wonders. You guys know that? It's on. So it's real nice to bring the vision of the ocean here. It's absolutely a powerful entity. So much energy. Pure prana. And it's just an analogy of how deep and beautiful the Dharma is, how profound. If we stop for a moment and just see things, perhaps not seeing them with our physical eyes, while we can see many beautiful things with our physical eyes, but the third eye, second attention, we can see some beautiful things.

0:23:45
And this morning, we saw some pretty amazing creatures out there. Came to see us, sit in meditation, just glide so gently, just checking every single one of us, line by line.

0:24:04
The ravens...

0:24:05
The ravens hold a lot of mystical power. And they signify rebirth. Like sunrise. They bring the sunrise. So, in other words of speaking from a mystical perspective, they bring illumination, so we can see clearly. And perhaps those of you who kept your eyes We saw the red hawk tail just flying right above, and the ravens just came up, and they were just flying together. Normally, they're like going at each other like crazy, because they don't want the hawks to be around their nest. But they were just gliding effortlessly. I said, oh yeah, although we kind of don't like each other, but let's enjoy this beautiful sunrise. Let's warm our wings before we start fighting. You know, it's amazing. And then Jonathan Linsden-Siegel checked us out, came up and just right there. strong, but it was just hovering right above us. That's quite amazing. And then the waves rolling to the shore

0:25:44
going from this deep, almost like

0:25:47
greenish color to a beautiful white foam as they touched the beach. And way back far out, we would see the whales just swimming, doing their thing, having their breakfast. Little magical things like that, that we forget to see. And one of the key signatures when we get together, for us, are power times, sunrise and sunset. And we make sure that we go out there to charge our beings so we can go out there and stay until the sun goes down and of course it's light enough that we can come back. That's food for our spirit. to help us grow and be stronger and give us the sustaining power, personal power, to be able to deal with things that may be somewhat difficult, whether it's at work, personal lives, or just traffic. So, and perhaps some of you guys have missed the sunrise this morning, you know, some good reasons probably, but something to consider ongoing. Give yourself some time to recharge before you go into your work world, especially if you have a really heavy week. Make sure that you charge yourself before you go out there and start sort of giving your energy into things that perhaps may not yield the type of results that we may want. you know, find a buddy, or two, or three, and go out there. Because going out there in the morning, before sunrise, sometimes it's a bit, you know, like, I don't know, what's going on here? So, you can't really sit and meditate and just completely let go of the world, so your body can recharge, because part of your brain is paying attention to what's going on. Who is walking behind you? Or some person that may have not good intentions, especially for you ladies. Some other guy would be like, hmm, hmm, hmm, right? So always find a buddy. You're for guys. There'll be some deer out there that could have your number. But, yeah, it's something that, it's there right in front of us and we don't take advantage of it while we can. Then we get older, our body aches, and walking up the hill or, you know, just getting up in the morning is a big struggle. So part of the things that, as part of implementing this, your practice can be to start developing those skills to go out in nature, recharge and go about your day. Because as you get older, you'll be thankful you did that now. You started building those, you know, practices now. Because then, later on, will be an automatic body memory. You won't be like, I have to get up in the morning, I have to go and do my meditation out there. Why can't I just sit here and do it in my own beautiful room and all that? But remember that everything that is around you, it could be like the most, the highest vibe, but that vibe has a human imprint in it. Not just yours, but the person who built that house, who built that room. Still there, it remains in the walls. It doesn't matter how beautiful it is. There's still some human imprint in it. But out of nature, it's just the hand of creation and destruction, the cycle of life. It's a big being out there. We can't even fathom the type of a being that goes about destroying and creating things in the world. But it's beautiful. It's pure power. So, the mystic side of us goes to those places to do our meditation, to empower, before we go about our day. So, just a thought. And because I'm very, very happy to be here, I love seeing you guys. It's just, it's amazing. So, tomorrow morning, for those who are tough enough and go for another centerist meditation, you're invited. It'll be fun. Perhaps I get to see Jonathan.

0:32:17
Or the ravens. Or the red hawk tail. Or the whales out there, feeding. Or seals.

0:32:24
This morning there was this mother, it's a little cub, just swimming about But then after a while, he's like just a little black and white birds That are swimming on the surface of the ocean probably you guys have seen it. Well, they're like hmm food They also hunt those little birds

0:33:01
But it's quite nice especially

0:33:03
This month, you know to see a mother and his cub together in the animal realm, but also in the human realm, to be able to see a mother and a child. It's a special thing. We wouldn't be here if our mothers decided to say, no, you shall not enter. We would not be here. So, special thanks to all the mothers present. Good power to all of you. And motherhood is a beautiful state of mind, but it has to be done right. It can't be just a mistake. It's like, oh, guess what? Right? It's got to be planned. It's got to be lots of cleansing, not just of the body, but of the mind, before even calling the being down. It can be taken lightly, like most standard practices in the social matrix. They just think that, you know, a mistake or, oh, okay, we're, you know, having a child. Or the pressure from parents and society to be able to reproduce.

0:34:56
So, anyway, it's a month of mothers.

0:35:01
And it's special to see, especially out in the wild, little babies. They bring a level of tenderness out of us that we sometimes may not be able to show it with those of our own kind. It doesn't matter how tough you are, but then you see this little seal with big eyes and you're like, oh. You know, so, yeah. But that's not the subject of the conversation tonight, by the way. Meditate harder than a rock.

0:36:04
Anybody? Good. Good answer. Nothing. Rocks are meditation. Nothing.

0:36:25
Rocks are meditation. And if you go find a place with a big rock, you sit on it, it'll meditate you. It doesn't try to meditate, it's meditation. in its physical form. And especially if we go out to the desert, there's one place, huge rock, you would not...

0:36:50
normally you'll see this, all kinds of smaller rocks on top of the hills,

0:36:54
but there's just this huge, massive rock that you sit on, and you're like, hmm, alright, I can fry an egg on this thing. That's how much the power is in this rock. So tonight I wanted to talk to you guys about the aggregate self-awareness. from a mystical perspective, has a little bit of a different angle of perception than the standard perception of what we may know about the formation of the aggregate, the layers, the layerings of ourselves. guys about some Dharma tools that you can go and start, you know, to make things a little bit brighter for your life. There are tools that are going to help you sand away some of the rough edges in line As to the reason why you are sitting where you are, as of this very moment, that is your life in this plane. And what happens once you live an aligned life with the Dharma? And where do you go next, at least part of that aggregate of the self, where it goes. We have been told a very, perception of who we are from the social matrix, our education system, our family, our friends. And of course, now you're in this collective group that is a little bit different than the civilians, the friends that are out there still thinking that maybe meditation is not for me, or a self-refinement process is not for me. And that story has created so many layers, so many blinders, that has literally obscured our ability to see clearly.

0:40:05
And all of us, at least up to now,

0:40:07
are still working on undoing those layers, on hooking those hooks. But eventually, it gets happier, and it gets meaningful and profound. But it requires an extreme level of attention, concentration. way that we would describe concentration as like, I'm gonna sit here and concentrate really hard, but ability to stay steady in the midst of opposition, the midst of intense life experiences, to develop that warrior mind that I spoke to you guys about in our last meeting. You guys remember that, right? How to build a good warrior mindset? I only see a few heads going like, Oh, yeah, I think I remember. Most are like, I should say yes, but I... So this is one of the reasons, the dharmic reasons, as to why when we get together, the standard practice is that there is a recap due. Ideally, while the energy is still strong. Not more than a few days after we meet. Because then at some point in the future I'd say, do you guys remember that? And you're like, oh hold on, oh yes, I do. As a matter of fact, I do. What was the question again? You know, so... Even if I don't ask, but even for yourself when you're like, oh right, I could use that. You go back, you read your recap, and literally the power is there. And it comes right in, and it aligns you again.

0:42:37
So, this big story,

0:42:40
is a pretty heavy story. But it doesn't have to be. When we look at our life as of this moment, whether we are 30s and 40s or 50s or 60s, or I don't see anyone who could be more than that, but we have a certain amount of accumulated mental impression of who we are. And that impression comes from all the education, the domestication process of the social matrix onto our authentic, spiritual self-awareness. that we come from a particular race, we belong to a particular social group, and also all the things that we should and should not do are already aligned before us, so we have no choice to just fall into it and be part of the status quo. I mean, most religious groups, that's their norm. And one of the main tools is fear. Because anyone who would question the status quo, suddenly they're like, pshh, they're kicked to the side. You should not question something that has been in place for over 2,000 years or 10,000 years. Because our life experience as humans is pretty short. Right? But as spiritual beings, it's extremely long. Or call it timeless. Because in a second attention, in the spiritual realm in a way, there is no time. It is just now. It's experience of the universe as it flows. of who we are. And then by us understanding that form that we have to embody in a way like someone says, look, here is us, we're completely authentic and wild in a way, untainted by the social regulations and norms and structures. And someone comes over, the tailor of time comes over, I have made this beautiful coat for you, put it on. And we're like, oh, well, thank you so much.

0:45:47
Okay, this is who I am.

0:45:49
Now, I am this person. I speak this language. I belong to this group or this type of education. And we keep building and building form after form after form. To the point that the sense of authentic spiritual awareness disappears. We have no way to connect with that spirit anymore because we're so focused on giving all our prana, all our life energy, into sustaining that form, that coat, that the tailor of time has created for us, or the social matrix. But part of the spiritual practitioner's sort of rebellious nature comes in and says, you know what, thank you for the coat, but I want to make some modifications to it. I'm going to take out the sleeves and then I'm going to take out the lapels. You know what, in fact, I want to go in and take a look at the lining and take it all out. And then after that, they're like, actually, why don't we just do away with the coat altogether? All that form disappears. And all we see is just our sense of purity. We connect with that sense of timelessness of who we are. And when we begin to make that connection, then all of our life prana goes into that awareness and then that becomes stronger and stronger and stronger, but extremely flexible. Because yeah, we can put on a couple of pounds and then our clothes like doesn't fit anymore. But that, it expands with us as we begin to embody a clear state of awareness. And literally it's like, we just push time aside. It just goes right around us. And again, remember when I talked about the ma, that is that field of awareness of the true awareness of yourself, a spiritual being, as authentic and untainted inside of that field of awareness, the field of So, then after that, once we are aware of this form, then suddenly we begin to develop or attach feelings to that form. For example, you have your beautiful coat on, you're like,

0:49:09
ah, this coat makes me feel good,

0:49:13
or this coat makes me feel a little fat. I better have to, you know, tailor it or lose a couple of pounds. You know? So we start to attach feelings to that form as to what the social matrix has created for us. And once we attach feeling, then literally the yoking of holding that awareness becomes even stronger. Because then someone else can come over and say, you know, you might want to like change that code a little bit. It's like, no, I love this code. And we don't want to change. Because it gives us a certain feeling. But it's all temporal. But when we see through the weaving of that fabric of time, all we see is just eternity. Which is us. Us spiritual beings, all of us have been around for quite a long time. So, but fortunate enough to have been born now as humans. Because the path to God-like realms is here.

0:50:56
In this human experience.

0:50:57
It's easier to connect with the God realm as it is to connect with hell realms. So... So that feeling, and all of us perhaps could think of any time in our life experience thus far to some feelings of fear and heaviness to others of inspiration and almost like effervescent type feelings that makes you feel lighter and happier. Right? So, that's pretty much the difference of the drama or dharma. All those feelings that keep us aligned with the true purpose of who we are, of our spirit, will elevate us, will make us feel lighter. A smile on our face every time we wake up. That sense of gratitude and gratefulness that we have one more day to live our dharma when we wake up in the morning. It's easy to lose that. But ideally, if we keep ourselves aligned, when we wake up in the morning, it's like, ah, thank you for, you know, this beautiful day. I am so grateful and happy that I could practice my Dharma. I could be my Dharma here and now. And I will live my day in this bright state of mind. And everyone I come across, I'll brighten their day. I'll put a smile on their face. Even if they don't smile, we don't care. We smile anyway. Because that is who we are. That's Boris Hafez in the making. We got to train to be. And that's where the difficult part is. I mean, I'm sure there will be some times, or maybe this morning, you're like, oh, I've got to wake up early at 5 o'clock in the morning. Oh no, I only slept for like half an hour. But that sense of, oh. But if it was for the Dharma, I mean, if you had... even if you didn't sleep, you'll still do it anyway, because it's something that makes you feel in line with your true purpose.

0:54:15
And I went out there and smiled.

0:54:17
So, definitely use the things that we are going to be talking about tonight as something to keep you aligned, to keep you bright, to keep you happy and healthy. Because physical health doesn't start by eating the right food. I mean, it's part of it, but it doesn't start there. It starts here. And it's also here, in the heart.

0:55:05
If there's any point in your life where you may feel,

0:55:10
oh, you know, I don't feel kind of sick, and oh, look at where your personal power is going. Look at the emotions that you are empowering, at a state of mind that you allow yourself to be in. And once you recognize that, it's almost like taking stock of your actions. Being like, aha, that's where I'm losing power.

0:55:42
And without even thinking about,

0:55:46
oh, you know, all this and all that, it's like, oh, make this shift and get back to the center. And only choose to empower things that are happier. And that doesn't make you any way less than anyone else. If you only show love, compassion for the world, it doesn't make you less than anyone else. That the social matrix may want to make you think that by showing your vulnerability, meaning you become weak, or you're perceived as a weaker person, it's actually the opposite. True power is in love, compassion for the world, for each other, but first and foremost for the self, which is the fourth jewel that I shared with you in the past. You guys remember that?

0:56:56
So, so once we attach a feeling to a form,

0:56:59
then we begin to have a perception of our place in the world. And I'm talking about just temporal stuff, right? This is just to say, okay, all the stuff that I've been talking about is temporal, but underneath self-awareness, which is consciousness. So once we begin to attach a perception to that feeling, then that matrix that gets imprinted on it, call it like a version of Windows 2017, right? It does certain things. Then we install that operating system into our brain and we begin to play and run all the scripts based on our feelings of those forms that we have been imprinted with. That our wild nature has been domesticated with. So, and in that area of the perception of that form and those feelings, as we as mystics become even more centered, we see things and hear things, but we don't just react to them, we wait. It's almost as if we're reading a book, but we look not at the words, but at the meanings in between the lines. And that's when we start seeing truth. we have imprinted ourselves with are just false. And on the other side of it, there could be a big argument made about, oh no, those things are real, and they are true. But as mystics, we're like, yeah, everything is true. Everything is true. But we choose carefully as to what our truth is. We don't deny, we don't deceive ourselves in any way. We choose our truth carefully. It is like the universe putting a beautiful Dharma buffet of teachings right before you. And instead of saying, oh yeah, you're like, hmm, take a moment, take it all in first, not physically, but just see. And then, thank you, thank you. Everything exists. So to speak, as everything is true. So carefully choose your truth. Because once we do that, then we retain our power. We nurture it. We cultivate it. We begin to hold that line to that sense of eternity. Reset. The operating system needs to be reset. Anyway, so choosing our truth carefully is where power truly lies.

1:01:46
So, as a mystic, let's say we go out to the desert,

1:01:51
and instead of going out there and bringing our world and talking all about it, we go and find a place where we can just blend in, become part of the landscape. And we sit there quietly, trying to not engage with the world. When we don't engage with the power, the prana of the place. And we become another rock, or we become another little tree, or a cactus, or a bush. But then the wild animals that walk right before us, and if we're still enough, they don't even know we're there. Because they can detect that there isn't a human there, meaning a human of a temporal kind being there. It's someone who's just part of nature. And they're like, OK, you're good. I can just look at you for a little bit, keep going about my day. Most of people who go out to the desert, you know, say, oh, look at the snake, and, oh yeah, it's a racer snake, and it's five feet long, and all this description. They lose that connection, that perhaps, of the energy that that being is trying to bring to this person. Because they already imprinted, they already described it, so basically the snake is saying, well that's really nice, you have a lot of words. You don't know who I am and what I'm here to do for you. So, and when we practice what my father, grandfather used to call sacred silence, which is basically becoming part of the landscape in silence, then we actually see some of the teachings that those beings that live there bring to us. Sometimes we go to the desert and say, I'm going to go there, I need to just recharge. Or sometimes, you know, we go to the desert and we're thinking, I want to go and connect with the truth and answer that I'm looking for. And we set the intent from a place of purity before we go there, and we keep holding that awareness. It's almost like we cast that thought out, but it's floating on top of us like a balloon, a helium balloon attached to our spinal cord. We're still aware that that intention is there, but we're not like, I came here to do this, we're not thinking it, we already cast it out, it's out there, and we just feel it. We don't know it, we just feel it. And if we're silent enough, then the answer could come into many different forms. It could be that we've got to come back and try it again, right? Or just simply by being in stillness, we're able to see what the answer is. Or sometimes, if we happen to follow the flight of a raven, and once it lands, somehow if we are still connected to that feeling, the answer appears right there. But we have to be so super quiet. Like our mind, the idea of no mind, it has to be no mind at all, meaning no temporal mind. Our sense of eternity will show us the answer that we need for that time, for that project, for that particular crossroads that we may happen to be in our life at that moment. And as spiritual practitioners, because we evolve, there'll be many crossroads that we must cross. We don't, you know, become afraid like toilet paper. You know why toilet paper didn't cross the road? Because it was afraid to get stuck in some crack.

1:07:13
Yeah. Oh, got it!

1:07:19
Yeah.

1:07:21
And that is part of the mystics training where fear for us is not real. Fear is not real. Anger is not real. Hatred, envy, those are not real. What is true and authentic is love. All those other emotions that I just mentioned, they are learned. and attach feelings, and then have a certain perception. So, anytime you are having a mental glitch or a brain fart, empowering emotions that are so low like that, just don't beat yourself up about it, but just shift into happier emotions. Make that change sooner rather than later, because every single time, not just as a group, but you connect with that sense of self-awareness, of the sense of eternity, that divine nature within you, then suddenly you realize that that awareness is extremely fragile and precious to protect. Those emotions basically push that awareness away from us. Love is about unity. Anger is about polarization. Two unreconcilable differences. So don't empower that. That sense of divinity that resides within each and every one of us in this room and in the world. It's precious. It's magical. But most of us don't even connect with that truth and we're not even aware about it. And as we get older, we literally take that fragile, tender, most beautiful truth and we choke the life out of it ourselves.

1:10:31
So definitely

1:10:32
take stock of where your emotions are going every single moment that you are breathing, that you are alive. And every time, sometimes you may feel, oh, losing a sense of connection with that and empower something else, then know that you're choking your own selves. It's like, how do you apply a choke to yourself, right? That would be one of those ways to do it, by empowering those emotions. that generates by connecting with that awareness, it's powerful. And if that energy gets connected more in line with the Dharma, then it becomes even more powerful and stronger. And all those other emotions that are of lower realms, in a way, don't even receive a small amount of that energy. And over time, again, that ma becomes extremely strong and all those emotions as they try to reach, just fall right off. There are no tentacles in a way, energy tentacles that are connecting with the surface of that maw, that then, finally, those emotions find something to connect with, and then, phew, they go right into us.

1:12:10
So, it's important to know that,

1:12:15
just like Earth, that has an atmosphere, so do we. And that is the Ma, the energy field that all of us have. So it's good to protect it, nurture it, get it stronger through meditation, mindfulness, a sense of purpose in life, and connecting with that sense of eternal divinity, the sense of who we are. Well, all of us here may have different faces, but at the energy level, we're all the same. But yet, a whole bunch of universes are somewhat colliding together in such a harmonious way right now, while the little gnome up there is just going about. So he's definitely asking for some WD-40 for sure. For sure. Or...

1:13:42
We could do it the nice lubricated way or the nice explosive way. Anyway.

1:13:50
Anyway, or we did it with the ocean.

1:14:01
It's just part of nature.

1:14:03
It is part of the structure. So, we just let it be. And we don't let that take our attention away from here.

1:14:26
So after we have built

1:14:32
or and attached

1:14:34
feelings and build a perception to that form, that temporal form that has been imprinted onto us, then we begin to have a sense of idea, a concept, what this is all about. But that is just temporal. All those layers are literally stopping us from seeing the truth. And the truth is that we're all eternal. That we're bright. And those forms, if we keep those forms empowered, then it will stop us from seeing that truth. But my favorite part though, is consciousness. And consciousness cannot be understood mentally. We could have thousands and thousands of descriptions of consciousness, but it cannot be understood. The only way that we can understand consciousness is through direct experience. Having actual conscious contact with consciousness. experiencing it, being it, embodying it. Because it requires energy, and that energy comes from us. Just like those birds this morning, they weren't having a sense of awareness of who they were, they were just part of... They were saying, Look, I'm a bird, and I can fly! Can you just hover like I do?

1:16:58
And it's like,

1:17:00
Right?

1:17:02
Check this out! I was hovering there, and they can just flip over like that, and then, and then flip back up, and fly back up again. They're not aware of who they are. They're living it.

1:17:18
And that's something that we, as temporal beings, can learn a lot from.

1:17:25
Nature. There's a lot of consciousness in nature, as there is in us. We are a living and breathing example of consciousness. to embody in this movie called our life. Happy consciousness or consciousness that is so low, you're like, oh my gosh, what is going on, right? But instead of us engaging with that mindset, we become brighter, we become happier. So we are the balancing factor. Because if that comes from the lower realms up here, and it is literally, in some areas in this country, as we speak right now, or even other countries, they are living a life of hell realm type of quality life.

1:19:02
But we're not.

1:19:03
So we have to live it. And never doubt it. We go out in the world, we'll have so much disagreements, opposition, That that is truth. But since we have picked our truth carefully, then we know it's true. And there's no one that can tell us otherwise, because we went through the direct body experience, direct conscious contact with that awareness, that consciousness that we are part of now. Just like that little gnome is conscious of itself, powered by some other things that are going on there. One would wonder. But...

1:20:31
...

1:20:40
definitely take it from a perspective that you have been told all these things, you have worked so far up to this point in your life, you have self-refined in many ways. You're not empowering things that are not aligned with the Dharma. And you're consciously doing it every single day. You're keeping your mind in check that you're example of consciousness. Because once we hold that awareness through direct experience, when we come across anybody, even in a very difficult meeting where we need to present our products and or, you know, company-wide type meetings, we project a certain level of consciousness by just being there present, it permeates. And we affect everyone in the conference room or, you know, company party. And that's where the warrior mind is extremely useful, because as a bodhisattva, you have to be a badass motherfucker. You can't be a nambipambi. The world is out there to tell you otherwise. And that's why there are only few people who have not achieved, but embody truth that we speak of now. Imagine if everyone had the opportunity to become and literally live an enlightened state of mind. Imagine how much beautiful this world would be. All It'll be just a harmonious way of living. But we know the truth. Since everything is truth, we know that's not the case. And in your lifetime, perhaps the meditation, the sitting in lotus position, and all that may seem kind of normal for you, but for us, the rec students of Rama, it wasn't back then. Just like cell phones right now, for some of you, maybe like, oh yeah, this is how it's always been. But no, it wasn't. Before there was a huge briefcase for a mobile phone or a big clunky machine, right? Right? And that's where, once we kind of see something, that we attach a certain level of understanding, a concept to it, and we assume that that's how it's been all the time, not knowing that there have been many iterations, many changes that have gone through to create the environment of where we make sure that our field of awareness is clear, it's happy, it's healthy, so other things, other teachings can grow properly. teachings can grow properly. And in that field of awareness, that is just pure light, all these beautiful things pop up. And that's what we basically, you know, to make sure that we start to take away any of the poisonous thoughts or feelings that were equal to weeds that are going to overpower our Garden of Eden in this plane, meaning our little Garden of Eden. Consider that all the sense of differences, the sense of temporal thoughts, disappeared right now. All you have and all you are is this beautiful, bright orb with flowers, petals just falling off as you walk down the street. This aroma that comes out is just intoxicating. That's something worthwhile becoming. All other temporal thoughts are just little weeds and vines that are growing, trying to choke that bright happy awareness that we are. So that big story that the world has told you, it's just a big story. have another version of the story and then you can choose carefully what your truth is. Do you want to embody an enlightened state of mind here and now in this lifetime? Then extreme amount of concentration and focus to not get distracted by all those other emotions that are telling you otherwise. And you'll start to recognize that in your imprinting, your edible imprinting. It's like, ah, right, no, I don't want that, I want this. Be aware of your thoughts. Be aware of your actions. And in fact, there is another thing too that I'm going to say. Do you remember that? Let's see. This is a test now. When I was here last, I shared a formula. A spiritual formula that is ancient and has been echoed in time through many teachers and it holds a super powerful truth. All right? One person says yes. How many more remember One. Wow, really? Wow. Hmm, interesting. Interesting. Do you want to share with us? Thoughts, feelings, actions, patterns.

1:28:18
Yep.

1:28:19
Last one.

1:28:20
Almost there, almost there.

1:28:22
It is with...

1:28:24
Style. Lifestyle.

1:28:28
Does that sound familiar now?

1:28:30
Okay.

1:28:32
Now, that formula, if you guys use it as a filter for your day, I can guarantee you, without fail, that you will be aligned.

1:28:47
Anybody has questions about that actually?

1:28:51
Before we go on. Can you repeat the formula? Awesome. Stand up. It was thoughts, feelings, actions, and lifestyle.

1:29:38
Life patterns.

1:29:40
Can I ask another question about that?

1:29:42
What formulae about that? Is it like,

1:29:44
thoughts plus feelings plus action plus...

1:29:47
if you want to have one plus two plus three plus four and all that, then you can use it that way.

1:29:52
But more in terms of using it as a filter. Because just like you get online, right? And you have all these filters to filter out all this junk that comes in through your email or whatever, right? It's kind of like that. You only have access to certain emotions that come out of you and they get mirror back to you. So part of that awareness of that form of the aggregate, there is a sea of conscious unawareness in the temporal world, the temporal matrix. So, there are all these thoughts going, just peaking. As we sit out, like we did this morning, by the little, you know, cliffs there, the rocks, we can see out, right? We can see little things popping up, just like the whales when they were doing their spray. You can see the one here and then one over there. So, similarly, in the ocean of thought, of the temporal matrix, there are all these thoughts. Then, as a mystic, we take our time and we take a breather before we see it, recognize it and empower it. Because when we see it, then we say it. But in our case, it'll be like, we see it in our minds, like, oh, a thought comes up, it's like, oh, but we don't even stop for a second to say, where is that thought gonna take me? And we follow that trajectory, it's like, oh, right, I'm gonna be way down there, I don't wanna go there. So, I'm going to wait for the complementing or the opposite thought that will arise that is the right thought to have. Right? intense. Someone is just throwing hate at you like you would not believe. So, the ocean. At the moment you take a deep breath, you relax, before you're like, you know, just go in and just take him down. Before you do that, you just wait. Because you'll feel that emotion, because that's part of the imprinting. It'll just come right up and if you engage with it, you'll lose power. But if you wait just for a little bit longer, then suddenly it's like, oh, I'm not going to react. I'm not going to be angry. Instead, I'm going to be compassionate because that person could have had a really bad day that day and all they want is someone to kind of just listen for a little bit. It has nothing to do with us. It's not personal whatsoever. But if we just wait, we'll be able to see that, and then, psh, compassion, as opposed to anger. Now you start to become aligned a little bit. Right? So, once we see the thought, then we say that thought. We bring it, we root it into this world. And then that thought is followed by an action. Okay, right, compassion. Instead of this, it's like, calm down, it's okay, you'll be alright. It's only temporal. It'll pass. Or, thank you for sharing that with me, if it's a family member. Thank you for sharing that with me, even as a sangha member, because you guys are a family. So instead of, then, calm down, it's okay. I love you. We're here to be bright and happy. So, let's talk about this, you know. Let me be here for you for this moment. And the energy is supposed to be like this, going all crazy, suddenly starts to slow down. And then things become calmer and easier. And then you remind each other, why are you doing this in the first place? Right? If you are meditating to become enlightened beings, you're not going to be assholes. You're going to be compassionate beings, because you want to make this world a better place. You want to be on the compassionate, on the loving side, then that becomes a pattern. Every time we encounter situations, that's the first thing we go to. It's a pattern. rooted not just in our brain, but in our body. That's the first thing that we go to as opposed to the opposite. We show compassion instead. Because we know life is beautiful. Why let this temporal little thing suddenly call all this darkness? Why empower that? There is no power there at all. So, that pattern then builds the type of lifestyle we live in this world. Our lifestyle is to be bright, happy. the teachings, living and breathing examples of the Dharma. So, it's much better, more powerful to use that formula as a filter for yourself, to not just what feelings come out, but what feelings you allow in. While there's someone giving you a hard time, you just put a filter. And while they come in, and they get kicked off. Right? But you're there. You're present in the moment. And again, last time, I mentioned the power exists in the present. Not in the past, not in the future, but it is in the present. It is what we do right at a very moment, every moment in our life, that defines our future. And our past. Most of us have been imprinted to basically be, our assemblies point to be in three separate places. And most of us are in the future or in the past. We're talking, regretting about the past, always thinking about the future, not even seeing what's happening here and now. In this very moment. And this very moment equals a life well lived in this world. An entire 60, 70, and if you're lucky, 90 something years. That's a moment in time. It's not in the future, it's not in the past, it's a moment in time. And every single time we choose the right words, the right actions that will nurture the level, a pattern that is going to define our true nature, so we are living our true purpose to be Bodhisattvas in this plane, then, I mean, it doesn't take a genius to figure that out. Say, ah, I know this. Let's just say, if after this time you are 30, 40, or 50, you have lived and empowered those emotions, now know that if you're 50, you only have this amount of time. So that means you better be extremely strategic as to what you are empowering for that small amount of life span you have left. And for those who are on their 20s or 30s, well, you might say, well, I have this much, so I have more time to work on. Well, great, but then now be aware that you have all that time. So, if you start now, it's going to be easy. So, when we get to that place of passing, we say, thank you for the coat. It was nice. And we just walk out of our bodies. And we go with an open heart, singing, smiling, into a God realm.

1:39:52
As I mentioned just a bit ago, that it is a fortuitous event that we have been born

1:40:03
as humans and we are closer to become gods or demons, right? We are in the in-between plane. So everything we do really doesn't matter. If we are inspiring others as well as ourselves to take flight and always have this uplifting state of awareness, then it'll be easy to move on to the celestial realms once we pass. once we pass. So the bardo planes are like no planes at all. They're like, oh, I am in the celestial realms. So the other cautionary tale of this long story that we've been talking about tonight, all those emotions that are learned, all those negative emotions that are learned here in this plane will weigh you down. So your spirit, as it's trying to go through the barter planes, it will get stuck in between. It is considered the accumulative energy, negative energy of those emotions. It's going to get you stuck in a tar pit in between part of planes and you will not be able to get out and your chances of being born again as a human are extremely low so you won't be a you won't have that chance to go back here. I want to go back to be an expression of God-like consciousness incarnate here in this world. As opposed to going down to the hell realms. And those emotions literally will take you to those realms very easily. So, that's the cautionary tale of emotions. So, it's your choice, you know. Again, it's like a Dharma buffet. You've been given all these sumptuous little, you know, tastings and all that. It is your choice. If you want to be happy and bright and enjoy a purposeful life, and live a life with deep meaning here and now, then choose your truth carefully, with very clear intent. If you're choosing any other, instead of beating yourself up, realign. Get back to the center. Get back to the sweet spot. And that sweet spot is literally the razor's edge. If you slip, you might get cut like a cucumber. Seriously. Because there are other things that I can tell you about from a mystical perspective of all those entities that live out there that are literally just waiting for you to fall and just swarm you, take your life prana away. Some of us have a good, let's say, perception of the carrot or the stick. We react to it based on our edible imprinting, right? It's the carrot or the stick, meaning that we always do things, we feel motivated to do things because we'll see a certain payoff. And it's easy to beat someone up so they can get the payoff later. That's basically the stick that has been applied to us in the central matrix by the imprintings of many, many millennia, right? So then part of knowing ourself, part of that self-awareness of the aggregate self, it's like, how do we react ourselves? It's like, do we feel inspired to do things by the payoff? Or we end up doing things because there's fear involved, and there's a stick. You've got to do this, you've got to do this, and you know, you're going to go down worlds that you may not want to even go there. Fear. So, that's part of self-knowing, right? So, if suddenly you realize, you know, I always produced better when there was someone there telling me what to do. Well, that means that there is already power there for you to shift it into doing something because you know what the payoff is going to be. And you feel inspired to do that instead of having someone just go, whack! And part of my upbringing in school was, you know, the ruler. Because, you know, I was a good kid, but sometimes it's like, no, I don't agree with that. And because it was a Catholic school, I mean, it's like, you know, the stick. There's more power in inspiration than there is in fear. Because once we are inspired, because of certain payoff, then we are literally allowing ourselves realm type of awareness in the spirit world. Our sense of authentic place to be. We're no longer allowing someone else to go so we can do certain things because we see it, we know it, and we just go to it. We choose deliberately to go towards that goal. gold. You know, the rainbow,

1:46:51
pot of gold.

1:46:53
We see the whole arc, we just don't see a little bit, but see the whole arc, and we make sure to align ourselves every single morning, and the way to do it So whether you sleep half an hour, two hours, or three hours a night, it doesn't matter. What matters is your attitude is aligned with the highest, truest purpose, then you just put a smile on your face, and you see the magic in the world. You see yourself. And say thank you for eternity, or to eternity, for having created the possibility so you could wake up that day. Then, ideally, you have a bottle of water, or a glass of water, or a tub of water, right next to your night table. So as you wake up, you're taking the world, first you're not taking the world, but you're taking in your room. Because there's this like, you know, someone pushed the button and suddenly the programs are loading. Right? They're like, oh my room, right, my day, oh I gotta make coffee. All these programs are loading. So, as we wait, we take our water, we hold it in our hands, and we start saying our gratitude. And as we're saying it, because the sounds that we are uttering through our mouth are sacred. Back in the old times, there was a language called Sanskrit that was considered sacred language. But guess what? English is also a sacred language. So is Chinese, so is Japanese, so is any form of communication. With the exception of text and emails. So, you start saying what you're grateful for that day. In particular, just to be alive. That's the main thing, the core, just to be alive that day. Then, all that vibration went right into the water. The molecules are taking in that vibration. And you drink it and the water will go right into your system and empower every single water molecule in your body and you have your day set. Then you get up and say okay what was the next program okay yes I have to go and you know do my thing brush my teeth take a shower. The next program I have to go make some tea or, you know, sit and meditate. That's another program. Then after that, right, the driving program. You know, you get in your car, that program loads up. And then you get to work, it's like, oh, yeah, that's right. Now the management program, right, are loading and they are resident in your operating system for the day. To make no mistake, we are artificially, organically intelligent machines. Of the advanced kind all humans are. Or some of us choose to love programs that are so low, like Duke Nukem style. Shooting, destroying, zombies, you know, crazy things like that. That's what they love their computer with. But for us, it's different. Well, I would hope, right? I can only speak for myself, but I hope that you guys, when you wake up in the morning, you load the right program, so therefore you do what you're supposed to do for that day. And when you come back, at the end of the day, once you're done, press your off button, you go to sleep. Recharge again. you know, the sleep mode gets interrupted by our alarm, you know. So, water. Definitely consider doing that. Ideally, you would consume in the morning half of your body weight in ounces of water. If it's too much for you, work out to the place where you can actually do that. It will improve your digestive system, it will make you feel much cleaner and lighter, it'll detoxify you because you end up peeing and other things and all this kind of stuff that most of us do. Body functions. Good for your digestive system, your kidneys. Then, even though this is not a fresh one, but a fresh juice, a green juice, a power green juice. If you can make it yourself, even better. But if you don't have the time to do that, then there are lots of really good juice places. Just go there and get a nice, powerful, green-looking juice. Because it has a lot of chlorophyll in it. And chlorophyll allow, basically, the function of it is to get all the pollutants out of the system, all the heavy metals from green juice, particularly the chlorophyll. So... And that in itself will help you be happier and brighter while everyone else is eating heavy stuff. Right? So what do you guys think? Well, it's pretty light, right? I mean, it's really not that difficult to understand or to actually potentially see what it takes to be in a empowered state of mind, which is another term that I've used in the past also. I mentioned about the empowered state of mind, what it takes to hold yourself there, right? You guys remember that? Nope. Okay, well, that's cool. My suggestion would be for you guys to go back and re-read your recaps,

1:54:19
especially if you covered the empowered state of mind definition.

1:54:23
But suffice to say that you could be really high up. Empowering those emotions will drop you like a rock. of the crushing oblivion of numbness in this world. Again, a personal choice, personal aesthetics, right? As spiritual practitioners,

1:54:42
we choose things that are high vibe, right?

1:54:45
That includes our feelings, that includes our words, our actions, within we have a certain lifestyle that's built upon from that. And we stop empowering that aggregated formation of what the social matrix told us that who we are. There's no power there. Imagine what you choose every day, what your truth is. I mean, I see you all, you guys are all really happy and bright, smiling. Imagine that you were like that even if no one was watching. What a beautiful state of mind to be. You know, it's like, I'm going to put my nice, pious little suit and go out there and look, look at me, I'm so great, so beautiful. Go back home, it's like, go back to be an asshole again. What's the You'll be food for the dementors. No joke. Because they're out there. They'll swarm you like you would not believe. And if you have, if you don't have someone who can help you out of it, you're literally a carcass. And if you want to have even more of a direct experience, go to the senior centers. Those people who are bright and happy are doing things that are active, and those who are literally waiting to die, they literally look like wax figures sitting on chairs or stools and stuff like that, waiting to die. Because they empower the wrong type of emotions. And not empowered, but they still are empowering those emotions. So their life force is being consumed by those beings. As opposed to the yidams that can come and just take you out there and waltz you down the hallway, you know, into beautiful realms of consciousness. Which is going to be our next, after our break, our next talk.

1:57:51
Dharma Tools. Weapons.

1:57:54
So we're just waiting for a couple more people that are, that have to go and pay their homage to the ceramic goddess, which is totally fine. Meanwhile, any good jokes lately? What jumps higher than the Empire State Building? building? Huh? Spider-Man! Nothing, because buildings don't jump. And that's a joke that Already telling me interesting jokes. So you guys know why Dracula was arrested? He was trying to rob a blood bank. She comes up with these weird jokes, you know, and I'm like, oh, you're so cute. You guys met her, the little blonde little... She was cute. I mean, not was, still is. A lot of things I learned from that little one. A lot of things.

1:59:39
Let's see, what's another one?

1:59:40
Oh, I think I told this one here.

1:59:43
Did I tell this one here?

1:59:44
What do Star Trek Voyager and toilet paper have in common?

2:00:03
They both circle Uranus, picking up Klingons. delayed reaction over there, huh? I told this joke in Hungary and they were like

2:00:13
the translation is going on and they're like, oh, it's really funny to see that delayed in communication. I might as well have been in Pluto, you know, waiting for like the communication

2:00:31
communications account anyone else is there a funny joke

2:00:44
you'll get the is in service for a joke practitioner uh... you guys remember the uh... red riding hood The Red Riding Hood joke? How many of you remember the Little Red Riding Hood joke that I've told? You guys don't?

2:01:07
I have not.

2:01:08
Okay. Okay, this is going to be kind of interesting, but it was the same thing. In Hungary they're like, oh! It was like afterwards. Anyway, so, Little Red Riding Hood is hopping down the forest, happily as it could ever be, or she could ever be,

2:01:30
carrying a basket.

2:01:32
So, she's like, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, you know, just having a happy self, and then suddenly, this bird flies right in front of her and says, Little Red Riding Hood, there's a big bad wolf down below. It's like, I have nothing to worry about, I got something in my bag, or in my basket. So she gives him hopping down the forest, you know, going down and then the forest start to get thicker and it's just going into a ravine. And Bambi pops up from, you know, the little bushes and says, little red riding hood. There is a big bad wolf, just down there. She's like, I got something in my basket. Just keeps on hopping down the forest. And sure enough, she gets right down by the little bin in the ravine. And there it is, this big bad wolf jumps out in front of her and he says, Little Red Riding Hood, I am going to kill you! And Little Red Riding Hood just looks at the wolf dead in the eyes and then he just goes right into his little basket, pulls out a Colt.45 and points it at him and says, Nope! You're gonna eat me like the story says.

2:03:38
Laughter Laughter Laughter Laughter

2:04:03
Oh man, that's great. What rhymes with Snoop Doggy Dog? What rhymes with Snoop Doggy Dog? Anyway, and I could keep going and going, but in the interest of time and some sleep Let's bring it back to alignment. Are you guys warriors?

2:04:55
And my little sangha down there will be like, YES!

2:05:02
WE ARE!

2:05:06
Yeah. requires a warrior mindset. And a warrior has to have certain tools, you know. Sometimes tools can where you can out shout someone, right? But the kind of tools that are not external will help you self-refine faster. And those tools are part of the four C's that I'm going to share with you tonight. The four C's are, it's a term that defines a diamond. And because we are on this path that has certain facets of the diamond mind of Rama's teachings, it's going to be something that you're going to be grateful that you heard, and even more if you actually use them. Because again, application will lead you to having that direct conscious contact with awareness, with the state of being. So... Collar, cut, clarity, and carrot. Like a diamond? Everyone heard that one, right? Yeah?

2:08:02
Let's start with clarity.

2:08:04
A diamond cannot be measured if it has impurities. Of course, it can be measured with those impurities, and then given a certain level of, you know, carried weight or number to it. But how that applies to us as spiritual practitioners is that we begin to work with our third eye, to be able to see things clearly, to see through the muck of the human aura and the lower states of consciousness that exists out there, and and see what's essential. The third eye. By refining our third eye, by cultivating it, we will be able to see things that are beautiful. And that's where the yidams are going to become You guys have heard the term Yidam? 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. How many have not heard of that term, Yidam?

2:09:45
Okay.

2:09:47
It's a helper being. A being that's going to help you get to certain realms, certain realities. And those realms could be like the realms that you see imprinted on Tonkas that some of you have gotten directly from me and perhaps indirectly from other artists that have nothing to do with our lineage. So, they're beautiful realms and those yidams had to be called into this plane and then the artist was taken to that realm. A feeling energy, a certain power. But that artist could not have been able to see that had he not worked on the third eye visualization. So Color is our feelings, our love, how colorful it is, how deep and powerful it is, how we How we feel this world and ourselves in this world. What type of life do we lead? Is this a happy one or not so happy one? Drama? Dharma? Unfortunately, for the majority of beings out there, it's drama that's driving force. Things that motivate them to do certain things or to not do certain things. But ideally for us, it's dharma that drives us to be better, to be brighter, to be happy, to be loving. Love is the bonding energy of universes. Universes mean individuals in the human sense, but also of astrological sense. We cannot shy away from it. We are born with love. We are born with a sense of happiness to be here. To wake up and, ah, this day, wow, this ceiling that as a child would just see the world with of questions and things I want to know and feel and do. As we become mature, then that ability to have that wondrous mind, to always question, to always know more, to always wanting through the repetition of our life. And it gets so dull at some point in time, in our life experience, that suddenly that's

2:13:41
all there is.

2:13:42
And you'll hear comments like, this is how I was and this is how I'm going to die. Especially older beings. They don't want to change. Because they're comfortable where they are. That's what they know. And anyone else who is saying, well you perhaps could be something else, like nope, this is who I am. So, color. Are you in a field of flowers? Or, you know, in the mud? Just trying to walk out of a place that is dark and sticky and, you know, a life that is uninspiring. So, then cut.

2:14:55
in this life experience. The kind of presence that we have for ourselves and for others.

2:15:08
Could be for our friends, could be for just social places, but also could be at a job. How do we carry ourselves? That's how we, when we know someone is in a really beautiful alignment with Dharma and happy, bright state of being, their life is beautiful. It's always meaningful. And they have this ability to just exude the sense of confidence. Fear is for those who are looking for temporal power. Fear will like, not for me. We carry ourselves strong, tall, like a lighthouse in the dark and stormy sea, so others can find their way back home. if we don't look at it as a crutch or as a weakness point. Consider it more as a point of strength, because then you recognize that as part of the self-knowing process that we discussed earlier. So, oh, I could work on that. Because when we have that ability to see clearly, it is as if we come out of the structure of the self, the form that I discussed earlier, we come out and we can see it from a third-party perspective, meaning from an external point of view. And we can see all those areas that need to be improved. We don't look at it and say, oh, that's a fault. We look at it as a place, oh wow, okay, I've been in a room all this time. A way of seeing. Limited. Small. The kind of room that the temporary matrix has somewhat created for us. That we'll only be able to know only that. As we begin to refine, all the rough edges kind of become smoother, through practice and self-knowing, then we come out of that room. And we realize, oh wow, first I was in a room, now, hmm, I'm out of a room and then suddenly, well, there's another room that I was in. And then we begin to unfold even more and it's like, huh, I was already in two rooms and now, huh, now there's a hallway and suddenly you come out and eventually you're completely out of the house. that was in that house literally comes out and you're able to see. So you're no longer bound by the structure that the temporal matrix has set up for you as far as that form of self-awareness of who you are free, like Jonathan or the crows, hovering, flying, beautifully, like this morning. And you can choose where to go after that, and what to be, because then you remember who you are. Because when we're born in this world, we retain the awareness of who we were in other lifetimes, in other dimensions. Those of you who have children, the first time when you looked into your child's eye, bright, beautiful sense of emptiness, but yet full of life, right? Full of wonder. If they could talk at that age, I mean, they would tell us all these beautiful stories and all of those planes that they traversed in order to get to be formed in a physical aspect.

2:21:17
And then we'll be like, wow!

2:21:19
We'll be totally amazed. So, from that sense of eternity, one little body form is formed. And then from our way of perceiving it, if we're not aware, then we start to push it down and form it into what it's going to be. It's going to have a certain level of awareness, it's going to become a certain thing, and then hopefully it becomes a good citizen. If we're not aware, the social imprinting sets in and we imprint the imprintings that have been passed on, call it the operating system that have been imprinted through time, through our families, through our societies, all condensed into this one little being. And we're just limited like that. And then that child grows up and it will develop its own self, awareness of self. And then after that it will take on whatever trajectory that ideally for those who are awake enough to guide this being to always choose higher, to always choose to be better, to always choose the happier emotions. And if you have ever had a thought in the past, or perhaps there may be some thoughts, it's like, you know, maybe at some point in the future I may consider doing that, or maybe not. But if there is a thought, consider that before you've been called that being to pass through you, you have to cleanse yourself emotionally, spiritually, and physically. And then once that being comes into, I'm talking about specifically for women, once that being then you hold your mind in the purest states of awareness, because you know that all those feelings, all those knowings, that being is going to feel. If it's like the traditional stutter practice out there, where parents fight. They get involved in this really angry kind of things, not care about the emotions or thoughts, and even worse, as they say, that being is being able to feel and understand what's going on. And instead of nurturing it, we're hurting it, because it's a divine being. All of us are inwardly inside divine. And every time we do things to our bodies as it is right now, that is not taking care of it, nurturing it, then we are damaging that inner divinity. And that's where the warrior mindset comes in. You are extremely careful as to battles that you fight, the things that you do and say. So symbolically, when we get on the spiritual path, we become pregnant with the Spirit. And there'll be a process in time until our spiritual maturity takes place. Where suddenly we start to side with spiritual type of awareness from the physical world. So, that's extremely important and extremely strategic, especially as a group. But if there's been any feelings towards your Sangha mates that are not happy, bright, then know that you're damaging the divinity of that person, but at the same time you're damaging yourself even more, meaning your own sense of divinity. That is where that sense of accountability, personal accountability, to always be aligned with the Dharma becomes extremely powerful and important. Because otherwise, we're not practicing spirituality, we're just practicing a fad, another diet. A fad is going to be replaced by another diet. It doesn't become a lifestyle. And in Again, I had mentioned that the description for Buddhism is a religion here in the West, but the way we describe it from a mysticism's perspective, it's a lifestyle. So that means once you get on it, you're in it for life. There's no doubts. of it, you saw examples of it, and in your meditations you get some beautiful places so you know, so you're in it for life. You're not there until suddenly you think you feel that, oh, something better comes along. Because then all that power that has been cultivated, to another place that is no longer yours. So, very, very important to be bright and happy.

2:27:44
Take care of each other, love each other,

2:27:46
because the more you do that, the easier it becomes and the more powerful there is in a collective sense. But then, if the whole Sangha says, we are going to change the world in certain ways, and all that focus is channeled in that goal, whatever it is, then that goal gets accomplished So, while there may be thoughts or feelings that, oh, you know, I've been in the Sangha for all this time, so I don't like to meditate with the Sangha. Well, we have to be extremely aware of that mental description that we're adding to it, and therefore empowering, as opposed to changing the narrative into, I am the senior monk in the Sangha mates. Because by doing so, you're helping them, but also you're helping yourself. Get rid of all those rough edges, all those temporal things, those emotions that are not serving you in any way. That's where you become self-accountable, and you really see the bleeding edge, and live it. And the good practice would be, if I mean, to kind of get out of that mindset, it's like if somehow you feel like, you know, I had this feeling to this person. Instead of just leaving it there, you had the feeling, own up to it. Walk up to this person and say, you know, I just want to let you know, this is a feeling that I had and I know this is not what we're supposed to do or be. Please forgive me. I just want you to know that there's only love. It's just a feeling that I did not know how to hold it or control it. So I just let it fly. So you own up to it, you go up there, you apologize, and then you basically no longer empower that feeling or that feeling no longer has a hold on us. Any longer. Because if we don't do that, that feeling, it's like the aliens, right? They just, right in your face and then suddenly, and they consume you from the inside out. And then, you'll see this little alien pop out with like 10 other ones, you know. Not happy. So, um... Very important.

2:31:14
So how you carry yourself? With it, you're... for yourself, like, you look yourself in the mirror, and you're like, hmm, okay.

2:31:19
Where am I? Check your mind. Your feelings. Apply the filters that we discussed. It's like, okay, you go about your day, keep them there, because what you put out is what gets reflected back onto you, or echoed back to you. You put out happiness, it comes back to you. You put out gratefulness, it comes back to you. You put out generosity, it comes back out to you. Many times over. So, consider it like the spiritual bank of compound interests. So, you're opening an account in the eternity bank, and it's compounding an interest. Then, at some point, you'll cash out, once you drop the body. It's all your Dharma kudos. Right? So that was part of the exercise of being able to keep yourself aligned and focused today and after go out get the card and put your offering or contribution in it because it had to have with that ability to as you put out, ten times comes back to you. But if you do it from a purity of mind, the power there that comes back to you is so much more. Because most, there are some people out there that may be like, Ah, this is a chore, ah, you know, I didn't want to do this. Then that means, the message that is coming out to eternity is saying, I'm not serious about this, I'm just doing it because. So, Eternity says, OK, well, sure, you don't want it, I'm going to give it to somebody else. Eternity is there waiting for that one moment when she'll say,

2:33:30
Red pill or blue pill?

2:33:32
You know? So... And by applying the sense of clarity,

2:33:40
by living a colorful life,

2:33:43
and carrying yourself in a way that... how you're cut, as in like your presence in this world, then will define the carat measurement of your faceted diamond that is part of the diamond mind of our lineage. So, similarly with the spiritual formula, it's the same thing. The end result, it's pure consciousness. Just brightness, happiness, egoless, state of being,

2:34:39
where your purpose, your true purpose,

2:34:42
is fully revealed right before your eyes. And then you realize that enlightenment was but a breath away. And the space in between was all those descriptions, and all those thoughts, and all those like, ah, that shoulda, coulda, woulda, and all this whining stopped you to progress faster on this path. And our path is a tantric path. Faster things, revving machines. That's why we have to be extremely, extremely how we use the energy and choosing our truth deliberately so we get to that end result quicker. And that end result isn't like you're going to someplace but you're unfolding, you're unhooking yourselves from all those forms, all those layers of that awareness of the temporal matrix. And then you're free. And freedom is sweet. It's like the nectar of life that keeps us in this plane. There are some people out there that all they want to do is just stay in that sweet place, that face with the world, but then suddenly that's all there is. It's just them. From a tantric perspective and a mystics perspective, the gifts that we see, the termas that we reveal, we have to bring it out. So others can find their way home. We pass it forward. We don't protect it. We don't hold it. We're not afraid. We're tough motherfuckers. Whatever story big or small that we have been told who we are and all this kind of stuff. That's just nonsense. We are much more bright, brilliant in a way. I would like to share some specific techniques, not now, but later with you on how to work with clarity, the first tool. which at some point you can take that training and apply it to your work world. If you're a software developer, you're going to be able to see, use the techniques that we learned here, and take it into your coding, your way of visualizing a product from beginning to end. Well, you see all the connections, and then all you have to do is just go back and put it together. As opposed to suddenly seeing just a little bit, coding it, and then not seeing all the other things that you might need to add to it to make it even bigger, better, and more marketable. If you want to apply it for your spiritual practice, it will also work like that. To the point where we'll be sitting out in some beautiful outdoor place and connecting with nature and using the techniques that I'll be able to see, eventually, from the beginning, for yourself, you'll see, I started here, and this is where I end up. All jagged kind of lines, to the point where it's smooth, and then beautiful lines. At some point, if you want to call Shiva, well, Shiva, if you're pure enough in heart, he will come. And then you'll be able to take that realm that he takes you and draw it. Pure authentic place, but then when you put it in front of your meditation, it's like, I can't believe that thing came out of me.

2:40:02
And this applies for men and women.

2:40:04
Sometimes us men, first of all, we have no idea of what it takes to nurture life, right? But sometimes we're even amazed by ourselves that we are not capable of doing certain things and suddenly once we like really put ourselves in the process, like, wow, I can't believe I was able to do that. Because we believe the stories of limitation as opposed to the stories of possibilities. And if you remember in the past, again, I shared the how and the why. Right? When you have a situation that is trying at work and stuff, instead of saying, why is this happening to me? Instead, say, how can I solve this? Why will have an inverted view to the point of explaining everything to the point of no solutions. How? Opens up a question out into the universe and the universe answers in many different ways. And if you're quiet enough, you'll be able to see it and hear it. How is better than why? Because you have more options, more possibilities. So, in that workshop would be a three-session workshop and we would have a lot of fun. Ideally, we'll do some indoor, but most of it is going to be outdoors, where suddenly our phones are going to go on airplane mode. No connection with the world. We're just going to be able to get into the moment, into the flow of life and just be there. And you'll notice those of you who will choose to do this, at the beginning you'll be like, I don't know if I'm good enough. All those doubts will start to pop up. All those narratives are going to play. But the trick is to listen and say, thank you, I'm going to do it anyway. At the end, you'll see. You'll be like, wow, I can't believe I actually, I was able to do this. And then you can apply that, again as I said, to your work and any issues or projects that you may want to solve in order to see the whole structure and see the solutions and code it, put it together. Or if you think of a business venture or a business idea, then you'll be able to see the entire business idea structure before you put it down in a business plan or in your, you know, network diagram. So, it's a skill, transferable skill that would go from the spiritual realm into the First Attention material realm. Does that sound like something you guys would be interested in? Pretty cool. Pretty cool. Very nice. Yeah. So, as far as these tools, is it something that you feel like you understood a little bit about the four C's and how to apply them to your own life, your own practice, your aesthetics of living.

2:43:43
Yeah? Awesome.

2:43:47
I know it's a little bit late, but we're almost done. So, any questions? Anybody? About anything? How about those Mets? Maybe? Or those 49ers? Yes.

2:44:04
from our perspective as adults, all the aggregate of stuff that's accumulated, do you have any words of wisdom around how do you raise a kid so that they have some aggregate so that they're functional but also that they're able to more fluidly step outside? Option A, Option B, and Option C. And I use it with my niece a lot. Where I tell her, you don't want to do that. But I want to do it! It's like, okay, here are your options.

2:44:47
If you do this, this is what's going to happen. If you don't do this, this is what's going to happen. She's like, huh, okay. So she has options. So I'm able to show her that she can choose. Most parents, they get into that parenting mind to like, you've got to do it this way, right? So you have to know that there's child, that there's this wild being in there, that naturally, you're going to be like, you're telling me no, but I'm going to do it anyway.

2:45:39
Right?

2:45:39
But instead, bring them as part of like a co-creative process in the family to say, well, here is how we are, we are this way, or we could be this way. We, as a family, like to be here instead. Then, so they feel a sense of, okay, I'm an active participant in this. I'm not just being told what to do all the time, so I'm going to have to rebel against it, but instead have options. So, and especially as a child, when you're giving them those options, also in your mind visualize them here, right? So, you could say, I don't want you to be... I'm thinking of an example, it's like... I don't want you to be off the couch. I mean, on the couch. Right? The message that comes out is like, okay, you don't want me to be off the couch, but you're not giving me options. Right? So, instead, you say, I like it to be off the couch, but visually, you're visualizing the kid off the couch. Or off certain things, like, don't put your hand in there. Right? Because as they're growing up, they see and understand the world in images. Energy that comes in that gets sort of transformed into an image. It's just like when you send a picture through the internet, it gets broken down into zeros and ones. And then once you receive that picture, before it paints itself on your screen, all the zeros and ones come together to show you that picture, right? So, similarly like that, because that has been how they saw the world before they were born, and right after they were born, how they interact with the world, then it's much easier for them to be from a visual perspective, to engage in the way that you want them to engage. So, sometimes, you know, walking out with my niece, we go out to breakfast or lunch or something like that sometimes, and there are some kids there that are just really... their behavior is, like, so bad, and all you see the parents is, like, really angry and, you know, being frustrated with them. But all the kid is trying to do is just trying to get attention. So what I do for her is, like, okay, I have three types of attention for you, options, right? So I say, the underlying thing is you want attention for me. So here are the options. You have love and attention, you have frustrated attention, or you have indifference. So I'd rather give you loving attention. I see no reason to give you frustrated attention or indifference. So, she's like, I want loving attention. Instead. Every time she's trying to like misbehave, because we basically raised her since she was 5 months old, right? I'm like, sweetie, which one do you want? Frustrated attention or loving attention? She's like, ah, loving attention. And you see her energy just change from like tense to like smooth and happy. Always give them options. And it's not just for children. It also works for adults. You give them options. Let them choose. have matured enough, they'll say, huh, okay, this person really cares about me. They're showing me the things that, how I could be better. So, instead of the whack, there's a Dharma buffet, right? It's like, oh, I can choose the things to, so I can become a better person. So, just one way of looking at it.

2:49:55
Anyone else about children? Just one way of looking at it.

2:50:00
Anyone else? About children? Any other? Doesn't have to be about children. Dogs, yeah.

2:50:18
Yeah.

2:50:21
I was wondering, if they have such a lack of a sense of self, what is it that's not letting them... are they in line with stopping them from... They're in a world of energy. Can you repeat that?

2:50:42
they are in a world of energy. So they live in a world that basically like in between worlds, between this temporal world and the spirit world. They have no sense of, Oh, I'm a raven, I have X amount of feathers, none of that. They are just, you know, just being. And you'll notice like if you were lucky, like, you were there this morning, right? Like you saw when the raven would just fly real close, and then suddenly it got to eye level, it was looking at every single person. So, there's a sense of intelligence of this being saying, hmm, I wonder what they're doing. Are they going to feed me, or they're just looking at me. I mean, it was not thinking that, of course. You know, it was just being. It was saying, this is my place. This is my house. You are just visiting here. This is how you can be. Flow. Be free. You know? So, but also the ancient sort of perception of ravens are the ones that carry the spirits from here out into this bird world, right? So, in a way, we could also say that while we were meditating, we were reaching out to the spiritual realms. And he was, in a way, a guiding being that was helping us get there by showing us how easy it could be if we would learn to just flow and be part of life without a sense of self-identity. That's one of the areas where we kind of end up shooting ourselves on the foot, basically, by beginning to have a sense of self-identity. And of course, you know, we're not going to go out saying, I am nobody. But we know, since everything is true, right? We choose carefully what our sense of identity is. Does it have power? Or does it not? Is it drama? Or is it dharma? What are we identifying with? Which is part of the aggregate formation. Anyone else? Any takers?

2:53:40
I have a question. We are in nature, and we have, for example, a command meditation, what is the technique to do that?

2:53:55
Good question. Perhaps some of you intuitively this morning, when you opened your eyes and you were gazing out, you sort of selected a spot, but were not focused so much in it, but still holding your eyes looking in a direction like gazing meditation. And you just hold that vision, that awareness, that focus there and breathe. And you'll notice that if you hold your gazing in a particular area, then everything else around here, you'll see all kinds of movements, you'll actually start to see the energy in the air, like the rocks or the hills or even the prana that's there, especially in the morning. Because what happens is like the aura of the earth sort of like comes out of the surface before sunrise, and as soon as sun comes out and it starts to become a little bit strong, it starts to go right under the surface. And then at night, those of you guys who have been out in the desert, if you look towards the mountains or to the ridges of the hills, but not really focus on it, just sort of gaze and you'll see all these areas just almost like a white glow around the edges of the top of the hills. That's the energy, that's the prana, that's the power of those places. So, gazing gently without extreme focus and breathing. Just breathing, being present and absorbing everything you see see, peripherally and in front of you, but also the feelings that you have. They start to kind of perkle up and just... they just dissipate. Thoughts would come in and try to like grasp your mind, like you know, like someone earlier was saying about, oh I was thinking about this lyrics of this song, or you know, all this stuff, oh are we done meditating, or when are we done meditating, right? But in a way it's like thoughts could come in and if we engage with them then suddenly that's what we're thinking. But instead, once we're able to just breathe and concentrate on our breathing and holding that sort of diffused gaze, then thoughts come in and they just leave us. Because we're not engaging. We're not like sending little tentacles out there to connect for outside meditations. And it's really good to have your eyes open because this is how we take the world, right? So in a way, the more we see, the more our brain is being imprinted with that vision. That image is like a camera. It's taking an active shot of what's happening there with the sounds and the feelings and everything else. So when we go home, we can close our eyes and call that vision again and see it and feel it and experience it because we were there. to it. Just like there is the other side where we see something horrible, once our brain sees it, then it cannot be unseen. But if we're able to then counteract that by seeing other things that are beautiful and happy and bright, then our brain sees that and that cannot be unseen. And that is going to be part of the techniques that I'm sharing with you guys about seeing something just so beautiful and then using the mind and the body as a printing press to see it on a paper. So once the mind sees it, it cannot be unseen, be it positive or negative. So then that means for us, then we want to imprint our mind with more of those images that are positive, bright, and happy, inspirational, as opposed to all the other ones that are not. You know? Good question.

2:58:49
Anyone else? Yes.

2:58:52
Sangha dogs.

2:58:54
Sangha dogs?

2:58:56
Awesome. You notice when they are together, they form a pack.

2:59:06
Right? And that's connecting them with that core imprinting of who they are as beings.

2:59:08
They're pack animals. So for us, when we are part of a Sangha, we are a pack. So we go hunting for power as a pack. We go and, you know, sell the latest software or create the best, most beautiful app or business venture, whatever it is, as a pack, because we're going hunting for power. Anytime we break ranks, then that's when we get punished. Punished by the external forces out there that are literally trying to take us away from our direction as to where we want to go. So, in some cases, those who break rank are the ones who get eaten by the forces that live on the periphery, by predators, predator beings. If we're using an analogy, let's say out in the heard of zebra. As a pack, any predator will not be able to even catch one. So they use this technique to like select the ones that are a little bit weak or that is kind of concept. But we have to remain in the Sangha, because it is important to be in the Sangha. It is important to be empowering an awareness, a collective awareness of unity. We are one force comprised of multitudes of individuals, but in a movement perspective, it's one force, and everyone is pushing, rowing in the same direction. Anyone who's not, they would push them off the... no, just joking. But, yeah, dogs will teach us that, the packing mentality, you know. You know, and you'll notice that there are ones that as soon as they form this pack, then immediately there is one that is the strongest one, that becomes the one that leads the pack, right? And then there are other ones that basically become the deputies of the leader to enforce some of the commands of the leader. So, but then there's other ones who basically stay in the back to make sure that the pack stays together. They're protected. It's all of us. And again, you know, again in the past I said, remember when I said that you become your own bodyguard? It's kind of like that. Once you start to really understand the things that we've been talking about, you're like, right, I got to guard this being. So, therefore, you're tough. You don't just, you know, take things lightly. You are serious, not the serious kind that is all like, you know, unhappy and frowning, none of that kind of seriousness. But serious is like focused.

3:02:49
So packing. That's a good thing.

3:02:50
And our dogs definitely will show that. But at the same time, unconditional love. That's something for us humans, it's a very hard skill to nurture, unconditional love. But if we are mature enough, we work on our four pillars, which is another thing also that I shared with you guys way back when. You know, we mature faster. And we understand that love is unconditional. Love is where the power truly is. It's in the present. How we carry ourselves, the color of our life, the clarity of our mind. And if all that is woven with love, there's nothing else more beautiful than that. At least from my perspective. You may think there's other some beautiful things, but I'd say from my perspective, that's the most beautiful state of mind that any being could embody. Because then they become inspiration for someone else to try and be that. that, because they're not trying. When you live your truth, it's effortless. You don't try to have a concept of the form, like of an image that you're trying to put out there. You don't try that. You just are. Most people out there, they're always trying to create an image so someone else could like them, or they could be perceived in a certain way. All these conditions. Dogs, if you would discipline them, in the brain immediately you would come back and say, Oh, you know, I'm sorry, I love you. They'll just turn around and start licking and kissing you and all this kind of stuff. Try that with a human. You'll get a punch in the face. Or it's like, get away from me, I don't want to have to do anything with you. Extremely hard skill to nurture. But it is possible. And we have seen it in examples in the past, where Christ, one of the teachings was, if you get slapped on one cheek, what do you do? Right. So meaning, that it doesn't matter what the world does, the sense of awareness and love that you have inside of you, nothing can change it. Nothing can change that. That sense of respect for yourself and that divine nature within you is so high above all else. Nothing else matters. But you're extremely strong. To develop that mindset takes some time, but it's powerful. know that if someone were to cross the line that just smacking you on the cheek, even the second cheek, suddenly pull a gun on you, then that's where that warrior mindset sets in and you say, this is a divine being that I must protect. And because the other person the person pulled a knife on you or a gun on you, they're literally saying by their actions that they're giving up the right to exist in the world. Self-defense. So while you still may be, you know, have to have a lawyer and all this kind of stuff, but if You're within your rights to defend your life. It has been a pattern in our Sangha where at some lifetime we were warriors that were protecting the light. We didn't just protect it, but we embodied it. And anyone who would come in to try and destroy that, they were gone before they even tried. And then over time, the accumulative sort of karmic results of taking all those lives, we started feeling sorry for doing that. And then decided to then say, well, I lay my arm down, you can take my head off. And we did that in Tibet. We let those guys come in and go We willingly just sat there and waited to the point where someone just chopped our head off. Because we no longer Had the inner spirit to fight to protect our Dharma. So, but now we have the opportunity to get back into that strong, protective mindset. Because, again, referring back to the dogs, once they get in that life-and-death situation, I mean, everything, they do whatever it takes to kill the other opponent, even if it means dying themselves. But they'll do it. There's that level of ruthlessness that our being. So, yeah. So, before we part, we're going to miss it for a little bit, but again, For those of you brave enough

3:09:31
Sunrise tomorrow morning

3:09:33
Same time I'd say probably a little bit earlier What time is it right now? Let's see. Oh my god. No Yeah

3:09:44
530.

3:09:46
And we'll go out and have a wonderful morning once again, and then we'll close the weekend in a beautiful state of mind. And ideally, we carry that mindset until the next time we see each other. So the things that I'm sharing with all of you are tools that are going to help you refine any rough edges that you may think you have, but at the same time be an impenetrable force it's protected, shielded. And one thing that I want to make a correction of, the protection part of it isn't like you close in, right? Especially if you're protecting someone like the Ajahn, you don't just stand around and face in. You stand around in a circle and face out. So, if there's been any visualizations of you guys, oh I'm going to protect, you know, the Ajahn in a certain way, and instead of like, you know, oh trying to do this, you visualize him behind you, and you're facing the threat head-on. And as a Sangha, big force field, many layers, that anything from any or anyone out there who may not have the good intentions could penetrate. So facing outwards, nodding inwards. that in words. Okie dokie. Yeah. All right. So 530 and for the black belts, if you guys want to have be part of the training tomorrow, we'll do it afterwards. So at least we'll have a little bit more time and then you know you'll go on to your the rest of the afternoon to do other things that you need to do. So, all right. Especially if the Black Belts, if you guys want to be in the training tomorrow, make it to the Sunrise Meditation. Those of you guys who did not make it last time. And if it's hard to go up the hill, then we'll help you. So also, those of us who were there this morning, those of you who figured out, the word travel travel around as to what is the thing that we had? Everyone knows what they had? All of you guys ate it, right? Okay. So the guys who do know, don't say anything, but the guys who still didn't figure it out, do you know what it was? Take a guess, maybe? Yeah. Wild dill. Prana. What you had that morning was the prana of that point in your system. So now every time, like you're in a supermarket and looking at vegetables and suddenly it's like, oh, oh yeah, that's right. The mind will bring you back there. And that would be a way to connect with that power place. It's like, okay, hmm. Because sometimes we have to trigger our mind into certain things, right? So, let's just say, I'm having a bad day today. Ah, right, okay, go back. Oh, feeling happier, you know, wind in your face, and beautiful morning, sunrise a little bit. Oh, smile. Now I can go about my day, right? Little things like that, triggers, mental triggers to get you back in line. Okay, so let's do a little bit of meditation. So, the ones who were not there this morning, we had a suggestion for a technique to have a rod extending from your spinal cord up above like a staff with prayer flags attached to And then the wind would be just making those flags move, right? So by doing so, it will just get your spine straight, first of all, but it will extend it up above a little bit. And set your feelings as to how we're going to close this evening, the kind of dreams you will or may not have, but just to have the most bright, happy, bright type of dream. Whatever brightness could bring you in terms of visualization to your mind, then do that. And if you, for example, all of you guys who had either the Rama Tanka or the Kalachakra Tanka, or even Moongatis, actually it's a really nice feminine energy, the Moon Goddess Thangka. Bring that back. You've seen it. It's been hanging on your wall. You can see it. Visualize that hanging just right above the prayer flags. So if you want to keep your eyes open, just kind of right up here. Just gaze gently. But at the same time, know that you have your own flag. If you want to close your eyes, then you can do that and try to bring that image. So either one of those Thakas would be a good image to visualize. But if you have none of it, at least you know what the concepts of prayer flags are. All of you guys do know what prayer flags are?

3:16:54
Yeah?

3:16:55
So they're wafting in the wind.

3:16:57
Okay? the the so the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the you You Oh the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the so so so So I'm gonna go So So so And I'm gonna be there the the the the So And I'm gonna be a good man And I'm gonna be a good man And I'm gonna be a good man And I'm gonna be a good man And I'm gonna be a good man And I'm gonna be a good man And I'm gonna be a good man And I'm gonna be a good man And I'm gonna be a good man And I'm gonna be a good man And I'm gonna be a good man And I'm gonna be a good man And I'm gonna be a good man And I'm gonna be a good man So so the the the the the So so the the the the And I'm gonna be a man And I'm gonna be a man And I'm gonna be a man And I'm gonna be a man And I'm gonna be a man And I'm gonna be a man And I'm gonna be a man And I'm gonna be a man And I'm gonna be a man And I'm gonna be a man And I'm gonna be a man And I'm gonna be a man And I'm gonna be a man And I'm gonna be I'm gonna be I'm gonna be I'm gonna be I'm gonna be I'm gonna be I'm gonna be I'm gonna be I'm gonna be I'm gonna be I'm gonna be I'm gonna be I'm gonna be You You

3:32:32
So, the aggregate self-awareness and the Dharma tools are going to be ways of seeing life for your personal, Choose your truth. Speak the truth. Be the truth. And let everything else just be. Only and is in line with the Dharma. It's a pleasure to have had this few hours with you, and I'm grateful for every moment that we spend together. And I look forward to more.

3:34:56
So those who are interested in doing

3:34:58
the Third Eye Opening Empowerment Plus, the workshop, just email me and let me know, and then we can work around schedules so we can all be together. Sounds like a good plan. Awesome. Sounds like a good plan. Awesome. Szívok közönöm for those Hungarians, and for the non-Hungarians, thank you so much. From my heart.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
