0:00:00
Okay.

0:00:01
Alright, so, hello.

0:00:02
I'm here, Sambara, with Agni Kala. Agni Kala is a teacher in Rama's lineage, and today I'd just like to ask him a few questions,

0:00:04
just to go over a little bit about what he's doing in his teaching.

0:00:05
So, Agni Kala, if you can start by giving kind of an introduction to your teaching,

0:00:06
and then we'll go over some of the things that you're doing. So, Agni Kala, you're a teacher in Rama's lineage, and you're a teacher in Rama's lineage.

0:00:08
So, Agni Kala, if you can start by giving kind of an introduction to your teaching, and then we'll go over some of the things that you're doing.

0:00:10
So, Agni Kala, you're a teacher in Rama's lineage, and you're a teacher in Rama's lineage. So, Agni Kala, if you can start by giving kind of an introduction to your teaching,

0:00:12
and then we'll go over some of the things that you're doing. So, Agni Kala, if you can start by giving kind of an introduction to your teaching,

0:00:14
and then we'll go over some of the things that you're doing.

0:00:15
So, Agni Kala, if you can start by giving kind of an introduction to your teaching, and then we'll go over some of the things that you're doing. So, Agni Kala, if you can start by giving kind of an introduction to your teaching,

0:00:18
and then we'll go over some of the things that you're doing.

0:00:19
So, Agni Kala, if you can start by giving kind of an introduction to your teaching,

0:00:20
and then we'll go over some of the things that you're doing. So, Agni Kala, if you can start by giving kind of an introduction to your teachings and also let us know about the impact that Rama had on your teachings.

0:00:37
Absolutely great.

0:00:39
Um, me and Rama was one of those beautiful moments in life. Um, and I've learned a lot of, uh, well, I've considered ancient concepts more in the modern context. As far as, uh, spirituality and meditation and all that. I started a meditation club in college. I had a radio show called the New Age Hour where we would do guided meditation. But those things were just kind of like getting me ready to the time when I met Rama. And then his teachings impacted me greatly in terms of not just seeing my place in life, but the things that a person can be capable of by applying some of these teachings, in particular with the aspect of meditation, all the benefits of meditation, but also the ability to be able to train the mind. So, my teachings now are a by-product of Rama's whole teachings, and in which there is not just a focus on meditation, but it's also focused on having the body aligned with the mind properly, being able to do certain things to keep the aura as clean as possible. But where I felt more natural were in the area of Buddhism. And because my grandfather was a medicine man, and he had certain teachings that were relevant during my life and during Rama's teachings, I wanted to bring out the best of his teachings and focus on the missing way of seeing the living life. I couldn't put a measurement to it because there is no way to measure the profound effects that Rama teachings have in my life. And for that I am more than happy to continue with the teachings of things that are, I mean, type of teachings that are profound, that are timeless. And it only takes a living and breathing person to be able to continue to be timeless. Otherwise, that energy just isn't there.

0:04:37
And that's a good, very good point.

0:04:41
Now, you are an artist.

0:04:46
Yes. You are a musician.

0:04:48
Yes.

0:04:49
Rama taught art and music. How has Rama's teachings impacted you? What have you learned from Rama about art and music? How have they manifested in your life?

0:05:11
Well, again, great profound effect. I always had this inner feeling and attraction to it. As far back as I can remember, four or five years old, I started drawing angels and I would put in their auras with all different colors so the angel will have these huge lines of different colors of radiation that will come out and that was something that I felt naturally in me. Then throughout school and in college in New York I gravitated more to art but more more in terms of being able to not just be an artist, but also to develop it more into an illustration kind of artist mind. Because while an artist can create a piece of artwork, an illustrator illustrates an idea, a concept. And that to me was more attractive, because if I would, to read an article, in my mind, I was thinking how to create an image that would mirror the meanings of the article. He got us into the computer graphic class. I don't know if you remember that. Yeah, I remember. So, where we created this reanimated Aura's of the universe. Remember that? Oh yeah. With deep paint and I thought, wow, fantastic. Initially, I thought computers were a little bit off my field, you know, and so somebody that I couldn't use as a tool for art, and I would basically use all kinds of traditional materials like oils and acrylics and watercolor

0:07:28
to create an illustration.

0:07:30
But once Rama came about, and then he basically said, go to computers, then I thought initially I was just a guy. But then afterwards I said,

0:07:42
I think there's something to it.

0:07:44
And I saw my first graphic design program,

0:07:48
which was Photoshop.

0:07:50
It was like 1.5. Very basic, but I thought, oh, that's a tool that I could use. As opposed to using brushes. The benefit of using a graphic tool

0:08:00
to create illustrations was really clean.

0:08:02
You worked with electricity, with energy, in order to give color to certain things. Out of benefit, there was no cleanup afterwards. No smell of turpentine or being covered in paint and all that. Once we were done working on whatever parts,

0:08:21
we went back to clean.

0:08:23
And music, I always had this attraction to music, but I never really put myself between the screens. And after Rama would show us some of the Ramana, I think it isn't just specific to me, but I think it's applicable to all of us, which is we have to go beyond the point of saying, if we don't have the training, we have two choices. One is to do it because I can't do it, or the other to say, I might be able to do it. It gives us that opening that we could do something with it. So, and flute was one of those instruments that I came to find it by accident. I was looking for something else, but I happened to find a flute, and that was my start into the world of music. And at least in my experience, the world of music isn't so much of something that somebody could say, I'm going to sit here and create a piece of music. That comes afterwards. But initially, it's like we have to give ourselves the possibility that we can go into a creative field of awareness. And as I started to become more familiar with the things and with music, As of today, I do not read musical notes yet. Eventually I will, but now it's mostly just fun. And that is more analogous with how life is. Life is a part. And music, in a way, it is also a part. And sometimes if you're caught up in repeating the same song over and over and over again, but you get to the point that it doesn't have any meaning. We just do it because it makes us feel better, but it doesn't have a profound feeling. And that's how music, in a way, at least the way I see it, it is an ability to open our feet into a creative field of awareness that we cannot access with the mind. We have to somehow open the heart, and the lower centers as well, and the center, this is a rash of energy that just comes in, and you hear certain flows and melodies, and as you start playing, you kind of try to imitate the melodies that you hear. And after a while, through practice, then you'll be able to play those melodies. And once they're played once, then you know the next time you play it, well, you might try to do it the same way, but it's exactly the same way. As it is when the music is amplified. And that to me makes the music feel fresh. And it's more fun. And after I'm done playing music, I feel like this sense of release, this sense of like, comfort feeling inside. The other great thing that music has, and this is basically Raman sort of, in a way, subtly working his way, or his way, into, I guess, opening the possibility for me to see God, is that he introduced music as meditation,

0:12:21
as a tool for meditation.

0:12:23
And I thought, that's interesting. I was said to meditate for sometimes two hours in the morning and then two hours at night. I basically listened to hundreds of CDs and I pretty much knew each song, when it would start, when it would end, or the middle part. So somehow my mind, or my feeling, through meditation, became sort of like, oh, I already know where this goes. So there wasn't a feeling of freshness there. So I thought, well, I'm playing the flute. So I decided to actually play the flute. I put my headset on, put the microphone in front of the clip, and I started playing in my meditation area. And I just played and played and played. By the time I was under 2 hours, I felt like, I suppose before, 2 hours, I was like, okay, I know it's the last song, but that feeling of going up, down, up, down, up, down, oh, it's over. But, for me, while I'm in meditation, it just felt this, the time was compacted, but the energy was so much more powerful. And, at the end, I started to just do it more and more often, because there was this concept of serenading. Serenading a person that you wanted to win their heart. And I experienced it myself while I was there one morning out in Venice. I'm sitting out in the window, seeing the sunrise is beautiful, and then this guy is just like on a gondola, just going down this little channel, just singing, and he just stopped, like basically stopped the canoe or the gondola right in front of this building, which is a house with a woman by the name of Monica

0:14:42
and her heart.

0:14:43
And he's just singing, and I'm like,

0:14:45
and his heart and the feelings, I was just blown away. And I thought, Huh, could eternity be the same way? But this is afterwards. How am I going to serenade eternity? It's such a weird show, right? And after many times, suddenly, it happened. So music has that ability to open ourselves up to a dimension that there's no other way to get in but through music. The mind can't get in there. So Rama's suggestion to listen to musical meditation sort of led me to playing meditation for my own and then start to serenade eternity as if it was the being that I wanted to win their heart. Or to have that being open their heart to me. And that was a time when it was just... My meditations became just way over the top. You know, I would put it just way over the top.

0:15:59
So, yeah. So, art and music are absolutely influenced by Rama's. And what about martial arts? Martial arts is another subject. Rama had a very strong teaching of having martial arts practice become highly esteemed in the program. And you were a very successful martial artist. So what did you learn from martial arts, from drama, and how has that benefited you?

0:16:29
Yeah, well, the one thing about martial arts is discipline. And part of meditation is also discipline. has the ability to train our bodies to be strong. It also has this subtle influences in our mind as well. So we learn to train the body to be strong, to be powerful, and to pick anybody to ask, anytime, anywhere, any place, but at the same time starts to nurture that sense of physicality conquering mode into a softer, more gentle, but this comes afterwards. So, while I did so many different styles, and before I met Rama I was doing this really really hard style which is called Dorsal Kick. And I mean, there were no paddings. You know, when we were sparring we were fighting, we were not just being gentle. I mean, of course we didn't hit the face, but we could hit the body to be able to take on the force. Because martial arts, while they have the sense of discipline, they have the sense of training the body and everything else, but at the end of the day, it's a lethal martial art. It is designed to kill. While some people on the one side may use martial arts to become the aggressors, but others may use martial arts to be able to defend them. And for me, Rama's encouragement to be more in the martial arts mode also helped me work. Because when I would go and work out before I went to work, it would put me in a state of mind where I was, I had a definite, call it, not focused by purpose, and I would get the job done, and once it was done, I'd go back to the mill job to do the kind of milling. And so, afterwards, the trainings became less intense than they were before, where we used a lot of mentalism.

0:19:20
And the other teachers that I had before in the Dojo style, humorous, hard acts, all this

0:19:21
was like a ground thing like this, like a catalysis.

0:19:22
So, with the city, we were able to do a lot of things, and we were able to do a lot of

0:19:23
things. And we were able to do a lot of things.

0:19:25
And we were able to do a lot of things.

0:19:26
And we were able to do a lot of things. And we were able to do a lot of things.

0:19:28
And we were able to do a lot of things.

0:19:29
And we were able to do a lot of things.

0:19:30
And we were able to do a lot of things.

0:19:31
And we were able to do a lot of things.

0:19:32
And we were able to do a lot of things.

0:19:33
And we were able to do a lot of things. And we were able to do a lot of things. And we were able to do a lot of things. And we were able to do a lot of things. And we were able to do a lot of things. And we were able to do a lot of things. And we were able to do a lot of things.

0:19:40
And we were able to do a lot of things.

0:19:41
All this was like a round thing like this, a calyx. So we'd be sitting on a wooden floor, and say, when you're going to punch somebody, you're going to punch somebody. And you're going to do it like this.

0:19:53
Boom!

0:19:54
It'll just hit the floor, and you will hear the sound, but you will feel the vibration, the shaking of the floor, of the whole dojo. So, you know, and of course, to get to that level, it's years and years and years of practice. And we use the Matawara form, which is really really bad. feel for me, I'm sure we all felt the same way, where it helped us grow as a person into a more balanced environment, where we don't buy into fear as often as we did before, but we have a certain level of confidence, and that level of personal confidence basically permeated into our social relations, into our work environment. If suddenly we had a hard project, or we had a intense manager, we don't have to deal with it. We didn't take the pressure. But martial arts, it's absolutely, at least in my teaching style, it's a requirement.

0:21:13
Because we have to be able to defend our body, our life.

0:21:17
Nowadays, it is extremely critical because we are the remaining two god-like beings. So, this body, this life that is formed to us, has to be protected. So we cannot just be sort of laid back about it. I have a question. So when did you think of Brahman's demonstrations of the body? When we did the demonstration? No, when he did the demonstration. Oh yeah, those were pretty awesome. uh... ticket And then one time, I wasn't part of this one time, it was training, but we saw this in the performance, where he just shot the energy over as they were approaching him, and then just a little, he got stuck, just a few seconds, and that's what you need in a martial arts kind of combat. the moment that we did it. So we could overcome difficulties. And it is much, much later that based on seeing the things that we did, I thought, I want to go and do that. So I went from style to style to style to actually getting back to the meditative part of it. Because when we learn to focus on medicine and center and align our bodies, then we have the physical awareness that there is this tube of energy that is coming up and going down. So we have the ability to take the energy and compact it to the point of energy and shoot it at it. So that's when you punch with more than 50 kicks. So it's pretty intense, not just feeling, but physical experience to be able to do that. Of course, the way Roma did it is way, way out there, where they were in advanced levels. But at least through that experience, the tap, the curiosity part of me where I can say,

0:24:17
I don't know about you, but...

0:24:20
So, and over time, you know, having all those martial arts style training, sort of took the best of it, just like Uraba did, his American Buddhist sort of teachings, where I took the best of those teachings and compacted it into defensive defense approach. And, uh, I guess for new folks. But yeah, martial arts, absolutely wonderful. Um, yeah, there should be, anyone who meditates, they should, should know that meditation, the mind of martial arts, helps ground the body. Because if it's only meditation, it just like, makes us all hairy, all heavy, floating around like, oh, things are great.

0:25:20
And that kind of grounding brings us to the next question, which is very grounded in this world. So, what was your experience with Raman's teachings in his career?

0:25:51
Yes, I think that is not just a theme, but everyone who was part of this teaching approach. We all came from different backgrounds. We all had different educations. So we were able to become something that we never thought possible. We were able to achieve a level of, let's say, career success without having the PhDs of MIT and all these prestigious universities and be able to go out into the emerging technology industry and climb the corporate ladder really fast. meditation, martial arts, for sure, foundations for career. And having had many years in New York working for pretty big companies, there's a positive, but there's also something that goes along with some of the actions I would take in certain jobs. So when things became a bit personal for me was when part of my job was to implement DMOs, a new segment in corporate life, or in corporate structure, as far as being able to have an overview of all the projects that are going on within a company. I have to give that point.

0:27:49
While everything was great,

0:27:51
what I had to tell someone that was working for a company for 30 years, had dedicated his life to this company, is to say that it was so worth it. To be able to see someone who thought, perhaps, that their life was going to end, was in that company and they were going to retire and everything was going to be fine.

0:28:31
Well, the service was annoying.

0:28:34
And to see the light in their eyes from those like that, and the sense of fear, and then, oh, what about my kids, what am I going to do, oh my god, all these feelings and you see the energy body start to like, from being like, this is my solid career body, to humble.

0:28:55
And that's when things started to kind of

0:28:57
have a different effect in my career, where I had to make certain choices. But career success could be many different angles of seeing. So where I felt most at home was that as long as I do something that is meaningful in my life, So, true and true that I'm being of benefit to the world, and that to me is career success. Because you are a success as a person, as a being, as a spiritual being in this world, that you become in a way like a light or inspiration for someone else to say, Because being a teacher is not easy. It's difficult. People who may think, oh yeah, I could teach you, wait. I'd say, just get on stage and see if you can do it. You know, it's not easy. It's a very, very demanding job. And we saw that in Rama's approach to teaching. After, you know, a weekend with us, you'd go to the islands and recharge for maybe a week, and then come back, get ready for the next day. Because just like in the corporate world where you basically take on certain projects, certain responsibilities, and there are some people who are depending on the success of the prosperous and efficient. Similarly, in teaching a job, you take on people's promise, you take on their life promise. So, and over time, you know, depending on how you approach it, then they become a success. They may not be successful financially, but I've seen time and time again people in Wall Street who are making obscene amounts of money, absolutely, and have no brain. So the question back then was like, wow, what good is it to make all this money and meanwhile you are literally going to enjoy a career life, or have all these health issues. So, those are areas where I guess as we mature, we start to see career, absolutely great, but we have to at some point, you know, take a kind of like a split, where we start to create things that are successful in a worldly kind of sense, where people are being brought from their mind of temporal sort of engagement to more of a purposeful, more finding their purpose in life, more finding their true calling. This is easy, you can be a PM on this, or a CEO of this, or a director of this, you know, commission, or I am a CEO of this company. It's easy to take on these roles through dedication, focus, and persistence. Yeah, anyone can do it. But to be able to then balance that with not just personal, emotional, and mental health is key.

0:32:52
Right?

0:32:53
Because then, should anyone achieve that three year success, that millions of dollars in the bank, then they have the rest of their life to enjoy that life. Most literally don't have that. Because then, they've dedicated all their life to the corporate world that basically has sucked their life out, and they're beginning to admit that they have that health issue, and they're at health. They're so driven with material things that they're emotionally and spiritually by themselves. So, but just getting back to having to tell this one person that I really admire. I was for 30 years working on this company to say, well, the service is not remote,

0:33:40
no one is needed here.

0:33:41
And to see that body that he has, I was humbled. I just, I literally, after I was done, I went to my office and I cried. I cried and I just thought, I didn't feel natural to me. I didn't feel that I was doing a service to humanity by destroying someone's life like that. And because the guy, the new CTO that was hired, says, okay, so I want to see all these guys that are not going to work with me, and we're just going to kick them out. Take that approach. In the corporate world, it works, but it only works for a certain amount of time. It is not a life long effect that someone can create. So, and over time I started looking for other ways to be able to get that level of success that I felt personally would be for me. Which involved working on my own projects, coming up with ideas, even if I didn't make a whole bunch of money, but at least I had a certain amount of money that I made on my own terms. I didn't have someone telling me, you have to go and do this or that. It felt much more meaningful. Well, back then in Wall Street, you get your paychecks and you're like, wow, this is fantastic! But then the amount of energy that we wasted, or what amount of wasted life we put into it, what we got was like a small recipe. So I started to slowly redefine my concept of success into something that is more profound and more personal. personal as far as what I do now will affect generations in time. Not just the next quarter of this company's earnings that are being published on Wall Street. and a lot of people have to be let go so they can meet their next quarter's numbers. So all those things, it's great. So I guess with all this runabout, it's saying success can be defined in many different ways. And we have to personally get some attention to that. And when we feel that what we're doing is meaningful for ourselves and the world, and there's a sense of satisfaction in doing what we do, that inspiration rises. And then we, whatever project it is that we're doing, we are happy to wake up the next day to go to the office or to go to, you know, looking for clients or just doing the things that we feel very very inspired about. I'm sure, you know, both being down the Wall Street, you have experienced seeing people out there who are just there looking at the time and saying, Oh, oh it's night, oh, oh, time to go to lunch, oh, back to lunch, oh, I'm going to go for coffee. They're just buying for the time, exercising their title, but not truly being in that job. So, in one regression, those things, it's like, is that really meaningful? Is that really something that if that person is going to get something more upon greater benefit from it, right? And the other thing that is even more important to acknowledge is that that mentality gets passed on to the next person that is basically understudy of this person, or you came to have that lens, then it basically passes on that mentality over to the kids. which would be the second attention, and the first one, that our society right now is disconnected from second attention, the nature of it. And that's where all of us were able to connect with that sense of... call it authenticity. And then he can teach us. He tried to talk to us, and he did. Beautiful places in Wall Street, but because we were there, and our minds, and the world, and everything else, perhaps some of us didn't have the ability to do something with it. But when you're out in the desert, then it's not undivided attention. So, yeah.

0:39:02
It's a dream.

0:39:03
Yeah.

0:39:04
So thank you very much. So thank you very much.

0:39:07
Okay, guys.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
