0:00:00
So, all of you have come up a belt ranking, I would say, in your spiritual study. who survived, who made it, stayed on the path. You made it, I would say, up a belt ranking. We've just gone through a very strong lesson, a lesson of difficulty inwardly. And everyone has faced that lesson like a warrior. My great teacher would say that we are warriors of light. That means that we face difficulty, we face the darkness of the world, we face the physical transient world and all of its suffering, we face it with the inner light. And in dealing with suffering in the world with that inner light, we come to a greater peace of mind and a greater personal power. So you are all warriors of light and you've made it through a difficult time. a lot of, you could say, astrological events happening, which creates difficult karmas. So, astrology is fields of energy, how they correspond to the planet, they change how things feel. And so, astrologically, things were happening difficulty. There was all sorts of kinds of difficulties, communication difficulties, and all sorts of types of opposition, and these were things that we were facing. And when there's difficult energy fields, it's harder to be positive.

0:03:18
It's harder for things to work out. It's not easy. You're kind of going against the current, against the winds. But a good sailor knows how to sail forward against the winds. So this is what we do. When we notice that things are difficult, then we have to use greater skill, greater awareness, greater attention, so that we can move forward. I have seen many of my students in the face of great difficulties, great obstacles in the past couple of months, pushed forward. And they pushed forward because they were bringing the inner light into their focus. If you focus on the physical world, it could always be heavy and unhappy and unsuccessful.

0:04:29
But when you draw upon that inner light, that transcends the physical. That brings you into an awareness beyond the obstacles. That gives you true wisdom and seeing, so that you are able to sail forward against the winds. The light is an intelligent light. In the light there is wisdom. When we draw upon that light, we're drawing upon an eternal wisdom. And that wisdom shows us a way of peace that is beyond the physical conditions. So we've had our eclipse, total eclipse of the heart. We've had an eclipse and the eclipse had some fields fields of energy that were really, really kind of intense, along with other more subtle dimensional changes. And it brought up a lot of difficulties for people. So like I said before, when the light goes away, and those little critters, the little critters hanging out in your mind come out, you start to see the dark sides of the self. Ones that you have tried to avoid, ones that you kind of tucked away, we're hoping they wouldn't come out, but they come out sometimes. And little by little, in the dark, you have to face those things. We don't want to run from them.

0:06:33
We don't want to run from ourselves. We'll feel bad about ourselves. It's good to take stock and to know yourself. But then again, when facing those difficulties, when you are drawing from the inner light, the light creates awareness to see where those, what you would call difficult or wrathful aspects of yourself, little wrathful aspects sometimes, but you know, those little wrathful aspects fall into some kind of balance, into some kind of control, where yes, there is that wrathfulness, but you're able to direct it in a very powerful way for the Dharma. And then in the dark times, sometimes you see the little difficult parts of the mind come out, and then you just recognize it, and in recognition you're free from that darkness. So when we face these hard lessons, we don't try to just get out of them, run away from them. This is a time where we accepted the difficulties. And as your teacher, I like you guys to have these experiences. It makes you strong. So instead of like, you know, trying to help you cover your eyes so that you don't see what's going on, don't worry, in a little while it'll just be better. I'm like, no, look at it! And you're like, oh, I don't like that self. I used to have a better self. I'm like, look at this one. This one is you too. And so I've heard many stories of people facing the dark sides of the self, and through focusing on the inner light, they were able to come into balance.

0:08:55
Sometimes the dark sides of the self just seem to disappear once directly viewed by that awareness of inner light. And sometimes the thing, it was still there, but it came into a greater balance, so that you were able to follow the Dharma greater. So this is good. This is what we needed to face. And then, the good news is that we are now shifting in another direction. So after this eclipse of the light, we're headed astrologically, in subtle dimensions, to a greater condition of Dharma. It's where the conditions, the subtle physical conditions become a little bit more easy, and therefore that's the time where we can really use our momentum to kind of see more clearly that spiritual abundance. It was a shift that happened last night, where where we're going from a difficult time to all of a sudden, a better time.

0:10:33
So the good news is that you can let go of whatever experiences you had, and you can say, okay, I went through it, I survived it, and now I go forward. So it happened last night, there was an earthquake, and at that time of the earthquake is when the change happened. And it was just like that. So the subtle physical pressures, they have an effect on one's consciousness, but the consciousness of our whole country. Because these fields of energy really affect the whole world. And when they're putting this pressure on, sometimes there'll be physical manifestations. And one sign of the physical manifestation of the change was this pressure was pressing down on and then it let it go. Boom! And earthquakes sometimes happen for subtle physical reasons that creates a kind of tension, and this was one of those cases. And I noticed that right after the earthquake, the energy had shifted. So that pressure came up and then it let go. It's kind of like, if you ever go have a pain in your neck, your back, you go to a chiropractor, and you're like, oh it hurts, it hurts, and then they just go click, and it's like all of a sudden this jerking thing, and then you're like, okay, it's much better. That little pressure, that pain, is gone. And then it's easier to do things. It's easier to go out and be happy and jolly. So now we're entering a different phase, and it's going in a very good direction. But it's important, you know, if you made it through this, that means that you fought your way through, in terms of a spiritual warrior, a warrior of light. You went through a difficult time, but you hung on to the Dharma, hung on to that inner light, enough to make it through this phase, through a difficult lesson.

0:13:02
But now you're entering another lesson. So that's the good news. You can think of it like, let's say, martial arts. You go through a sparring match that's really tough. But in really tough sparring matches, sometimes you learn a lot. You get to see that you're strong enough to actually survive the match. So after the match, you shouldn't have negative thoughts about the other fighter, or think bad thoughts about anything. You think, oh my god, that's the way life is, all these horrible matches. No! You go on into the next lesson, and the next lesson you grow and become stronger. And those tough matches will come up again, but surviving the match and learning the next lesson makes you stronger, and you're more capable in the next round. But see, you're a warrior.

0:14:03
So there's no end to the battle. There's just phases. And what we seek to do is to master the battle, and not be adverse to facing difficulty and all hardships, all difficulties, everything in life, with the regard for the inner light. Because when we draw from that inner light, then we're going to be masters of the battle. Warriors of light who are capable of everything and anything. I mean, that's what Buddha was. He was capable of dealing with everything and anything, all difficulties in life.

0:14:55
It's not that he was enlightened and then separated from life. He had lots of difficulties. My teacher was a great master and he was able to deal with a lot more difficulties, like great, great hardships, but always from a place of light. So we seek to draw from light and not from self, and then we're capable, we have a strong, strong focus on the light. We get to the center of things, which is the light. They talk about it in Taoism. Taoism, they're really into the white light, the gold light, and the purple light. The purple light is the highest astral light. The white light and the gold light, those are the causal dimensions. We talk about white light and gold light a lot. But even Christians would talk about the light. You know, St. Francis, when he became enlightened, he didn't say, oh, I saw God, and he said, hello. You know, he, after his liberation, illumined me. So I was like, well, what about God? Anyway, there's some guy named brother son out there. But St. Benedict also talked about the light. He said that there was just light. So, you know, and I remember when I was in India, I met Jyoti, and Jyoti was saying, do you know who Shiva is? I'm like, yeah, I mean, I know some stuff about Shiva.

0:17:22
And then he said, Shiva is just a light. And I said, ah, that's the real Shiva. He would say, in his temple, there's no pictures of deities. He'd say a deity is just an abstraction. He would say, go beyond the abstraction to the light. In so many descriptions from the saints or the Siddhas, there's the talk about the light. And it's kind of hidden in Buddhism. There are stories where people see Buddha and they say, oh, you're very, very bright. But they don't seem to talk directly about the light, but they do. In Buddhism, the way Buddha taught it, Theravada Buddhism, Buddha would say that in meditation, you start off by focusing on the breath. But then what happens is you go into what they call a nimitta. So the focus on the breath goes away, and something more subtle appears. I call it a nimitta. And the nimitta was light. So Buddha taught first you're focusing on breath and then you all of a sudden go into the light.

0:19:05
And then Buddha said that the nimitta is the doorway to the dhyanas and samadhi. So it's kind of interesting because all you know, the Buddhists, the Theravada Buddhists nowadays, they don't talk about light very much. But that was actually Buddhist teaching on meditation, was to focus on light. And And when you have the light, it doesn't mean that you have all good times. The light is something that shows you truth, even in difficult times. So, we often want to say, oh, I experienced I experience a happy, bright light, and so I'm happy and bright. And that's kind of just a surface level of looking at things. The important thing about the light is that you have the light when you have hard times, when you have hardship. Because then, when you're facing difficulties, when it's really, really, really, really tough, you know, if you're just caught in the surface of self, it's very hard, and you only see the self, the physical world, the problems.

0:20:39
But when you say, it is so difficult, I have to draw upon the light. I have to follow that highest, brightest light so that I can see a way through. Your spirit will see a way through. You'll transcend the physical world and you'll be in that eternity of unstructured reality that is just beyond the surface of this transient experience. And in that your spirit will find a way, will find a way to peace. So we always draw upon the light, even in the greatest difficult times. There was a time where Buddha was walking somewhere and Devadatta, his angry got this elephant intoxicated somehow, and he sets the elephant running down the road where Buddha's walking.

0:21:42
And Buddha, there's no physical way out of it, and then Buddha went into this light of compassion. And then the elephant just stopped. If you're very powerful in light, miracles happen. That's what the Buddha did. In the physical, if he had done anything, he would have gotten run over by the elephant. But when he went into the light was so bright. We go into the light to find that inner balance, that inner peace. Our lives, frankly, are not so bad. And if you can just find that inner balance and inner peace, then your life is beautiful. Your life is happy, your life is great. If you're caught up in all sorts of bad feelings and weird ideas, then yeah, your life is going to be very painful, but there's no reason for it to be. And even when you're facing great challenges, difficulties, the inner light, you can see ways through. You see options. At first, everything's impossible.

0:23:16
I have such bad problems. It's not working out. And you'll have real problems. Problems with work, problems with your house, problems with everything. And then you'll go into that inner light, in your meditation, in your compassion. And then, when you're facing those great hardships, you'll say, Yeah, that's hard, but here's another way around it. Yeah, that's hard, oh, and then all of a sudden it starts to work out. When you draw upon the light, it solves the problem of the self. And then, when that limited view of life is yielded, then there's many, there's unlimited opportunity, unlimited opportunity for success, for overcoming your obstacles, for dealing with your difficulties. Unlimited. There's nothing concrete here. Your hardships are not concrete, they're not real. They're illusions. It's just that the self grasps onto some illusion of self, and the self says, it's impossible. No, I'm like this.

0:24:38
I've seen it again and again. It can't happen. And then you'll manufacture a great unhappiness and limitation. But when you constantly, in your meditation, constantly in your mindfulness, come back to the awareness of light, that light will show you the way through, through the darkness, through the self. And then it will be a lot brighter, more successful, greater peace, balance, happiness. That's what the light leads you to. Even dealing with darkness. Even dealing with darkness. So the light can just make you happy, so that you see a way around. people around you, situations, causing miracles to happen. The light is the way.

0:25:43
We are very, very fortunate because we are bearers of the light. We've received is within us. Now, when Buddha taught about achieving the nimitta, meditating, concentrating so perfectly that you go beyond the physical awareness of breath, which all Buddhists seem to get stuck on for some reason. They just sit there and job, but transcending that awareness to the nimitta is where you transcend the physical and you go into the light. And Buddha said, yes, yes, yes, Buddha said, if you're with me, there is always nimitta. He said, but when you're by yourself, he said, it takes a lot of meditation practice. So, and he said, when he said with me, he said, being a student of mine, lay student or a monk, he said, when you're with me, when you're in my company, the nimitta is automatic. But he said, if you're like, you know, some random Brahman over there, he said, it takes a lot of practice to be able to achieve the nimitta.

0:27:15
So most people who meditate don't experience light. Or maybe after many years, or if they get lucky once in a while, they experience light. And they'll experience one dimension of light. But in an enlightened lineage, the structures of light are given to you. It happens through transmission. My teacher gave me many teachings, esoteric teachings, and the light was transferred to me. And therefore, I am the light. I am the embodiment of those teachings. Just as if I go to a karate class, if I stay in that karate class until I get my black belt, I learn the powers and the ways that that class offers. I learn a block, and I can do it with great ability. I learn a punch. There's a certain amount of chi, kind of energy, that you learn in that punch. There are things that you learn in certain schools. In our school, a school of enlightenment, we learn the light.

0:28:29
And my teacher has taught me thousands of dimensions of light. And I transmit to you, I teach you these esoteric teachings, and the light comes within you. The light is within you. So Buddha said, if you're with me in my Sangha, then nimitta is automatic. And that is the way it is for us. The nimitta is always there. The light is always there. Now if you don't have an enlightened lineage, it is so hard to see the light. It's a very, very, very rare thing. And the light is the doorway to jhana, dhyana, to samadhi. It's the way to discrimination of truth. It's the way to the higher states of consciousness of mind beyond self. So we're very fortunate, very very fortunate. You all experience light when you meditate. You all experience light in your mindfulness, and it's a very rare beautiful thing. But you should maybe experience it more. You can regard it more deeply.

0:30:03
You can experience light all the time. You can align yourself with those structures of light within you and face all the hardships in your life seeing light, being aware of light. The light is a great, wonderful thing. And it's very rare, I keep telling you that. You go, I don't know, I have it every day. Have it more. I mean, the Buddha said that his Sangha will only last 500 years. And then his, you know, and monks nowadays, they say, what do you mean? The Sangha is still here. It's 2500 years later. We're still here. We have all of his teachings, we're still doing it, we're still a Sangha. But a Sangha is not just a group of people. A Sangha is not just following a bunch of teachings.

0:30:57
A Sangha is a transmission of enlightenment in an organic group of fellowship. So without the light, without the transmission of enlightenment, getting together with a group of people, I mean, it's still nice, but it's not an enlightened Sangha. And we're very, very fortunate to be in an enlightened Sangha. It is a Sangha where there is a root guru, an enlightened master, who transmitted the teachings, the esoteric teachings of light, of the spirit. And that is available to you.

0:31:46
And this nimitta, this light, is within you. You embody the light because you're receiving the transmissions of light. It's a very fortunate thing. But you have to use the light. You have to say, Oh, well, I've been given something very precious to use. If I don't use it, then you won't suffuse your consciousness with those inner dimensions of spiritual illumination. You won't be able to really... They're like tools you're given you got to use the tools and Then when you use the tools You'll find that things work better spiritually So when you're when you're facing your your greatest challenges your greatest hardships Yeah that happens that that's what happens in life. You're a warrior, so don't think it's a bad thing.

0:32:54
What you want to do is you want to use the tools of light that are within you. And you want to face those great hardships. Come from a place of light, and that will transform your consciousness. And then you'll see options for dealing with your difficulties. This is the truth. Even facing your greatest hardship, your greatest stress, your greatest obstacle, your greatest negativity, depression, anger, when you go into the light, you're able to move beyond any darkness, any illusion, and then you're able to see illumination, you're able to see the way through the dark. Yeah, if you're in the dark, it's no fun. You know, when you're in the dark, you might find a snake, and snakes don't taste as good. So we always seek the way of light, because when you find that inner light, when you connect to that inner light, then there's no confusion anymore. You know, you look around and you see, there's a ham sandwich. This is the spiritual path to the ham sandwich. Yeah, so it's very, very, very good. Okay.

0:34:45
tonight just to be with you at this time of ending a cycle, ending a teaching, going into a new teaching, to give you some support in this regard, and to remind you that we're very fortunate. The nimitta, the light, is within you. It's accessible in any moment. Look for the light in your work, in nature, when you're talking to friends, when you're arguing with co-workers. Look to the light. Find that light. You'll see it. The light is bright. Many dimensions of white lights, golden lights, and all sorts of arrays. You'll see the light, or you'll feel the light. Some people see it, and they say, wow, there's all this gold light everywhere. Some people feel it. They might not see anything, but It's the transcendental light of Spirit.

0:35:59
So look for the light. Okay, thank you very much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
