0:00:00
I'm really excited to talk about music with you and how that all evolved. But again, why don't you first just step back a little bit in time, tell me what you were doing a little bit before you met Rama and what, you know, career-wise or otherwise you were doing, and then we'll go from there and you can step into some of the teachings. And I don't know, have you been on the phone this whole time? I've been in the room, yes.

0:00:34
Okay, cool. All right. So you kind of know where... I'd like to get

0:00:37
these great transitional learning experiences that... And sometimes you might even think of them as you're talking, but okay. So let's step back in time.

0:00:56
All right. So we're going back a quarter of a century, which horrifies me when I realize that that makes me quite a bit older than a quarter of a century old. But there's a part of me that just never quite acknowledged the passage of time.

0:01:17
Moosh, I need you to talk either a bit louder or a bit closer in the speaker.

0:01:21
At the beginning of 1992, I was very much in love with playing the violin and learning the violin and looking forward to attempting to start a music career, which would then sort of be the rest of my life. However, at that time, I started developing significant problems with my left hand, which meant that there were actually long periods of time during which I would be completely unable to play or practice. So, what I did as sort of a backup measure just in case a music career was not going to work out because of my physical problems, I started taking computer science classes at UC Berkeley. So this is interesting because this was again this was right around the beginning of 1992 which if you think back to you know history back then that's pretty much right around the time that Rama set out the inner call you know on the inner kind of radio waves to attract his second wave of students, the people we call the STTs. So at the same time as I started having serious problems with my hand, therefore kind of pushing me into the study of computer science, the other thing that started happening around that same time was I started becoming extremely psychic. So I would start becoming extremely sensitive to the thoughts and feelings of people around me and people, especially to whom I was very close. I could actually experience directly the contents of their heads and what they were thinking and what they were feeling even on a physical level. So life was basically derailing for me at that point and I had no idea what was happening. Now at the same time as I was dealing with the possibility of not being able to play music you know as a livelihood and the fact that I was still denying it but I was becoming extremely psychically sensitive I was also receiving images specifically having to do with computers and Buddhism. And so these ideas, and I had previously had zero interest in spirituality, I mean, literally zero, no meditation experience, no interest in metaphysics whatsoever, but I suddenly at that time started becoming very obsessed with, on a very abstract level with, again, computers and Buddhism. I had no idea what was happening to me. It was just a complete mystery to me what was going on. My life felt like it was falling apart. And I became obsessed with these two subjects and reading books on various things without having any idea of why. Like I wasn't tying it together in my brain that all of these strange changes to my existence at the time might be connected. So as you might imagine, it was a very confusing time for me and finally, this went on for quite a while until around July or August of 92, the psychic stuff was getting completely overboard. And it was becoming very hard for me to be around people at all. And so I was looking for a way to deal with it because I just hadn't heard of anyone else having those kinds of problems before. you know, again, I had zero previous exposure to any kind of psychic training or metaphysics. But at the time, our friend, Sunyata, the ST1, was teaching on the Berkeley campus. She was teaching meditation classes and she was posturing. And so one day, and I think it was August, I saw her sign and I said, well, this has got to be bullshit. There's no way it could possibly help me, but I'm going to go because I'm desperate. And so I went to her class and, you know, she went, she gave the class that basically we've all taken here, everyone in this room and everyone who's ever been in an ST2 or an ST1. And soon after that, she invited me to see Rama. And during this whole introduction phase, I was still very, very unsure of what was going on. And I still didn't know if it was going to help me. And I didn't know if all this Buddhism stuff was real or if it was going to be useful for me. But I went anyway. And so the first time I saw Rama was either the end of August or sometime in September in San Francisco when he was holding a formal banquet followed by a meditation at the, I believe it was the Fairmont in San Francisco. And so I went to this dinner and we stuffed ourselves because we were all poor college students and we were even given a free banquet, five star hotel. And so we stuffed ourselves and then Rama came on stage and the moment that I saw him, I immediately relaxed. I felt strangely comfortable, even though I was clearly in the middle of what was a dangerous religious cult. And what he did then was he started to give a very beautiful talk on kind of basic Buddhism about, he didn't call them the Four Noble Truths, but he talked about the truth of how life is suffering and that there's only one way to kind of properly deal with the suffering that is life. And it was a beautiful talk. And towards, you know, after a little while of talking about the subject of suffering and the way to attempt to get past it, he said, well, I, meaning Rama, am an enlightened being. And so I constantly exist in a state of transcendence. And he said, well, because I've mastered meditation over, you know, X many million lifetimes. Samadhi is not something that I struggle with. It's something I can do just like that. And he snapped his fingers. And the moment he snapped his fingers, the entire room went gold. undeniable metaphysical experience I've ever had. And from that moment I knew I was completely doomed. So for the next few months, I continued to study with Sunyata

0:09:24
and continue to go through Rama events.

0:09:26
And I struggled with my ability to have faith in what was happening and to believe in Rama and to believe in the teachings and to believe that I was not in a dangerous religious cult that was going to harm me in some way. So a couple of months after the initial event, or banquets in Hollywood, I believe it was, the Ritz Carlton. And sometime during the middle of that particular seminar, I'd worked myself into a rage. I'd convinced myself, okay, this is a trick. This is all bullshit, he's lying, this is all just garbage. And so I started like, like mentally sending bad energy at him. Like I was just like, evil, evil, evil. And so I just started like, you know, kind of mentally trying to stab him in the brain. did not strike me as unusual until much later. But as I was attempting to attack him with my brain, I saw the light in the room get quite a bit thicker. And I saw a row of these 10 guys standing behind him wearing tuxedos with their arms folded in front of them, and they had no faces. They were just like, they would blink into existence and then out of existence, but I would blink or turn my head a little bit, and I would see these guys looking very badass and they had no faces. And again, at the moment, it didn't really strike me as strange that these guys in tuxedos were just like, who happen to have no faces, would appear and then disappear. And then a little later, as Rommel was talking, completely oblivious to the fact that I was trying to, you know, assault him with my non-existent psychic powers. At one moment, he turned his head and opened his mouth, and a light came out of his mouth and became a three-foot-long glowing dragon. It circled flying around his head in slow motion and then flew back into his mouth. Now, at the time, it did not occur to me that what was happening or what I was seeing was anyway unusual. The fear came later. Incidentally, another thing was happening at the very same time as if that was not already enough. Which is that I've had something called Tourette's syndrome for my entire life, so I get uncontrollable muscular spasms at random intervals. And on another dimensional level, while Ramu was doing his interesting light show, in a nutshell, he was showing me how to redirect the energy that apparently causes these Tourette's episodes. So for the next couple of days after that, I was actually completely able to control the syndrome. But then I later forgot. So after that particular seminar, I had less problems with faith. Moving on to early 1993, so I was, I don't know if I was a student then, but we were still going group of mentories. And it had become sort of a ritual of ours to go up on Mount Tam the day or two before Ramo was going to appear in San Francisco to sort of meditate, clear out, be on the mountain. And it was something we had started to notice that the day or two two before Rama would show up in a city, it would rain. And later, he himself would say, well, yeah, I do that to clear out the aura for the city, so that's a better time to meditate for my visits. And so a day or two before one particular seminar in 93, I happened to be alone and I drove up to Mount Tam to do kind of my clear out hike. And it was a beautiful sunny day and it was gorgeous and I was on that cliff overlooking the ocean. And I had the thought while I was up there, huh, it's not raining, it's not even cloudy. What's with that? You know, is he slacking? At that moment, I think it took less than five minutes, a gigantic gray cloud rolls in from the ocean, completely drenches the landscape until you can't see three feet water. So after that moment I started to be a lot more mindful about my thoughts. Fast

0:15:50
at which point most of the serious SD2s

0:15:53
have already relocated to New York City. Now I was still in California and I had things that were presumably keeping me there that I was attached to. And so the thought in my mind at that time, it was April of 1994, I was convinced, okay, well, I'm gonna keep doing this Rama student thing as long as I can, but I'm staying in California. I'm not going to move because I've got music going on here and it's not going to happen. New York is not going to happen. I'll just visit. I'll fly in. So again, in April, I believe it was at SUNY Purchase, as they all were, and of course it was a beautiful event,

0:16:56
but the thing that happened,

0:16:57
and this happens a lot to me with him, because I very rarely actually have words with him, or the number of encounters with him I can count on two hands, and usually the number of words that we exchange is like less than a dozen. You know, he'll say hi, and then I'll say, oh. So it doesn't take a lot of, or it didn't take a lot

0:17:23
of individual contact from him

0:17:25
to greatly affect my state of mind. So during this seminar at SUNY Purchase, yes, did we lose him? I visit, I was, again, not gonna move to New York, but I flew into New York that April for a seminar to visit. And during one of the meditations, Rama did his thing where he was scanning the audience and looking at everyone in the eye individually for a split second. And the moment he looked me in the eye, I saw the future that would transpire if I did not move to New York. And it was not a pleasant one. So after that particular meditation seminar, I couldn't sleep all night because I knew with complete certainty that I had to move to New York, you know, for the sake of my soul immediately. And so I only had, you know, a little over half a day before I was supposed to fly back, you know, the day after the seminar to California. So I decided to make the best of it. And I started calling headhunters in New York City and saying, Hey, can you line me up with any interviews for entry level programmer? So I ended up with three interviews that day, took all three. And by the time I had a job offer at Deloitte & Touche waiting for me. So not more than one or two days after I had flown back to San Francisco from New York, I packed everything into my 87 Dodge Colt and drove across the country for my new job. So that was a trip. It reminds me of, you know, what's that third book we're supposed to read by Carlos Castaneda, The Power of Silence. Is that the one? You know, it's like the knock of the spirit. The fist of the spirit. Oh, yeah, so those are kind of my more entertaining stories which have nothing to do with music. A couple more anecdotes which are shorter. Going back a year, going back to 93 when when he was visiting San Francisco. At one of those seminars, which Sambora mentioned a couple hours ago, he had all of the ST2s who believed they were musicians stand up during the seminar, and then he would scan the room and give us all an empowerment. Now, I had a very outrageous out of body experience during that particular empowerment. That was probably the time, the moment in my life when I felt most out of my body. Like I literally could not feel it. But I did not notice that my musical ability had changed all that much. However, I was still studying with my classical violin teacher at the time and he definitely noticed. So for the next three or four months I would go to him for weekly lessons in classical violin and he would freak out at how fast I had improved in the past week. And it may have been that period of time during which he went from thinking that I was a hopeless case because I was too old to learn the violin to, oh shit, he might actually be professional grade. So that was interesting and music related. And the other music related story is right after I moved to New York. So it would have been summer of 94. Yeah, summer 94. And this is when Rommel was sort of entertaining the idea of having SD2s start participating actively in music projects. So at the time he was having Bodie supervise, you know, three to five new music projects composed entirely of SM2s. But before Rana formed those groups, he basically had tryouts. And the form of the tryout was that we were supposed to individually or in groups pick from the Zazen catalog and then record our own version of it and then submit the tape for consideration and humor. So what I did was I did one song with a number of people and then I did with the group, I ended up being in charge of programming the drum track. And I believe it was the fourth song off of Canyon's Night. And so, at the time I was couch surfing, I believe the term is. I was sleeping on Erica Lawrence's couch in Rye in Westchester. She was very kind to let me see her. And so during this, or during the course of this project, I was listening to this track off of Canyons of Light over and over and over again, to pick out every single little event on the drum track so that I could program them in onto our own drum machine so that we could make our own version of this song. And over the course of one Saturday afternoon, I probably spent four or five hours doing nothing but listening to this one track off of Canyons of Light, pausing the tape, programming some items into the drum machine, and then playing the tape again. I was completely immersed in the universe of this one song for a number of hours that summer day. And a couple of hours into the process, my friend Erica, who is an SD2 and who was letting me stay in her house, walked into the room, made a yelping noise like, and then ran out. And so I paid her no mind because I was in a rare state of concentration and I continued working on the song until finally I had completed what I wanted to complete on the drum track, you know, basically duplicating what I heard to be you know almost exactly what I heard on the record. And that's the point at which I stopped and I looked around me. And I saw what had given my friend Erica that reaction. The room was completely gone. It was nothing but light. It was just like you were surrounded by floodlights and there was no physicality of the room other than the floor directly underneath our feet and the computer and the CD player. And it was at that moment that I really realized Rama and Zazen really put into that music. Because Rama wasn't in the room. All I did was completely immerse myself in this one song. And it was not just a personal experience. It was something that my friend Erica clearly felt as well.

0:26:25
So from that point on,

0:26:27
I had a great deal of respect for the work of Rama and Zazen on their meditation music. And I knew that they really, really took it seriously. And that's all that I've got planned. I can converse or take questions or we can dive into anything you're interested in, Colleen. Okay, yeah, well that's the question in my sense. What, if you did that, what happens next? Were there groups and did you interact more with Rama on the music project?

0:27:17
No.

0:27:17
Well, what happened then was I actually seriously injured my arm in a car accident on the way back from a power trip. And so that took me out of the game for months. And by that time, Rama and Bodhi had already decided who was gonna be in the various groups. So I did not work directly with Zazen music until 12 years later. Now there is something to be said in that either the second or it might have been the second seminar I ever went to in 92, I specifically asked Rama when he was taking questions about if it was possible to reconcile having a music career with doing his particular spiritual teaching. And he very generously gave me a very long answer in front of the entire sangha about how music is a doorway to higher states of consciousness and how it's a great part of what we do here in his particular spiritual practice and how the members of Zazen are actually great yogis. And then he also balanced that with the idea that

0:28:53
even Zen, who is a world-class bass player

0:28:56
and a rock star is also learning technology. And so therefore it might be a good thing to also learn technology. But he spent so much time and attention and he was so very kind in answering that question that at that point, a lot of the ST1s in the room immediately became convinced that I was destined to play with Zazen at some point in the future. And so they basically told me that. But that would not happen until over a decade later. Interestingly enough, the first gig I ever did play with Zazen was for the Dalai Lama. So there was a, the Dalai Lama was in Miami, Florida in a stadium holding a public event and through some combination of events involving the Kenpo Rinpoche that a lot of the SD ones were going to, Zazen ended up invited to open for the Dalai Lama at this stadium in Florida. So that was the first time I ever played with Zazen. Because as you know, he's quite an intense character. It's almost as if he's holding himself in because if he were not to, things would just explode and there would be carnage. But another interesting challenge about working with Bodhi is, so I'm an astrologer.

0:30:48
And so I look at everyone's charts that I can get my hands on.

0:30:51
And I've noticed there's a sort of a generational theme going on in which, you know, if you compare, if you look at Rama's astrological chart, and then you look at, you know, some bars, similarities are extremely similar and they're extremely loud. And the same is the case with me and Bodhi. So if you were to take Bodhi's astrological chart, keep half the planets in one place and then turn everything else 90 degrees, that's my chart. So it's interesting in that this is information or this is a clue from the universe perhaps that there are a lot of things going on behind the scenes that we will never even perceive. That the structures that Rama put in place while he was in the body, continue to propagate and grow and evolve, even though he's not physically here. And so, seeing that was very interesting. And the other challenge is that because, half of Bodhi's planets, astrologically, are exactly 90 degrees away from where they are on my chart. The 90 degree angle in astrology is considered to be very challenging and difficult. And so it's been an interesting exercise working with Bodhi to one, deal with how intense and powerful he is and two, to deal with my own, I wouldn't say power, but dealing with my own inner struggles and my own inner drama while dealing with him, it becomes very pronounced. And so working with him in any capacity is one, it's a great honor and it's wonderfully fulfilling, but it's also a great challenge for my own discipline. But so far, it seems to have worked out.

0:33:28
Thank you very much. Thank you very much to everybody. Thank you to Sambara. Thank you to Adi Kala. Thank you to all of you guys that are sitting in the room and inquiring everybody. And, yeah. Basically what I'm doing now is I am just starting on book two. I don't really start usually to write too much until I get a little bit fruity down the pipe. I'm already seeing something though that I hadn't seen at the start. So, I'm so appreciative. And it's going to be another beautiful book, I know that.

0:34:13
I'm sure it will be.

0:34:14
And I just want to say that, because this is just going back, I think when talking to everybody, and I honestly feel such a need for us to all look for a way to step up and create this community that will be so incredibly powerful. You know, if 10 guys could move rocks, they're just thinking a couple of hundred, or you know, let's say 90, I don't care. that unified goal of prison and government, because I feel that that's what the direct students really are meant to do in our own different ways. And to do that. Just FYI, I was working on an audio book of Blue Sky, Zuna, Now America's Moose Rebel, and it's finally getting close. I recorded it first with Mooseja, and we just wanted the right location, frankly. Then I went to a sound studio, and I, uh, it was much easier to sit in an actual little sound recording booth, and the guy working with us at the job, and I was paying him, uh, but this book will have excerpts from Raman talk wherever I feel the directly from a book, there's at least 20 places in the Dribble where I did that. All of those will be actually in the book. And there will be buzzing music at the front and between chapters. And I just keep thinking of this book as one of the many, not one way, only one many ways to just expose all of these people to Muhammad in a really, you know, through all of our attempts, in nice, sweet ways. So, I'm really excited about it, and I just think, it's like, I feel the popcorn, if you say popping, with different things going on. And I will probably, I've been in New Zealand, but I'm not thinking I'll only be here another six months, because it's a little bit far away. It has, it's a beautiful retreat place. I couldn't, I feel like if I could head out as a person, I'd look for retreat places for us, because the problem with value is very good here. It's not a big myth, but people are pretty open-minded. There's a ton of purity. The nature is outrageously pure. And I feel, okay, being a heck of a lot older than all of you guys, but I get into moments here where I feel, it's a spiritual spiritual feeling like a twinning. It's not physical so much that I could go be a 20 year old cis believer. It's a feeling of just the very, you know, I'm sorry, wajima, and you're in a very fresh state. So I can see that one of the many centers that we might have could be here in the I just wanted to share that. But it would be just one of the many things affecting me. We're a convened and like project planners that we all are, whiteboard all our ideas and focus on those that we would do first. Low hanging fruit, all to benefit, you know, people for as long as the planet lasts, which we don't know. But just to have a little bit. Okay, this is what I shared in vision. I can see it happening now. I feel like the elements are in place.

0:38:41
Well, Kali, I know that it's a very important role that you play both with your books and with the foundation and everything you're doing. So we're all grateful here.

0:39:01
Oh, well, we're all doing our beautiful things. Thank you. And the foundation is moving the rock really slowly. I will add to this that I believe Norman oversees, well I believe both of Norman are Pathlight students. Norman is a much more classical introduction to Buddhism because he did nothing and now he's all these different groups. He really is getting, starting to get a big kick out of learning it and I won't say he's meditating but I'm just saying that I believe that the Foundation will become more and more receptive helping us as well, students, with that lovely stash of funding. We also, practicing those, will be doing some funding. So, you know, we did RMSC, and we did pull together a matching fund. Remember, I don't know if you remember that, but three years ago, the Lent Foundation matched R.A.M.C. The students raised $100,000. The Lenz Foundation also matched $100,000. So there were two men. A lot of it went right away into some other stuff like sites and OK. But Norman has agreed to put in another $100,000 in 2018. And so I think that we can definitely raise our own 100K, and the thing that I'm about to lead us to is that this time, I believe the argument is the, so let's just get that 200K, it's not a lot, but it can jumpstart a lot of good stuff. And I think this time, the campaign marketing is really about products and working together on things. And I see a whole different way to look at what is the RMMC, Robust Materials Marketing Campaign. To me, robust materials are not just the past materials. There is also the new materials that lead more people into traditional materials, but they can be all the different, a number of different things we want to do. So I think, I just mentioned that as just a nice crack in the oyster to It could be jump-starting some fun stuff and some new projects and new people working together Just keep the ball rolling always keep the ball rolling as well as our own individual efforts and With and dreams and there's no reason and nothing would stop us. There is no limitation on the use of the material. They're all on what's called a creative commonplace, which means anyone can use them, the only limitation is not what, is you attribute it. You say, hey, I'm going to put this video into this map, or all of the content you think As long as you credit the copyright holder, that's the whole point. And presumably after Commission Advance, which I can tell you right now, you know who we get. From tonight's project. The point is that there's no people like that's the idea that the foundation is eliminating that type. No, no, that's not true. completely, any way you guys or us, anyone wants to use that, is fine. So, for instance, the RBC, that is the separate bucket that's just dedicated on funding RAMA projects, has just funded two new projects. So, one is the lady in San Diego, 10 videos using Raman's talks and subject music and that's all it is. To just have the talks in a different format. So you can listen to Raman's talks as a video. And there are meant to be plenty of it because that's perfectly... All the old, the videos that Raman had from Chicago, they were out there in a kind of coordinated way. So they're all going to be beautifully, with a nice, very attractive, pretty dart, double screen, any double screen. And they'll all be beautifully. And I think when you see them, you'll just feel like, wow, this represents this high, nice, beautiful first intention that Mama was all about. But that's another project, which R&C is going to pay for and put out there into the world. So one of our, I believe, missions is to do some better marketing together and use our skills that we have in that area. But I'm just counting these days. The... This is a... This idea is pretty, it's really like that. So that's what's cool.

0:44:31
That sounds awesome. We all look forward to our bright new future together.

0:44:38
Yay.

0:44:39
OK. Thank you.

0:44:40
All right. Thank you. Thank you.

0:44:41
Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
