0:00:00
You guys start? Okay. All right, so Hello, I'm here Sambara with Agni Kala. Agni Kala is a teacher in Rama's lineage and today I'd just like to Ask him a few questions Just to go over a little bit about what he's doing in his teachings. So Agni Kala, if you can start by giving kind of an introduction to your teachings and also let us know about the impact that Rama had on your teachings.

0:00:38
Sure.

0:00:39
Well, to start with the impact, it's profound, agile and great. Meeting Rama was one of those beautiful moments in life. And I've learned a lot of, I started a meditation club in college. I had a radio show which was called the New Age Hour where we would do a guided meditation. But those things were just kind of like getting me ready to the time when I made Rama. And then his teachings impacted me greatly in terms of not just seeing my place in life, but the things that a person can be capable of by applying some of his teachings, in particular with the aspect of meditation, all the benefits of meditation, but also the ability to be able to train the mind. So over time that mental training became much more a powerful tool, but also relationships. So my teachings now are a by-product of Brahma's core teachings, and in which there isn't just a focus on meditation, but it's also focused on having the body aligned with the mind properly, being able to do certain things to keep the aura as clean as possible. The area where I felt more natural were in the area of mysticism. And because my grandfather was a medicine man, and he had certain teachings that were relevant during my life and during Rama's teachings, I wanted to bring out the, call it like the best of his teachings, and focus on the mystic way of seeing and living life. the impact, I mean I couldn't put a measurement to it because there is just no way to measure the profound effects that Rama's teachings had on my life. And for that I am more than happy to continue with the teachings of things that are timeless. And it only takes a living and breathing person to be able to continue the teachings. Otherwise, that energy just isn't there.

0:04:37
And that's a very good point. Now, you are an artist.

0:04:46
Yes.

0:04:47
You are a musician.

0:04:48
Yes. And Rama taught art and music. Yep. So how has Rama's teachings impacted you? What have you learned from Rama about art and music? And how have they manifested in your life?

0:05:09
Well, again, great profound effect. I always had this inner healing and attraction to art. As far back as I can remember, maybe four or five years old, I started drawing angels and I would put in their auras with all different colors so the angel will have this huge lines of different colors of radiation that would come out and that was something that I felt naturally doing. Then throughout school and in college in New York I gravitated towards the art. But more in terms of being able to not just be an artist, but also to develop it more into an illustration kind of artist mind. Because while an artist could create a piece concept. And that to me was more attractive because if I were to read an article, in my mind I was thinking how to create an image that would mirror the meanings of the article. So when I first met Rama, he got us into the computer graphic class. I don't know if you remember that.

0:06:54
Yeah, I remember.

0:06:55
So, where we created this, the animated auras of the deities. Do you remember that?

0:07:06
Oh yeah.

0:07:07
With deep paint and I thought, oh, fantastic. computers were a little bit off my field, you know, and so it was something that I couldn't use as a tool to do art. And I would basically use all kinds of traditional materials like oils and acrylics and watercolor to create an illustration. But once Rama came about, and then he basically said, go into computers, then I thought initially I resisted it, but then afterwards I was like, hmm, maybe there's something to it. And I saw my first graphic design program,

0:07:50
which was Photoshop.

0:07:51
It was like 1.5. Very basic. But I thought, oh, that's a tool that I can use. As opposed to using brushes. The benefit of using a graphic tool to create illustrations, it was really clean. You worked with electricity, with energy, in order to give color to certain things. It had a benefit. There was no cleanup afterwards. No smell of turpentine or being covered in paint and all that. Once you were done working on whatever project, that's it. In music, I always had this attraction to music, but I never really put myself through the experience. And after Rama would show us some of the products that he created with the Zazen group, I always had this feeling, I should try it. But this is one of the key teachings of the Rama, I think it isn't just specific to me, but I think it's applicable to all of us, which is we have to go beyond the point of saying, if we don't have the training, we have two choices. One is to repeat the sense, I can't do it, or the other to say, I might be able to do it. It gives us that opening that we could do something with it. So, and flute was one of those instruments that sort of, I came to find it by accident. I was looking for something else, but I happened to find a flute, and that was my start into the world of music isn't so much of something that somebody could say, I'm going to sit here and create a piece of music. That comes afterwards. But initially, it's like we have to give ourselves the possibility that we can go into a creative field of awareness. And as I started to become more familiar with the flute and music. As today, I do not read musical notes yet. Eventually I will, but now it's mostly just a flow. And that is more analogous with how life is. Life is a flow. And music, in a way, it is also a flow. And sometimes we get caught up in repeating the same song over and over and over again, that it gets to the point that it doesn't have any meaning afterwards. We just do it because it kind of makes us feel good, but it doesn't have a profound feeling. And that's how music, in a way, at least the It has the ability to open our being into a creative field of awareness that we cannot access with the mind. We have to somehow open the heart and the lower centers as well and then suddenly this of energy that just comes in and you hear certain flows, melodies, and as you start playing, you kind of try to imitate the melodies that you hear. And after a while, through practice, then you're able to play those melodies. And once they're played once, then you know the next time you'll play it, well you might try to do it the same way, but it's exactly the same way as it is when the music is codified. And that to me makes the music feel fresh every single time. And after I'm done playing the music, I feel like this sense of release, a sense of like, bubbly feeling inside. The other great thing that music had for me, and this is basically drama sort of, in a way, subtly working its way, or his way into, I guess, opening the possibility for me to see that, is that he introduced music as meditation, as a tool for meditation. And I thought, hmm, that's interesting. I would sit to meditate for sometimes two hours in the morning and then two hours at night. I basically listened to hundreds of CDs and I pretty much knew each song, when it would start, when it would end, or the middle part. So somehow my mind, or my feeling to meditation became sort of like, oh I already know where this goes. So there wasn't a feeling of freshness to it. So I thought, well I'm playing the flute. So I decided to actually play the flute, and I started playing in my meditation area, and I just played and played and played. By the time I was done, the two hours felt like 20 minutes. As opposed to before, two hours like, okay, I know it's the last song, but that feeling of going up, down, up, down, up, it's over. But playing while in meditation, it just felt this, the time was compacted, but the energy was so much more powerful. And at the end, I started to just do it more and more often, because there was this concept of serenading, serenading the person that you wanted to win their heart. And I experienced it myself while I was there one morning out in Venice. I'm sitting out in the window seeing the sunrise is beautiful, and then this guy is just like on a gondola Don't go down this little channel Just sing it and he just stopped like basically stop the canoe or the gondola right in front of this building Which was a house? that he wanted to win her heart and I just sing it and his heart and the feelings I was just blown away. And I thought, huh, could eternity be the same way? This is afterwards. I'm going to serenade eternity so she can show herself. And after many times, suddenly it happened. So music has that ability to open ourselves up to a dimension that there's no other way to get in but through music. The mind can't get in. So Rama's suggestion to listen to musical meditation sort of led me into playing meditation for my own and then start to serenade eternity as if it was the being that I wanted to win their heart or to have that being open their heart to me and that was the time when it was just my meditations became just way over the top you know I like to put it just way over the top so yeah so art and music are absolutely influenced by Rama's teachings.

0:16:05
And what about martial arts? Martial arts is another thing too. Rama had a very strong teaching, having martial arts practice in something highly esteemed program. And you were a very successful martial artist. So what did you learn from martial arts, from Rama, and how has that been?

0:16:31
Well, one thing about martial arts is discipline. And part of meditation is also discipline. While martial arts has the ability to train our bodies to make us strong, it also has this subtle influence in our mind as well. So we learn to train the body to be strong, to be powerful, and to kick anybody's ass, anytime, anywhere, anyplace, but at the same time, it starts to nurture that sense of physicality conquering mode into softer, more gentler, but this comes afterwards. So, while I did so many different styles, and before I made Rama, I was doing this really, really hard style which was called Bodhi Guru. There were no paddings. When we were sparring, we were fighting. We were not just being gentle. Of course, we didn't hit the face, but we could hit the body to be able to take on the force because martial art while they have the sense of discipline, they have the sense of training the body and everything else but at the end of the day it's a lethal muscle of martial art. It is designed to kill. While some people on one side may use martial arts to become the aggressors, others can use martial arts to be able to defend themselves. For me, Rama's encouragement to be more in the martial arts mode also helped me work. Because when I would go and work out before I went to work, it would put me in a state of mind where it was clear. I had a definite, call it not focus, but purpose for the day. And I would get the job done, and once it was before, where we used a lot of meditation. And the other teacher that I had before, in Gojira style, he was a hard ass. His knuckles, all this was like a round thing like this, of calluses. So we'd be sitting on a wooden floor and say, when you're going to punch somebody, you're going to punch somebody, and you're going to do it like this, boom, and it'll just hit the floor, and you will hear the, I mean, not, well, you hear the sound, but you will feel the vibrations, the dojo. You know, and of course, to get to the level, it's years and years and years of practice. And we use the Matiwara board to be able to do that, which you're familiar with the problem, right? So, but the martial arts part of it, I feel, for me, and I'm sure the relationship with you, where it helped us grow as a person into a more balanced being, where we don't buy into fear as often as we did before, but we have a certain level of confidence. And that level of personal confidence basically permeated into our social relations, into our work environment. Suddenly, if we had a hard project or we had a pretty intense manager, we know how to deal with it. We didn't take it personally. But martial arts, it's absolutely, at least in my teaching style, it's a requirement. Because we have to be able to defend our body, our life. Nowadays, it is extremely critical because we are the remainings of Rama teachings. So, this body, this life that has fallen through us, has to be protected. So we cannot just be sort of laid back about it.

0:21:39
I have a question. So what did you think of Rama's demonstration of the mantra line?

0:21:50
When we did the demonstration? No, when he did the demonstration. Oh yeah, well that's pretty awesome. the same time, visual demonstration of the energy that the body, through practice, that one can develop. I remember a time when we would kind of get closer to him, and he would put out his energy, and you would literally feel it. Feel that energy. And then one time I was a part of this one time just this training but we saw this where he just shot the energy over as they were approaching him and they just literally got stuck for just a few seconds and that's what you do in a martial arts kind of combat that's the moment that we create so we could overcome the opponent. And this is much much later that based on seeing the things that he did, I thought, I want to know how to do that. to the meditation part of it. Because when we learn to focus and meditate and center and align our bodies, then we have the physical awareness that there is this, like a tube of energy that is, it's coming up and it's going down. So that's when then you punch with more than just a fist. So it's pretty intense, not just feeling, but visible experience to be able and it was way, way out there. We're in advanced levels, but at least through that experience, it tapped the curiosity part of me where I could say, hmm, I want to learn how to do that. So, and over time, you know, after having all this martial arts style training, sort of took the best of it, just like Urama did on his American Buddhist sort of teachings, where I took the best of those teachings and compacted it into one style that is basically an offense-defense approach. At least for me it works. But yeah, martial arts, absolutely wonderful. Anyone who meditates should know that meditation combined with martial arts helps ground the body. It's only meditation. It just makes us all hairy, all heavy. Just floating around like, oh, this is great.

0:25:20
And that kind of grounding brings us to the next question, which is career. So, Brahma had a very strong focus in his teachings for career, especially computer science, but definitely career success, which is very grounded in this world. So what was your experience with Rama's teachings in his

0:25:51
career?

0:25:52
Yes, and I think that that is not just me, but everyone who was part of his teaching teaching approach. We all came from different backgrounds. We all had different education. So we were able to see and become something that we never thought possible. We were able to achieve a level of career success without having the PhDs of MIT and all these prestigious universities and be able to go out into the emerging technology industry and climb the corporate ladder really fast. So meditation, martial arts, for sure, foundations for career. And having had many years in New York and working in pretty big companies, there's a positive, but there's also something that goes along with some of the actions that we take in certain jobs. So, when things became a bit personal for me was when part of my job was to implement PMOs, Project Management Optimists, which at that time it was sort of like a new, call it, segment in the corporate ladder, or in corporate structure, as far as being able to have an overview of all the projects that are going on within a company. So the thing that got me really deep and kind of made me question, like, what What my choices have been up to that point, while everything was great, where I had to tell someone that was working for a company for 30 years, had dedicated his life to this company, to say that his services were more than what he needed. To be able to see someone who thought, perhaps, that their life was going to end, I mean, I was in that company and they were going to retire and then everything was going to be fine. Well, your services are no longer needed. And to see the light in their eyes, it was like that, a sense of fear, and then, oh, what about my kids, what am I going to do, and blah, blah, blah, all these feelings and you see the energy body start to like, when being like this, my solid career body, to crumble. And that's when things started to kind of have a different effect in my career approach, where I had to make certain choices to change. But career success can be in many different colored angles of seeing, right? So where I felt most natural was that as long as I do something that is meaningful in my life, that is profound, that I feel true and true that I'm being a benefit to the world, then that to me is career success. Because you're a success as a person, as a being, as a spiritual being in this world that you become in a way like a light or inspiration for someone else to I want to take on that job because being a teacher is not easy. It's difficult. People who may think, oh yeah, I could teach. Wait. I'd say just get on stage and see if you can do it. You know, it's not easy. It's a very, very demanding job, and we saw that in Rama's approach to teaching. to teach you. I mean, after a weekend with us, you'd go to the islands and recharge for maybe a week, and then come back, get ready for the next time. Because just like in the corporate world where you basically take on certain projects, certain responsibilities, and there are some people on the success of the project or the vision. Similarly, in teaching a job, you take on people's promise. You take on their life projects. So, and over time, you know, depending on how you approach it, then they become a success. It may not be successful financially, but they could be happier. I've seen time and time again people in Wall Street who are making obscene amounts of money, absolutely unhappy, drained. So the question back then was like, wow, what good is it to make all this money and meanwhile you're literally going to live for 10 more years and not going to enjoy your life, or have all these health issues. So those are areas where I guess as we mature, we start to see career, absolutely great, but we have to at some point be able to take a split, where we start to create things that are successful in a worldly kind of sense. Where people are being brought from their mind of temporal sort of engagement to more of a purposeful, more finding their purpose in this life, more finding their true calling. Because it's easy to be, well, I'm a PM on this, or I'm a CEO of this, I'm a director of this, you know, division, or I am a CEO of this company. It's easy to take on those roles through dedication and focus and persistence. Yeah, anyone can do it. But to be able to then balance that with not just personal, emotional, and mental health. It's a key, right? Because then, should anyone achieve that career success, that millions of dollars in the bank, then they have the rest of their life to enjoy that money. Most literally don't have that. Because then, they've dedicated all their life to a corporate world that basically has sucked their life out, and that they can't enjoy later because they have more health issues, and they're unhappy. They're so driven with material things that their emotional and spiritual body suffers. But just getting back to having to tell this one person that I really admired him, you know? For 30 years working at this company, I could say, well, I'm sure this is not a normal deal here. And to see that body that he had, such a humble... I just... I literally, after I was done, I went to my office and I cried. I cried and I just thought...

0:33:56
It didn't feel natural to me.

0:33:58
It didn't feel that I was doing a service to humanity by destroying someone's life like that. And because the guy, the new CTO that was hired, this is okay, so I want to see all these guys that are not going to work with me, and we're just going to kick them out. Take that approach. In the corporate world, it works. But it only works for a certain amount of time. It is not a lifelong effect that someone can create. So, and over time I started looking for other ways to be able to get that level of success that I felt personally, which involved working on my own projects, coming up with ideas, even if I didn't make a whole bunch of money, but at least I had a certain amount of money that I made on my own terms, I didn't have someone telling me you have to go and do this or it felt much more meaningful. Back then in Wall Street, you get your paychecks and you're like, wow, this is fantastic, right? But then the amount of energy that we wasted, or well not wasted but we put into it, what we got was like a small residue. So I started to slowly redefine more personal to me as far as what I do now will affect generations to come. Not just the next quarter's numbers. So all those things, it's great. So I guess with all this roundabout, it's saying success should be defined in many different ways. And we have to personally get in touch with So when we feel that what we're doing is meaningful for ourselves and for this world, and there's a sense of satisfaction in what we do, then inspiration rises. And then whatever project it is that we feel very very inspired about. I'm sure you know both in down in Wall Street you've had the experience of seeing people that they were just there looking at the time such as oh it's 9, oh 12, oh time to go to lunch, oh back to lunch, oh I'm going to go for coffee. They're just buying for their time, exercising their title, of not truly being in that job. So, and one more question, those things, is that really meaningful? Is that really something that that person is going to get something more profound, greater benefits from it, right? And the other thing that is even more important to acknowledge is that that mentality gets passed on to the next person that is basically understudy of this person, or even if they have families, then they basically pass on that mentality over to the kids. connection from the spirit, which would be the second intention and the first intention. That our society right now, it is disconnected from the second intention, meaning from nature. In Rama teachings, a lot of powerful teachings were all out of nature. Because then that's where all of us were able to connect with that sense of authenticity and then he can reach us. He would try to talk to us, I mean he did, beautiful places in Wall Street, but because we were there and our minds and the world and everything else, perhaps some of us didn't have the ability to truly receive what he was saying in the details. But when we were out in the desert, he had undivided attention. So, yeah. It's a creed.

0:39:04
Yeah. So thank you very much. Yeah. So thank you very much.

0:39:08
Thank you very much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
