0:00:00
Okay.

0:00:01
Okay. Okay.

0:00:03
Okay.

0:00:04
Okay. Okay.

0:00:06
Okay.

0:00:07
Okay.

0:00:08
Okay.

0:00:09
Okay. Okay.

0:00:11
Okay.

0:00:12
Okay.

0:00:13
Okay.

0:00:14
Okay.

0:00:15
Okay.

0:00:16
Okay. Okay. Okay.

0:00:19
Okay. Okay. Okay.

0:00:22
Okay.

0:00:23
Okay.

0:00:24
Okay. Okay.

0:00:26
Okay.

0:00:27
Okay.

0:00:28
Okay.

0:00:29
Thank you. You're not allowed in the wrong section. Okay. Tara. Okay. Do you think Ajahn is coming? I don't think so. Right. Yeah. Okay. Give me a signal when you're ready to go. We are ready. You are ready? Okay, let us begin. Hey Ajna, this is pretty amazing, huh?

0:01:36
This is going to be fun. This is gonna be a lot of fun Wow Ready Tara

0:02:58
Okay, well welcome

0:03:00
India people Is everyone Over here going on the first trip. Yeah and Over here everyone's second trip. Okay, good, fantastic. What's that? Yeah, yeah, so people going on the first trip should be over here, people going on the second trip should sit over here, yeah, yeah, okay, so Fantastic. This is going to be really, really wonderful. Ajahn said the first trip was epic, and when we put them in the bus to go home at the end of the second trip, he said, wow, another epic tour. And then he wanted 40 people to go, 20 and 20. So first he wanted 40 to go on one trip, and Tara and I thought about it for like 24 hours and we went, no way, no way we can handle 40 people all at once, but 20 is definitely doable. So to begin with, on the first page of your pamphlet, it says, A pilgrimage is a ritual journey with a hallowed purpose. Every step along the way has meaning. The pilgrim knows that life-giving challenges will emerge. A pilgrimage is not a vacation. It is a transformational journey during which significant change takes place. New insights are given. Deeper understanding is attained. New and old places in the heart are visited. Blessings are received, and healing takes place. On return from the pilgrimage, life is seen with different eyes. Nothing will ever be quite the same again." Who's in the room that was on the first or second trip? Aha, yes. So would you say it's true that challenges will emerge? Yeah? And would you also say that blessings are received? Yeah?

0:05:42
Okay, where's Ajna?

0:05:43
Did he go out of the room?

0:05:45
Yeah.

0:05:46
Okay, yeah, he can speak quite well about blessings are received. And would all of you who went on the first two trips agree? When you return, life is seen with different eyes? Yeah? Yeah? Okay, definitely. Yeah. So it's not a vacation. It's not like going to a tropical island and going scuba diving. This I think... This will be different. I promise you this will be different from any other power trip you've been on. Because India is different, right? It's intense. India is intense. And I'm going to be totally honest with you. There will be times that you think, this was the stupidest thing I ever did, I wish I was at home, sleeping in my comfortable bed, eating Western food, playing with my dog, going to work, even that will seem like, whoa, I would love to be going to work, you know? But then an hour later, an hour later, you're feeling like it's the most blissful experience you've ever had and you wish you could stay for a year. Yeah? Shanti, you've been to India twice. Yeah. And you know what I'm talking about, right? So you can just be thinking, oh, this sucks. Oh, man, and then the next hour you're like thinking I'm happier than I've ever been in my life So it's a land of contrasts. It's also a land of mystery so many enlightened people have lived in India and the land is permeated with their Shakti and We're going to be going to amazing places. Those of you who were on the first two trips, did we go to amazing places? Speak up instead of just nodding, because they can't see you're nodding. Yes, amazing places. On the first trip, they said, the first day, they went, oh my God, today was epic. And then the second day they said, wow, today was epic too. And then Ajahn said on the third day, every day is epic. And then he got to the end of the trip and he said, this entire trip was epic. I want every one of my students to go on this trip. And now he's talking about the Hungarian Sangha going when you guys have all gone. So it's an epic pilgrimage. So if you turn to the second page that has a photo of Tara and me, it is our great pleasure to welcome you on a pilgrimage to the heart of Mother India. These are not just vacations. They are spiritual pilgrimages, adventures of the soul, to places of power where you may have new insights into who you really are and what is most important in your life. Why don't you do the next paragraph.

0:09:30
There is no country in the world that has produced as many enlightened beings as India. For thousands of years, great saints have lived in India and performed powerful spiritual practices there. The very earth has been sanctified by their presence. A spiritual pilgrimage to India expands your awareness of life on planet earth and the cosmos. It allows you to get out of the box of your daily patterns and conceptual system. It frees you to see the world with new eyes.

0:10:09
During the seven years that we've lived in India, we've had many beautiful experiences, seen amazing sites, visited many sacred temples, met beautiful saints, and had many profound inner experiences. While we traveled throughout India having these memorable experiences, we thought of our many friends who haven't yet experienced the wonders of India. It occurred to us that we were having these life-changing experiences so that we could share them with others. We want to share these with

0:10:47
There are amazingly powerful places in nature like rivers, mountains, caves and forests where ancient Rishis lived and meditated. Many of these ancient sages are said to be immortal and still exist in these places, blessing people who come there. There are also great citizens from who you can receive powerful blessings that will clear obstacles to your spiritual development and propel you to quickly achieve your goals in life.

0:11:32
will be to South India for one week and North India for one week. Transportation will be on small, comfortable taxis, minivans or Volvo buses, all with air conditioning. Accommodations will be in comfortable, clean and reasonably priced hotels. So when Tara and I go to India, we stay for ourselves in different kinds of hotels than we're going to take you to. When we're traveling, we stay in maybe two-star hotels. But we want you to be comfortable, and we want you to have clean sheets and clean towels. So we stay in three-star hotels and occasionally four-star hotels. And when we're in Tiruvannamalai, we're going to stay the whole week at a beautiful resort called Sparsa? Atman is going thumbs up. Sparsa is beautiful. It's an echo resort and everyone has basically separate cottages and beautiful grounds. So places we'll visit. South India, we're going to Bangalore and then we'll go to Valour, visit the cave and temple of Maha Ananda Siddha. Do you remember him? He's the one with the ash on his face. Going to his place, I guarantee you, is mind-blowing. Everyone who went on the first two trips was like, I can't believe he's built this place. Basically he moved into a cave in a mountain and then he built a temple around the entire mountain. He encircled the mountain in a temple and it's really something what he's done there. And so then we'll go to Tiruvannamalai and there we will go to Mount Arunachala, which is on the front of your packet. And you are going to be sitting at the very top there. You're going to meditate with your teacher on the very, very top of that mountain. And that mountain is considered the most holy, it's Kailash. And Mount Kailash is not in India, it's in Tibet. So this mountain is considered the most holy mountain in India. It's actually described in the ancient literature of India. If you just see that mountain, you're guaranteed of liberation in this life. So, yeah, you are seeing it right now, right? So I guess you're all guaranteed of liberation, right? So, it's an amazing mountain. It's just, I think pretty much almost everybody that went on the first two trips would have said that if it wasn't their peak experience, it was in the top two or three experiences of the whole trip. Yeah, it's really amazing. So, that is Arunachala Mountain and then also you'll visit the caves where Ramana Maharshi And the reason why we go to these caves is that when a great enlightened saint lives in a cave, and in one of these caves he lived in for 18 years, they're going into Samadhi every day in that cave. And their Shakti, their spiritual energy permeates that cave. cave and then when you go there you can access that enlightened energy. That's why you go to those kind of places. And so you will actually also meet saints and sadhus, various ashrams and receive special puja blessings. Visit the largest and most powerful Shiva temple in India and meditate with Shiva Shakti. Shiva Shakti is a woman saint. Alicia, would you like to describe what it was like meeting? Come on up. Come on up. Tell them what it She's an enlightened... Yeah. Here, you can hold this.

0:16:52
So meeting Sridhar Shakti was very unexpected.

0:17:03
It was kind of something that we just decided to do, right? Yeah.

0:17:09
Yeah.

0:17:10
We wanted to take the first group there, but it didn't happen. So with your group, we wanted to make sure. And Ajahn really wanted to have that experience.

0:17:16
Yeah, so it was pretty unexpected. We walked in late on the first day, and it was just a group full of white people, which is funny because every other time it was a lot of Indian people.

0:17:27
And so when we got there, it was really quiet, and all of a sudden this really small little lady walked in, and I'm sorry?

0:17:42
Very petite.

0:17:43
Yeah, very tiny.

0:17:44
Like maybe of the most five foot two.

0:17:47
Yeah, at the most. But so serene and peaceful, and as she just comes, sits down, starts to kind of look around And then you just feel this bliss. It's like nothing else that I experienced with the other meditations in the group, or on the trip. Then she'll get up and she starts looking at pretty much everyone. And you feel like she's looking into your soul when she's looking at you.

0:18:18
And she also never talks.

0:18:20
Yeah. She's in silence.

0:18:21
So I don't know, for 10, 20 years, she's never, never spoken. There are many

0:18:30
saints in India that never speak. Yeah. And so it's only 15 minutes. You're only sitting there for 15 minutes. And she looks at everyone, not everyone in the same time, but you can just feel what she's like. It feels like she's just ripping things out in this really gentle, beautiful way. And then she walks out and you go about your day and it's just bliss afterwards.

0:18:51
You can hold that.

0:18:52
Oh no.

0:18:53
When we met with Ajahn three days ago, I did my interpretation or impression of Shiva Shakti and Ajahn cracked up. He was laughing so hard. So what she does is she sits in a chair, just like you said, and then there's like a hundred people sitting in the room and then she goes to the left and she looks at every single person in the room and she's scanning every room and then occasionally she'll look at someone, occasionally she'll look at someone and she'll go...

0:19:31
Yeah.

0:19:34
Like that. And you really feel like she's connecting with you. And then, you know, she goes around some more. And she's also holding her hands in a certain way. And Ajahn cracked up when I was doing that. And then she looks at you. Like, like she's just looking right into you. You know, So Ajahn loved Shiva Shakti. And so much that he wanted to go back a second time.

0:20:07
Exactly. Yeah, there were only two places that we went twice.

0:20:11
One being Shiva Shakti and the other being the Garak Shanath cave.

0:20:14
He liked those so much.

0:20:17
We'll get to the Garak Shanath cave in a moment. Tara, thank you, Alisha. You want to continue?

0:20:24
Okay.

0:20:26
Okay, so, okay. And, we have many people meditating on top. Next is North India, and we are going to Hardwar, and we are going to meditate in, we will visit the Garob Shana temple and meditate in the cave there where this saint spent many years meditating. And the Ajahn says that it was his most powerful meditation in this life there. So it's definitely gonna be worth going to. And every trip we go to now, he wants to go there twice.

0:21:05
He wants to go there twice, yeah. No matter how hard it is to make that happen. It's like we almost missed our flight out of Delhi because he insisted he had to go back to that cave and meditate there another time. And I'm thinking, oh my god, we're gonna miss the flights from Delhi and what's gonna happen then? Everyone's gonna have to get new tickets. And we made the flight in like 10 minutes. Yeah, it was close. It was so close. But he did say that first meditation, he said, this is the most powerful meditation I've had in my entire life. So you're

0:21:48
going to go there. Yeah, and it's just this hidden gem. Very few people know about this place.

0:21:54
Yeah, it's an obscure, hidden temple. I guarantee you 99.999% of spiritual tourists that go to that city don't even know it exists. There's no signage. It's off of a main street, but there's a tiny little entrance through some stores. There's no big sign there that says it's there. You go in and eventually you work your way up some stairs and you come to this temple and there's a cave under the temple and there's a tunnel in that cave that goes a hundred miles up into the Himalayas. That's why they built the temple there. They built it on top of that cave because there's this tunnel that goes a hundred miles up to like the area of Badrinath in the Himalayas. So it's a very powerful place.

0:22:55
Then we're also going to go to the female saint Anandamayi Ma's ashram where her Samadhi is. And she's like the most magical things in Hardwar is the evening party on the Donga. And this is the art is like they light these huge, I don't know what you call them, lamps of light and the priests chant and it's just around...

0:23:39
The priests hold these big lamps. There's many priests on the edge of the Ganga and they hold these giant lamps that are like this tall, filled with camphor. And the flame goes up like maybe three or four feet high. And they offer it to the goddess Ganga. And one of our group, last trip, saw the goddess come out of the river. The goddess Ganga actually come out of the river and was towering above. It's a beautiful, beautiful, magical experience.

0:24:15
Then we're going to go just maybe half an hour north to Rishikesh and meditate on the the Ganga there. It's the most holy river in India and it's pristine there. If you go further south, there's a lot of... people go into the Ganga when they die, they are placed in the Ganga or their ashes, one or the other. And the Ganga is polluted down there. But here it is just gorgeous. It's like a jade, like a light jade color. It's really beautiful.

0:24:55
I think, Adeline, you kept saying every day that you wanted to go swimming, right? And then the last day you did. But actually, almost the entire group, when we sat on the edge of the Ganga and meditated, practically everyone fell in up to his waist. So yeah.

0:25:22
We're definitely going to Vasistha and Arudhati's cave. Vasistha was a Saptarishi, just a really the Vedas are really, they cognize the Vedas that you know the spirituality and Hinduism is based on the Vedas. So this is a really magical place. Many great saints have gone there to meditate and live there in that area right there. And then we're going to probably going to the sacred mountain where there is a temple, a small temple to the goddess on top and you can see the snowcapped Himalayas. And there's a very special dimensional doorway there that's absolutely

0:26:20
incredible. I mean I was blown away. And then one other thing we're hoping to have happen, there's no guarantee, but there's this enlightened saint that we heard about on the November trip, but he wasn't in Rishikesh. He had already left and we really wanted to meet him because he's extraordinary. He left home at the age of 10 to realize God and he became enlightened at the age of 16 and then he lived for 10 years up in the mountains above Rishikesh only eating roots and leaves. He had no food at all. He never uses money. He's young. He's only 30 years old and he's beautiful and joyful and laughs a lot. And the owner of the hotel that we stay in said to us, he said to him one day, how did you live up on the mountaintop? There's wild tigers up there. He said, oh, the tigers would come and sleep with me. And there's pythons. How did you live up there with pythons? He said, the python would come and sleep with me. How did you live? You had no food. I just eat roots and leaves. But how do you know which ones aren't poisonous? I watch what the animals eat and I eat whatever they eat. And he's really blissful. On this last trip, he was in Rishikesh. And we went to visit him and had a beautiful time. And then Ajaan wanted to go back a second time and see him again. So we're hoping that he'll be in Rishikesh. There's no guarantee, but we hope he will. We're in touch with him now because we've established a friendship with him. So then rafting on the Ganga and everyone on the first trip loved that. On the second trip, we ran out of time and so that didn't happen. And then another visit to Maharishi Mahesh Yogi's ashram where the Beatles went back in the 60s and Ajahn really liked that and he said he wants to make sure we do that every trip. So also there's a beautiful ashram called Sivananda ashram. Okay, now let's go to the traveling tips. This is the most important part of tonight. This list contains information gained from living in India for seven years. While we will only be in India for two weeks, we offer this information in order to ensure that your pilgrimage is safe and enjoyable. One, let go of expectations. The most important point. Let go of expectations. India meditates you. Before I went the first time, Tara and I were going to go in 2010. We met this guy in LA and I said, where should we go? He said, well, what do you want to do? And I said, well, we're planning to go to India to meditate. He said, you don't go to India to meditate. India meditates you. It does. It does. And it changes you. Okay, let's alternate points.

0:30:01
Be street smart. Westerners tend to have a romantic view of India. They think everyone is spiritual. So, how to say that? Yeah, it's just to be aware. Generally, we haven't run into any problems, but at some point you might want to go shopping and take a rickshaw. And so you want to just be aware, go with someone else. And we'll talk about that later. The women should maybe go with one guy.

0:30:36
Okay.

0:30:37
And just so you know, just so you know, Tara and I lived in India seven years and we never had one problem. Seven years living in India, not one negative thing. No one ever stole anything from us. We never were threatened. We never were even close to being mugged. But India is a complex country and not everyone is spiritual, you know, so you have to be careful. And we were careful and that's why nothing negative ever happened to us in seven years

0:31:16
Yeah, right, I think they'd be very surprised if they tried anything so three don't drink the tap water

0:31:24
or eat the ice only drink bottled water This is very important. The two brands that are the best are Bisleri and Himalaya. Important. Make sure that the seal on the bottle isn't broken. So if you buy a bottle of water, turn the top and make sure that it hasn't already been opened because there are unscrupulous store owners that will fill empty bottles with tap water. But I think it only happened to us once in seven years. So it doesn't happen a lot. And we'll be staying in really nice hotels. And in the really nice hotels, you just ask the restaurant for some bottled water and you take it to your room. And that way you have water in the nighttime, you brush your teeth with that water.

0:32:24
Some of you may have heard me say that before we went to India in 2010,

0:32:25
we talked to a friend and she said, oh, you can't brush your teeth with tap water. You have to use bottled water. Right, Shanti? Yeah. And she told us three or four times. And I kept thinking, oh, yeah, I already know. Don't drink the tap water. Don't brush my teeth with tap water. The first morning I got to India, flew in, stayed in a hotel, woke up the next morning, went and started brushing my teeth with the tap water. And I went, oh my God, I can't believe I did that. She told us so many times not to do it. So I'm like, taking bottled water, rinsing my mouth, spitting it out, gargling with it, but it's important, don't drink the tap water. Okay, and also carry most of your money

0:33:26
and passport in a money belt. We always use money belt in India. You can wear it under your clothes.

0:33:34
I wear it even under my underwear. I pull my underwear up over it just so it's safe, you know, just so in case, just in case that clasp happened to come undone, I don't want it to fall out from under my shirt, right, and be lost. So I really guard it. Okay, don't eat any food at street food carts, you know, like vendors on the street. We never, ever eat that kind of food. We only eat food in really good hotels.

0:34:12
Next one.

0:34:13
Okay, beggars.

0:34:15
Okay, you can't totally avoid beggars in India. And it's good to have to carry either five rupee coins, which there aren't that many of them, but 10 rupee notes, you know, you get about 10 of them. And if somebody comes and they look like, you know, they need money anyway, we just give them, we just give them money.

0:34:40
10 rupees is about 20 cents, right?

0:34:43
Yeah.

0:34:44
It's about 20 cents. So there are places where, for instance, when you go to temples, there will be beggars outside of temples trying to get money, especially from Westerners. Because you have like a dollar sign written on your forehead. They go, Westerner, they have a lot of money, they'll give me money. So, it's good to carry loose change or small bills just to give it to them. Also, it's actually really good karma. karma, we tend to give to the, especially women beggars who are very old, who look like they're 80 or 90 years old. We tend to give more to them.

0:35:27
And you'll see, you're bound to run into some sadly handicapped person, so we always give

0:35:37
to them too. So, and sometimes I give a lot of money to beggars, not just small change. Like we were in that temple that Ajahn said he had the best meditation of his life. And this old man came in totally bent over like this. And he made his way to the altar and he looked like he could have been 90 years old. sold and then he came back to where we were and I gave him 2,000 rupees, which is a lot. I mean, it isn't small change. So occasionally you might see someone who you just feel very compassionate about and you want to help them. So don't hesitate to do that. Don't think, oh beggars. I don't want to have anything to do with beggars. It's part of being in India is being compassionate to the people who need it. Okay, comfortable walking shoes are important, but also take some cheap throwaway sandals that you can wear when visiting temples. Even flip-flops would be fun. If you leave your expensive shoes at the entrance to a temple, they may not be there when you come out. So if you have like really expensive Nikes, you don't leave those shoes in front of the temple.

0:37:01
I don't know if Ajahn told you or not, but I think he went to the top of the mountain and they were meditating and a monkey stole his shoes.

0:37:14
He went back to the...

0:37:17
Yeah, and I think Ajna had to loan him a pair of shoes. Because the monkey stole his shoes. You'll see a lot of monkeys. Okay, clothing.

0:37:27
Okay, this is important, clothing.

0:37:29
And because we're having this meeting well ahead of the trip, much further ahead than when we had this meeting for the other two groups, this will give you time to plan what you're going to take. Now, first I'll read this. Bring as little as possible. Pack light. On this last trip, we all just took a carry-on and a backpack, like a day pack, not a big backpack. We all made it so that when we took airplanes inside India, and you're going to take two airplanes inside of India, one from Delhi, one from Bangalore to Delhi, and then one from Delhi to Dehradun, that flight is only 30 minutes long, but it eliminates eliminates the need to do a seven hour grueling bus ride. So the first trip we did that grueling bus ride and then we decided for the last group, okay, let's eliminate that bus ride and let's take a 30 minute airplane trip, which costs $30. So it was really worth it. So we just took a small carry-on that can go in the overhead compartment. Don't take a lot of clothes, you're not going to need it. You're not going to need it. Pack light, traveling is much easier without heavy suitcases. Preferably one backpack and a small carry-on will do. Bring one long-sleeve shirt for the evening. Now, on the previous two trips, we went on the first day in Bangalore, we went out shopping and we took the people around to various clothing stores in Bangalore, where they could buy at the minimum one Indian outfit to wear when we go to ashrams. When you go to an ashram, it's good to not be wearing Western clothes. There are many days on the trip that you can just wear Western clothes, like when we're traveling on the bus or whatever. But because we're doing this meeting so far in advance, it's gonna give you the opportunity to buy some clothing here, like in Berkeley or Oakland or any place.

0:39:53
Hmm?

0:39:54
Cupertino.

0:39:55
Cupertino, wherever there are some Indian clothing stores. Now they're gonna try to sell you saris. You're going to walk in and they're going to say, oh, we have beautiful saris, you know, because they want to sell you an expensive sari. But you don't need something expensive. Basically, there's something called India whites. It's white pants like this, just white cotton pants and a top. And for the men, it can just be a very simple short sleeve or long sleeve white cotton top and that's called India whites. For the women you want to speak about what the

0:40:35
top for a woman would be? They're usually called like Salwar Kameesh and they're like a top like this a kerchit top that has a slit on the side and, you know, they go from anywhere from here to below your knee even. And they have pants and some of them have scarves. So you can buy a complete set or you can just buy like a kirt or pants or scarves.

0:41:07
Sometimes they have like an embroidered pattern around the neckline.

0:41:13
So.

0:41:14
Yeah, there's, you know, there's many types and some of them are just white too. You can get a white one, orange one, any color. You don't have to have, for the women,

0:41:24
you don't have to have a white top. They also sell them in pastels, like powder blue. Many different colors.

0:41:32
You can get patterns too.

0:41:38
Yeah.

0:41:39
Yeah.

0:41:40
Yeah. So get that here, so that, because we've changed the schedule a little bit and we don't have a shopping day planned when we get to Bangalore. But this, you know, you're gonna have how many months? Six months or something?

0:41:55
Yeah.

0:41:56
Yeah, you only need one pair, one set of India clothes. Now... I don't care about the... What?

0:42:04
I don't care about the... After you wear it, it depends on what style you wear. Oh, you can, all the hotels that we stay in,

0:42:13
well, first of all, I'm gonna say, all the hotels do laundry, and it usually just takes one day to get it back. And we're going to be in the hotel in Tiruvannamalai for four nights and the hotel in Rishikesh for four nights. So if you arrive at the hotel and you know, your clothes, you've been sweating, just send it to the laundry and you'll get it back the next morning, usually.

0:42:45
Yeah, I mean, it could be more practical to get to.

0:42:49
Yeah. Now the other answer to that question is, you can get two outfits. One would be extremely simple, just India whites. And the other one could be something more like this for a man or like that for a woman. And that's a little more dressy. And I'm sure Ajaan will want to have a party the final night and he always says wear your best clothing for the party. So it's good to have actually two. One simple India whites and one a little more dressy. That way you're totally covered and that's basically all that you need. And then, you know, maybe two t-shirts, a pair of pants could be blue jeans or khakis. It is good to have something like a windbreaker, a light windbreaker. Because when you go to the top of the mountain, it may be chilly up there. And also, when we get to Rishikesh, we're gonna go to a mountaintop. And the last time they went before the sun came up so they could meditate at sunrise. And it was chilly up there. So take a windbreaker. It doesn't have to be a warm coat or anything, just something that'll break the wind, keep you a little warmer. And then plus all the places we're going, you can buy anything that you need. So let's say we get to Rishikesh and there just happens to be a cold spell and it's 20 degrees colder than we expected. There's plenty of stores where you can go buy a sweater, or even a jacket that's a little warmer than a windbreaker. And they're really cheap because it's India. Yeah.

0:44:43
Okay.

0:44:44
And just, you know, it's a different culture.

0:44:49
It's very, very different over there. I mean, after we were there six months, we learned a lot about their habits of and how they interpret things. Like, we act pretty normal American, but... Speak for yourself. Yeah, we are pretty normal.

0:45:09
I don't know if I'm normal.

0:45:15
But over there. Normal? What I mean normal is that in a very small town, this is going to maybe be shocking to

0:45:18
you, but if you look at someone in the other section and you smile, they think that's a

0:45:19
flirtance.

0:45:20
I mean, we just smile to be friendly, but usually we're just dealing with people in the hotel

0:45:21
and it's not a big deal. But, you know, I think that's a normal thing. I mean, I think that's a normal thing. I mean, I think that's a normal thing. I mean, I think that's a normal thing.

0:45:26
I mean, I think that's a normal thing.

0:45:27
I mean, I think that's a normal thing. I mean, I think that's a normal thing. I mean, I think that's a normal thing. I mean, I think that's a normal thing. I mean, I think that's a normal thing. I mean, I think that's a normal thing. I mean, I think that's a normal thing. I mean, I think that's a normal thing. I mean, I think that's a normal thing. I mean, I think that's a normal thing. I mean, I think that's a normal thing. I mean, I think that's a normal thing. I mean, I think that's a normal thing.

0:45:40
I mean, I think that's a normal thing.

0:45:41
we're just dealing with people in the hotel and it's not a big deal. But it's not really very good to expose your cleavage that much. So we just avoid like sleeveless. For women, we avoid sleeveless tops. You know, even just a short sleeve is fine if it's really hot. And the Indian women actually wear scarves to kind of, you know, be discreet.

0:46:12
That's like-

0:46:12
Yeah, India women wear a scarf like this.

0:46:16
Yeah, some of them wear it like that.

0:46:18
You know, they wear it around their neck

0:46:20
and it covers up their chest. Drape it over their shoulder.

0:46:29
And you know, the saris go across the chest.

0:46:31
I do too, because I'm very modest.

0:46:33
Yeah.

0:46:34
And Ajaan, at one point, he just started wearing a nice scarf from men with his t-shirt, you know, so he was like,

0:46:46
And then he got into wearing turbans. Yeah, we have photos of Ajahn wearing a turban. You know, he got into it. Okay, so, when in Rome, do as the Romans. Western clothing is fine, but one outfit of India whites is good for special meetings with holy people. Women's clothing, don't wear anything revealing, no cleavage, have a scarf to cover the chest. Rickshaws. Occasionally we will go places in rickshaws and it's best to go with two or three people. These are auto rickshaws, not pedal rickshaws. And do not allow rickshaw drivers, this is important, don't allow them to take you shopping to places they want you to go because they get a kickback. They have deals already arranged with shop owners and they'll say, Oh, I can take you to the best craft store. They have tourists love this store. They have great crafts. Say, No, I'm not interested. And then they'll try again and say, No, I'm not interested. Then they'll try again. They won't give up. They might ask you 10 times that. Well, you don't want to go to the craft store. No, I don't want to go to the craft store. They get a commission. So you just go where you want to go. Now noise. India is noisy. It's loud. Especially the cities. Once we get out of the cities, it's not like that at all. The best part of India is out of the cities. And we won't be in cities that much, actually. Most of our time will be out of the cities. If you have trouble sleeping, bring earplugs. Yeah, earplugs are a good thing to have. Things to bring, a thermos, flashlight, natural insect repellent, and those handy wipes. You know, those disinfectant handy wipes. Tara and I never used them in seven years, but on the trip, a lot of you that went, I noticed you all took them with you. And often before eating a meal, you would use the handy wipes on your hands. Medications, don't forget to bring whatever medicine you may usually take. Also bring diarrhea medicine. Now, we were incredibly fortunate, two trips and no one got sick. Maybe a little bit of intestinal, maybe a person or two had a little bit of intestinal problem, but they took whatever medication for that and it cleared up in one day. So, but bring it just to be safe. Excedrin or your favorite pain relief medication, black tar heroin. If you take it.

0:49:43
Yeah.

0:49:45
Crack cocaine.

0:49:46
Yeah.

0:49:47
No, I'm just joking. Allergy medication, if you suffer from allergies, antiseptic. This is important. Take something that you would like to use, which is an antiseptic or antibiotic ointment, because there's bacteria in India that you've never been exposed to. And even a small cut can turn into something much worse. So in this country, you might stub your toe and you get a little cut and you don't think twice about it, you don't even put anything on it. But in India, you definitely need to. If you get a cut. Yeah, Alicia.

0:50:31
I didn't even hear her.

0:50:34
She said that it's helpful to bring a first aid kit.

0:50:37
Yes. Yeah.

0:50:41
You brought one and then you ended up giving it to someone up on top of Arunachala, right?

0:50:47
I don't think I'll tell that whole story.

0:50:50
But she gave the first aid kit away.

0:50:54
Yeah.

0:50:55
Okay, so,

0:50:57
so that takes care of that. Band-aids or adhesive patches. Now, travel in groups, not alone. It's not really a problem. I don't think we even need to say that

0:51:06
because we're always traveling together.

0:51:08
We'll stick together. And this is a very bonding experience for all the people in the group. Atman is nodding his head back there. It's literally like we become a family. That's how Tara and I feel about all the people we've already taken and that's how we are going to feel about all of you. It's like this is a family that's going and we bond together and we take care of each other. We care about how someone's feeling. You know, it's really important to care about each other and take care of each other. And Bodhisitta, it develops Bodhisitta going on one of these trips. Not that you haven't already been doing a lot to do that, but I think the reason Ajahn wants everyone to go on these trips is that it really does increase bodhicitta for all the people who go. Okay, now, Tara, you wanna pick up from there?

0:52:44
Sidewalks, our streets have many holes and you have to stay alert and practice mindfulness. I mean, it's not sidewalks like it is here. It's just, it can be just totally a mess.

0:53:02
You know? Yeah, you don't walk down the street just like looking at buildings and not looking where you're going because you're used to in America, sidewalks don't have big gaping holes and you can just step into a hole and fall eight or ten feet. And so you have to be mindful. Be very mindful. Go ahead and do a few more. Okay. 17. Okay, 17.

0:53:29
Always carry your hotel business card on you so you can get back to the hotel and you might forget how to explain how to get there and also they might not understand what you're saying so they can usually read it. Yeah okay. If you are ever split up from your

0:53:54
group go back to the last place you saw each other. Is Sarah in the room? The only person that we ever lost was Sarah. Remember? We lost Sarah. Oh, no.

0:54:09
Well, we found her, but no, Sari got really lost. Sari. Shopping.

0:54:12
Shopping, yeah.

0:54:13
So, yeah, that's right.

0:54:14
It's very easy to do.

0:54:15
I had to backtrack like half an hour through like a casbah shopping place. It was hard to do. But we did find her.

0:54:18
First of all, we found her.

0:54:19
And then we found her.

0:54:20
And then we found her. And then we found her. And then we found her. And then we found her. And then we found her. And then we found her.

0:54:26
And then we found her.

0:54:27
And then we found her. And then we found her. a Casbah shopping place. It was a shopping place. And, but we did find her, or she found us. So, but it's always good to have the hotel business card on you. And that way, if you did get split up from the group,

0:54:44
you could just say to a cab driver, take me here. Okay. Oh, travel insurance. It's worth getting the travel insurance. And if you do, with your airplane flight usually you have insurance that you can get but make sure that you get one that pays if you have to be flown home because our friend of ours went to India and she's been to Asia before but she just walked into a big hall and fell down and broke her leg, you know?

0:55:14
She broke her hip.

0:55:16
Yeah.

0:55:16
She did what we were just talking about. She didn't see a hole in the sidewalk and she fell down and broke her hip. And she had travel insurance, but it didn't cover being airlifted home. So if you do get travel insurance, make sure it covers in an emergency, you're covered to fly back to the States. Tara and I never have gotten travel insurance in our life and I don't think we ever will, but you may want to. Vaccines. We never got vaccines. Now those of you who went on the last trip, did you get any vaccines or shots? No. Both of you didn't. Anyone else in the room that went on the trip?

0:56:02
No.

0:56:03
So two of you. Tara and I never got any shots. And when we came back from seven years in India, our friends said, oh my God, you guys look healthy. How did you survive seven years in India? And it wasn't a problem. But you may, this is completely up to you. And in the back of this packet there's medical information and websites that you can go to to learn about all this. So that is up to you. Get them or don't get them. We're not going to tell you that you don't need them, but we never got them. Food. We will eat high quality in high quality restaurants and hotels. If you don't like hot spicy food, always specify mild. Donna, there may be a few days that we visit very holy people. These are enlightened saints that we're gonna visit. And when we visit them, it's good to have envelopes ready to make an offering as a sign of respect. So plan into your trip, set aside a certain amount of money that you will have, that you can offer. Now, a few people, it's kind of a sliding scale. Ajahn recommended in a few cases to give $100 isn't necessary, $50 would be fine. But I would set aside, or even there were some places we went to where even 25 would have been fine. So it's like a sliding scale. And did you have a thought about that? on average for all the people that we saw,

0:57:57
but we also saw IA, there was about 500 that we gave away. So just... About an average of 500. That's total. And in the total of the inclinations,

0:58:08
it's like $100 to the worst of the movies.

0:58:11
Yeah, but you know, I think on these two trips,

0:58:15
they won't need $500.

0:58:17
I think even 300, maybe 400 at the max, because they're not going to go all the way down to Southern India to see Aya. So that eliminates $100 right there. And so, yeah. So we can talk to Ajahn about that, but I would set aside for sure $300. Oh, and then when the trip came to an end, you all gave Saravanan and Jyoti some money also. It's a good idea to keep a journal. That is wrong. I shouldn't have said, it's a good idea to keep a journal. I should have said, definitely keep a journal, because because Ajahn will remind you, are you writing in your journal? Because when you have these experiences, going to meet these great enlightened masters, or amazing power places, you need to write that down. So that later you can re-read it, you recapitulate it, and you re-read it later and it takes you back to that state of consciousness you were in when you had those experiences. So he would remind the group frequently to make sure they were writing in their journal. Okay, help each other, support each other. Use this trip to India as an opportunity to increase your individual and group bodhicitta Doing so will strengthen the sangha the whole sangha When you by you're doing that you come back You're changed you've increased your bodhicitta and that will increase the bodhicitta of the entire sangha Even those who haven't gone on the trip Okay So the next section I don't think we need to go through. You can read that at your own leisure.

1:00:28
This is mainly from WebMD, and also the, I think the US government really said the only problems were with India and the places that were going in India is like potentially hepatitis A or hepatitis B. But, you know, there really shouldn't be a malaria issue, so you don't have to get real paranoid about it. But check this all out with your doctor because, and then you decide.

1:01:17
Now, in the very back of the book, there's a recommended reading. Now, this is a very, very profound book called Tapaswaji, the saint who lived for 185 years. to his ashram and were personal friends with his disciple that lived with him. We're going to the ashram that was built by the father of the man who were friends with. That will be the very first thing we do on the very first day. We're going to go to that ashram. So now this book is really kind of out of print. If you look on eBay, people are selling it for $185.

1:02:07
Yeah.

1:02:08
Now, on the first trip, the man who we're friends with, he gave everyone on the trip a free copy of the book. On the second trip, he had run out of the books and he had to reprint them. So I said, can you mail 50 copies to us in the States? So we're waiting for 50 copies to arrive and as soon as they arrive, we'll mail enough down to, we'll ship via UPS or whatever, down to Bodie Woods or wherever, enough copies for all of you. Okay, so don't go out and buy it. Who was going to buy it the other day? Someone talk to me. What? Yeah, yeah, yeah. So don't go on eBay and buy one for 165 or 185. Let us try to get free copies for all of you. And it's, this is one of my five favorite spiritual books in the world. And if you read this book, I mean, I totally understand you guys are really busy. You don't have a lot of extra free time. You work at your jobs, you do Wu Wei Do, all the things you do, you don't have a lot of time. But one of the reasons we wanted to do this meeting now was to give you plenty of time to get the book and read the book, because your experience will be much more profound when you get to India if you've read this book. So that covers everything. Now are there any questions? Okay, that's what we're going to give a receipt. Yeah, I know. Oh, yeah, we are well aware of Ajaan's email. So, yeah, but anyone who tonight wants to pay the deposit can pay it to Atman and he'll give you a receipt. And then the other people and we're gonna make a list of the people that are gonna do the bucket thing.

1:04:52
Yeah.

1:04:53
Yeah.

1:04:54
Yeah.

1:04:55
Yeah.

1:04:56
Yeah.

1:04:57
Yeah. Yeah.

1:04:58
Yeah.

1:04:59
Yeah.

1:05:00
Yeah.

1:05:01
Yeah.

1:05:02
Yeah.

1:05:02
Yeah.

1:05:03
Yeah. Yeah.

1:05:05
Yeah.

1:05:06
Yeah.

1:05:07
Yeah.

1:05:07
Yeah.

1:05:08
Yeah.

1:05:09
Yeah.

1:05:10
Yeah.

1:05:11
Yeah.

1:05:12
Yeah.

1:05:12
Yeah.

1:05:13
Yeah.

1:05:14
Yeah.

1:05:15
Yeah.

1:05:16
Okay.

1:05:17
Yeah.

1:05:17
Yes.

1:05:18
If everybody can just be quiet for a moment.

1:05:20
Oh, phones. Yeah.

1:05:23
Okay.

1:05:24
Atman,

1:05:25
your phone worked the whole time when you were in India, right?

1:05:28
Yeah.

1:05:29
And you had an iPhone? With AT&T. So his phone worked the whole time. We have T-Mobile and we use Google, what's it called? Google Voice. And we can call the States for one penny a minute and we get phone calls from people in the States who don't even know that we're in India. And they think we're still in the States and they call us and the phone rings in India and we can talk to them. So I would check with your provider, with your internet or your phone provider, and tell them that you're going to India and you want to be sure to use your phone.

1:06:24
I'm just curious, do you talk about losing someone and finding each other?

1:06:32
Oh yeah, it's a good idea to have a phone that works. And there will be times that we need to make phone calls. Like, Ajahn will say, let's go to that fantastic pizza restaurant in Rishikesh that we went to last time. And then, if we don't call them ahead of time, we get there and we find out they're closed today, which is what happened on the last trip. So it's a good idea to have a phone that you can call, make important calls.

1:06:59
Yeah.

1:07:00
I'm sorry, close out this money thing

1:07:01
because I don't understand it.

1:07:03
Yes.

1:07:04
I'm not paying everything, but if we don't have a bucket,

1:07:07
who do we give money to?

1:07:08
Potala.

1:07:09
To the church.

1:07:10
To Potala.

1:07:10
We can give her cash or a check made out to the church?

1:07:14
It's a Patawala.

1:07:15
Yeah.

1:07:16
We got the first email, but we didn't read the second email yet because we were driving all day.

1:07:22
Yeah.

1:07:23
Uh-huh.

1:07:23
Are we going to see the Kali stone?

1:07:24
What?

1:07:25
The Kali stone?

1:07:26
Did you guys want to go to that?

1:07:27
Oh yeah.

1:07:28
Yeah, we're going to do that.

1:07:29
Yeah, we'll do that.

1:07:30
Yeah, we're going to. That's on the first, first day in Bangalore.

1:07:35
Yeah.

1:07:36
Yeah.

1:07:37
Yeah, that's a really amazing place.

1:07:39
Alicia?

1:07:40
The only thing I would say is the phone works really well, but internet at all the places is extremely spotty, so if you have to work for anything like that, if you have a hotspot on your phone, that was easier to do than any internet

1:07:54
that you possibly could have.

1:07:56
Yeah.

1:07:57
Yeah, I got a hotspot at all the hotels we went to, they also have small seats and this MacBook fit in all of them. So I didn't have any worries about the room.

1:08:10
Yeah. We have a friend that was in Rishikesh when we arrived and he said that what he was doing is he took his iPad and then he bought a one month, I don't know what you call it, but when he got to India, he bought whatever you call that for one month. And then his iPad could be a hotspot and he could run his laptop off of the hotspot on his iPad. So that's another possibility.

1:08:42
Yeah. I just wanted to say something about electronics. So I know with the last trip, they flew into Dubai. I don't know if they flew out of Dubai, but the US changed its policy on electronics

1:08:54
from the Middle East.

1:08:55
So if anybody is connecting flight back to the US, goes through Dubai, Turkey, which it might, you should probably not bring your laptop with you or your iPad unless you intend to check it. You can bring a cell phone as a carry-on, but you cannot bring a laptop or iPad or tablet or anything like that flying from the 97 countries, but they keep expanding. Yeah, I don't think it includes Dubai.

1:09:20
No, Dubai's not part of the list.

1:09:22
Well, the Arab...

1:09:25
Yeah, they keep adding more.

1:09:28
Okay.

1:09:29
We'll have to check on that.

1:09:31
So, let's see. Does anyone else have any questions? There's one last thing. We have a release form, which protects Tara and me, because you're gonna climb a mountain, and you're gonna go river rafting, and we wanna make sure that, you know, we're protected if you drowned in the Ganga, which isn't a bad place to go. I'm actually hoping that when I get to the end of this incarnation that I can head over to India and slip into the Ganga and drop the body. So it's not a So, yeah, any other questions?

1:10:26
Yeah, two questions.

1:10:27
If everyone could be quiet so we can answer questions.

1:10:30
Go ahead.

1:10:31
The flight tickets. Ajan knows now the dates and I'm sure he's gonna send out a message to all of you. He will probably determine or have someone work for him. I don't know who that person would be, to find the flight and then notify everyone that they should make reservations on that flight. So Tara and I met with him three days ago and he okayed the whole calendar for the whole month, both trips, and he knows the start days and the ending days for both trips. So he will do that. Second question? Yeah? What's that? Can you hold on from talking because I'm trying to hear his question. Oh, our domestic flights inside, Tara will make those reservations for all of you. And I can't tell you what a horrible job that is that she's going to have to do. We had a travel agent that was setting up the last reservations. She quit on us. She just said, this is too much. I can't do it. You're gonna have to do it. We've never had a travel agent in our life just say, I can't do this. It's very hard for many, many, many, many reasons. One, India Airlines, their websites crash all the time. So Tara's going to have to enter all of your names into the reservation. And then she might do that whole thing and spend two hours working on it. And then the website crashes and it's all lost. It was very difficult for Tara to do it, but she did it. And this is going to be even more challenging, because the last trip was like 10 people. This is 20 and 20. So but Tara will make all the airline reservations for you guys. The domestic flights will be from Bangalore to Delhi, and then Delhi to Dehradun.

1:12:51
Yeah. That last one is the 30 minute flight.

1:12:54
Yeah.

1:12:55
Yes. So how much cash should we bring them in?

1:13:01
Is there a place that we go to exchange? Ah, okay.

1:13:14
He just asked how much cash should you take? And also he asked, is there a place to go to exchange the money? Yes, when you get off the plane in Bangalore, you can change dollars into rupees. Probably you can even do that from the San Francisco airport, before you even fly over, you can change some dollars into rupees. So we usually do that. We usually go and exchange some like a hundred dollars into rupees even before we fly. That way we're guaranteed that when we get there we have some money for taxis and things like that. The second thing is how much money should you plan on taking with you? And I think I will to Alicia and Atman on that. How much would you say they should take? I think the total would be, well,

1:14:07
like, we're doing well at the end of it, and I think we had a thousand. And we exchanged in San Francisco airport, I think it maxed out at $450, and these are debit cards, we got rupees from the foreign exchange there. And then once we landed, we also did the same thing, and same max, it's like 450 years from the very top. In total, it was 12,000. It was also in Delhi Airport, we were able to take out money from the ATM there, and I think their max was like 10,000, and we paid them just $130.

1:14:41
Yeah, so you would say they should take $1,000.

1:14:45
I would say so.

1:14:46
And Oppmann is nodding his head, so yeah.

1:14:49
What if the exchange rate better?

1:14:52
From your own base.

1:14:53
I mean, yeah, you can do it in your own base. I think in India it was better because it was 55, 55 to the dollar.

1:15:02
Actually, the exchange rate is very good now. When we first went to India, it was down around 40. That was in 2006. And now you get more for your US dollars. Yeah.

1:15:15
Yeah, also, the start of the month, I was able to exchange money.

1:15:18
Yeah, there will be no trouble exchanging money. We have a man who is our best friend in India, and he will be traveling with us the whole South India trip. And he is also our translator. And he can exchange money for you any day. You can give him $200, $300, $400, $500, any amount you want and before, usually, even before you go to bed that night or the next morning, he has it all exchanged for you. Atma?

1:15:54
And you can also use your credit card in both places, like restaurants, hotels, or even credit card places. Yes.

1:16:01
Yeah, you can use credit cards.

1:16:05
Yeah.

1:16:06
One thing I would say though is that

1:16:07
when you are exchanging,

1:16:08
they only give you 2,000 in the majority of those. And if you want to give out money, what I think is the closest is that, in India we actually cash in 1,000 euros for 120. So it goes, you can usually get back 120, and it was super convenient when you're in India.

1:16:25
Yeah. On the first trip, about a week or two before we went,

1:16:26
there was this huge monetary crisis in India. And so it was virtually impossible to get large denominations. So Tara and I went immediately to the currency exchange when we got off the airplane in Bangalore and we exchanged you know a couple hundred dollars and they literally gave us a pile of bills that high. Yeah it was like 20 rupee notes that was like that high which we put into our backpack. Now that isn't going to be any you aren't going to be dealing with that. Yeah there's no problem now getting rupees. Anyone else have a question?

1:17:15
Yeah, I think the $1,000 that included the offering,

1:17:18
the money that's been offered,

1:17:20
I think we need to get out of that.

1:17:22
We've got a thousand, so we'll just...

1:17:25
Atman, were you not wobbling your head yes or no?

1:17:29
He was just wobbling his head.

1:17:31
Were you saying yes, it includes it, or no, it doesn't?

1:17:34
Yeah.

1:17:35
He's like, Atman's back there going like this, you know? Okay, so Kali, thank you. Yes. And, okay, Saraswati. No, she just asked about the air flight over and back.

1:17:51
We're not gonna have anything to do with that.

1:17:53
Ajan will probably, I think, this is what he's done. going to have anything to do with that. Ajan will probably, I think, this is what he's done every time. And I don't know if he personally did it or if he had someone do it for him. But a flight was picked as this is the flight everyone should be on. And then everyone was told, you make your reservations on that flight. Yeah. So yeah. Any last question? Is that covering it? Okay, so we will meet again with you in October, maybe three or four weeks before the trip. And have a wonderful time, and we're really looking forward to taking you all.

1:18:42
Yes.

1:18:43
It's gonna be fun.

1:18:44
Yeah.

1:18:44
Yeah.

1:18:45
Yeah.

1:18:46
Thank you. Thank you.

1:18:47
Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
