0:00:00
I spent the day in a deep reflection of compassion, a boundless wave of eternal love. Compassion is a momentum of energy that draws attention to unity. the quality of being, the essence of all things, where everything comes together. Love. Love draws everything into one. Love is oneness. Compassion is a wave of love. It is the active side of this eternal, essential energy. It's a movement, a shift, that draws you into a greater awareness of unity. So compassion is a practice of ours, right, an intermediate practice, yoga of compassion. Because it is a movement that we can initiate, that we can manifest, we can intend, and that draws us into a greater sense of eternal unity. Love. Love is experienced in meditation. When you stop thought, you experience spirit. When you stop thought, there's no more self anymore. are you thinking, worrying, reflecting on your life? You go beyond the self, the ego, the partial awareness into unity with all things. There's no self, there's only spirit. And spirit is love. And from a condition of separateness, when our meditation doesn't get us there, we can initiate compassion. We can open our heart and offer the light of compassion to those who suffer. And in that shift, in that movement, every time we have that intention, every time we we come, our spirit comes into a greater degree of love. We step forward into love every time we practice compassion. And then, compassion and love are one. There's that great unity of all things, and then there's the motion of directing compassion. It shifts and changes and uplifts and enlightens and then brings us all into a greater degree and awareness of love. In Tibet, a spiritual teacher would often say, I am here to help you." And everyone would say, Oh great, the teacher is here for my benefit. The teacher is compassionate. The teacher has already attained liberation, freedom from suffering, freedom from self-limitation. And the teacher only wishes to share the way, the way of enlightenment, of love and of compassion. On the spiritual path, you have to be very strong. You have to be powerful. You have to be impeccable. Otherwise, in this world, you lose attention, you don't succeed. Therefore, it's very, very important to develop your personal power, to develop strong focus. It's important in your life to develop your power, your strength. Because if you can't deal with the difficulties of the subtle physical world, of the socio-economical situation of of your country. If you're pushed down by these things, if you don't have the power to be strong, then you'll lose so much energy that you won't be able to meditate well. So in this world, there's many pressures, physical and subtle physical pressures that make it difficult to be on the spiritual path. There's the psychic realm. Everybody in your town, in your country, everybody in the world, human, boring, physical thoughts. And those thoughts are like a psychic ceiling. You want to go up into the blue sky, but something's holding you down. There's all of these psychic impressions from everybody about what life is like and what you can do and what you can't do. And you have to have a very, very strong focus and power to break through that. But then there's also physical things in your life. Like if your physical life is out of balance, if you spend too much energy on physical things, If you have like an old broken car, right, and you're driving somewhere and you're always worrying that your car might break down, that means that your life is not really balanced enough, it's not strong. You lose energy worrying about the car breaking, or you lose energy worrying about money. You have to get your physical life in balance. These kinds of pressures, the psychic ones and the physical ones, in order to overcome them, it requires power, personal power. And then you're able to push off these pressures and then be very, very successful in your spiritual practices. But if you have imbalances, it really smashes you, it squashes your spirit. These are considerations of the warrior. In this world, you have to be a spiritual warrior. You're fighting against the darkness of the world for light. So we've spoken last time about the warrior caretaker personality. It is a means of attention to transform your personal power. And it's something that needs to be really in the forefront of your attention on a daily basis. So, when I teach about the caretaker personality of the warrior, it's not just, oh, an interesting idea, and think about it for a little bit, and then just kind of go and do life being yourself. actually a very important principle of practice in our school, that you develop this attention of a warrior, this powerful attention, this attention that has a strong intent, the intention intent. The intention to be impeccable, to be powerful, to develop yourself in inner ways where you're able to deal with life constructively, and outer ways, so that you balance your physical the intention of a warrior. It is not playing around, not taking it lightly. Our power to break through the heaviness of this world, the physicality of this world, is a life and warrior. Our ability to make our lives balanced, to afford a car, to afford the lifestyle we need, it's not just an idea, it's something that is a life or death matter to a warrior. So we must develop this intention because if you're wishy-washy about, well I don't know, I got like these obvious problems in my life, but they're just kind of there and I don't care. If it's not a life or death matter to you, then you'll allow those things to just drain your energy and take you down. But if it matters to you, you'll say, well I know I lose energy doing this thing. I know I lose energy because I don't have this situation. And if it's a life or death matter, if you're a warrior, then you will achieve it. You'll get past what blocks you and you will achieve what you need. If you go into a karate dojo and you are on the mat acting the way you act with your friends, you will get corrected by your sensei, but you'll also notice that you're not successful at actually doing karate if you have the wrong attitude. You'll notice that if you're thinking about poetry, your heart chakra, your attention will not be the right attention for that experience. So you need to change. You need to change into the warrior's attention on the map. You might be sitting there right before the dojo, talking to friends, having tea, having a good time. But then as soon as you get on that mat, you have to change. You're changing into the warrior's attention. That's why we practice martial arts, because I remember I did Kung Fu for 12 years, since I was a kid. And then I started doing Shotokan karate. And in Kung Fu, you know, you develop a lot of power and stuff, but in my school we didn't really work on the warrior retention. Maybe it came over time. But when I got into Shotokan, I walked onto the mat, and I, you know, had a lot of martial arts training and everything, but I noticed something different. They really focused on the warrior attention. They like get serious when they start class. And then when you're sparring with someone, they're making a face. They're really making a face. They're putting themselves into that character, that caretaker. And in Kung Fu, we never did that. We were just like, okay, we're doing stuff, just look normal. But in Shotokan, one of the things that's foremost, forefront, even as a white belt, you start getting that attention. You start looking at the other black belts and seeing how serious they are when they're sparring, the look on their face, their attention. It's the forefront of their practice. We need to make the warrior the forefront of our practice. Not that we're going to be sitting there making strange faces at people all the time, but we're going to hold inside, in our mind and in our heart, that warrior attention. It has to be the forefront of our practice, because you need to have greater impeccability, greater personal power, and the warrior develops impeccability and personal power. So when I was starting Shodokan, I noticed, you know, I was a white belt, but I noticed all the black belts were very serious and I was like, oh, I have to start actually having that attention. By seeing them, I was actually, you know, motivated. I was impressed by their attention. And so I said, Oh, I want to be like that. So I remember I was doing a practice, Samba Kumite, with a brown belt actually. And she was standing there so strong with this intense look on her face. So when we were doing the practice, I was like, okay, I'm really going to try. I really wanted that attention and I really wanted to be powerful and cool like that. And then, so we're doing the practice back and forth, and then she bursts out laughing at me because I'm making like this really serious face. I'm all like, I'm making just some strange... I'm trying to have my warrior face, you know? But maybe I overdid it. I was new and enthusiastic. So, during the whole exercise, she was trying to be serious, but she kept on just breaking out in laughter every time she looked at me. So, lawyers are not without humor. When you're a warrior, you're serious. You're trying to really take your life to a more positive direction, and it's important. But at the same time, you gotta laugh. You gotta see the funny things that happen on the way. Warriors have great humor. Being a warrior, developing the caretaker personality of the warrior isn't something that just happens So we talked about Being a warrior and then we talked about great warriors powerful warriors fighters martial artists, right? But we actually bring this into our lives into our work into our play We change our caretaker personality to this spiritual warrior and we live that way. That's why I say bring it to the forefront of your attention. And it's not that you go to work and act the same way you act in a karate dojo. It's not that you sit with your friends and you act like you're on That would be very strange. So, the way that you act outwardly for a warrior has many different ways. You could be with your friends and be a warrior. And you'll have a good time. You'll laugh and everything. But inside, you're not there to waste energy. You're not there to waste attention. You're there to have camaraderie, to have power together. You're there for your spirit to become stronger. That's what a warrior is. With your family, you're not there to waste energy. You're not there to do what most families do, which is kind of like ride the social energy. You're like, no, I want my family to be stronger. A warrior uplifts their family. They make their family better, stronger, happier, more successful. So being a warrior doesn't mean that you act like you're doing karate everywhere. It's inside. It's inside. Your attention in your heart, in your spirit, takes on the quest to have perfect impeccability in all matters of your life. The warrior goes into work and says, how do I gain power here? You might act very friendly, smile at everybody, be the nicest person in there, on job, but inside you're a warrior and you say, what do I need to do to get hired? Oh, I need to do this. I have to be impeccable here. I need to get that promotion. I need to leave that job and get a better job. The warrior looks at it like that. The way you act on the outside, like smiles and giggles, but the warrior is inside. You need to look at your relationships that way. If you have relationships, obstacles, it's a matter of life and death for a warrior. You say, am I just going to sit here in this relationship and lose energy? No, I have to fix this. I have to fix this. If it's family, I've got to get to a place where I'm powerful and balanced and where I'm able to assist and help my family. You have to, otherwise you waste too much Relationships, family, these are places where you lose tremendous energy. So you have to look at it as a warrior. Life and death situation here. I've got to fix this problem with my mom. These are very powerful karmas that take a lot of energy and have a lot of limitation on spirit. So you have to say, I've got to elevate this relationship with my mom, or my wife, or whatever, or my brother. I have to become strong and powerful so that then I can be of some use to them. People tend to get stuck in their karmas. They just sit there milling about their karmas up and down, losing tons of energy. That's what people do. But a warrior changes it. A warrior must change it. Otherwise, you're kept down. The warrior has to become powerful, balanced in all of your relations. And then you have the power to uplift the people that you love, the people in your family. But if you don't do it, then you'll never have the personal power to step forward in the spiritual path. study the attention of warriors. Warriors from history who have fought great battles maybe, or maybe we study the attention of warriors we see in films. We study the attention of great black belts, senseis, and we bring that into our spirit. Our spirit fights like a warrior. Not the enemy, not the other guy on the battlefield, but you're really fighting for light in your experience of life. You're fighting to get a greater personal power in your life. So we can take a look at General Tsao. General Tsao, he's like, I need to have the best chicken recipe. It's going to be world famous. Ah, what's more famous, General Tsao would win. So General Tsao, known as Tsao Tsao, he went into battle and he had an inferior army, where the size of the army was less. I think the opposing army, they came in on boats, landed on the beach, and then they see the opposing army and it's like twice as big as the amount of his soldiers. And what he does is he burns the boats so that there's no retreat. That's what a warrior does. Imagine if you did that in your life. No retreat. Success or nothing. Success or death. And guess what? He won the battle. Because that's what a warrior does. That's powerful. When you do that in your life, when you say, I must succeed, there's no fail. I must get higher, there's no option. I will do whatever it takes to win. If you have that conviction, you will get higher, you will find balance, you will get more personal power, and you will find yourself in much higher states of mind. sloppy, your attention is sloppy. A warrior's attention is powerful and definite. Or hundreds of years ago in China, there was a woman warrior, Ni Xiaoyu, and she was a a martial artist. She had martial arts training. And she had a baby. I don't know, maybe one year old or something. And she lived in a city that came under attack by a very large army. And the army was going to sweep through the city, and they were burning down buildings and everything. So she said she had to keep her baby with her, and then she had to fight. So she had a sword, and she had her baby. She's like, okay, I gotta go fight. So she ended up fighting and joining the defense army of the city and then leading the defense army, leading them to victory. So she's sitting there fighting a giant force that's sweeping through the city and she's sitting there holding her baby and fighting. I like this. So this is a good warrior for a mother to think about. You're like, I have to be a warrior for my kids. I've got to be strong for them so that they can survive. That feeling inside is a powerful So there's many, many stories of warriors. And from knowing their stories, we can access that warrior attention. Then we bring that into our lives. And we might bring it into making spaghetti dinner for the kids, or whatever. You bring it into every aspect of your life, where you have to be powerful, you have to be successful, where you have to be impeccable. But then you also bring it into the fun things, or maybe the mundane things. You bring the warrior spirit into doing your laundry. I do that, it's very fun. Yeah, I'm like, laundry time. I mean, yeah, you have to have fun with it, too, and have a sense of humor. We'll take a break. Take a break like a warrior.

0:31:14
Running to the door. Running to the door.

0:31:19
Okay, so we'll take a break for about 20 minutes, and then we'll come back and continue.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
