0:00:00
American Buddhist rebel, is that what it is? The story of Rama? And that's a really great book because what she did in that book was she really kind of went through all of the steps in chronological order of Rama's teachings. So she talked to even people who were there before her and she was there way back. And so she was like, OK, well, we met with Rama, and he gave us this teaching. And we met with Rama and had this teaching. So it was this period of time. And that's really awesome, because I was always wondering about that. I had missed the 80s. So I was always like, wow, Usha was in LA in the 80s. I wonder what was going on. So the book's really cool to me because I got to hear about the part that I missed. And it's very cleanly written as well. And as she said, Brahma did say that she would be his biographer. So now for the second half, she went up into the 90s, up until 1990, and that's when the ST2s came in. So now she's going to be writing the second book that goes from when the ST2s got there until the end of Rama's teachings in the physical. And so she had invited me to be the first person interviewed, and I did an interview for her last week, and we recorded it. So all of you will be able to get that interview as well. I think it's pretty cool. But I had more stories to tell. And so she was asking for certain people, she's like, I really want to get people who've got good business stories or really amazing meditation stories or personal interactions with Rama, like going somewhere and doing something special. And I said, I think for me, all those things are pretty normal. Then I said, oh, there's something a little bit unique. I was on the security team. So I got to learn things about martial arts from Rama and security. And to me, that was really my favorite thing to do was being on security. So I said, I have some really interesting stories, I guess, around that. And so then she said, okay, let's give it a shot. And then I did. And then she liked it, so now I'm back for more. Which is just finishing up a few more stories that I had. I was gonna tell three, but I remembered another one on the drive over that I have to tell. It's just such a big story. Okay, so let's see. And then we're gonna have Agni Kala. And I didn't want, you know, I didn't, like when I was talking to Kali, she was saying, yeah, you know, I want certain things. And I didn't like talk to Agni Kala and say what she's looking for. So he'll probably just say whatever. I'm very interested to hear. So Agni Kala is cool. And then we have Mudra. And Mudra did music. I started off doing music, like I remember there was one night where Rama was like, hey, if you do music, stand up, I'm going to give you a special transmission." And I was all, I do music, yeah. And then I got the transmission and then he goes, yeah, we're going to, there's going to be some lessons, we'll do some more music. And I was like, oh, okay, this is really good. And then I started to go, wow, I've played music my whole life, but I really need to focus on learning a computer language. And so I decided after that first empowerment that I wouldn't go forward. I was like, I need to work on this other stuff. So that's what I did. So Mudra will be able to tell some music stories. Should be nice. Let's see, I, we're gonna just do a quick meditation.

0:04:53
Oh, and if we can, you know,

0:04:55
I know we have a jackhammer outside, but if we can just be as quiet as possible for it, that would be good, yeah. Yes, and of course as a very special addition today we have Shiva here who came to meditate with us and came to Came to be a part of this fundraiser. So that's really really wonderful So we're going to meditate just for three songs So let's begin Let's begin. the

0:05:40
the the the so You're my love, you're my love, you're my love You're my love, you're my love, you're my love You're my love, you're my love, you're my love Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, you. you you you you you you you you you you the the the So You're not here. So so so Good morning, Colleen. Good morning. All right. Just to warn you, we have a few Scotty dogs running around and it sounds like we have some construction going on outside, so there might be some noises. Oh, one second, I'm recording this call and I have to turn on that recording. Okay, sure. Let me find that program. I downloaded it and it was really well. Okay. You can get your, or what it's called. Okay. Okay. Yeah. Hold on. Yeah, I have a, I have a backed up recording device right here too. Oh yeah. Yeah. Oh, here it is. One, two, three. Oh, yeah Okay Fantastic. So I I have just a few more stories about my experiences with Rama in martial arts and security that

0:18:57
I'd like to share. And I know last time we had a little interruption, but I think I finished Now, you were talking, because I'm also checking notes,

0:19:08
you were talking about the annex class,

0:19:10
and that the district dean went with him on a tour,

0:19:14
everything went well.

0:19:15
Because I asked you if there was actually a way that you used the closing text. And you just mentioned there were some of the parents from the 80s in the liturgy, but nothing really happened in that culture. In fact, nothing did happen. So that's where I think his language will be used. Did you get the story where Rama was in the Santa Fe area

0:19:41
and there was the disgruntled Native American?

0:19:44
Yes, I got that.

0:19:45
Okay, good, all right, then we're good. So I'm ready to start. Okay, so the story for today starts off with when I was a very angry, passive, aggressive youth. No, I immediately got mad at them. And anytime someone was in a position above me, it always bothered me, and I always just brooded about it, anything that they did, whether it was right or wrong. I had a big chip on my shoulder. That was just the way I naturally was. And then all of that changed when I met Rama, because Rama was, you know, he was the guy in charge. But I, like, once I saw him the first time and I saw the gold light, then I was like, well, okay, I trust this being. So whenever he said to do something, I had no problem with it. But on the security team, there was the head of security who was Hahnemann. And I was like, yeah, Hahnemann's a cool guy until he started telling me to do things. He's like, yeah, okay, yeah, come on, you're gonna show up for martial arts training on Friday night. And I was just like, rah. I was like, I wanna do martial arts. I like training with the guys. It's just that him telling me to do it made me mad. So I would just get mad about anything and everything, and I would just always, you know, I just didn't like the fact that he was organizing things, that he was the one telling the group what to do, and I just had this real big chip on my shoulder. So I just, I just don't like it. Very frustrated. So then what happened was he started to notice that And then he was like why you're why are you all mad at me? I'm all And then I also couldn't like I couldn't like talk things out or express myself So I just couldn't explain it and I would just be sitting there frustrated and mad and So, you know, so then he got mad at me and then we were both mad at each other. But at one point Rama came over and he said, it was one day, I'm sure that Hanuman went over and talked to him about it because Hanuman was really bothered by me being bothered. He said, so, he said, you need to have some extra martial arts. And I said, okay, cool, like what? And then he said, well, we're going to set it up so that you can fight four, five, fifth degree black belts. And I was like, awesome. I was really, really excited about that opportunity. So to me, I was just looking at it as like I get a bonus. Like wow, my teacher's letting me do this really fun, awesome thing. And I thought of myself as an excellent fighter. So I was like, I could beat a 50 degree black ball, so whatever. And I just thought that it was a cool challenge and I thought that I did so good I got some bonus. But looking back at it, I think, you know, I had a problem and this was Ramla's way of giving me a teaching. So we set up three fifth degree black belts, they were senseis of their own dojos. And one other guy, Doug DeWitt, he was a boxer, 92 middleweight champ. So he's a real boxer.

0:24:07
Yeah.

0:24:08
And so I got to spar with these guys. And Rama said, I want you to actually try to really win. You know, he's like, yeah. He's like, go ahead and really show them that you can win. And I said, okay. I was like, this is awesome. Yeah, this is so special for me. So then I went up against a Tioko Shin guy, fifth degree black belt, and I knew their style. So I was like, oh yeah, this is gonna be no problem. So I fought him, and we were fighting for a little while. And then I said, okay, now I have to actually turn it on and really beat this guy. And then when I decided to do that, you know, I got some good hits in because they don't block their face. Anyway, I'm just saying. Anyway, so I got some good hits in on him. And then when he realized it was a serious match, because I was only a first degree black belt, then he was like, whoa. So then he turned it on, pushed me harder. And then it was really tough. It was really, really tough. And even though I was trying to kick him in the face and things like that, he defended. And I couldn't really effectively beat him. So I was like, oh, wow, that was an interesting fight. And it was But then the next guy who was up, the other sensei, he was sitting there watching, so he was like, oh, he's like, okay, this kid's got some chutzpah. And I really thought well of my fighting skills, having been in over 100 street fights and the Guardian Angels and doing martial arts since I was six. And I was a little confused that, you know, when I really pressed that 50 degree black belt that I couldn't beat him. Then the next guy gets up. This guy was a Kenpo black belt, Kenpo karate. And I go fight him and, you know, we warm up on and then I'm like, okay, I'm going to pour it on now. I'm going to beat this guy. And then I tried, I tried to, you know, really get him and I couldn't and he just had a very very very strong defense. Then he tried to take me down but then he couldn't because I had a good defense and then I tried my super special awesome technique that works on everyone all the time which is a thrust kick. But I had a special thrust kick that would knock people down every other time I used it. And then I'm like, I'm going to get this guy with the thrust kick. And I go in with my thrust kick and it just doesn't work.

0:27:02
And I was like, what?

0:27:03
It always works. It didn't work. And then he comes in and he just demolishes me. So I'm flabbergasted because my best technique didn't work and then he comes in with his Kempo multiple strikes and just beat me. And I was like, whoa, what just happened? So then I went to the next fight. The next fight was a Taekwondo sensei, 50 degree black belt. And Taekwondo has very, very, very strong kicking. And I was very strong in kicking in Kung Fu, but Taekwondo makes Kung Fu look silly. So I went in and I fought this guy, and oh wow, I couldn't even get near him because his legs were longer than mine. And he just had this amazing kicking technique. So I couldn't get him, and anytime that I engaged him, he would just beat me with kicks. And so I was like, ah, very frustrated. Then the last guy comes in, Doug DeWitt, and Doug DeWitt, I'm like, okay, he's a boxer, this is gonna be easy. And then so, you know, I start off with kicks because I'm like, he has no idea what's going to happen. I got, I got reach on him with the kicks. And then, you know, every, every time I would kick him, then he would just move in and then I would find myself on the ground. And I'm like, wow. And then I tried to really, really like, you know, hit him hard once. I was like, I'm gonna show him that these kicks are effective, because he would punch me hard. And so I kicked him in the face hard. Didn't do anything to him. I mean, it was like a serious kick, too. Straight side thrust to the face. Didn't do anything to him. And then he knocked me over.

0:29:09
And it was fun.

0:29:11
And I remember later, he was talking to me, he's like, yeah, you know, he's like, I've been in so many boxing matches. He's like, one time I was at a bar and a guy wanted to start a fight with me. And he says to the guy, what are you gonna do, hit me in the face? He's like, that's my job. So that's why, you know, I really gave him a hard kick and he didn't even flinch. And then I was on the ground. So I loved that experience. I loved being challenged in fighting because I hadn't been challenged in fighting for years. And I thought that the training was amazing. But I also noticed that after that training that I just changed. After that training, when Hahnemann on the team would say something, and he was still mad at me, so he was still simmering, when he was saying, okay, we're going to do this, I just noticed I didn't have a problem with it. And then I noticed with my manager at work, who I was always angry at, just brooding about anything, he told me, oh, he just told me to do some more work. It would always make me mad. And then I noticed at work, too, that when someone told me to do something, I had no problem. And then I went on to another contract and I had a meaner manager and they just didn't make me upset. So in that experience, I really learned that to fight against someone who's stronger doesn't work. It's not profitable. And then I realized, I really didn't have respect for these senseis. I was like, I can beat them. I was just like, oh, he's the 92 middleweight champ? I could beat him. I just thought I could beat all these people. And then when I saw in my experience that I couldn't, that I could put my best effort into it, I could try my hardest, and that it wasn't profitable, then I was like, wow, these senseis are, you know, they are senseis for a reason. This guy's the middleweight champ for a reason. And my manager at work is my manager at work for a reason. And head of security is head of security for a reason. And so I started to respect positions of power. And instead of fighting against them, instead of getting mad about them, enraging against the injustice of someone telling me what to do. I started to kind of play ball. I became a good team player. I appreciated the positions of leadership and a really important lesson for me that was very special, because no one else on the security team got to have such a special lesson. And I thought that it was like, oh, I'm being rewarded. But after that, I just realized, oh, wow, I learned something. And I was having a problem with Ponemon. And then Rama gave me this lesson, and I actually came out of it changed.

0:32:55
I think it's culturally cool because he had to, someone had to pay for all this stuff just to show up. Sorry, earlier. Just to show up to give you that lesson. Someone had to arrange it. I mean, I agree that it was a really special lesson. It's all part of this amazing... I love this story because it just shows you, to me, it just shows what Robert would do to help the students. Because you know, this passive aggressive thing is hard to change. I know people who have it and it's very, it's really deep in them. And you said regarding what it feels like. And he just put you, you know, he was working on you this whole time. You know, he wasn't whatever, it was the movement of the state of mind. He was just whacking us.

0:34:12
Yeah.

0:34:13
So, tell me a little bit more, obviously, you're saying, oh, the pressure of evidence, you've changed.

0:34:21
Did you, after it was all over, pick up on any of that? I mean, did you even, in a moment, feel... how did your head feel right after all that?

0:34:32
Yeah, I was very, very excited and very high-feeling about the whole assignment. I was a little bit struggling with the fact that I couldn't beat these guys when I thought I should be able to. But then afterwards, I was just like, wow, that was cool. I was just really happy about it. But I just didn't have in me anymore after that, the passive aggressiveness towards leaders. And I actually had, I had respect for leaders. So just that experience changed me. The whole time I loved that opportunity. It was, yeah, it's true. It's like, it was very special. Rama set this up for me. I don't know how much it costs to get these senseis and stuff. And it's hard to get senseis to show up. They're like, hey, come over here and fight this guy. It takes some salesmanship.

0:35:55
So yeah.

0:35:57
Yeah, I was just very excited about the opportunity and just by doing it, I was definitely transformed. You're a great steward. Yeah.

0:36:08
I was a good one.

0:36:10
I wrote a stand full of romans for you. Yeah.

0:36:15
I was a very good one.

0:36:17
I just got it. My next story is another story, a very important lesson for me, and it was a story of healing. So Rama, we all knew, was a master healer. And one day he healed me. I think it was during a jiu-jitsu match in 1996. I was wrestling. I was more of a punching and kicking fighter, but I was learning Brazilian jiu-jitsu. And I was wrestling with one of the guys in the dojo, one of the strong fighters, and he injured me during the match. And he injured me badly, first my shoulder and neck, and then after my shoulder and neck, then he injured my lower back. And I was trying to tap out. I was like, okay, I give up. And then he double injured me. So it was a really tough injury. I was like limping and my shoulder and neck were really tight and I couldn't train after that. I was definitely out because of this injury. So about three weeks later, I went to see Rama at the meditation seminar. And I was on security, so I was waiting in front for him to pull up. He pulled up, and then we started walking in together. And I'm sitting there with my shoulder up a few inches and limping on my other leg. And then Rama said, what happened to you? And I said, oh, yeah, I hurt myself training. And then he said, oh, okay. Then we went inside and then we meditated and he gave a Dharma talk. And then at the break, he came back over to me. And he said, so how did you get injured? And I was explaining the technique that the guy did to me. And then then Rama said, No. He said, You never get injured from from a physical movement. He said, You got injured because of bad energy. And I was like, What? I saw No. He took my arm and he went like this. And then he's all, no, no, no. He said, there could be a black belt, maybe it's even a fifth degree black belt, who's 10 times better than the guy you fought. And he could do the same moves on you and beat you in the fight, totally submit you, but he wouldn't actually hurt you. He said, so the reason you got hurt was bad energy. And I was like, oh, okay. And then he said, yeah, so he said, yeah, so observe that when you're going to fight someone, he said, first observe their energy. If you can see and understand their bad energy, then you won't be fighting with your eyes closed. Then your energy will be able to match their energy. And if you're able to see and match their energy, then you're able to defend yourself. But if you're only looking at physical technique and you haven't assessed their energy, if they have bad, harmful energy, then that's where you can get injured. And then I was like, okay. And then he also mentioned, he said, also observe that in the workplace. And that was something that at the time I was suffering in work. In work on Wall Street, I had a string of horrible managers. They were mean, and they were nasty, and they were just scary and oppressive. So I had these managers who were always yelling at me and other people, but they always made me feel horrible, and I always couldn't deal with them. So they would just give me a hard time, and then I'd be all like, oh, and I would feel very bad. So when he said, observe it also in the workplace, I was like, oh, okay, I'll do that because I'm definitely getting injured at work. I felt like I was stressed and beaten down every day at work. So then he said, when we were walking him out back to his car after the meditation seminar, he said, you know, if you take a hot shower and you get the hot water right there where the pain is, that's really good for solving the injury. And I said, I have tried that. He's all, try it again tonight.

0:41:59
No.

0:42:00
No.

0:42:01
No. No.

0:42:03
I was like, okay. So then I went home, took a shower, turned on the hot water, let it

0:42:03
go on my neck, my shoulder, and my back, and then I was fine. That did like nothing. And I was like, okay. And then I went to bed, and then the next day I woke up, and the next the injury was totally gone. This was an injury that I had, that it changed, it didn't heal, it healed maybe about 5% over three weeks. So it was like one of those really tough, long injuries. Oh, I had also gone to a chiropractor and an acupuncturist and very little help from them. So when Rama said, try hot water, I was just like, what? Okay, whatever. But I tried, you know, I was like, he said to do it, so anytime Rama said to do something, I said, I'm doing it, whatever it is, right? So he said, hot water, and I said, okay. And then the next day I woke up and the pain was totally, completely gone. And I was like, okay, like that was amazing. That was definitely Rama's healing. And then I started to observe when I would go to the dojo, like when I set to fight someone, I just would kind of say, okay, what's this person's energy like? And I would observe when they have bad energy. And then I started seeing that there were certain guys in the dojo who had really bad energy. And I was like, wow, I never noticed that before. So then when I would spar with them, being aware of that, I was able to counter their bad energy and my sparring with them improved greatly, both in me not being harmed, but also I was able to beat them because I was observing that dimension of practice. And then the one that was even more, I mean, so that made me a better martial artist, but what was even more meaningful for me was work. So when I was at work, my mean manager, he would come over to me and yell at me and just give me a hard time like usual. And when he came over and started doing that, I was like, what is his energy like? And I said, no, that's the bad energy. That's what Rama was telling me. And then all of his yelling and all of his meanness, all of a sudden didn't hurt me, didn't make me feel bad, didn't shut me down, and it always had before, but just observing bad energy woke something in me to defend against it. And it just didn't hurt me anymore, it just didn't bother me at all. I was just recognizing bad energy, and then I said, okay. He yelled at me, now he's gone, and now I'm just gonna do my work. So since then, any other job that I had been to, where a co-worker or a manager got frustrated or mad with me, if it was any time an energy that was not constructive, sometimes people got frustrated and it was actually constructive. And so I would listen and I'd be like, yeah, this is hard, and I would go on. But any time that it was negative energy from someone, I recognized the negative energy and then I never had a problem with getting any limitation or suffering from it. So that was a very, very important teaching for me as well. Now, you mentioned, did we ever have a problem on security? And I started to tell the story of where we had a security issue. We never had a problem on security. Security always went well, because Rama said, if you do security right, there's never a problem. If your security attention is right, there's never a problem. So we never had a real problem. But it was during the book signings, the tour with surfing the Himalayas, we went across, I think, six or seven or eight cities, and we're coming up to Boston, and the book signing was going to be in a bookstore in a mall in Boston. And this was, we somehow found out that there was a big organization against Rama. They were thinking Rama was a cult leader and they wanted to come to this book signing and shut him down. So they found out that he had a book, they heard that he was doing a book tour, they found out when he was coming to Boston, so they were organizing a group of people to protest at Rama's book signing. So somehow we found out about this. Hanuman found out. So he was our intelligence. And we were talking to Rama about it. And Rama took us out. It was after a meditation seminar, and he took us out and we went to a frozen yogurt place. And we're sitting there eating frozen yogurt, talking, and then so, Hanuman's like, yeah, so we, this is gonna be an issue. They're gonna be sitting there. We don't know how many of them are gonna be there. And they're gonna have signs and they're going to just kind of make this a bad situation. And then Rama's like, yeah, that's why we're here at this frozen yogurt place. And we're like, why? And he's like, because you guys are going to have to be frosty. That was cute. But the And so then Rama devised the plan. Rama said, well, if they're organizing, and they're definitely going to be there, there's a little part of the art of war that they left out. And then we're, OK, what? And he's like, if you can't beat him, join him. And we're like, what? And then Rama says, OK, here's what we're going to do. So he devises this plan. We're going to have not only security there, but we're going to invite as many of the students in the New York area to come up to the Boston book signing, and then we would play out his plan. So when we got to the book signing, we're in this mall, and we're all just kinda hanging around, just in the mall area, and then we see, before Rama got there, we see the protesters come. And there was about 20 protesters. And they are all holding these, we don't like Rama signs. They don't say why, they just don't like him. And so they're standing outside of the bookstore waiting for Rama to get there. And they're just kind of milling around chatting. And then we have some security at the bookstore. I was at the bookstore and we had some security meeting Rama outside, picking him up out of a limo to walk him in. And there was only a front door entrance available to us, so he had to walk right past the protesters. So this was like, you know, this is a serious situation for us because we actually had, you know, group of people who are mad at our teacher. And we never had that before. So being being next to the protesters, I was supposed to, you know, kind of watch them make sure they didn't have any weapons or, you know, they weren't going to be attacking or anything. So I was just waiting there. And then Rama comes walking down and the processors see him and then they immediately put up pull up their signs and they start playing Start yelling at Rama. They're like, you're bad You're a bad man. So they started just yelling at him and then in about In about 10 seconds after they started yelling then all of a sudden, it seemed like the whole mall came right on over, which was all ST2s. And then there was like 150 of us, and we stood right next to them, and we pulled out all these signs that said, free Tibet. And so they're all like, they're like, what? And so we drown them out. And then of course, security was watching them very carefully. They were just confused. They were just like, what is happening? And then Rama goes into the book signing and then, you know, they wanted to go in too, but then we crowded the door with, free Tibet, free Tibet. And then they're just like, hey, we can't even go in and yell at them. And we're all like, yeah, free Tibet. And we were so loud and noisy that eventually the mall security came and then they said, if you don't disband, you're going to get arrested. And so we're all, okay, we're out of here. But then they also left because they didn't want to get arrested. So I thought that was really the first and only time where we had a situation devised this really fun and funny way to diffuse the situation. Okay, one last story, and one of my favorite. This was, I think, maybe the third time I was in the Anza-Borrego Desert on a desert trip. And this is when we had already, we used to live in San Francisco and we all moved to New York and then we were going to do a winter solstice desert trip. So flew out from New York, went to the ends of Bravo and security was waiting for Rama to arrive. We had a meeting point in Yaki Pass. And then what happened was this car of SC2's show up and this gal comes out of the car and she says, we have a situation. hiking during the day and there was like three of us hiking up in the mountains and we lost somebody. I'm like, what? You lost somebody? What do you mean you lost somebody? Yeah, we were hiking together and then all of a sudden, you know, there's two of us walking together and the other guy's gone. So I was like, how far out were you? And they were like, oh, about three miles up on the hill and the trail. And I said, did you look for him? Yeah, they looked for him. So I was like, okay, all right, well, let's bring this up with Hahnemann. So we brought them to Hahnemann. They told him they lost someone. He checked with the rangers, and the rangers decided that they needed to go look for him because it was the winter solstice, and at night it gets very cold. So they were like, okay, the rangers are gonna handle it, they're gonna find them and that was the best they could do. So then Rama came and then we immediately followed him out, went to the gorge and had a beautiful meditation. And everything, you know, like all of my worries of the sky was gone. I was just in meditation. I was like, okay, you know, the Rangers are going to find them pretty quickly. And then we were walking back to the cars at the end of the evening and Rama just was walking with security. And then he stopped for a moment and he was looking at the moon. And so we all stopped with him and we were looking at the moon too. And it was, the moon appeared to be, it appeared to turn from the color white to the color gold. And it appeared to jump around in the sky. So the moon changed into this gold light and was moving around in the sky. And it was just a very beautiful moment. And then Rama said, yeah. After he started walking again, he said, yeah, we look after each other. And then we were all, okay.

0:57:01
And then he got in the car and we all drove back.

0:57:05
When we got back, we checked in with the ranger and the ranger couldn't find, they couldn't find, they sent some people out looking, couldn't find him. So they had dispatched a helicopter to go looking around on the trail, the mountain And so that was it. So I was like, well, what if we go look for him? And Hahnemann said, nah, they'll probably find him. I mean, they have a helicopter. And then I was like, okay. And Hahnemann's like, okay, if the rangers don't find him by the morning, when we get up, then we'll go look. But if we go look in the middle of the night, we'll get lost or something like that. And the rangers are out there, and there's a helicopter and everything, so that's what we should do. So I was like, okay. And this was back when I didn't listen to people. So it was before my martial arts experience. So I was just all like, hmm, okay, fine. But about a half an hour later, and this was late, I mean this was like three in the morning, the gal who had first come to me, she was staying in the same hotel, she knocked on my door and she said, whoa, it is cold out there. It was dropping to like 25 degrees. And she said, yeah, and he was just, during the day it was warm, so he was just wearing a T-shirt. And I was like, ooh, yeah, that's pretty bad. And then so she said, yeah, so I wanna go out and look for him now. And I was like, well, you know, I was like, Hanuman said we shouldn't. I was all, but, you know, but I really understand, you know, he's out there in the middle of the night wandering around and he's cold. So I'm like, yeah. And then I was like, you know, there was this one thing that I still remembered. Rama, after watching the moon for a minute or two, Naram was like, yeah, we help each other out or we look after each other. So I was like, hmm, it seems like to follow that teaching would mean that we don't just wait around. We should go and try to help. So I was like, okay, let's go. So the two who had been hiking with Ajay, Ajay Khanna was the guy who got lost, the two that were hiking with him said, okay, we know what the trail was, so let's just go back to that trail, follow that trail and see if we can find him. So I said, okay, let's do that. So we went there and probably got there about four in the morning, hiked up the trail, and had flashlights and were looking around, yelling for him, just kept going, kept going. And then it started getting lighter. The sun hadn't risen yet, but we were looking around for an hour and a half or so. And then the gal, Amy, she just stopped and she said, I think he's here. She said, I think he's... She just had the sense that he was there. So I was like, where? And then she's like, I don't know, but I think this is where he's got to be. This is where he must be. And I and I was sitting there going, all we could see is these bare, rocky hills with some desert chital or cactus or something. And I was looking around and I was like, hmm. And so it was definitely lighter, but right before the sun was gonna rise. And I looked across at a mountain, at the next mountain over and it was about a half a mile away, I saw a little dot moving. It kind of looked like, you know, salt and pepper, right? And then if there was one piece of salt kind of shaking around the salt and pepper or something like that, it was like this little thing was moving. And I was like, staring across, you know, seeing the mountain, and I was like, God, there's something moving over there. And it's just not moving like normal. It's not like the wind's blowing because other things would move. And I was trying to point it out to the other guys, and then they're all like, I don't see anything. And I said, I'm gonna go check it out. And then they said, how? And it was like, we were on a really steep mountain. And I said, I'm very sure-footed. So I ran down the mountain, then I ran up the mountain, and then sure enough, it was him. He was, where I had seen on the mountain, he was this little speck. And then I got up to where it was, and I saw him walking around, not on a trail, just wandering around the mountain. And I was like, Ajay! And he's all like, Hey, are you lost too? And I'm like, No, I'm here, I came here to find you. And he's like, Oh, okay, good. He's like, Do you know how to get back? And I'm like, Yeah, come on. So So then we walked back down, we met the other guys, and Amy brought a jacket for him. He was really cold, but he kept moving all night, so that kept him alive. So he didn't injure himself or anything. So he ended up being just fine. He said that he saw some flashlights looking around for him on one mountain, so he went towards it, but by the time he got there, they weren't there anymore. The helicopter came over to him, and he was like, you know, hey helicopter, and they just, they put the, they had spotlight on him like a couple times, and they just didn't even recognize him. Because it's hard, like it's hard to see even during the daytime there, because everything looks the same. And so, even though the helicopter went over him twice, and even with the spotlight, they didn't see him. And so he was just like, wow, you know, I figured people were looking for him. But he just, so he just kept on moving, you know, trying to follow the lights, and then he thought that he knew the way back and got lost more and and then finally we

1:04:29
found him.

1:04:30
And so, you know, so we're like, yeah, we found him. That's really great. And then then then that night we went out again to the desert. And in the middle of Rama's Dharma talk, Rama said, All right, so last night, some guy got lost. And, and then, you know, three people went over to help them to save them. And then Rama said, Okay, so the three people who did that come, come up, come to the, you know, come up in the middle, we were in a kind of a big circle around Rama. And he's like, come up to the middle of the circle. So we came up, and then Rama, he put his palm on our foreheads one at a time. And when he put his palm on my forehead, the first thing I noticed was it was so warm. It was very, very warm, a very pleasant warmth. And then my next sensation was that the warmth was penetrating my third eye, but it was a white light. And then the light was getting really bright and intense, I kind of freaked out and I opened my eyes and it was still there, the white light. And then I freaked out even more. I was just like, oh my God, what's happening? And then Rama finally stopped. And I was like, okay. But amazing experience to see the light so tremendously, and even to open my eyes and the light doesn't go away. And it felt like Rama was doing something to my third eye, like some kind of change to my third eye. And said, Yeah, so these guys, you know, they, right after meditation, last night, just didn't didn't go didn't go to sleep. You know, they went out, they looked after someone, and that's what we ought to do in the sangha. Yeah, so that was really great. And then Oh, yeah, and then Rama Rama said that we were heroes for doing that.

1:07:41
It was really great.

1:07:42
And just to end the story, we met with Rama again back in New York when we had returned. And Rama said, yeah, what you guys did was really, really great. And we were happy about that. And then right after meeting with us, And we were happy about that. And then right after meeting with us, he had a meeting with security. And then he said, security, you should have been with this guy because he did the right thing. What?

1:08:16
Go to meeting, stop.

1:08:17
Okay.

1:08:18
My story is almost over.

1:08:19
And what time is it?

1:08:30
Great, thank you. Okay, good, very good.

1:08:42
and he's not gonna look after each other. Yeah, and he said,

1:08:45
we never leave each other behind. Yes.

1:08:48
Okay.

1:08:49
Yeah, and then he also said

1:08:50
that he would give us a special blessing.

1:08:53
Dholmacheik just reminded me that what he actually said was,

1:08:56
well, he's gonna give us a special blessing. And that's when he touched us on the forehead.

1:09:00
And I was like, wow, that was a very special blessing.

1:09:03
But again, so after that we went back to New York and then with security, he met with us, the same three that went and found Ajay, and he just said, yeah, you guys did the right thing. And then he just looked at us for a little while. And then right after that, there was another meeting with security and he said that, he pointed out that I made the right decision for security. He was like, he said, hey, all of security should have done what this guy did. And then Hahnemann was like, man.

1:10:19
He was like, well, no, just kidding.

1:10:21
He was like, he told me that was a really good move, he did the right thing and that's what all of security should have done. So, so ends the story, but it was for me one of the most amazing, highest experiences to have that blessing on the winter solstice. And I have a lot more security stories, but I think these are some of the most interesting ones. And I think my time is up. Is Agni Kala online?

1:10:59
No.

1:11:00
Okay. And what time? It's still about 15 minutes to go.

1:11:03
Oh, yeah.

1:11:04
I actually perfectly okay, I'm going to just stop for a second here.

1:11:05
What I'm going to do is hang up and see if I can get a little bit of a break.

1:11:06
I'm going to stop for a second.

1:11:07
I'm going to stop for a second.

1:11:08
I'm going to stop for a second.

1:11:09
I'm going to stop for a second.

1:11:10
I'm going to stop for a second. I'm going to stop for a second. I'm going to stop for a second.

1:11:13
I'm going to stop for a second.

1:11:14
I'm going to stop for a second.

1:11:15
I'm going to stop for a second.

1:11:16
I'm going to stop for a second. I'm going to stop for a second.

1:11:17
Okay.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
