0:00:00
Thank you. Oh, so so the Oh, you so so so ♪♪ ♪♪ the the the the so the the the the so so so so Alright, we have two minutes. One minute.

0:12:09
So again, please be quiet if you can. Have your dogs hushed, say shh, they'll listen.

0:12:30
So, I'm just going to hear it ring when it starts, or are you guys going to tell me when it starts?

0:12:38
That was a nice meditation.

0:12:56
In that meditation, I was going through a lot of the dimensions of teachings that Rama

0:13:02
gave me in martial arts and security. So I think that this interview will be about martial arts and security. Cause when Kali was first asking me, she's like, can you recommend ST2s for the interview for the book who've had like experiences in business or meditation or certain things with Rama. And I was like, yeah, and I recommended some people and I'm like, I've had, I don't know if my experiences in all those meditations and business are all that exceptional, but one place that is a little bit unique is there wasn't a very big security team and I was on the security team.

0:14:24
So I was like, I could talk about that.

0:14:27
That's probably what I'll talk about.

0:14:29
And oh, what an experience it was. Hello?

0:14:32
Hello there. Hi, Colleen. Hi. I just heard a lot of barking. Oh, okay. That's good. There's a couple Scotty dogs around. All right. Okay. So you can hear me okay?

0:15:09
Well, I can hear you and it sounds like you can hear me. We are in Skype, so this is great. Sometimes Skype doesn't even want to pick up an access code, but it did. So we're all good.

0:15:23
All right.

0:15:24
That's great.

0:15:25
Fantastic. Yeah. Is it okay time now still for you to talk?

0:15:29
Yes.

0:15:30
This is excellent.

0:15:31
Okay.

0:15:32
All right.

0:15:33
I am so excited, I'm so pleased that book two is starting with this conversation that I haven't really planned out. I don't have a ton of questions in advance, but I know where I sort of... I just know that this is what I want to talk about in a broader sense, if it's okay, Sombar. My sense of between the time the last book ended, which was 1989, and I purposely ended it when he had a meeting with a bunch of, obviously, ST1s, and I was not in that meeting. He told people that they were his mandala and they were teachers and he was going to be passing it on, everything to them. One of my friends who was there in this meeting who said it was really not, most of the people that she thought would have been in the meeting were not there, but what happened was he gave everybody an assignment. And it was a dreaming assignment, it was another few things, everyone was supposed to come with a pretty fully developed idea or engagement with this. And she said what happened is when the meeting was held a week later, nothing, nothing had, almost no one had taken it up or taken it seriously. And to me that was obviously not a good result. And I mention this because since I ended, I didn't mention this, but I'm not going to. I had already decided in this book, any book I write about Rama will always be sharing what he taught and not necessarily what the students did. That's just too different. That's his life, right? He was a teacher. It's not the students' life. So, but I feel like that was perhaps a little bit of many turning points for him, where he just knew that he wouldn't be, and I think there were many, but that when you, the next group of people came along, the ST2s, quote unquote, I just feel it was stem to stern on Rama's part, a desire and wish and ability and seeing to teach in all different ways. And not allow whatever, just be different, just try the whole thing, enlightenment. Take two. Enlightenment. Make enlightenment real and available in a different way than he did with us, because that's my premise, and I don't know if it's true or not, but I'm going to learn. And I also want to mention to you that I did not know almost anything that I wrote about in Book One. It was all gained by talking to people. Rick Oh, wow. Jodie Yeah. No one was always around Rama. He always had certain... well, he was teaching at different times, and every time I started a new year on that book, it was like a new book, because I would go through the whole intense experience of shaping that year, you know, who was there, and what do you do, all that. And then I'd finish that year, and the chapter would come to a close and then I knew everything the next year would be different. I hope I'm not talking too much, but I want to just say that just like everything else is different, I see book two is different. I just see it much more impressionistic. It's not going to be linear like Book One. Book One was good being linear, but I don't see Book Two being, well, he did this in this year, and this in this year. I just would love a profound, like a mandala of impression. All right. And I think that is sort of Book Two. Okay. That's how I see it.

0:19:59
Sounds really great.

0:20:02
So I was definitely in Rama's ST2 program, career development, also our business yoga projects. I was in Client-Server Connection. I was one of the more successful salespeople there. I had a successful computer programming career. So, you know, I kind of did a lot of the things that all the ST2s did, but I think the place where I might be a little bit different than most is that I was on Rama's security team, learning martial arts from Rama and security is something that, you know, there were fewer people. At one time, when we first moved to New York, there was about, Rama said, hey, of all USC2s, how many of you are black belts? If you want to get on the security team, I have a program where you can learn about martial arts and security. At that time there were, I think, about 23 or 24 students who were black belts, but the team whittled down to six black belts, and it was all ST-2s. So there was a kind of a transition of learning. So the core team of Rama's security for a while included Hanuman and Yana, Mordi, and these were the first generation of security, but it ended up being an ST2 team, which was me, Gary Domingo, Agni Kala, Isis, Angela Jamison, and Jose De La Rosa. So that's what it ended up being. And we all got the full training all the way through the end. So I of my stories about martial arts and the security team might be something that I have a little bit of a unique perspective on. Okay, great. Okay. So, should I just start there.

0:23:14
And let me just say to you that, and I know you'll do this anyway, but as you talk through it, I think it's the insights that you gained on how Rama was teaching, as well as what you specifically learned. specifically learn. So, you know, a lot of that is something you can kind of absorb from it, but to the extent, especially now that time has passed, it may be that just certain absolute moments where you just see stuff that pushed you through a certain transit. And I think those, you might be talking about those anyway, but I just want you to know that I'm interested

0:24:08
very much in that perspective. Excellent, yeah, and at any point during my talking, if you say no, tell me more impact, if you wanna know more, say let me know more, what did that mean to you, what did you learn from it? So just stop me at any time if you want to know, if you want to look into it more. Okay. All right. So I started off with E.Y. Lee, a teacher of Kung Fu, who was also a student of Bruce Lee, so I also learned Jeet Kune Do. I trained Kung Fu like crazy. Definitely, on school days, at least six hours a day. I would cut class with my friends and do Kung Fu. So we trained really, really, really hard. At the age of 16, I grew up in the Sunnydale Projects in San Francisco, a very bad neighborhood. My brother and all my friends started getting into gangs. So I was like, oh, okay, I could join the neighborhood gang, but somehow I was attracted to not going into a gang. And I had heard about the Guardian Angels. I think I saw, no, no, I remember. I heard a, it was a radio show just mentioning that they were in San Francisco. And I heard just very little bit about them, that they were a safety patrol that goes around trying to help people. So I wanted to check it out more. So I left my bad neighborhood, went to a different bad neighborhood, and I met with the guardian angels there, and I was very interested in that. I realized that I had been doing martial arts for ten years, and instead of using it in a gang, I decided that I wanted to use it to help people. So I joined the Guardian Angels, and then three years later, I worked my way up to the martial arts trainer. And then Sue Young joined the Guardian Angels. And she walks in, this very petite, thin, white woman, which was unusual for our trainees or our recruits. And we were all kind of baffled why she was there. But, because she was wealthy, she drove into this bad neighborhood in her Mercedes. And we were like, what is going on. And then, so when she came to the office, we were like, who are you and why are you here? And she said, yeah, I, you know, she's like, I want to join. And we were like, oh, okay. And then she, you know, told us that she had a black belt in Taekwondo. And we said, oh, okay. So we would get a lot of martial artists, a lot of guys, usually. Sometimes we had, we had very few gals, but the ones that came in usually were ethnic and, you know, from a kind of rough background. So she was like, oh, you're a martial arts girl. Okay, that's all right. So she was training with us for about a month and a half when she started talking to me more. And she would always give me this strange look. And I was like, hmm, I'm like, what is, it's like there's something going on with this lady. And then I would do trainings on Sunday nights. I would go up and train the Sacramento Guardian Angels. And I always had to take the bus up there. So one day she said, hey, can I come up to the train with you in Sacramento? And I said, nah. And she said, I'll drive you in my Mercedes. And I was like, whoa, okay. That makes more sense. And then I said, you know, do you meditate? And part of my training was I did meditation an hour a day. And what that was, my meditation was before I would go to bed I would lay down in my bed and watch TV and focus on my navel, and I called that meditation. But it was, you know, but that's what I thought meditation was pretty much, or that was the way I meditated. And then she said, oh, no, no, no. And she started talking to me about how to meditate better. And I was like, okay, yeah, all that seems very, very strong, very, very positive. And then at one point, we pulled over heading up 80 East towards Sacramento. And we pulled over and at the side of the freeway we got out and we walked out into a field and meditated. And that was my first meditation with her. And I felt there's something about this. There's something powerful. So we drive up to Sacramento, we do a training up there, then on the way back, she starts talking to me about the Bhagavad Gita and started talking to me about Carlos Castaneda and all of these things I had never heard of. And it kind of opened in my mind this possibility to just all of these different dimensions of learning. I was very, very interested. I asked her where she learned about all of this stuff and she said that she had an enlightened teacher. And I, for some reason, I guess, you know, growing up in Chinese Kung Fu, I had some great reverence for enlightenment. I really, really, really liked the Buddha. And so when she said she had an enlightened teacher, I was very, very, very interested. And so eventually, we started hanging out on the weekends and started going to Mount Tamil Pius and meditating together. And I was reading her books. She kept giving me books, I never read them, until finally she gave me The Art of War. So that was the first one that I read. I was like, oh, Bhagavad Gita, nah, I'm not gonna read it. Dhammapada, not gonna read it. And then finally, oh, The Art of War, oh, I'll read that one. So somehow that was an interesting one. And that was my first book that opened me up to all the others. Once she said, hey, if you like that one, maybe you should read Journey to Excellence. And I said, all right, I'll give it a shot now. It was tough to get me to read a book. I was one of those inner city kids who like mostly watching TV. So I started really, really reading and getting into the study. And she would start telling me stories about Rama. And then finally she said, hey, something is amazing. Rama is now inviting guests to see him and this is very, very rare. So I was at the first event in the Beverly Hills Four Seasons where ST2s were invited. And I went to that event and I saw Rama for the first time.

0:32:34
And...

0:32:35
Excuse me, but that wasn't the Four Seasons in Beverly Hills? Yes. Did you go down south?

0:32:42
Yeah, this was Beverly Hills Four Seasons, yeah.

0:32:46
Okay.

0:32:47
When I saw Rama, Rama started to meditate. And when he meditated, we were watching him, and I saw this gold light appear. And it was just like the most amazing experience. As soon as I saw that light, then I knew that this was the study I wanted to be involved with, I wanted to commit myself to. After the meditation, and he gave a Dharma talk about enlightenment, he asked if there was any questions from the new guests. And I asked a question. I said, what is this martial arts about? Because I was brought here by one of your students who's a martial artist. We train martial arts together. Isn't martial arts something where, you know, violent and it's something that shouldn't be practiced by Buddhists? You know, I have a confusion about that because I'm really into martial arts. And then Rama said that martial arts was a practice or discipline for enlightenment, not something that takes you off the path to enlightenment. When he was talking about martial arts, he was looking at me and he had this look that seemed to go right through me. Like, not like it was like looking at the wall behind me, but looking completely past, yeah, past myself, what I was presenting on the outside. And it really, the look seemed to be him seeing into my spirit directly. And I felt that. And then he told me that in martial arts you can transform and empower yourself. In his school, it was a primary teaching. And I was so excited. I said, this is the school for me. That's what I was thinking when he told me this. And then he said, then he started talking about Shotokan karate. He said everyone in his school, once they get a black belt in anything, then he puts them into SKA, Shotokan Karate of America. And he talked about how that particular organization had a great purity, had the true samurai spirit. Oshima, the head of SKA, studied with Funakoshi, the founder of SKA. And Oshima had a very, very noble mind. So he said that in the whole organization had the vibration, that pure vibration of the pure noble samurai. So he said, if you ever get a black belt, he said, you should do that. So I immediately was put off because in martial arts there's this whole big, lovely ego thing which is my style is better than your style. And in my Kung Fu system, I did it for many years and I trained very hard and I really, really believed that my Kung Fu system was the superior martial art in the universe. And my Kung Fu teacher was like my guru. I would totally, totally think he was amazing and awesome. So hearing that Rama suggested I should do SKA was like a slap in the face to me. And I was like, oh my god, I can't believe he says that. Because in my Kung Fu system, we always said, oh, karate is so bad. And we made fun of people who did karate, because they're so stiff, and karate is so linear, and it's so simple compared to the great subtlety in Kung Fu. So I was like, wow, I can't believe that Rama is telling me to do this. I thought he was enlightened, and now he's telling me to do something that I've always learned is stupid. Then while I was thinking that, Rama said, I can knock you down with one finger. And that got me to change my thinking. And then I said, I was like, oh, okay. So these are my reactions while he's talking, answering my question. And so he's like, I can knock you down with one finger. And the energy changed and it shifted my attention. And he said, I do this with my black belts. He says, I've done it, everyone here has seen it. I've taken one finger, taken a black belt, and just can knock them right down with chi. And that was a very profound moment. I knew that there were masters who could do this. I had heard of them. I had never seen one. I mean, nowadays you can see them on YouTube, but back then we didn't have that. But I definitely had heard stories and read articles about masters in China who had the power of chi. So when Rama said that he had that, I was like, wow, this is so rare. And I could learn martial arts from this person. And maybe I should really consider Shotokan karate in a different way. So after that I was like, okay, I'm going to learn Shodokan. So that evening, after the meditation, I returned to my hotel. I had a recapitulation And then that night I fell asleep and in my dream, Rama and some of the security guys showed up in a limousine at my hotel. And somehow I knew they were pulling up, so I got up, got out of bed, put my clothes on, went downstairs, and then the limousine door was open and Rama said,

0:40:04
hey, come on in.

0:40:05
So I go into the limousine and Rama was there and there were these security guys who I, I didn't know there was security yet. I just, there were these guys who were wearing tuxedos and they were his black belt, his security. And I sat down next to Rama, he introduced me to them, and they looked really outrageous to me. They looked kind of normal, they were wearing tuxedos, but there was some, I guess, it seemed like there was fire around some of them, and that some of them had weapons, even though they, like giant, like spears and swords, but I couldn't really see them in their hands. There was just a feeling that was there. And it was, and when Rama was telling me that these were his security, I was like, wow, I can sense and kind of feel this power. And then Rama said, all right, he said, so he said, it's good that you're open to doing this show to Con Karate. And then he said, so, he says, I can work with you. And I was like, okay. And he said, yeah, he said, you're going to have a great adventure. And then we drove somewhere, we were driving somewhere in the limo. And then they were coming towards the limo and we couldn't drive away or something somehow. And I said, OK, I will get out and I will fight off the monsters. So I got out to fight off the monsters. And Rama was just smiling and nodding. And I said, don't worry Rama, I can handle this. I've been a guardian angel for three years." And then so I got out and I was facing the monsters and then Rama said, All right, that's very good. And he said, Here, come back into the limo. So I went back into the limo and then after I was in the limo, I woke up. And I've had some dreams in my life that were very lucid and very real to me. But when I woke up, I really, really, really thought that happened. I was like, that really happened. But then I realized, wait a minute, how could it? Now, I guess, yeah, it must have been a dream. So it took me a while to figure out it was really just a dream. It was a very interesting, powerful dream. So when I returned to the Bay Area, I started to train in SKA, and I immediately disliked

0:43:05
it.

0:43:06
So my ego kicked in again. And I was like, oh, this is so stupid and so boring. And I started to get angry about it. And then I went to the next seminar, which was a month later, and I was all mad about having to do SKA. And at this seminar, Rama, during the break, walked over to me. He was with me and my mentor. I was with my mentor. He came over and Su said, Hi, this is Jeff. Rama was like, Hi, nice to meet you. He was smiling, very positive. Then she said, Jeff for years has been training Kung Fu. And then Rama said, well, everyone's got their problems. Then he turned around and walked away. And this drove me crazy. I was like, what? Kung Fu is a problem? I'm like, Kung Fu, oh. So I was having the hardest time because I had a bad reaction to karate and then all of a sudden Rama says Kung Fu is a problem. That was the thing I've been training the most for my whole life. And I was crazy upset. I couldn't figure it out. So during the break I was just confused and wondering about it and thinking about it. And then during the meditation, or when he started giving a Dharma talk again, I couldn't hear him. I was just thinking about how could he say Kung Fu is a problem, or everyone has their problems about Kung Fu. And I was just having the hardest time. Then, I'm sorry to admit, but I was really out of control. I envisioned inside of me, this me running over to the stage like with a, I don't know, what did I have? I think it was like a baseball bat or something. And I was all running to the stage and I was going to attack Rama and so I was like imagining this coming out of me running up and going and about to attack him and I was like when I started when I started to see this me doing that I was like this is inappropriate I'm like, this is horrible. What am I doing? And then and then I also imagined me standing kind of right in front of the stage in front of Rama, and then blocking myself attacking with a baseball bat. And so then for the rest of the night, that's what I did. I don't remember any of the teachings. All I remember is having this horrible struggle of this part of me that is defending. And so I just was battling myself the whole night. And after the event, my mentor Sue said, boy, you don't look so good. And I'm like, yeah. I told her what happened and she's like, wow. She's like, well, let's see if you make it. And I'm like, oh gosh. So then I spent the next month struggling, struggling and struggling and struggling, and struggling, same way. And then when the next opportunity came to see Rama, I, you know, Sue said, so you still want to go? And I said, yes, absolutely. And she was like, okay. She's like, you're not doing so hot, but you can come. And then I got to the next seminar. And then before the seminar, this was in the Beverly Hills Four Seasons. And we were out in the patio, in the garden, and we were just standing around drinking water, Evian. And Rama came walking through and he was saying hello to people. And he came over, just walked past Su and I, and he looked at me, and there was something in that look that was very powerful. Again, his eyes seemed to look right through me, right to my center. And then after my awareness of that deep look or that deep connection seeing, then all of my confusion and all my frustration of martial arts and my self-struggling and fighting and defending, it all just disappeared. It was gone. And then I was like, wow, okay. that is something real. Definitely it was a grace or a blessing from Rama because I myself couldn't handle it and there was just something in that moment that freed me from it. So then during the meditation and the Dharma talk I was able to be at peace and free.

0:49:16
One second, Sambar, I want to ask you just a bit more, because I guess I actually, every now and then this connection gets a little bit strange, and it was when you were saying in that look that there's this huge transit for you, and an empowerment, you said his eyes seemed very, did you say dreamy? A deep connection? I mean to me he just, actually if I were to say what he did is he just totally, totally zapped you with love. That's what he did. But I don't want to put words in your mouth.

0:49:54
But anyway, tell me again, tell me about that love. When it happened, I didn't know what was happening. I noticed that he had a strange look in his eye. It was a very, very still look. And in his gaze, it was just this, in his eyes, there was just this infinity. And yet I felt that it looked beyond the surface of myself, and that that infinity it really did transport me into a very, very high, beautiful place. I just really wasn't too aware. It was just happening to me. And that was all I was aware of. But then after that look and after that stillness, all of a sudden, all of my frustrations were gone All of all of it was done. I didn't I didn't know What it was, but you know he? It was it was it was Rama. It was enlightenment, and it was his his teachings and his blessings And I I recognized that whatever you know I knew Rama was an enlightened teacher, and I was like that is a teaching, you know, really of liberation. So I recognized that, but at the time I was like, what's going on? Wow, just from that one look, but after the look, I saw that there had been a tremendous transformation. So then I, after Okay. So, then I, after that seminar, I said, okay, now Rama has freed me from this, now I'm going to do Shodokan. So, the Shodokan dojo that I first attended was kind of far away.

0:52:26
It was actually in Berkeley, so it was a long way to get there.

0:52:26
And I was like, okay, I'll go back there. But as soon as I got home, I found out that a block away from my house in the rec center at the park, a Shotokan class opened. So I said, wow, that makes it easy. This is right here, right where I live, I can do Shotokan. So I started attending the Shotokan class and I did very, very well. In Shotokan, so a Shotokan karate kata is very short compared to a Kung Fu form probably is as long as 10 of the karate forms. So I learned the forms very, very quickly. And my sensei was extremely into the tournaments. Rama actually had mentioned to me in answering my first question that fighting in martial arts tournaments would be very, very empowering for me. So my teacher was into tournaments and that was something he was very excited about because he saw me sparring. And in the Shotokan class, even when I first walked in, whenever he had me do sparring, I would be able to beat anyone that I was sparring. And then eventually he put me up against, you know, higher and higher ranks. And I was able to beat all of the black belts in the school quite easily actually, because I had a lot of training through Kung Fu. And I also, in the Guardian Angels, I actually had probably over 100 street fights. So I had real fighting experience. And then, that teaches you a lot. And when I was sparring with the black belts, I found it to be pretty easy to beat them. So my sensei was very very excited about that and he promoted me and finally he said, hey you know, this was just about a year into karate studying Shotokan, he said, okay I'm gonna bring you to a tournament and if you can finish in the top three you'll get your black And I said, oh, okay, great. So I was kind of going from yellow belt to black belt pretty quickly. And so I went to the tournament, and I remembered that Rama had told me that tournaments would be powerful for me. So I went to this tournament, and in the tournament, there was about 16 guys in the black belt division. My sensei gave me his black belt to wear because I didn't have a black belt. And then I very quickly won my fights and got up to the last fight for first and second place. And the score was 2-2, and I was doing well and as a last point, I kicked the other black belt clearly in the chest. It knocked his body backwards and the judges said, break. What I hadn't learned was any dojo etiquette. So I thought that I had won. threw my hands up in the air, cheered, I ran over, and I high-fived my sensei, and I started to walk out of the ring. And then the judges yelled at me and told me to come back. So I came back and I was like, oh yeah, okay, so you guys have to say winner, I forgot. And then so I was sitting there, and then they said, you know, call for points, and none of them gave me the point. And I was like, what? I clearly won that. And then on the second, then they said, okay, fight for last point again. And then I came in and I kicked the guy first and he punched me second. And then they said, break. And then they gave him the point and he won. And so I was like, oh my God, he was like so embarrassed. And then after the fight, my sensei said, okay, we're gonna have to work on etiquette in the dojo and what to do. And I was like, why? And he's like, that's why you lost. And I said, oh, okay. So that was the first time where I started to learn etiquette, really. Before that, I thought that any way that I acted was pretty much okay. From that, I realized that Rama had an important teaching for me. It was not dissimilar from my reaction about getting angry about Kung Fu being better than kung fu. So I said, oh, yeah, there's a way to act and a way to be, a way to control your attention and your feelings. And so I really realized from the martial arts tournament that I needed to change my behavior. I needed to change my reactions and my feelings. I saw that reacting poorly just cuts me off from success. So I later talked to my mentor Sue about that. She said, yes, that's great. There's a very, very important thing in the study which is called etiquette and it's exactly learning these types of things. And I had real life experience with this. It was a living teaching of how etiquette matters from my experiences in martial arts with Rama. So a lot of my teachings in martial arts with Rama are teachings like this. They are like me reacting poorly, especially the first ones, the first teachings, very powerful teachings, that they were me reacting poorly and then realizing how it affects me in a negative way and that it matters to focus and try and use my energy to do better. So this was a very, very, very important lesson to me. However, I did get my black belt because I finished in the top three ranks. And when I got my black belt, I was like, okay, cool, you know, that's really good. But I really wanted to get a black belt for a reason. So it was really, I think, on my second seminar where I noticed something was different with my mentor. We were at the Beverly Hills Four Seasons in the ballroom, and the men wore tuxedos and the women wore these beautiful gowns. It was a beautiful formal event, but my mentor wore a tuxedo. She didn't wear a gown. And then she seemed like she was Rama's right-hand man. She was always like next to him, walking around with him. And then I asked her, so what's up with that? And she said, oh yeah, I'm Rama's security. And I said, security? And she's like, yeah, I'm his bodyguard. And I was like, wow, that's amazing, that's so cool. And she said, maybe you could be a bodyguard too someday. And I said, that is what I want. I was like, that would be the most amazing service. And I was really, really into using martial arts as a service. And that's the reason I started in the Guardian Angels. And I said, wow, you know, saving people on the streets is really cool, but you know, if I could be the Buddha's bodyguard, that would be the best thing I could do. It's a place where I've put the most training in my life, where I could be most effective. And I would like to do that. So he said, well, you have to get a black belt. And I said, I could beat black belts. And she said, no, no, you have to get a black belt. That's one of the rules. And I was like, oh, okay. So when I got my Shotokan black belt so quickly, usually takes at least three years to get a Shotokan black belt, but I got it in under a year. Then I showed up for... This was actually... We had an event in San Francisco. I think this was at the Fairmont. And at this event, Rama said, there's a new black belt. I guess Sue had told him. But Rama just said, there's a new black belt and now he's going to be on security. Wow. all of a sudden felt like I was a fraud. I was like, oh, and there's a reason why I felt like I was a fraud. I had been training with a Kempo black belt. He had been training Kempo for 12 years. It took him 10 years to get his black belt. And he was the assistant teacher at his dojo. I and some friends would go there on Saturday nights so that we could do some extra sparring practice. I always listened to him and tried to learn from him, but once I got my Shotokan black belt he put me down. He was just like, what? You've only been doing Shotokan for a year. He's like, you should go to a dojo and get a real black belt. He made me feel bad. So that night during the sparring I beat him. I beat him completely again and again. And I was like, well, you know, I'm just... But he still made me feel bad. But I just beat him to show him I actually know something. And before I was just... I was politely... I was working on my etiquette. I wanted to learn from him. I didn't want to just beat him. But I felt like I was a fraud. I was like, I got a black belt only in a year and I only got it because I won this tournament. So while Rama was talking about me and being a new student who got a black belt, he was kind of saying to his older students, hey, you guys can get a black belt really quickly too. I was sitting there going, oh my God, I feel horrible. I'm a fraud. I'm not legitimate. I don't know why, I was just freaking out. Then Rama said, In martial arts, there are two ways to get a black belt. He said, you can go to the dojo, learn the kata, just go through the program. You don't have to be good, you just have to learn stuff and work on it as hard as you can and eventually you'll get a black belt. You hang around, you keep working on it, you'll get it. You don't have to be a great fighter, you just have to really do the best that you can and you'll eventually get your black belt. But then he said, there's another way to get a black belt. And he said, that's the tournament black belt. And he said, if you, in your dojo, he said, some dojos do this, not all of them. He said, but if you in your dojo are forced to go into a tournament and win as part of your test to get a black belt, he said, then you're a tournament black belt. And a tournament black belt is even more powerful than a regular black belt. And then that totally put me at ease right away. Because I was like, I'm a fraud, I didn't put in the time, other people put in way more time, and I, you know, but I said, and then I was just like, all I did was fight in this tournament, win, and that's how I got my black belt. And then Rama just said that. And I said, I am a tournament, I am legitimately a tournament black belt. And then all of a sudden all of my doubt was gone. And then Rama paused for a while, and then he's all, Oh, God, thank goodness.

1:06:45
So that was very powerful, actually, when he said,

1:06:49
it's just so funny,

1:06:50
because he's sitting there talking, and I'm freaking out, and he always addresses what I'm freaking out about perfectly, and then at the end, he just paused and said, I accept him. I was like, okay, all right, that's good enough for me. That's lovely.

1:07:05
Well, that's the start of that career.

1:07:07
Well, now we're ready to talk about, then, actually what happened once you're on a security team with Rama, and I'm sure there's a ton of things.

1:07:25
Yes.

1:07:26
And tell me how much time you had, because we've only been at this one hour somewhere, so you can tell me how long. I actually didn't know how much time. We could do two hours, it's up to you, or we could do a few different talks. But to me, I think it's very interesting to start to learn, again, some of the really, I think, amazing moments on the security team where you witness all kinds of different interactions that Rama had with people, other people, the team, which I'm sure had its own interesting dynamics, etc. So yeah, I mean,

1:08:07
it's a whole thing here. So yeah, so let's go for another hour, and then if you want to do another session, we definitely can do another session. Okay, perfect. So that was the beginning, and that's what Brought me from the my my world of martial arts onto the security team Once I was on the security team the My my that something changed Meaning that when I would attend seminars Everything was a heightened experience for me. It was much, much more powerful. I don't know how to describe it, but being in service while attending the meditation events brought me to a greater level of attention for meditation and understanding the Dharma talks. And my whole experience was heightened. Rama said that when you're on security, security that he opens up for you many, many more dimensions of awareness. And those dimensions of awareness completely changed my life, completely shifted the way that I saw things. Now there was, at that time in San Francisco, Rama started to have the meditations there, meditation seminars. I was working with a security team. So on this team was later became ISIS, my mentor, Mary Gilbert, and Dharma. So that was our security team. And we started to have weekly Saturday trainings for security. And this is a very, very important aspect of security, is our security trainings. So we would get together, we would work on our security practices and disciplines in martial arts and also procedures and our legal capabilities as bodyguards within the law. an education for me, both in terms of techniques, procedures, but also in the security team, we created a very, very strong network. And again and again and again, inwardly, I would feel that we were this little team that created an energy of protection around Rama. And I would have this inner sense, this inner feeling that when we were at events, it was as if Rama was behind us and we were surrounding him, just to take any kind of negative energy, or actually prepared, not even like we were absorbing negative energy, just that we were prepared for any kind of attack. And this was a very powerful feeling. Rama talked to us on security about this powerful networking that the security team has, and that this powerful networking is something very, very profound. And it's one of the few places, he said, in the sangha where the team actually works together properly. He said, very often teams will fight and be dysfunctional in different projects. He said, but the security team has been successful in actually, in fulfilling their duties in this network. So we really, yeah, we really had a very good positive working and training relationship, and inwardly I felt this amazing, positive, powerful, protective connection working with this team to serve Rama. So that was my second awareness in being on the security team for martial arts, that you can actually work in a group with a team in a very powerful, powerful way. I, all the time at the meditations, had a powerful connection with the team in a force of defense for Rama. And in that, I mean, there was a lot of also subtlety to that, Rama told us, you can't seem like you're on security. You can't be standing there like a guard. He said, you have to tone down your energy. And that was both in the physical and also in the subtle physical or in the second attention. The spirit of the team had to be aware and protective, but not overbearing. So Rama said, I don't want students feeling that they're getting pushed away by security. Security has to be there and present and powerful but there's a subtlety to it where you're not pushing away spiritual seekers who are opening to enlightenment. Otherwise that would close the spiritual seeker off to accessing the teachings from the enlightened teacher. Through that connection with the team, we definitely learned a lot of powerful and subtle ways of working together. So after that small team, we, the SC2s, all moved to New York. So there were SC2s from all over the country, and then Rama centralized us in New York City. And then in New York City, we were under the security lead of all security leads, who was Hahnemann.

1:16:04
And that's when Rama said,

1:16:05
okay, we're gonna bring in every ST2 who's got a black belt. Before that, there were just a few, there was just actually, I think, two of us who were on the security team, me and Isis. And then in New York, there was all of a sudden, like 23, 24 black belts on the team. And it was really fun because we started doing the training together. And we had a lot of fun. It was kind of like a circus a little bit with all the different martial arts styles. But it was a great jubilation of martial arts and networking with new spiritual seekers from all around the country. Now, I had a very, very profound experience with Rama shortly after we moved to New York. It might have been like the third month after being in New York. We were doing classes at SUNY Purchase. And myself and Jennifer Fong. We were security standing right outside of Rama's door before the meditation, about an almost an hour before the meditation. Rama was in his dressing room, his green room. And we were the two standing out front of the door. We had security down the hallway, up at the stage. And then Rama opened the door and he said, hey, he said, come in here for a minute. And we walked in and he said, all right. So he said, let me show you something. And we were like, okay. And he said, he first came over to me and he said, all right, so try to stand strong. And I was like, okay. And then he said, no, yeah, no, really strong. He's like, I'm gonna push some chi into you so that you can feel how chi affects you. And I was like, okay. So he said, be real, real, real, real strong. And I said, okay, I will. And then he touched my stomach with one pointer finger on his left hand and then I felt all my strength leave and my knees buckle and then he said yeah that's Qi. So that was wonderful. It was a really cool experience just because he demonstrated this chi on me. And I, you know, like feeling it is really believing. One time before at a meditation seminar in San Francisco, that's the first time where he actually showed the chi working, that was with Mary Gilbert. He said, it was during a seminar, he said, let me show you guys just a demonstration of chi. And then Mary came up and he touched her with his left hand in her stomach, and then he told her to stand strong. And then she all of a sudden, she didn't fall to the ground, but she buckled over. And he said, that was chi. And it was really impressive to see, but when he poked me in the stomach and did it, I knew from my body that that was true, because I was standing as strong as I could. I did a lot of stance training in Kung Fu, so I had a lot of power in my stance. And he was able to just very quickly take away all of my power and all of my strength. And if he had put a little bit more, I would have been on the floor. And I was amazed and it was really fun and very, very cool. But then he did something even more amazing with Jennifer Fong. He took his one pointer finger on the left hand and he told her to stand strong. And he just put his finger on her forehead and then his finger seemed to go all the way to the ground with her forehead attached to it. So her feet were still planted on the ground and he brought her backwards all the way to where her head touched the ground, but her feet were still planted. And then he brought his finger back up and she was attached to his finger. And then she stood right back up. So that was very strange looking, but it was very, very amazing. Like I was like, wow, that's incredible. In Chinese Kung Fu, they have this thing called sticking energy, or there were stories of sticking energy, and that is that you can touch something with your hand and then raise your hand and it sticks to your hand. So I was like, wow, he did the sticking energy by bringing her back up onto her feet. So that was amazing. And the other thing that she was completely blissed out the whole time. She didn't know what happened, except for she saw gold light everywhere. And she was very, very, very bright and happy after that experience. But it was because he touched her head with it, I suppose. And she was just completely blissed out. So that was a very, very, very beautiful experience. Let's see, so that was very, very pivotal. Rama had the black belts do different types of training. We trained together and he sent us to different dojos. He sent us to this dojo for Shotokan called the Bronx Dojo. There was this sensei, Errol Bennett, who was the famous trainer of the ST-1 security team. And he was a very, very, very amazing karate sensei, but Rama really wanted us to train there. So we all eventually made our way there. It was hard to get into that dojo because he wouldn't just let anyone in. You'd have to go to his 54th Street Manhattan teachings at the YMCA, and then if he liked you, he would invite you to the Bronx Dojo. So we eventually got to the Bronx Dojo, and I was doing this show to con with them and it was very, very strange to me because in the sparring, we went very, very slowly. Sparring was always slow, it's like slow motion sparring. And I was like, you know, doing it for a few months going, what is up with this? I mean, how do you learn? You know, I said, they have a really good attention and they seem really tough, and the ST1s on security always say how great they are, but I'm like, you know, this is just really, really slow and boring. And so I was like, okay. And we learned this really funny way of blocking. There was only one block in fighting, which was basically like tapping whatever comes at you and moving out of the way. And so I and practice and it was very, very, very boring to me. And then, but I was dedicated. I'm not, I'm getting a black belt. I'm just doing what I'm told. I respect it, even though I don't know what it is. And then one day a tournament was coming up and Errol said, hey, we're really into tournaments. Do you want to go? And I said, sure. And we were white belts. So a bunch of us who were black belts in other arts attended, and we fought in white belt divisions and we won. And it was really kind of like, okay, it's kind of fun. And then we got to see the black belt division. And in the black belt division, there was two of the black belts from the Bronx Dojo, Snowball and Maurice, that was their names. And they were second degree black belts and they were two guys who the ST-1 said were really, really amazing. And I had sparred with them and it was just very slow and boring. So I was like, I don't know. And then we, and just this tapping, blocking, and reverse punching, very simple techniques in sparring. I was just like, hmm, I don't know. And then we go to this tournament, and I see the first fight of the tournament, a karate school against the Tang Sudo school, and the black belts in this tournament were so good. They were so very, very good. They were flying through the sky, jumping, spinning, hook, kicks, just amazing techniques. Super fast, super, super excellent technique, fancy technique, jumping kicks, sweeps, all sorts of great, amazing stuff. And very athletic, strong competitors. And then, so I saw the first couple fights, and then finally, you know, snowball, no, it was Maurice. Maurice goes in for for one of the fights and I said wow based on this competition you know guys from our dojo are gonna get totally wiped out and then snowballed Maurice goes into the fight and this guy is flying through the air with kicks and punches this guy's coming at him so fast and then Maurice just starts tapping and moving just like in our dojo, but he's doing it faster. Then he just throws a Gyaku Zuki, boom! Hits the guy right in the chest, point goes to him. I go, oh wow, how did that happen? Then again, same thing, these guys flying through the ring, coming at him so fast, he's just tapping, getting out of the way. Again, Gyaku Zuki, boom! You know, reverse punch, he gets the point. Third time, he gets the point, he wins. And I was like, wow. And then Snowball goes in against a very tough competitor. Same thing, just tapping those punches away and one punch or one kick and then they get the point. And then they work their way up to the last match was between themselves. And then our sensei flipped a coin to give it to whoever, you know, choosing the winner, he flipped a coin for it, because they could fight in the dojo, right? And watching these guys actually fight competitively also totally transformed my martial arts, because while I thought these techniques were boring and silly, when I saw them in action, I realized that they were the perfect samurai attention. The technique was super clean and super efficient, perfect efficiency. While they were fighting these amazing martial artists, I would have lost in the first match. But when they were fighting these guys, the guys were jumping around, just doing everything, going off, using so much energy, and all these techniques, super fast. And then they would just tap, tap those techniques away, and when there was an opening, they went in and they got it every single time. And then I said, oh my God, this is samurai. Perfect attention, perfect efficiency. And then my martial arts changed. I learned that defense. And in those classes, doing the slow training, I learned the sensitivity and the awareness that Maurice and Snowball had learned. So I definitely, that was the most pivotal martial arts school and training that I had ever been in. And that was the Bronx Dojo teaching. After the Bronx Dojo, yes?

1:29:05
Did you ever hear Rama talk about that or acknowledge that one point?

1:29:12
No. What Rama said to us was that Errol Bennett really, he taught the true way of the samurai. He didn't say much more about that.

1:29:34
Yeah.

1:29:35
Well, that's enough.

1:29:36
Yeah.

1:29:37
That makes total sense, because that's the guidepost.

1:29:38
He keeps up the true way of the samurai, but you as a student, all students, we have to find our own way to actually figure out what that means. Exactly. We have to learn it.

1:29:59
Exactly, yeah.

1:30:00
So that's a beautiful story.

1:30:02
Wow.

1:30:03
Yeah, it's funny, Rama didn't say too much in security, he would just have us do things. He'd be like, okay, train over here, train over here. After that, he said, okay, now don't train at that dojo anymore. He said, go and train where you'd like. So I started training at lots of different dojos. I was just going around trying to find a dojo that would challenge me in sparring. I was like, I need to be challenged in sparring because it's just too easy for me to beat a lot of people. So I was like, I really want to be challenged. So I was going around, and then the next pivotal thing happened to me, the next big teaching for me. This was about a year later, and I was on security for one of Rama's meetings with, I think it was X-Ticket, a group of ST1s doing a software company together. And ISIS was also there. And during the dinner, they're talking about business, and then Rama looks over to me and he says, so what are you up to now? And I'm like, what? I'm up to just martial arts and my career. And he said, oh, yeah, okay, and your career? He said, what are you making? And I'm like, oh, yeah, yeah, I've been making $50 an hour. Then he's all, oh, that's all? Then he said, wow, Heather's making, or Isis, is making $75 an hour. And I was like, oh, wow, cool. Then he's all, yeah, she's so good. I'm proud of her. And I was like, wow, okay, good. And then he said, you should get $75 an hour. And then I was like, really? Cause I thought I was doing, you know, and he's like, no, yeah. He's like, you gotta get up to where she's at. Yeah, she's doing really good. You wanna do really good. I was like, yeah, okay, okay, I will. And then he said, Ed, what are you up to in martial arts? I said, well, you know, I got my black belt. And then he said, yeah, so what are you up to now? And I'm like, oh, well I still have my black belt. And then he said, well, you should get your second-degree black belt. ISIS is a third-degree black belt. And I was like, oh God. So I was very, you know, like that to me was actually really intense because I all of a sudden felt like I was behind, and that I wanted Rama to be proud of me like he said he was proud of ISIS. And I was like, oh my gosh, I'm so behind. So I got my rate of $75 an hour like two weeks later. And then he said to me, yes, you've got to get your second degree black belt by your birthday. And I was like, I didn't say anything, but I was just thinking, this is impossible. Because I got my black belt in a dojo in San Francisco, and now I'm in New York, and I've just been jumping around from dojo to dojo, and I really haven't invested in a dojo where I would work my way up to a black belt, which would take about three years usually, and then to get the second degree would take another couple years. So I was like, it's impossible. So I was a little confused about it, but I told myself I'm going to do it. So that evening, even though I thought both things were impossible, I just determined I'm following Rama's teaching no matter what, which is kind of what I always tried to do. And so two weeks later, got the $75 an hour. And then about a week after that, I had devised a way to get my second degree black belt. So there was a time where we were renting out space at a dojo late at night in Scarsdale, it was a Jiu-Jitsu dojo, and we were, you know, the security team was just working together. But I saw the Jiu-Jitsu sensei, and he would watch us sometimes, and he knew we were a group of bodyguards. And then I went to him, and I said, let me tell you my case. You know I'm a bodyguard. He said, yes. I said, I've been training martial arts since I was six, and my boss told me I need to have a second degree black belt by my birthday, which is in four months. And he said, huh, okay. And I said, so, I'd like to see if I can do that through your school. I will, I'm an excellent martial artist, I will learn everything. I will train here every day, learn everything to get to the performance requirements you need for a second degree black belt. And he said, okay, if you can do it. And I said, I'm gonna do it. And so I started training there, maybe six days a week. And I learned all of my jujitsu. I got my black belt in three months, and then the weekend before my birthday, I got my second degree black belt. So I achieved it, and it was the most amazing, you know, four months of training. It was extremely exciting, just filled with light, happiness, power and wonder. Just so many blessings really in that training. And then the next time after my birthday, I saw Rama, I walked over to him, or I was walking with him on security, and I said, Rama, and he said, yes. I said, I got my second degree black belt. Then he said, alright, congratulations. And then I was all ready for like, okay, what's next? Or like, I should get a pat on the back or something special is supposed to happen. And then that was it. He didn't say anything. He just said congratulations very, very calmly. And then that was it. But, so I, and then I kind of relaxed. I thought it was going to be something super, super special. But it was something super special because it showed me that I should always continue to grow. So from then on, I took the same challenge. I said, okay, I have this rate. I can get better if I overcome myself. If I just have that same power and energy that he taught me in that teaching, I can bring my rate up. So I ended up being very successful in bringing my rate up. $275 an hour. My highest rate was after Rama passed, but I got my rate up to $379 an hour. That was my highest rate. And I really, really, really used that teaching and that power to just overcome any limitation in rate, just to go higher and higher, beyond what everybody else was making, beyond the ceiling in the market. I found ways to break the market, to do better, because of that teaching. Same thing in martial arts. I kept on pushing myself in martial arts. I ended up getting a fifth degree black belt in jujitsu, a second degree black belt in another jujitsu, and that's along with five five other black belts. So I continued to grow in these two areas, my career rate and my martial arts capability and my black belts, because of that one powerful, powerful teaching And it was very simple on the surface, but very, very powerful inner teaching to me. It showed me I can do more than I thought I could do. And that in all ways, these were, they were exercises of rate and martial arts, but in all ways, I can overcome any limitation and grow to do something better, stronger, greater. And that was a very, very powerful teaching for me. Very nice. Very, very powerful was one night we had a martial arts demonstration at SUNY Purchase. And this martial arts demonstration was just a competition. So it was like sparring matches. And we also did some demonstrations of technique. And so that one was just a really high, beautiful, fun experience. It was my favorite walk-in. So we would always meet Rama in the park and walk him in. So I was wearing this, I was representing my Kung Fu, my old Kung Fu system. So I wore this beautiful blue chengsam, which is a traditional Chinese dress for men. And so me and Jennifer Fong from the same kung fu school, we were looking all beautiful and kung fu-like. And then the other guys were wearing their karate gis and stuff. And we were training, getting ready, exercising, and we were there well before Rama would arrive. But then we got the radio call from someone, hey, Rama's just appeared in the driveway. So we all ran out in our martial arts clothes and we met Rama and we walked him in. And that was just the most fun walk-in that we ever had, just being in our martial arts clothes. So that was kind of cool. Anyway, that night we did a sparring session and Jennifer won the women's division. And I came in second place in the men's division. I was going on the last fight against Dave Fuller, who was, he was a fifth degree black belt in Tang Soo Do. And at the time I was only a second degree black belt. So his technique was better, but it was a close match. And so he got me with, I kicked, he punched, fist went faster. And it was really fun though. It was just a total beautiful blast. So while we were up there on stage, everyone said afterwards that the sparring was an effortless meditation. And that's what it was. This experience where we were sparring, as a demonstration for the group with Rama watching, was the most elevated sparring I ever did. It was completely without thought. It was in another dimension. We all said it was a meditation. It was just movement, once in a while an awareness that you're doing it, but just this flow. And later on we had more experiences of this kind of energy, which I'll tell you about later. But a very important thing that happened was that Rama did a demonstration of chi, but this was a different kind of chi than he ever used. This was where after the sparring, we all sat down and he got the security head up who was Hanuman, and then he said, all right, so martial arts, you know, he says, I've shown you guys before, I can knock someone down so it could hurt people. He said, but this energy also is enlightenment. He said, so I could use the same energy to put someone into Samadhi. So he got Hanuman up there, and then he put his hand on Hanuman's head. He put two hands on both sides of his temples. And then Hanuman looked pretty bright and happy and then he felt his eyes closed and he fell to the ground but Rama's hands were on his head the whole time. And then Rama said, see I could knock you down but I could also knock you down into Samadhi. And then I was like, wow. So after he put Hanuman into Samadhi, Hanuman got back up and Hanuman was smiling. And then Rama said, OK, yeah, this is really good. And I remember someone asked a question, said, Rama, if you could just put us into Samadhi, why don't you just put us into Samadhi? And then Rama said, Why should I? And then that was about it. But seeing Rama demonstrate how to knock one down with martial arts energy and using the same energy to put someone into Samadhi really elevated my awareness and a lot of people on the security team that what we were learning from Rama was not just how to fight, was not just offense and defense, but it was enlightenment itself. The energy that we were developing, all sorts of dimensions of attention and awareness of power that we learned from Rama in every aspect of our martial arts and our security was not just security, not just martial arts, but it was actually, in fact, enlightenment. And that demonstration showed us that. And we asked Hahnemann later, we're like, Hahnemann, what was that like? and Hanuman said, I was gone into a bright oblivion where I was one with everything. Hmm, beautiful. Yeah.

1:45:47
That was a very powerful teaching.

1:45:52
covering the really the most most powerful things. And they're all great. Do you remember approximately what year that was that happened with Hanuman? Yes, I think that was 1997. Okay, wow, all right. Yeah, okay.

1:46:19
Okay.

1:46:20
These, well, beautiful, beautiful, beautiful teaching points.

1:46:26
Yes.

1:46:27
I, ah. Yeah. And, very illustrative of how Rama taught. Absolutely.

1:46:37
So, yeah.

1:46:38
Do you, in the time that you were there, did you ever, was there ever a time where you, I mean we know there were a lot of weird people out there in a weird time, but was there actually ever a situation where you had to physically defend Rama against anything that happened?

1:47:05
Absolutely not.

1:47:06
Not that.

1:47:07
Yeah, we never, ever, ever, ever, ever had any problem and that was beautiful. So Rama always said, if you're doing your security job right, there will never be a problem. There won't be a hint of a problem. So fortunately, we did everything right enough. But there is a very powerful story about when something did happen, security wasn't there. Rama was in Tusuke, New Mexico, with a group of ST1s. One of the ST1s was a black belt, but not on the security team. At that time there were, I think there, yes, at that time it was only the, it was the last security team. There were only the six black belts left on the team. And we were not at the Tosuki meeting. That's just north of New Mexico, Santa Fe, New Mexico. But Rama had some, I think he had four ST-1s and one was a black belt. They were having dinner, kind of sitting outside at a table. So this is a story that I did not witness, but I heard from Agni Kala, because Rama told Agni Kala. So it's not direct for me, but it's a very powerful story, so I'll share it with you anyway. So there was a Native American guy. He was kind of probably mid-40s or late-40s and he was wearing like an old army jacket, so for some reason he might have been in the army or something like that. And he was walking by the restaurant and he saw Rama and the guys having a joyful time. And then he approached them and he was angry. He said something like, you white men stole our land, or something like that. He was mad about the disadvantages of the Native Americans. And then he seemed like very angry, very agitated, and confrontational. And so he yelled at the group and then Ramo just kind of ignored him. And then finally he started to walk up and clenched his fists. I was like, gosh, I wish I was there for security.

1:50:17
You know, that's the kind of thing

1:50:18
a security person wants to be there for, but unfortunately I wasn't there.

1:50:20
So what happened was everybody at the table when he started to come forward, they all got up. He was coming so aggressively. And then they all stepped back. They moved back and away from him. And Rama stood up, but he didn't step back. So what Rama did was he took a step back with his left side, but left his right foot forward and his right hand forward. And then he put his left hand, I think, into his jacket pocket, his suit pocket. And then the guy was like, whoa, you know, when you make a movement like that, you think that the guy's got a weapon, right? So the guy stopped and then he said, what do you got in the pocket? And then Rama didn't say anything. Rama, by the way, on security, he would always tell us to guard the left side. So him stepping back with the left leg is something that in security we always know. It's like Rama would always defend the left side. His right side was invincible, but defense always had to be on the left side. It was just an inner teaching that we knew. So the guy is like, what do you got, a knife? And then Rama says, no I got something more powerful. And then the guy is like, huh what do you got, a gun? And then Rama says, no I got something more powerful. And then Rama pulls out from his pocket this giant wad of cash. Just totally. And the guy's like surprised. Then Rama goes and hands it to him. A giant wad. It must have been thousands of dollars, right? He just hands it to him. The guy's all just shocked, right? And then Rama goes, come on, let's talk. And they walk away. So the guys who were there at dinner with Rama just stayed there, confused and shocked and didn't know what to do. But they just walked away. We don't know what the conversation was, but Rama didn't see them again until the next day. So that was the only story that our security team ever heard of in our time, where there was a confrontation where someone confronted Rama. It's such a Rama reaction. It doesn't run, it just stands in a certain way where the guy knows how to, the guy goes, oh, there's a reason to stop. It's like, do you have a knife? No, I got something more powerful than a knife. Got and then got a big chunk of money. Yeah, so that was just really a beautiful story. As far as our most challenging security events, it was after the Surfing the Himalayas was written, the publisher wanted Rama to do learning annex tours. This was touring all sorts of different places around the country to do you know interviews or no public events about talking about the book and this would be just people who look up put open up the learning annex and say oh wow there's this author of some book I want to go see him. So we did those. Those public events were a higher security profile than our regular Sangha meetings because there were random people from the public attending. So we had our security team of six go with Rama throughout a six-city tour around America and everything went really well, but that was I guess our biggest challenge because at some of the events there would be some of the students' parents who were not happy about Rama. So there were students from the 80s who studied with Rama, had a falling out with their parents, and their parents were still angry at Rama. And they showed up at these public events. So sometimes they would, you know, when Rama was walking out, they would yell at him. And they definitely had negative energy. We just watched them. We were aware of them. None of them took a motion towards Rama. None of them were carrying weapons or anything like that. So nothing really happened, but they were there and they were making noise. So that was where we had hostile people in the audience, but there was no security problem at all. And again, after that book tour, Rama reiterated, he said, if you do security right, there is not a problem. But if security wasn't done right, then one of those people might have done something, you know, came up to him incorrectly, you know, it, our attention was something that held the situation at bay so that it wasn't out of hand. Let's see. It's gone? All right, let's see if she calls back. Oh, sorry, I'm totally probably wrong about dates you're right. I was thinking, we came back to SUNY in 1997. I thought it was that. That was before. Got it. Got it. Got it. Thank you. Thank you.

1:57:52
got it got it got it thank you thank you

1:57:57
yeah I was really high about that okay are you back Rama didn't sit there and tell us like, you know, security, you know, this, this, this, this, this, here's the teachings of security. He didn't just sit there and like tell us hardly anything about the teachings of security. But what happened was, you would be on security, you know, and by being on security, you learn something. And I don't know if everyone on security actually even realized what they learned. Because it's not like Rama said, oh, here's a teaching, that's what's going to happen, that's what you're going to learn. It was never like that at all. And actually I'm sure that everybody on security, while we learned some of the same lessons, we all probably learned individual lessons totally different than each other. Like if Gary Domingo or Agni Kala would talk about what they learned on security, while it would have the same aura and shape about what it is, Agni Kala, he would say, oh man, I learned this and this and this, like certain amazing teachings that he got out of it, just like I got out of it, some stuff, like that lesson where it's like, oh, boost your rate, get your black belt, like that lesson to me was so powerful that I uh... that I uh... it's something that I used uh... and I kept going with and that was something that maybe the other guys didn't okay let's see I got a web uh... web I'm gonna need the phone number yeah telephone number and the access code so yeah like like that one he told me personally so that one was a special teaching to me that took me very very far and it informed me about everything including enlightenment. So I saw from that, if I can make a higher rate, and a higher rate, and a higher rate, if I can get a black belt, and another black belt, and another black belt, if I just do what Rama says and use those as examples of growth, then when it comes to Rama saying, here's the advanced teachings, you can become enlightened. I'm like, I have no doubt. A lot of people have doubt. Doubt kills it. I had eradicated doubt. I had no doubt in what Rama said at all. I remember saying, you know, they were like, oh everything's horrible, Rama's dead. And I'm like, what about the enlightened teachings that he gave us? You know, the teachings for enlightenment? And they're all, oh I can't do it. It's impossible. And I'm like, what? Why would Rama teach it if it's impossible? All right, let's see if she's gonna... she might get back to us, but she might not. Okay, so, yes, where was I? What was I saying? Oh yeah, enlightenment. Another story? Yeah, I'll tell the other story if Kali gets back on. Otherwise, I keep it! I keep the story! I keep it! Yeah, but being on security for me was really the very, very most profound teaching. I mean, they're all profound teachings, but when you're providing a service for your teacher, you know, doing things, Rama said anything, like you could be doing set-up crew or anything. When you're providing a service for your teacher for the Sangha, for the Dharma, then he said it creates an inner dialogue between you and the teacher. And in that dialogue, the teacher can really address you and the teacher can really give you specific teachings. They're inner teachings, but they are specific teachings. So Rama had a whole bunch of students, and he had a few students who did set up, sometimes a few students, one security, 10 students, whatever, on security. And he had the musicians, sasan, and then he had usually small groups of people who might be doing a project, a yoga project. So it was like a lot of the people got the general teachings and there were small groups of people who got this internal dialogue. And that was very, very, very profound for me, that service, that internal dialogue. But that's why I always want that for all of my students. I'm like, everyone does yoga, because if you do yoga, you're working with me. There's that internal dialogue. So I like to make sure that all of my students have that opportunity, because it's so fantastic. But I really found just tremendous benefit from that service. That was my thing. Let's see, how many stories do I have left? Yeah, I think maybe four more, kind of like very pivotal martial arts, powerful stories. Yeah, I think maybe four more, kind of like very pivotal martial arts, powerful stories. That's about it.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
