0:00:00
Alright, so we're going to do one song, meditation. And it's going to be Canyons of Light. The song will be Arches. So, this is a naval song. Okay, let's begin.

0:00:23
Thank you. the the the the the the the So So So So Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, So Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Oh, baby Alright, I'm going to go over the teaching structures.

0:05:16
So we're going to be teaching free introduction classes and beginning Buddhism classes. And minimally, you should do one day per week. The class should be one hour long. Now, the Americans have a busy schedule. They complain about not having time for work, martial arts, yoga, meditation, and all that. And so, for the Americans, one day a week for one hour is enough. You have the time to do that. What you need to have is the right attention. So who should teach? In America, all black adults should teach. All yoga-ranked black adults should teach. If you're a lower rank and you really, really, really, really, really want to teach, you're really motivated, then you can let me know and I will evaluate if you're ready. But for lower ranks, you will work with one of the black belts on teaching. You will not be a teacher, but you will help them with organization, so help them with posturing and administration. In the Hungarian Sangha, anyone can teach. And you guys can pair up if you want. If you want to pair up with someone, you can do it. But anyone who wants to teach can teach. If you don't feel you're ready to teach, either pair up with someone and help them with administration or little by little start learning how to teach. In the U.S., one person is going to get the ace up the sleeve, which is Tsai-Long Pa-Khempo. So Tsai-Long is going to start teaching and he's going to teach with one of you and he knows everything about Buddhism because he's a Khempo. The thing is that you have to use him correctly. So you're going to have to structure him, you're going to have to get him focused, you're going to have to teach him how to teach in America. The cool thing about that is you'll be able to walk into a class with Kempo. So that could draw dozens and dozens of students. So but if you want to work with Tsai-Wang, you know, he was in Bodewood, you're going to have to, you know, you're going to have to worry about how to pick them up, how to get them to the class, and how to teach them, how to structure things right. So if you think you want to do that, and you think you can do that, let me know. And you don't need to translate that. That's just for the moment.

0:08:21
Oh, okay.

0:08:22
Okay, so the next thing about teaching is location, location, location. Right? So if you're teaching in the right spot, then people will have an attention to be there. But if you go to where the students are. It's very important. So, it's obvious that if you're in the Bay Area that San Francisco is where people

0:09:04
go.

0:09:05
There's a lot of energy in San Francisco. All roads lead to San Francisco in the Bay Area. Pacifica does not have the people that we want to meet. So, even though you live in Pacifica, you can rent a yoga studio down the street. If you teach there, look at the people in Pacifica. You'll get a bunch of them showing up. They are not the right buckets. So, you need to drive into San Francisco, park, look around, walk around, look where the right buckets are. It's very important, otherwise you can put up for it a lot of effort and you're not in the right location and then people won't come, or the wrong people will come. So location is, for us, seeking the right place of power. It is like saying, okay, I'm looking for the right kind of buckets and I have to seek the place where their attention crosses. You have to be able to, you know, stalk the students because their attention is out there. They're crossing certain lines, certain locations, and you have to cross them. You have to cross them and make the offer. They have to feel your energy there, otherwise you will never meet them. And in Budapest...Budapest. So, obviously, when we're trying to find people, extremely, you know, like powerful places where people are is where to go. You know, someone might want to go and teach in Santandra or something like that and you could, but there's fewer people there. So, if you get a really good spot there, you could test it out. But definitely, if you get a good spot in Budapest, there's a lot more people that are potential to come to your class. places to go as well because in universities there's young minds that are open to learning so that's also a place if you can get there you can get up either a place nearby there to teach or in the university that's also a place where you can meet the right people. Additionally in Europe we're going to grow to the German-speaking countries. The Germans. Vienna and Munich. So, I'm like, okay, it's time. I have to go teach there. So, essentially what I'll do is I'll teach there. And so I will go there. You know, if you speak German, you can help me set it up. That'll be good. And then you can come with me and I'll help you out by being the talker. I'll be your ace in the hole. You know, UC Berkeley, Berkeley is a good place to teach. You have to penetrate it, but it's a good place to teach. There's places in Marin that are good places to teach. You have to stop the right place, find the right place, but there's a lot of people in Marin that have the right mind for this. Silicon Valley is a bad place to teach. I don't know why. There's some cool occultists who work in tech companies, but they don't like this energy or they don't work well with it. They're absorbed with Stanford, so it's not a good place to teach. Santa Cruz can be a good place to teach. So, if there's someone who wants to make that commute, Santa Cruz can work, but we have to do it better than we did last time. You can learn lessons learned. You can ask, like, Dharma or who's from there? Oh, Ponchal. Ponchal could teach there or help you learn about teaching there.

0:14:07
Okay.

0:14:08
You don't need to tell the SDSM that. But let's talk about venues. Okay. So I remember when I first started teaching in San Francisco, I made a club for City College. And then I taught there, and I got a fair amount of people coming, but the location worked. That's where I met Ashna, and it was okay. And the last round, when we made close for San Francisco City College, we got really poor turnout. All we got out of that was Jason Poon. So that didn't work out very well. So, you know, you have to really, really, really, really look at what location you go to. City College can work. You could get, let's say, the Mission Street campus. And if you post around Mission Street, you're going to get more people. So it is a possibility. It is, I mean, you go to City College, there's a lot of people there, and there's the right buckets. There are some of the right buckets there. It's just how do you get it right. If you can get in near, you know, UC Berkeley, that's also good. If you can get into San Francisco State, that's good. So, you know, you want to pick places. I don't know what it's like in Budapest. You guys have to stop it and see how the universities are. But getting on or near a college or university is good. Other venues that you can have are renting yoga studios after their evening classes. And the thing about going to yoga studios is a lot of people who go to yoga might be

0:16:18
into meditation.

0:16:19
So, if they do a little yoga workout, a little stretch, right, then afterwards you have a poster there and they go, oh, wow, there's a meditation class. Okay. I might be interested. So, that's a good place to rent. Dojos are also a decent place to rent, because in our school martial artists are often drawn to this study. So, you can do like meditation and some people might want to. So, those kinds of things, you know, alternative places. You know, maybe there's a healing location, a healer, or maybe there's an herbalist or something like that and they have a little space and you say, hey, can I teach some classes here? Then what you're able to do is you're able to actually market medication to the people who go there. People who are into spiritual and herbs and dojos and yoga studios, they are sometimes the right types of buckets. Promoting the class is important. If you get a location and it's just a little bit of word of mouth, not many people will come. So, the key way that we promote classes is posters. We do posturing. You do post... Sometimes it's illegal, but we do it anyway. We go to like street signs and all the polls and things. Like on the street, you know, a poster saying, it's very important to take free meditation classes. The word free is important. It's like a mantra. Free! And so, all around your neighborhood where you're teaching, you want to make sure that those posters are around. If you could be a club in a college or university, it's really great because then you can put them on campus. And even if you can't put them on campus, you can put them on campus. So, sometimes we go and put them on campus and then people write them down real quick. But still, some people see it. So you need to put those posters up. People need to see those posters. And that's how they know to come to class. It's very good if you have a little part that you rip off with the information on it. So they say, oh, meditation, and they rip something off. Because then they take it. Otherwise, they forget. So that's kind of You could have those QR codes as well. That would be cool. But definitely get those posters out there. Make a cool poster. Make it the way you want. Because if you put attention into it, it looks cool to do, then what you're doing is you're actually putting your energy into it. And people will see it, they will feel your energy, and if they're a bucket, that energy will fall in the bucket and they'll like it. If they're not a bucket, the energy is like pearl before mongolian. Also, consider promotion online, find where people are. I remember Ajna found some weird little social networking website for spiritual people and like everyone was totally spaced out and like, you know, it was lame, but there was Robert that he met there. And then Ajna went to one of their events or online or something like that and people were saying all these like spaced out things and Ajna said something. And then Robert was a bucket. So, he's all, I'm following what you're talking about. Everybody else I can tell is bullshit. I'm going to follow this way. So, if you can find things for spiritual folk or any other online networking things, those are good. And if you find a way, share it with the other teachers. Okay, something very, very important for the class is that you are targeting people between the ages of 18 and 29. So that is, well, they're an adult, but it's before their Saturn return. So if I can sit with somebody before their Saturn return, I can do miracles for them. After the Saturn return. Now, in the United States, I will accept zero people over 30. Anyone who keeps showing up for your classes who's over 30 will be referred to another teacher. See, in America, I got these other teachers that talk people off. If I had one here, you're all gone. All you do.

0:21:45
Okay.

0:21:46
Every time you choose a location, you're evaluating it to see if it works out. So, we really want to see that within two months that you are getting three, at least three new students per class. If you've been there for six weeks and sometimes no one shows up or no one new shows up, then it's telling you that you have the wrong location or that your promotion is wrong. So it's very important that when you choose a location that you feel good about it, you think it's the right location, that you make sure that you're putting the coasters up or online marketing. So you have to make sure that you're reaching out. Because if you find a place and you're showing up and you're not promoting, then you're wasting it. And you don't know what the hell's going on. So you have to find the place, you have to promote, and then you observe what happens. If you see that not that, you know, for the first two weeks, even three weeks, no one might come, but you still have to put energy into it. But after six weeks, you should see that at least three new people are coming. That shows you the location's right and your promotion's right. So, we're putting the right intention, attention into it. Very important. Okay, so when you're actually teaching a class, we have an outline of how to teach a class. Every detail about what you need to do in a class. So it's not that you're just going to show up and go, I don't know what to do. You're going to have an outline. You can just bring the outline to class to help you remember what to do. It's very simple. It's a very simple outline. Every class is exactly the same, except for there's a five-minute Dharma talk. After you teach meditation, after a little break, you'll have a little five-minute Dharma talk where you talk about a subject. And I've outlined five Dharma talks that I want you to give, and you'll just rotate through those five Dharma talks. And so, therefore, the class is not like you just get in and go, I don't know what to do. You'll get there and you'll know what to do. Very clear, very structured, and it is really tight. It's a really tight attention and it focuses people on the things that will work. and all the parts are in it, so it won't happen to me that it will be published and I won't be able to do anything about it. But there is a description for 5 hours, and it's very simple, even if you don't have a lot of time. And every hour is the same, there is a form, a 5-minute part where you can add the themes of the meditation. So, you need to create a short meditation session. So, it is important that you don't know what to do, because the whole thing is very clear, structured and very strict. You have to take the advice of the experts and focus on it. So, in the classes, very often in the Dharma talks, we'll be talking about things like detachment, you know, getting rid of things in your life that doesn't work, something that helps people a lot. We'll be talking about personal power, you know, hinting and guiding them in a certain direction, like, you know, stop hanging around with your loser friends where you feel bad. And things like, well, you know, what do you want to do for a career? We'll be talking about, especially in the U.S., career. But here, too, we want to get people focused on having a strong life. I think some people come to meditation classes and they're just like, oh yeah, have their peace and then their lives are a mess. But we, in these talks, it's very powerful teaching to get someone straight. And if they're a bucket, they're going to want to get straight. In the US, in every Dharma talk, there's going to be, you know, talking about, you know, how to be detached from stupid things, like you want to be a movie star. And just things that make more sense, like we're always going to be in each class promoting the Golden State Technology Institute. We'll be like, you should maybe learn technology. It's really fun. I do it. It's all cool. And things like that. So we're going to really be guiding them to see if they are interested in this. Okay, so in the US we're going to be having weekly meditation seminars at the Dharma Dojo. So let's say that you're teaching, you have a few students that are interested, then you could say, hey, on Saturdays, Sambara, the Ajahn, is teaching from 2 to 4 p.m. at this place in South San Francisco. And do you want to come?" So, I'm going to start making myself, as soon as I get back from India, I'm going to start having weekly meditations at the Fairmont. So the monthly meditations will be very powerful. Weekly ones will be good too. That'd be really good. But at the monthly ones I'm going to do it stronger. So that's going to be pretty much the structure. You're going to teach weekly, and then I'm going to be teaching weekly on Saturdays from 2 to 4 for any of your students that you want to come and see me. That's totally fine. We are going to videotape the weekly teachings and the monthly teachings, and we're going to send it to the Hungarians so that you guys can translate it and so that you can have your students watching the videos. Because the weekly ones are going to be what I call Buddhist basics. I'm going to start teaching the basics of Buddhism and yoga. And then for each teaching that I give on a Saturday, I'm going to give you three questions to ask the students who attended. Or if you have a student who watches this later, they'll watch it and say, and then you'll ask them the three questions. And the three questions will get them to think and it will get them to answer and then the teacher can see where they're able to, you know, answer your questions and then that way you have a dialogue about how the basics of Buddhism and yoga work. In Hungary, I won't be having the weekly meetings. In Hungary, we'll have open days. So we have an open day this time. This is the last open day where you can bring family and friends. From here on out, it's going to be the only people who come to open day are people attending your classes. If they happen to be family and friends, that's okay, but they must be attending your classes. I'll be back in Hungary in early September.

0:30:30
I'm going to...

0:30:31
My schedule is getting thrown off, but I'm going to China with this other spiritual teacher because she knows China and she says she knows spiritual and even sacred places. So, I'll be here in early September, but in early September, I don't think we'll have an open day. You guys will just be getting started. So, the next time we'll have the open day is December. So, the first open day is December. And also for the U.S., August, September, October, November are going to be times where you guys start your classes and you'll probably get a bunch of students who will be coming to your classes often. And then you can let them know in December there's going to be a meditation seminar that they can attend. So, they can start seeing me in December. And from there on out, December through June, I'll have in San Francisco my weekly classes and I'll also have the monthly seminars. At the monthly seminars and at the open days, that's when if you have a student who's been around for a while, that's when I'll accept them as a student. Your job to get 10 is to get someone to the point where they want to become a student and that I accept them. If that happens, that's good. Once they're my student, it's their responsibility to keep up with the study. So, if they're my student for a day and they fail out the next day, that's okay. You did the right thing. You did your job. So, we have a structure of the class. So, the introduction class is an introduction and that class has to be free. So, free meditation class. They come and part of the structure. So, the introduction to meditation is two classes. So they come for the first one, they come to the second one, then they enter into the third one. After the third one, you say to them, all right, you've got the introduction. Now would you like to learn about beginning Buddhism?" And then they would enter into the next section, which is beginning Buddhism. If you want, if you think it's appropriate, if you think it's better that people will take it more seriously, you can charge money for that. So, introduction-free. Going into beginning, that's where you can charge money, if you think it's right. In America, it usually doesn't help, but I think in Hungary it might. In America, in California, I think it should be free. I think it should be free. But then, if it works for you better and if you think that people you're dealing with, it would be better to charge them some money, even a little bit sometimes gets people to put more focus on it. It's up to you. When they come to classes, they get stuff. So, at their first class, they're going to get a book and a USB with stuff on it, like music. So, in the US, at their first class, we're going to hand them Mystic Scuba and say, here's a free gift. This is a book that has a great spiritual adventure. I think you'll like it. And then we'll also give them a USB. Somebody, I think it was Savicci, gave me this little Buddha that was a USB. It was so cute. I'd love to get a whole bunch of those so that we can give people these little Buddha USBs. And on it, there will be meditation music and also a description of how to meditate and maybe a couple of other happy things and also a link to our website. So, they have that. They've got their music. They've got their meditation. Our website. This is really good. And at the same time, when we're giving them the free gift, we will say, oh, did you sign up on this? Did you give us your email address or phone number and name? Because we want to know who comes to the class. Because people flake out just because of being flaky. Even really powerful, spiritual people, they flake out. So we want to get their contact information as we're giving them the free gift, which kind of makes them want to reciprocity, give us their info. And then we will actually contact people weekly through email. We're going to have an email campaign, especially in California, because they're sneaky. So we're going to have an email campaign to just follow up with them, tell them happy things, invite them back to class for a while until there's no reason to anymore. But the first class, they get freaked out. For the Hungarian class, instead of Mystic Scuba, I'd like to get them the picture book. I would like to do that in America, too, actually. It's easier for people to read.

0:36:26
Really?

0:36:28
Okay, if we can do it in America, pictures and the quotes are so much more accessible. Okay, and in that case, that would be the book that we give to people. On their second class, they get something else. On their second class, you're going to be like, okay, but even on the first class, okay, if you come a second time, I'm going to give you this really magical tool for really increasing the ability of your meditation. So, if you meditate this week and you come to the next class, then you're going to get this amazing thing that's so magical. You have to say that. That's why they're getting free stuff. And they go, okay, I'm coming back for the next free thing that's supposed to be magical. And I even meditated because I got excited about it. And then they come, and then we're going to give them a yantra. And the yantra will be in a nice folder. And we're going to hand that to them. And then we're going to tell them in two minutes the magic of the yantra, the teaching. It takes two minutes, but it will be something that they will notice because this is an empowered teaching. At the third class, you give them a free enlightenment workbook and then you say, um, would you like to join, you know, to learn beginning Buddhism because this is the book that we worked through. And then they'll say, what do I got to do. Just keep coming to the introduction classes and then afterwards we will just check in on what your progress is on the book and if you have any questions. So it's really structured because you're just going to be like, oh you're on that assignment, oh yeah, what do you think and things like that. So it's just going to be like a conversation about where they are through this process of enlightenment. So, very structured and very powerful. Finally, on the third class, you'll also let them know that they can do this...they can see me at some point. So, they come to just three classes and if they're doing the...if they agree to want to do the beginning Buddhism, then you can say, wow, the next time my teacher is in town, you can see him. Or if you're in America, hey, you can come on Saturday and see my teacher. So, we're moving people fast and if they get lost, we'll email them. Yeah. Yeah, that's like one of the things that you learn in America in martial arts. Not that many people start off hardcore, because America is just... People are all over the place. So, it's like people go into a dojo, yeah, I'm going to do this. It's really cool. And then, the next day, they're, oh, it's too hard.

0:39:33
Yeah.

0:39:34
Or, I'll just play video games. Martial arts video games won't work for me. So, they flake out. But if they go in on the first class and they get a stripe on their white belt and say, hey, two more stripes and you get your yellow belt. And they'll be like, wow. And then they go another stripe, one more clash. And they'll go, oh, wow. So they see progression much faster. And if they see that happening, then they're much more likely to stick with it and then they end up being very good at martial arts. So, you have to get them over that inertia with a lot of positive reinforcement. You don't have to tell them all that. That's an aside for the Americans. One last point about teaching. So, when you're teaching, you can talk about me, the Anjan, Sambara, all you want because people Google me and find nothing interesting. But what we don't say is the word Rama because if they Google that, they'll find stuff. So, they'll just find stuff that is not within the structure of my teaching. So, if they Google Rama, they'll find the YouTube videos of the talks that I told you guys not to listen to, which Rama told his students, don't listen to. So, I don't want new students finding a hundred talks and listening to them all, because it will throw them off. So, what we call Rama, my teacher, is Ram Srinivasay. Srinivasay means in Tibetan, very precious one, an incarnation of enlightenment, which is true. And then, you know, throwing an A on the end of any name is very Asian. So, there's a lot of people who call Rama. So, some people say, oh yeah, let's make it a little cooler and call it Rama. So, you know, the Sanskrit symbol, it says Ram. It doesn't say Rama. So, it's just Ram Ramesh. Bam! You can tell them anything else that you know about Ram Ramesh.

0:41:44
Just call him Ram Ramesh.

0:41:45
You tell them he was this American guy.

0:41:46
He didn't really care. He walked on water. He didn't care. He didn't care. He didn't care. He didn't care. He didn't care. He didn't care.

0:41:54
He didn't care.

0:41:55
He didn't care. He didn't care.

0:41:57
He didn't care. He didn't care. He didn't care. He didn't care. He didn't care.

0:42:02
He didn't care.

0:42:03
He didn't care.

0:42:04
He didn't care.

0:42:05
So, you can tell them anything that you've heard of. Hopefully positive. And just that's a name that we don't use because people will find stuff that they shouldn't get to yet. Later on, like the way I introduced it was I did recapitulation to teach it as a thing in a way that would work for you. So, they'll get all...they'll get everything, just in the right way. So, for those of you that are very, very busy with yoga, this will make your yoga succeed better. There's a lot of power in doing this. It doesn't take a lot of time. It takes the proper attention. With the proper attention, you'll find the location. Quickly. With the proper attention, you'll write, you'll make the right poster. With the proper attention, you'll show up for your hour-long class and teach it properly. The right people will show up. You'll find the bucket. You'll see that the light, the pearls of enlightenment are going into the bucket and it will work out. If you have the right intention, there's no striving and it's very, very beautiful. All right.

0:43:32
Very good.

0:43:33
That's the plan. If you do this properly, in one year from now, you will arise a lineage holder, which is one of the most amazing things that I've ever gotten from this study. It's wonderful. So US Fonga, I'm going to need registration to take a role as we believe. I need to know who was there, who left early. I'm going to give an additional empowerment, a teaching empowerment, when I return. So, in our last meditation here, it was a teaching empowerment. And the transmission worked, you know, kind of like halfway for the Americans. So I really need to be there with the Americans in person and I have to know who was there in the Dharma Dojo and if anyone left early. I need to know who's totally present. I have a few last points. One is US securities. So I've reviewed your test results, gone over them with Jana, and you guys did pretty good, but we had very high standards. So, only three people passed. And the people who are full-fledged on duty are Manjushri, Patala, and Agha. Those are the three who did the techniques correctly, who passed 100% on the written test. So, everybody else is going to enter a time, if anyone else tested, which means that you can be acting security, but you must be perfecting your techniques. You will be retested when I come back. So, the grabs need work. The takedowns are pretty good. We need to have better walking, and we need to have the scenario, the take down scenario, you have to be stronger

0:46:06
in that.

0:46:07
So, you know, this is just, you know, there's going to be a test sometime in July when I get back, so this is just a little bit to inform you of the level that we want everyone to be at. Everyone also has to get 100% on the written test. A lot of you came very, very close, but learn what you failed at. There will be new questions and you have to get 100%. They won't be ambiguous and they should be, if you've been on security, you should be able to know these questions. Okay, so y'all did really good. I mean, if I was going to let a C pass, you know, the grade of C, then you would all pass. But what I'm looking for is 100% in everyone on security. And some of you did 100% in technique, some of you did 100% on the test, but I want to see 100% straight all around. And then we know that everyone who's on security is super, super, super strong. Okay. You don't have to tell them that. That was American. Okay, and last, but certainly not least, I'd like all of my students, Cordigals, in America and Hungary, to do a coaching session with Barb Smith. So we'll put her information up on the wiki so you can see her website and contact information. But she has some very powerful and valuable skills in helping you see the way to be more powerful in your career. There were teachings of impeccability and career success that Rama taught all of his women and some FT1 women were just so exceptional at it and Barb is one of those. And that was the first time I heard that she was a coach. She contacted me and said, oh my gosh, she's so amazing. And I said, oh, yeah, she's got that ST1 magic, like powerful and just, you know, direct and capable. My mentor, Sue, was like that. And she taught me amazing things. There's a certain, there's dimension, there's magic in it. It's very, very wonderful. So she coaches women in career success and invites every woman to coach with her, especially Arunachala, you know, I don't want you to get stuck in your old ways, because the dimensions that you learned about coaching are garbage. They're horrible. They're so lame. And so, what I want you to do, you know, Arunachala is doing it. She's taking the garbage that she learned from all sorts of stupid coaching and people here in Hungary that just ended up making her totally suck at coaching, totally egotistical, totally get power over everybody else. She's taking those structures and she's throwing them out and replacing them with what she's learned in the study. So, I want Arunachala to get coached by Barb, because I want Arunachala to have those kinds of dimensions, that kind of power. And coming from a woman who's a coach to another woman who's a coach, it will be very, very, very powerful. So, we'll put that information up on the wiki and then, you know, when you can, when you can get around to it, and now she'll probably have a full schedule, then sign up and definitely do this coaching. Okay, Americans, you guys hung in there, those of you who hung in there. This is a very powerful evening, the solstice together. And it's another step towards sangha unity because we are on the Ramacharya, Rama's pathway to enlightenment and through this teaching of teaching we will have a greater form of unity and a greater expression of Rama's enlightenment in this world. So thank you all very much. If you have questions you can email me. I have like, no email, no Wi-Fi here. But I have a little bit. I think in the common area, I can get some emails and stuff. If you have any questions, email me. And otherwise, drive safe. And otherwise, drive safe. And have a good night.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
