0:00:00
We're going to meditate, we'll be meditating right at the time of the pulses together, and even a stronger unity because it'll be us, we are a Hungarian Sangha, and you a monk, and we'll be meditating together at the same time, just on different parts of the planet. We're going to begin our meditation, we're going to play it. the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh,

0:01:49
oh,

0:01:50
oh,

0:01:51
oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh,

0:02:04
oh,

0:02:05
the the the the the the the the the the the the the the so so the the the I'm going to play a song. so so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so The. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, you so you you so so so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so so so so so so the the So so so so so so That was an exquisite meditation. There's something very, very, very beautiful when the fact that we are hopefully in connection with the American font, but of course we're meditating in spiritual connection. And there's something very, very powerful about that, It's the power of unity. Okay, to begin, my name is Sambar. That never changed. The reason that I told everyone to call me Ajahn is because people had, I guess, a very routine consciousness when they said, Sambara. And that routine of consciousness is not good for my students. You just go, hey, Sambara, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Hey, Sambara. You know? And so that's actually not right. Sambara is a very, very powerful name. And me being Sambara then it must be not in routine consciousness. It must be in a very very kind of focused intent. An intent where you say I am addressing Sambara. Sambara is a whole universe, thousands of dimensions of enlightenment. And so when you address me, I am the doorway for that music. So if you're all,

0:27:41
This is why I wanted to go get some pizza.

0:27:44
If you do it with a frightened head, it'll be amazing. But if it's casual or routine, it doesn't work. So, ajahn means respected teacher. And that's fine. When I'm on the mat in the dojo, my students don't call me sambara, they call me sensei. Because I'm, and that means respected teacher in Japanese. So when I'm doing martial arts, there's no need to call me sambara, call me sensei. If I'm, you know, if we're in a casual But if you ever have a moment of sincerity and power and you're addressing me, then you can call me Sambara. Don't casually call me Sambara. Because it's not good for you. Because my name is a name of power. So, if I'm sitting there and you say, Sambara, I have a question, and I'll say, ah-ha, really? That would mean that this will be a moment of power. But if you're like, hey, Ajahn, can we go get some pizza? Then I'll say, yeah, let's go get some pizza. That would be, this would be the proper etiquette. Don't you, you Sambara, every time you can, but it has to come from a place of power in the body. Names have power. So in the sangha when we get, when people get spiritual names, or we call them that name, it brings about the power, the dharma of their name. You know, what did Shakespeare say? Would a rose by any other name not smell sweet? Correct, it would not smell as sweet. You know, if you power, if you call the rose something that had a negative energy, then you actually actually bring the energy down But if you call the rose Krishna, Rama, Buddha, the rose opens up a whole new dimension and it actually is better. It goes beyond the physical. It becomes this magical, enlightening rose. So you're all a bunch of smelly roses, but when you get your spiritual name, then it opens up a dimension of eternity, a dimension of enlightenment. So names have power. Respect each other's spiritual names. So when I was in the Anza Varela Desert on the last night in the gorge, this is a very strong place of power for our Sangha. This is where Rama took his students the most. Very powerful. I got some indications of spiritual names. Several for the American Sangha and several for the Hungarian Sangha. So, I will be going over that right now. I got the indication I saw the names in the Dharma. However, what I'm going to look at right now is if you're ready for it. So, I usually like to see that in order to get your spiritual name, that you're very strong in your yoga. I like to see that you're a black soul in the yoga ring, but sometimes I will give you your name even if you're not a black soul yet. So what I am going to do is I'm going to go through the indication of names that I found And then I will evaluate your consciousness now at the time of the pulses and then tell you. Okay, I'm going to start with the Hungarian Sangha. So the Hungarian Sangha, close but no potato. I guess I'm not that bad, but things will match up. So a lot of you have made progress. A lot of you are heading towards your higher dharma, but you need to make more progress. For the American Sangha, I will need to ask about attendance, so you'll have to text us if someone is there or not. So, when you get your spiritual name, it is a change. It indicates that your self of Dharma. So the self of karma, whatever name you were given at birth, is your social self, your karma self. But then you're reborn or at some point it's like that name isn't right for you and now you need to be called by your Dharma name, where your rose is now called Krishna rose, you know, where there's another dimension that leads to a higher place.

0:33:49
And I'm sure, speaking to my listeners,

0:33:51
I'm sure I'm not saying that you go to heaven.

0:33:55
And, you know, you're doing strong yoga, your career is strong, you're doing well in the Sangha, but I would say that the thing that has created a strong differentiation in changing your karma in the past month or so You've been working through your personal conditioning social conditioning toward about being a woman working with other women and You know, you had a bunch of karma, but you you've been seeing the truth through it And how to get out of bad habits and how to do things right. Okay. Alicia, your spiritual name is Asha. Okay. Now, I've been very, very unhappy with the women in the US Sangha because they are a lot of times very poorly out of social conditioning. Having trouble working together, fighting about stupid crap, you know, you know like not having a bigger perspective, not working together as spiritual sisters, and this is a very important thing in the Rama lineage, and so I've been very, you know, giving them a hard time and not happy with them. But Asha has made progress. She's got some more progress to make. But she did something, um, something powerful, where she really, like, worked on, she really put herself out of the way and did something strong to be an ally. An out to another woman. And that was very powerful. This is a real test. Is Emily there?

0:36:31
I'm glad because there's a comment. I'm recording you. Okay. Then we'll go on.

0:36:44
Um...

0:36:46
Is Jackie there? Yes. Okay. Jackie, your spiritual name is Rima.

0:36:55
And Rima is an emanation of the goddess Durga.

0:37:14
Thank you.

0:37:16
So, uh,

0:37:18
Jackie, you've done a good

0:37:20
job, you've got a way to go but you've been strong on the path. Um, however, with your name, uh, you're entering into a new Dharma and it has challenges. It has challenges. I'm sorry about that. But it's good. It's good. It's powerful. Okay, American Sangha, is Lori Lin there? Yes. Very good. Lori, your spiritual name is Vasana. Vasana is also an emanation of the goddess Durga, or has Durga energy. Now Durga is a very very very powerful goddess. There was one time in mythology where the gods were being attacked by this horrible bull-like fiend and they couldn't, none of the gods could stop this attack. And so they all got together with Vishnu, I think. They're all, hey, Vishnu, help us out. And then, Vishnu's all, let's all get together. And then, like, you know, they get their, like, care bear stare kind of thing. And this energy came out from all the gods, and it created Durga. And Durga was this powerful goddess that had the power to send the divinity of heaven and save all of the gods. So Durga is a power for overcoming obstacles. The Care Bear stance. I just remember the characters, they would like get into a circle, right? And then they would like shoot something into... They'd either shoot people with their heart choppers, or they would hit their circle and shoot it to the center of the circle. I'm going to have to watch the Care Bear movie. To know the truth. Care Bears for teachers. Good.

0:39:56
Can I add something to my presentation? So she's a combination of Brahman, Vishnu, and Shiva. They put their energies together so that neither one of them could be human. And because they represent the triumph of energy creation, meaning and destruction. and a friend of his called Emily Cole. She is a great critic and a humanist. Even though she was part of the... It was the documentary that he filmed. Oh, really cool. Yeah, so it was actually Brahma, Vishnu, and Shiva who did their little Care Bears. Okay, that's right. Cool. You can come up. Next. Is Noemi there in the U.S.? Yes.

0:40:49
Okay. Noemi, your spiritual name is Samadhi?

0:40:53
Yes.

0:40:55
Okay. Is Nori there in the U.S.?

0:40:58
Yes. the US? Nori, your spiritual name is Chit Ananda. Chit Ananda means like supreme bliss. Okay, full consciousness. Supreme bliss consciousness. Wally's bliss consciousness. That's Sat Chit Ananda. Yes, Chit Ananda. No, not that.

0:42:04
All right, so Ryan got his name from yoga. So he's been doing pretty good, strong, good guy. But it would have been the yoga for the Sangha Trust where he went beyond himself. So when I tasked him with finding out the best corporate structure and tax path for us to help the whole manga, he started talking to accountants, talking to lawyers, from everything of incorporating in England, Hungary, to Panama, to the Cayman Islands, to the United States. And he's going through all this stuff. And lawyers and accountants, they just throw up a lot of problems.

0:43:02
It's funny.

0:43:02
You would think that there's someone out there who goes, oh, I think you want to do, here's what you should do. But they all go, oh, well, it's international. You're going to want to make this company, this thing. You're going to have to do it. They just start telling you what you have to do. Like, how long does it take? An obstacle. And all this trouble. And they can't even tell you, this is how it works. They tell you, well, you're going to need to do something. Then, maybe something else. So he started talking to them. And lawyers and accountants are always concerned of like breaking the law or like strange things so they're just like wait what are you doing? Huh? You know and then they're just like well you gotta make sure you don't do this and don't do this and don't do this. You know they're just like you know worried and they don't even... there are ones out there that know but it's hard to find them. It's an un... when you're doing international business it's not a clear path and especially if you want to do offshore accounts. So he was dealing with all this you know concern from lawyers confusion with different accountants and also just trying to find out the best path. So he's working on it and working on it and working on it and and I'm sitting there going, just do it. It's simple. It's totally complex. But our answer is simple. And he's like, but I hear this, I hear this, I hear this, and that. So there's all these dangers. But he came up with just so many dangers in working with offshore accounts. He's a very good researcher. But as he was researching and as he was coming up with all the problems and all the trouble and all the complications, he also was able to find the answer. And the answer was church. But he ended up finding that answer. And I remember we were talking and we were going through all these problems, problems, problems, problems. And he's like, and by the way, a church doesn't have capital gains tax. And I'm like, wow, you solved it. Like, that's it. That's a huge, powerful solution. And it's one I've been talking to, we've had a church for a number of years and I've talked to counties that specialize in churches and I never knew that. And so what he found out, I was like, you found the solution, something very powerful to help many people in the sangha. And so it was in that seeing or it was in that finding, in that work at yoga where he got beyond himself. All of his concerns and fears that lawyers and accountants were pushing on him to find the way. So this is a very powerful, powerful Yes? Sarah, your spiritual name is Zotí. And Zotí means stored power. So these are the names. So for those in the Hungarian Sangha, for Emily, you're making progress, but there's something blocking you. Like for Emily, you know, I said it's very important to show up at the Dharma Dojo for our solstice meditation. And for some reason, Emily said, well, it's far away and things like that. I don't know what, you know, she just didn't show up. But showing up, like coming to the right Dharma, coming to Dharma events is very important. Very important. Showing up on time is very important. So, you know, there's so much, you have to have the right awareness to say, wow, you know, this is an opportunity to come to a meditation with my enlightened teacher. My enlightened teacher said this is important. I should do the things that he says is important. And if you do that, then you have the right consciousness. But if you let things get in the way, like, oh, you know, traffic or fire or whatever, or I've got other things to do, then you're not there. Then you're letting stuff block your enlightenment. Okay, now we're going to take a 15 minute break, then we'll come back and we'll talk Okay, now we're going to take a 15 minute break, then we'll come back and we'll talk about the important dharma of this whole thing.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
