0:00:00
So tonight I'm going to give you a hand. I'm going to help you out. For some time we've been struggling. Struggling with obstacles, difficulties. And that's not unusual on the pathway to enlightenment. On the pathway to enlightenment, we're always refining ourselves. We're always looking for a way to break through our limits, to stop our harmful attitudes. So it's a path of dealing with hardships, dealing with the difficult things in your mind. So, just because you've had a hard time, don't get down on yourself. And just because I give you a hard time, don't get down on yourself. You know, my teacher used to yell at us all of the time. Not part of the time. I just remember it fondly. That's why it seems like all of the time to me. Yeah, but this is a way of helping you to understand, to see the importance of getting rid of your harmful ways or focusing your attention where there's a lack of awareness. So it's something that is very beneficial. Hakuin, great Zen master, he was very pleasant, he had a very pleasant demeanor in the monastery to all of the monks, except for this one monk. And he just yelled at this one monk all the time. And finally, there was a layman visiting, and he said, that monk seems so good and so nice, why do you yell at him all the time? And Haakon says, oh because, you know, he's got just a little self left. And if he can get rid of that self. And when I was studying with my teacher, I got to see a lot of self. And I was like, oh, it's there. And just when I thought it wasn't there, my next time speaking with my teacher, there it is. So this is a great thing. You know, that's what Shiva says. He says, the thing that he misses most about Rama is the times where Rama yelled at him. Should we? So, you know, so it's a good thing. And I know it's difficult. It's something very, very hard to deal with. Because whenever my teacher yelled at me, I just, it was such a difficult situation. I just stressed out, but then I started to see what I did was I started meditating deeper. I started to be more mindful. I started to reflect deeper on my condition in life. So I pushed myself forward with every challenge, every difficulty. I was very, very happy. I had become a computer consultant, and I was a black belt on the security team, and I was like, OK, I've made it. I was making like $50 an hour, and I was just so happy. I was like, this is it. This is great. And then Rama says, So, what are you up to? And I said, up to what? He's like, your rate for your black belt. I'm like, yeah, I got a computer consulting job. I make $50 an hour and I'm a black belt. And then he said, oh, well, that's all. And I'm like, yeah, isn't that it? And he says, well look, she's making $75 an hour and she's a third degree black belt. And I was all, ah! So then he said, so you should maybe work on it. And I was like, I didn't know, okay, I guess so. Then he said, so by your next birthday, get that rate and get that second degree black belt. And I was like, these are impossible things. Because my birthday was like four months away. And I was like, it's impossible. I can't, you know, I got a black belt on the west coast, now I'm on the east coast, not in the same school. But somehow, two weeks later, I was making $75 an hour, and then by my birthday I got a second second degree black belt. But guess what? So that's what I call, you know, getting yelled at. Because he pointed out something where I was totally oblivious, where I was stuck, I wasn't going to move forward on my own. And then from there, I kept getting black belts. I was like, oh, this is like fun. And it's like powerful advancing in martial arts and then I kept raising my rate and I just didn't stop I just kept going I said well if I got this rate how do I get more and then I just kept going so that was a time where I got I got yelled at I totally like stressed out about it I thought it was impossible. And then I kept going and I succeeded. So when you get, when your teacher yells at you, gives you a hard time, points out something that seems impossible for you, where you lack awareness, or where you're doing something bad with your awareness, something harmful, then it is a truly great thing, a truly great powerful opportunity to change, to grow. So we are experiencing this beautiful opportunity. And that's why I'm giving a hand today. to help you out. Because when you get stuck in the rut of self, when you get stuck in your head and stuck in your bad reactions and limited view, you don't see. You don't see the infinite possibilities. You don't have the perspective of how fantastic this this journey is. So, that's why I give you a strong teaching, or a correction, when you start to engage in what they call the three poisons. These are greed, hate, and delusion. Delusion or ignorance. So when you're experiencing that, when you're acting from these places, these conditioned, self-conditioned roots or motivations, then what happens is you are poisoned. That's why they call them the three poisons. You're poisoning yourself with every action. When you act from greed, you're poisoning yourself. It means you're going to experience suffering from acting in that motivation. When you act in hate, you're poisoning yourself, you're hurting yourself. You will experience suffering from that. And when you act in delusion or in ignorance, then you're a fool, unaware, and you just cause mayhem and folly. So, the wheel of life, there's this wheel where they have the six different worlds, and they show the gods and the demigods, humans, animals, the ghosts, the asuras, and hell beings, right? This whole wheel, the whole cosmology of being. And at the very center of that, the thing that is said to make that wheel go round, a rooster, a snake, and a pig. It's right in the very center of that wheel. And it's the thing that makes the wheel go around. Now, the rooster is said to be greed, the snake is anger, and the pig is ignorance. So these three animals, the three poisons are what make all of the experience of maya. They drive you into transient experience. They drive you into suffering. So, also on the wheel of life, just outside of the wheel, there's a Buddha pointing outside of the wheel. He's like, let's get out of here. The way to stop the wheel is to stop that momentum, stop the poisons, stop the rooster from running around chasing stuff, and stop the snake from biting, stop the pig from being a pig. And then once these activities, the poisons stop, when there's no momentum with the poisons, then the transient suffering of the finite world ends. It's gone. All these things that bring you into dissatisfaction, unhappiness, suffering, they vanish. So, when you harbor greed, when you harbor anger, hate, and delusion and ignorance. You are causing yourself suffering. So when a teacher gives you a hard time, it's not just to give you a hard time. It's to point out to you that you're poisoning yourself. It's to point out to you that you are causing your own suffering. And it's to tell you, stop. So I want you to reflect on the past months since the winter solstice. Because this is when we've come into a time of correction, where we're moving from roosters, snakes, and pigs off the wheel. And I want you to see that the place that I'm pointing to is off the wheel. experience of ups and downs, ins and outs, being pushed and pulled by the rooster, the snake, and the pig. What I've said to you, each of you, is that you need to change. If you have a place of greed, if you have a place of hate, and with your lack of awareness, ignorance, there needs to be a change. And that's what I've been driving you toward. Greed is also desire. It is just wanting stuff. It's seeing something and saying, Oh, that will actually make me happy. Yeah. So that's something that pulls you out of balance. And it brings you to peril. It's something that you think is going to make you happy, but it makes you very stuck. There was a jeweler, and he would open his shop.

0:15:26
Many people would come in.

0:15:28
He had a tray of gems, and he noticed every day a gem would be stolen. So he devised a plan. He put all of his gems in a big glass jug. And the opening to the jug was very small, just enough to fit your hand into. And then he put twice as many gems in the jug. And then he opened up for business and a whole bunch of people came in, like usual. And then at the end of the day, he finds someone with his hand in the jug. He was grabbing a bunch of gems, but since he grabbed the gems, he couldn't pull his hand out of a jug. But because he had so much desire, so much greed for the gems, he wouldn't let go of them. And it's to his complete peril, because now he was discovered to be the thief. So then the jeweler went into his pockets and found all the gems from before, and then probably said, don't do that again. But when you are, when you have desire, you are following something, you are doing something that keeps you trapped. You think it's something that is good, but it is something that completely limits you. Yeah, it's complete folly. So you have to recognize that when I'm pointing out to you the desires that you have, or the greed that you have, I'm pointing out that you are stuck because of them. You are stuck. And so, you know, I might yell at you about it. I'll say, oh, oh, okay. So, now hate. Hate is anger, but it's also frustration. It's just feeling bad. Hate is dissatisfaction. Hate is also stress. Hate is also fear. We hate what we fear. So hate is this big, beautiful pile of stuff that makes us unhappy. Hate is the other side. Like desire, you want something to come to you, and then you get unbalanced. Hate, you want stuff to get away from you, and then you get unbalanced in the other way. So, hate is something very difficult. Now, Buddha, I really like Buddha. Buddha is like, oh, if you hate, if you have anger, it's really easy to get rid of. Because it's obvious that it's a negative thing that hurts you. So it's really simple to get rid of. He's all, ignorance is a little bit more tricky. But hate, simple. And I was all like, oh wow. I was like sitting in traffic, really angry, for a long time ago. And I'm like, gosh, how can Buddha say it's so simple? I can't shake it. But it is. Buddha said, when you are angry, it's like picking up an ember in a fire. If you're mad at somebody, it's like, I want to hurt them, so I'm going to take that ember and hurt them with it. But you're hurting yourself. So having anger, having hate, or disagreeing to the point of not feeling good, these are things that hurt you. So we really need to practice awareness. I mean, you don't want to hurt yourself. You have to be mature to realize that you don't want to hurt yourself through anger. You're like, oh, should I grab that ember in the fire? Just because I'm so mad? I want to hit someone else with it?

0:20:42
No, that's stupid.

0:20:45
But, you know, I used to really have a lot of trouble with anger. I used to be very angry and brooding about things all the time. It took me a long time to have the spiritual realization that anger only hurts me. And once I figured that out, I went oh shoot, and then I was never angry again So it's a very good thing So anger There was a

0:21:23
There was a Zen

0:21:25
monk who goes to his master and he says

0:21:29
Master I

0:21:30
Am so angry. Everything bothers me. The other monks bother me. My bed bothers me. Meditation bothers me. Everything makes me angry. And then the Master said, Oh, okay. I'd like you to go run an errand. He's like, here. Take this money. Go to the town, and bring me back some rice or something like that. So the monk's like, is that your answer? OK, that didn't help. And then the monk goes walking down. And then the monk gets robbed. These ruffians come out, hooligans, and they rob the monk. They beat the monk down, and they seize that money, and then the monk comes back to the Zen master and says, I am so angry. This is the angriest I've ever been, because now I've just been beaten up and robbed." And then the Zen master says, Okay, now sit down. So they're sitting there with some tea. And then the Zen master says, I'll help you. And then they have this really heavy iron teapot. And the Zen master drops it on the monk's lap. And it burns him and leaves a bruise. And the monk goes, Ow! And the Zen master doesn't say anything. And the monk just goes, Well, I really love and respect my Zen master. I don't know what just happened, but he just puts it back on Then the Zen Master gets up, walks around behind him, and he pulls his robes off, the monk's robes. And then he's sitting there in his, you know, little loincloth or whatever, and then the Zen Master's sitting there holding his robe. And then the Zen Master says, I just beat you and stole your clothes." And then he's like, Yeah, but you're enlightened, you're my Zen master. He's all, so I, you know, that doesn't bother me. And the Zen master says, See, this is showing you your true nature. Your true nature is not anger. If you regard everyone as the Buddha, then you'll never be angry. See, someone could do something really horrible to you, but if you look at them as the Buddha, this person has challenged me to have greater compassion. This person has challenged me to be more impeccable, more balanced, more aware. This is like a Buddha giving me an amazing teaching. If you see that, then you won't get angry at people. You'll be happy. Even when bad things happen. Not like it's I mean, the Zen master spilled hot tea on him. That wasn't fun. He's just sitting there, but it's my Zen master. I don't know what just happened, but it hurt. But he didn't get angry. So we have to see things this way. And the thing about hate and anger and dissatisfaction and being stressed and just being all bummed out and negative is when you do it, it makes more of it. When you start to step into anger, you get more The only way for it to stop is to change. Change your mind. Get out of anger. And go into the light. There was once a Brahmin in the time of the Buddha. And the Brahmin was a teacher, had many students. And he would see Buddha sometimes and he liked Buddha. And then one day he said, Hey Buddha, come over to one of my satsangs, one of my teachings with my students. I just want you to come over and see me teach. Because he was like, I want to show off in front of Buddha because I'm a good teacher. So Buddha says, OK. And then he goes, He goes and then the Brahmin was not enlightened, but he was very powerful. He read many books. He was very intelligent. He was very good at debate and he was good at kind of pushing his will over on people and making it look obvious that they're idiots, things like that. And he did this because he liked to have a following. He liked people to give him donations and gifts and things. So the brahmin was talking to his students. And he pointed out to them every flaw he could see or think of. And he would always just say to them, it's your ego, it's your limited mind. And in his talk, and pointing out all their problems, he made them hate themselves. He's like, here's your problem, hate yourself. It's your ego. And then at the end of his talk, he said to Buddha, what do you think? Obviously, I just told them. And they're all like, oh, yeah, he told me. And then the Buddha said, In this world, hate has never yet dispelled hate. Only love dispels hate. This is the law, ancient and inexhaustible. So, the Brahmin teacher... a lot of people do this in spiritual practice. They get some spiritual truth or they read something in a book or somebody says something to them and then they go, oh, here's a reason to spiritually start hating myself. The Brahmin teacher got them to hate themselves. When you hate your practice, you don't create peace. So when you're like, oh I hate myself because I can't stop being angry, I hate myself because I'm harmful, I hate myself because I'm not pushing my, you know, career. If you hate yourself, if you're negative about yourself, it doesn't help you, it creates more hate. So Buddha said, it's love that dispels hate. So you have to, when you're facing your challenges, you can't get negative. When you're facing your challenges, you have to start loving enlightenment, Buddha, the world, the universe, yourself, everything in your life. You have to start like loving something. Then you get excited, then you're happy you're facing something difficult but you see that somehow you're gonna overcome this impossibility because you're on the pathway to enlightenment and Then it's beautiful and then it turns from a horrible story of greed hate and ignorance to a story of enlightenment. A story of breaking through limitations. Overcoming suffering. So we want to let go of hating ourselves. And then love yourself. A much better way. The last, the pig in this story, is ignorance. So ignorance is not knowing. They also say it's delusion, seeing things wrong. But ignorance is a lack of attention. It's a lack of proper focus. It's a lack of proper view. It's a lack of just approaching life in a balanced, clear awareness. We seek, in facing ignorance, we seek to have clarity, to have power of our mind. This brings us out of ignorance. Ignorance is caused by desire and aversion. So greed and hate create ignorance. And they grow ignorance. So like when you have a desire, you will say, oh I desire this person to be my spouse. That will make me that Ferrari. And then when you have that desire, even when you fulfill the spouse and the Ferrari, you're not happy. You know, the desire drew you into a place where you thought you'd be happy, but it brings you, following that desire, into greater ignorance. Or, on the other side, you could say, well, I have an enemy, and they cause me trouble. So, if I can kill that enemy, I will be happy. And, guaranteed, you'll be in jail. And not happy. So, if you were to, if you were able to push off everything that you're adverse to you still end up with greater ignorance

0:33:42
So

0:33:43
we seek a way out which is to understand Desire and hate just don't work. They keep they keep us Under the cloak under the veil where you can't see properly. They are what fog your spiritual vision. And so with ignorance it's considered to be the ultimate expression of the condition of greed and hate. three people, I think, three people, anyway, some Sufi master I think says, okay, go into that room. In that room, there is something of great value. Bring the thing that has the greatest value. And these three people decide to go in. sees a lot of stuff in the room, but he sees these old scarves and he says, I really like scarves. Yeah, scarves are cool. And yeah, those old ones, yeah, they have some moth holes and stuff, but those are cool. So he goes right to the scarves, grabs some of them and walks out. The next person who walks in looks, sees a bunch of stuff in the room, and then immediately sees a snake on the ground. And then he says, whoa, I hate snakes. He's like, I'm going to get out of here. So he just grabs an umbrella or something and gets out. The third one who walks in is ignorant. He just walks in and goes, I don't really notice anything of value here. Now, walks out with nothing. Now, in the center of the room, on a table, brightly lit, was a giant diamond. But no one could see it. The first person, because they desired something. They're like, oh, I'll desire scarves. Old scarves. Muddy boots. You know what I'm really into? Muddy boots. There's some old muddy boots. Anything, right? And they go, yeah, that's what I want. See, desire really grips you. Desire is also associated to addiction. So you might be like, you know, I gotta have my orange mocha frappuccino. And then if you're having that all the time and your doctor's like you're getting diabetes and fat and heart condition, you gotta quit drinking these. these and then you'll be like, no I can't, it ruins my life, I'm gonna, ah. You feel like you're gonna die if you can't get that thing. So you walk into the room and your awareness is, like death and desire are close. Fear and hate are close. These are very, very, very deep to your spirit, unless you can let go. Because these are things that will drive you. You'll be like, I walk into the room and I gotta get those old, dirty, muddy boots. Because that's what I'm aware of, that's what I think. And, you know, whatever. You really think that you gotta have it, or you're gonna die. Or you're not gonna be fulfilled, and life will be horrible. But that's not true. And then the guy who hates walks in there, hates a snake, can't see anything else in the room of value, because he hates a snake. And then the ignorant one walks in, doesn't notice anything. It's like, just a room. So, so when you're operating, when this is your operating system, you're stuck. You're limited, tremendously. That's Learn to let go.

0:38:22
Now,

0:38:24
in Hinayana Buddhism, they say, well, the antidote to greed is generosity. So, instead of being greedy about things, you're gracious. You're like, oh, here, let me give you stuff. Like, I like money, I like money, but then you start giving money to people. And then you go, wow, I've just discovered I'm not greedy about money anymore. I'm not a little miser anymore. And I'm happy. So simple practice. And they say the antidote to anger is loving kindness. So if you're like an angry person all the time, then you have to start practicing for every place you would be angry to instead be kind and loving and bring that energy through. And then the antidote to ignorance is simply wisdom. Ta-da! Just be wise. Don't be ignorant. And you gain wisdom from generosity and loving-kindness. Now, this is all good. This is what we call basic practice, basic mindfulness, right? Because that's good, but you're still caught in the world of yings and yangs, right? So you're like, these are bad things, right? The three poisons are bad, so I don't want them. So when they come, I'm going to face them with an antidote, the other thing. So you say, oh, antidote for that thing. But when you practice that way, you will find that you're just always struggling. They only get you so far, but they work sometimes. So, we get to the Hinayana. And the Hinayana is, take the poison. I have a joke about that. A man goes over to his priest and he says, Hey, you know, this is really crazy, but my wife is poisoning me. And then the priest says, Really?

0:41:13
And he's like, Yeah.

0:41:14
Every night, just a little poison, more and more. And then the priest says, are you sure? And he says, yeah. He says, let me talk to your wife. Let me straighten this out. So then the next day, the priest talks to the man again. And he says, I spoke with your wife last night for over four hours. And then he says, you know what my advice is? And the man says, what? Take the poison.

0:41:41
All right.

0:41:52
So in Mahayana Buddhism, we say, OK, the three poisons are the pathway to enlightenment. The three poisons are not something to push away or run away from. The actual goal is to transform them. So, just as a peacock eats poison, you know, peacocks eat them. They do. I don't know why. They like it. But it is said that, or I guess symbolized, that they do eat poisonous shrubberies. They say that the poison goes into the peacock and the peacock transmogrifies the poison into beautiful colors.

0:42:56
So that's what they say.

0:42:57
It's a symbol. But those things do eat poison. So what we seek to do is we seek to not run away from the poisons, but to sit there in the poison first. You've got to accept it. So when you see that you are in greed, instead of trying to run from it all the time, you've got to eventually say, alright, I'm being a greedy miser. I'm caught in desire. I have to accept the truth of what's going on.

0:43:41
There.

0:43:43
So, once you can accept it, then you're opening yourself to the truth. You open yourself to more pain. Pain is not bad, right? It hurts. But when you open yourself to the pain, then you're able to deal with life as it is. If you're always like, oh it kind of hurts, I'm running from the pain, then you'll always be running. The thing that you can do is you can take the pain. You can take all the pain in life, in the universe. You don't have to be weak. You can say, no, I am going to own my enlightened spirit here and say, I can take this pain. I am suffering from desire. I am suffering from anger. I am suffering from ignorance. And I feel all sorts of types of pain, all the things that you go through in your head, all the feelings. You could say, I'm not going to run, I'm going to take it. And then we practice bodhicitta. Taking your own pain is, you know, in Tonglen, it's taking. And then you can send light. But if you're always running because it hurts, then you're never really taking the pain. You're never practicing the inhalation of taking the pain isn't a practice of sitting there going right. It is simply putting your spirit into a disposition where you say, okay, I'm going to take the pain. And then you're taking the pain of your life. And this is not a practice of breathing, but it is a practice of, after you've taken the pain, you align your intent with bringing the Dharma into your life. And then you do powerful things. Then you meditate more deeply. When you can take the pain, you can meditate more deeply. It forces you to. When you stop running and stop reacting and just say, I'm angry, I'm angry and I'm going to take it, then when you meditate, your meditation has deeper reflection of truth, then the Dharma starts to happen. If you do the right things, then truth just starts to blossom in your awareness. So, when you are in the disposition on taking the pain, then all of a sudden, your meditation is deeper, your mindfulness is stronger. You perceive life in a clearer way. Yeah. So, next time you're at Starbucks, waiting in line, you know, they're going really slow, I gotta get my orange mocha frappuccino, and you're all, you know, everyone in line's all frustrated because they haven't had their morning coffee. That's when you, that's when you say, alright, let me take this pain. You know, you're in traffic. Take the pain. Whatever circumstances you're in, don't just go with the karmas. Don't continue in the cycle of anger. Don't continue in the cycle of desire. Or the cycle of ignorance. You want to let go. Let go of the self-reaction and just accept. Accept life. Accept what's going on. Accept it in those small cases, like in line for Starbucks, but accept it in the big difficulties that are the worst for you, are either a form of greed, anger, and hate, delusion, and ignorance. free poisons, were the obscurations of attention that afflicted you after a beautiful, wonderful, and very high winter solstice. But the teaching of the solstice was something very powerful. It was like a whole new level of powerful. But because you guys were kind of trapped in this circle that creates more, you know, maya attention, more personal karma, limitation and suffering, you couldn't really, really grasp it. But then I decided that you guys don't have to, but I will. I will continue with the higher Dharma, because I don't have the problems that you guys are caught in. is, it's a kind of Sangha unity. So, Adinikala, with his Sangha unity talk, I was like, I don't know, I don't think I like any unity. Unity is just a pain. Just kidding. I think it's about time in our Sangha to get things straight, to create positive influences, to kind of do it right. But this is true, there's a lot of enlightened teachers, it's like after they die, their sanghas kind of go all around crazy, but then they come back together and then they figure something out. Happened with Buddha. With Buddha, they didn't write down the teachings while he was alive. They just followed his teachings. And then when he died, they all kind of went their own way. Some groups stayed together, some people just went around by themselves But then eventually they came back with all the arhants and said let's actually write this stuff down before we forget it What did Buddha say? What was the punchline? They're all like gosh, we got a whole bunch of Buddhist teachings, but we forgot a lot of the punchlines Cuz you know you read Buddhist teachings that they're just not funny and I'm sure Buddha was funny. I'm like, where's the humor? But I also have to say, you know, I've traveled around Asia a lot going to Buddhist monasteries. Nepal and China, Japan and stuff, Thailand. And I met a lot of Buddhists. And I was always looking for very advanced Buddhists, and there are not very many. So I have to say, the Hindus are winning on the spiritual thing. Because there's lots of, like we go to India, there's a lot of very high spiritual practitioners who can go into really high states of mind, touch divinity, have magical powers and stuff. And the Buddhists, I don't see it very much. I've been around the Buddhists a lot. So the Buddhists kind of are asleep. That's why, you know, I mean, that's why they take Buddha's teachings and they forgot all the punchlines. You're like, well, this stuff doesn't work. There's nothing to laugh at here. There's no spark, but the teachings are still. It's in there. There's light in there. It's just most people don't see it. So Buddha was, you know, an enlightened, you know, Buddha, enlightened master. But in India, there were many enlightened masters. And there were ones that are even higher than Buddha. So it's really amazing. Anyway, so Buddha had three branches in his Sangha. He had the Vinayas were all the people in the monastic order. Then he had the Maha Sangha, which was the monks and the lay people. But then he had this one special group called were his students who had some attainment. Streamwinner, once-returner, non-returner, arhant. So these were his students who had some attainment, some learning. So, what I'd like to do is I'd like to create for the Rama Sangha, the Arya, as a focal group to make a change, a change in consciousness. There's a Frederick Lenz Foundation, and they have the rights to Rama's books, his estate, and his money. And it's run by a lawyer, Rama's lawyer, who wasn't a student, and doesn't really know, it's kind of out of touch with Rama's teachings. And what I want to create is, well, this guy might be, while that foundation might hold Rama's money, which is fine, I really want to create an organization that is the legacy of Rama's teachings, the lineage, the spiritual lineage of his teachings, versus just a foundation. The foundation is kind of just this heavy thing. But the Arya could be spiritual teachers, direct students of Rama, who were empowered by Rama to be part of his lineage, and empowered by Rama to teach. Then there would be this group of people who are truly Rama's lineage teachers. And that group can have a positive influence in the Sangha. So, I was talking to Hanuman, who worked closely with the Foundation for a while. I was like, let's do something called Rock the Foundation. make a change, or give them an opportunity to see things differently. Because right now, the foundation, they use Rama's money, they invest it, and then they make money, and then they give it away. But they're giving it away to like, you know, some Zen group or some Tibetan Buddhist group. And these are organizations that Rama never supported in his lifetime. And they're giving zero of it to any of Rama's teachers, any of Rama's students, anyone promoting Rama's teachings, which to me is a strange thing. So I said, hey Hanuman, go ask them, you know, ask the Zen guy, because they're going to have a little powwow. I said, ask the Zen guy, so, what, you know, what non-profit or spiritual organizations do you give money to? And they'll say, what are you talking about? We're our own non-profit. We don't give money to another spiritual school, that doesn't make any sense. Exactly. And then pose, why don't we support Rama's lineage teachers, empowered teachers by Rama, who teach Rama's teachings? It's a good question. So I'd like to do that. So I'd like to make a non-profit. Rama American Buddhism Foundation or something like that. A non-profit and I'd like to work with the structures of the foundation, because they like to give money to non-profits. But I want to convince them, give money to Rama's school, his teachers, who promote Rama's teachings. We do things like write books, print books, have meditation seminars, have meditation centers, spiritual retreats, do advertising, travel, all sorts of things. There's so many teachers out there that could use that support. To me it's not a big deal, I mean, the money that they give away, but if you were to just align the foundation with supporting actually Rama's students' activities, it would be a really nice alignment. I think. Now, part of the Arya would be a financial support. So, we talked about doing lots of our yoga projects as part of this offering before. But I think that what is very concrete would be to really use what we have that works. So we have something that could support people, that has been successful for years, has a very strong return, and that's something that I'd like to offer to, you know, ST1s and ST2s and even beyond, but definitely to people in our Sangha, because it's something that we have figured out how to be solidly successful and it's something that is useful. Now, what I really want to do with this is I want to create guaranteed dividends because there's a lot of, let's say, ST1s who might be at the retirement age, and maybe they didn't save up really, really well for their retirement. But if we can have guaranteed dividends, then that would mean that if they had $150,000 or $100,000 and put it into this, instead of that money just getting squashed over 10 years, then they would get dividends paid out every month. Is it every week? No, every month. And then that way it would be a very strong return. We're getting, I think, on average, 6% per month, which is, you know, and if you leave your money in and it compounds, it gets even better. But I'm really focusing on making a monthly dividend that works, there's people here who could use it too. So, you know, I have some students who were just like, you know, it's like you have a back problem or, you know, some kind of illness and it's like, you know, you can only be in the working world so long. So if you have health issues, this would also be a very strong thing. So it's a way where you have to have money, you have to put in your savings, but it's a way where you can get hopefully most of or all of your monthly income just from investment. So that's something that is working and it is solid, so I'd like to make that a kind of like the backbone of this ARIA foundation. Having a strong financial component, incentive, help, aid, is something that I think is very necessary. I remember, Dolman Jeet and I were in New York, we were meeting with some ST2s and one ST1, and she was saying, what are we doing in our fanga to help the ST1s? Some of them are retiring, they didn't save enough, so what are we doing to help someone like this guy Moe?" And then Moe's like,

1:04:52
Wow!

1:04:54
And everyone was like, Well, why would we help anyone? But I think it's a very positive thing to do. And we have a yoga that is a vehicle big enough to help everyone. And it is successful. Oh, the other thing I want to do with the Foundation, because they invest, you know, Rama's estate money, I want to say, why don't you invest some of it in here, too? I think that would be a great thing. So, that's how I would like to grow as a positive influence for the rest of the extended Sangha, as a way of teachers coming together. So, for example, Ganga Nath and Tara Leela are international teachers. They taught all over the country, all over the world. And it would be kind of nice if we could, if the foundation would kind of support them in some of their activities. It would be meaningful and useful. It would be meaningful and useful for Shiva and many others. Now in May, we're going to have Isis come and address the group. She's a teacher from San Diego. She's been running a meditation center down there for like 18 years. So, you know, like if she's in the ARIA group, she could benefit from these kinds of support as well. A fun, positive thing. A nice, wonderful thing. Yeah, and it's just that

1:06:51
It's a way

1:06:53
It's a it's just an offering It's a way that when you follow the spirit of it. It just gets you out of the three poisons. The three poisons are a trap, but when you're selfless, then you're going, and there's some momentum, there's some dharma. Like there's a real dharma in Sangha. And our Sangha is just a little funky. You know, it's like we're not really united. It's kind of strange, like, the sangha doesn't get together, you know, as a whole. There's just, people are spread out all over the place. But if you created this awareness of the spiritual legacy, that draws people's attention together. If you create a financial tool that can benefit everybody, that would bring people's attention together. It creates a kind of unity. And in a Sangha, there's a powerful Dharma there. And when you're following the Dharma, then you go past ignorance. In Tibetan Buddhism, Vajrayana, sometimes they call the three poisons, they call them the three fires. Because they burn through things. They burn through obscurations of self. They burn the self away. The three fires. So instead of suffering greed, when you experience the fire of greed, there is, they say the seeds of wisdom are in the three fires. So, when you are experiencing the essence of what is called the poison, there's wisdom in it. Just as when you go through some spiritual lesson of greed and desire, it's like, ouch. But then it also, what did it do? It burned away the self. And you're left with awareness of truth. These are the three fires. And the Arya is a way to burn through all of the problems within the Sangha, with people having greed and desire pulling one way, or anger and dissatisfaction pulling another way, or just ignorance, being So the three fires help you to have an awareness, a greater awareness of truth. We're going to have a meditation of the three fires. This is greed, hate, and ignorance meditation.

1:10:48
You want to see it? You're going to... it's an open-eye meditation.

1:10:50
You look up here, and I'm going to show you it. You'll be all like, ah, urr, urr. But the reason it's... this is the teaching of the fire, is because it is the essence that burns through self and shows the wisdom. So just open eye meditation for one song.

1:11:19
So, So Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the the the the the the the the the the the you you It's the way through. So the three poisons are the path, the pathway to enlightenment.

1:16:05
You can suffer them, or find the wisdom within them.

1:16:14
Or both.

1:16:19
What we just experienced was what I would call the fast path. It is to take these three poisons, these three flames, and to get right to the essence, the wisdom. You can't push things away. If you're pushing things away, that's aversion. That's hate. I hate poison. And then you fall into hate. So it is a practice of acceptance, but acceptance of the very truth of even something we would be adverse to. And then when you have that acceptance, instead of fearing the poisons, then you accept the truth of them, you learn very quickly what it means. And then your ignorance goes away. This is the fast path. You have to align your intent, discover your deepest intent, and direct it to knowing the truth. And instead of following some long path of suffering and trouble, mischief, then you'll come to peace much, much faster. There's a story, I think it's a true story, of the USS Abraham during, I think it was 1945. This naval ship was somewhere up in the North Atlantic, you know, near the mainland, near Canada, and they were on a course, on a heading, and it was very foggy out. And they saw a light ahead of them, and they said, oh, it's some other little boat. And they kept going towards it, and then they go, ah, things not getting out of the way. So they hail the boat on the radio and say, hey, we're a big old naval destroyer, you've got to get out of our way. So this is what the captain says, he's all, you've got to get out of the way, so I want you to take this heading and get out of our way. And then the Canadians get back to him and say, no, you take a different heading, like a much bigger turn. They say, you change and make a bigger change. And then the captain is like, what? How dare you? I want to go over there and I want you to get out of my way and you're pissing me off. And so they're going back and forth, yelling at each other, get out of the way, get out of the way. And the American boat says, get out of my way, and then the Canadians go, no, you get out of the way. And it's back and forth. And finally the captain says, hey, if you get too close to me, we're going to break a lighthouse, but you're still going

1:20:31
to crash.

1:20:34
So, this is a good example of the three poisons. First, you know, the captain wants to go in his direction. He's like, I want to go this way. And then, because he thinks this other boat won't move, he gets angry. But it's all, he's deluded. He doesn't know that he's headed right to land. So I think this is a true story. And then of course he didn't believe them Yeah, so, we don't want to be like that. We want to wake up and get past these, those are long paths of suffering and folly. Now, the thing that we're going to do with the Arya is just a really happy way. It's a really good energy. And it's a way that, you know, just by being a part of the Sangha, being a part of it, it's good. Like, for example, here's what we could do. So, we're, you know, close to having the AppBuddy software acquisition. We're this close. This close. Right? And so, let's say we get, you know, a nice acquisition, a bunch of millions of dollars, then we could throw it in to the fund and we can grow the fund faster. And then we could actually help people out by saying, all right, we're going to take a portion of this money and say, hey, you might be someone who's retired, who didn't have your savings together, and we're just going to give you a little section of money, and the interest from that you're going to get every month, something to live on. That would be really nice support. I really want to do that." Or, maybe there's some ST1 or some ST2 who's just entering the enlightenment cycle and it's difficult for them to have a day job. And then we can say, oh, look, we're going to take some money, just set it aside for you, and you'll get the interest from it. So, instead of them having to actually put a chunk of money in, if they don't have it, we could take a chunk of money and just assign it for a worthy cause. I would really like to do that. That would be a very nice thing. You know, we were talking about earlier taking the money, and we were talking for a long time about taking the money and building the Hawaii retreat, right? We were talking about that for a long time and making a really nice Hawaii retreat. And then when we were getting closer to the acquisition, Dharma said, Do we really want to do that? I said, Yeah, you're right, probably not. There's so many places to rent. And then you could go, like, you don't just have to go to Hawaii. If we created a Hawaii retreat, that's where we would just go all the time. And then we're like, God, I'm bored of Hawaii. So instead of that, instead of spending all these millions of dollars building some four-star we could put that money in this fund and be able to really help people who could use it. That would be wonderful. Let's see. So, Sarasvati was recently in Hungary, returning home for the first time since moving here. And at one point, she came over to me and she said, this is so fantastic. You know, coming back home, you know, journey to Ixilin kind of thing, you see how your life has changed. You go back to a place where you've been at one stage, you come through a whole shift of power, and then you go back to that same place, that's where you can see how you're doing. You can see the changes that you've made. You see, wow, I used to be here in this state of mind, and now I'm in a very more powerful, more free state of mind. And she was successful in dealing with her family in a positive way, now that shows you something. Usually your family is the hardest to deal with because they can push your buttons. And if you don't have any buttons to push, then that's good. So she said, this is so amazing, like the changes that I've seen. And she was with the Hungarian Sangha and so many good things are going on in the Hungarian Sangha. And then she said, it's amazing how one person who can stop thought could create so many beautiful opportunities for so many people. And I said, yes, that's, I was thinking the same thing the same day. I was sitting there going, it is amazing what Rama did. He just sat there, stopped thought, many other structures of stopping thought, and he created for so many students so many magical opportunities, so many experiences of enlightenment. And for me, I just think back to the study with him. I was going through my three poisons and I was like, I must have been the biggest headache. You know, I just remember my states of mind and I'm like, oh, I was sitting in the room in that state of And, you know, he put up with me, put up with all the other students who are going through, you know, worlds of trouble. We're just going up and down, in and out, over and under. You know, that's what we do. We are a world of this and that, a world of good and bad, a world of many dramas, a world of three poisons. We're not any specific way, we're always changing. There's so many dimensions affecting us. We are a world. And yet, when we are with our teacher in satsang, just to sit with, to be with our teacher in connection, in communion, we are uplifted. The light of Rama would lift me up, even though I had all my three poisons going on. I had a thousand things and all sorts of difficulties. Just to be with my teacher would lift me up into light. And yeah, I still had those things, but when you're lifted into the light, things come into balance. You start to see, you start to learn, you start to grow. The things where you would normally just spiral down into great negativity, when you're lifted up by the teacher and you're in that light, then everything is beautiful. Even your hate, even your ignorance, even your greed, you start to see through it. You start to see that it's not real, that you don't have to cling to these things. People talk about their India experiences. Many of their experiences are letting go of the self, letting go of the desires, the hate, and the ignorances that they've had for so long. They're just like, this is me. And then all of a sudden, it's gone. Now when you're with your teacher, when I was with Rama, all of these things, all these difficulties, all these hardships, I would lift up and I would see right through them. When you're in satsang with your teacher, it all goes away. So Sarvanan, one of our guides in India, he studied with an enlightened teacher, Yogi Ram Sarat Kumar, and he talked about the changes that he experienced. He had these magical times with his teacher. And he said, the light of Rama comes through me. The light of Rama comes through me. So, Rama lifted me into light, and I made a connection with his light, and his light comes through me. That's why it's magical, beautiful. I remember we met with Shiva Balananda. Shiva Balananda was the student of an enlightened teacher. And he's a really strong, advanced yogi. He's amazing. And when the first group was there, someone asked him, tell us about your guru. And then he said, the guru is greater than God. That's what he said in words. But his answer was so bright. It had so much depth, pointing out that profound truth. Ganga Nath said that the guru is very important, because the guru is the doorway to enlightenment for you. There's a lot of different gurus out there. But the guru, your guru, your true guru, is the doorway to enlightenment for you. There's some people who would come and sit with me and be all, I'm out of here. Who is this freak? You know? And, you know, there could be some other guru for them. That's the door for them. And as they say in Zen, there is no door. But there's different approaches. That would be perfect seeing. There is no door. But to be with your guru in satsang, that's where your whole world is lifted into light. And little by little, in that light, all of the defilements of self and attention, you start to see through it. And all the things that we do, in the corrections that I give, in the practices that we follow, in the work that we do, in the adventures that we go on, in the little shifts of happiness that we do, like doing the Aria, just being a part of that, putting your spirit into that. These are things that lift you up into the light. It's a light of mind that is not you. It's the light of enlightenment. So I sat there with Rama, going through all sorts of stuff and difficulties, and I felt like I was struggling the whole time, but I was going into a condition of greater and greater light just by being with Rama. That is satsang. So, while we might be a whole world of problems, you're a world where the sun is coming up, the sun is shining, and the sun is showing And while you can still be conflicted with all the different things going on, it brings you into a brighter way. We're going to conclude with a meditation on this subject. Satsang with the teacher in worlds of light.

1:35:19
The mind is a deep meditation. The mind is the life itself.

1:35:32
This screen is in a pure state, in a state of doi. It's the movement of life, a clan of eyes. He said all these words, all these words. He said all these words. All these words. All these words.

1:37:05
He said all these words are shining in my heart.

1:37:09
In the heart. He said it is life. He said it is life. He said it is life. He said it was fire.

1:37:38
C'est le mouvement de la vie, quand un clan d'oeil s'ouvre. What is Zen?

1:37:45
I asked the Zen master, what is Zen Master? What is Zen? What is Zen?

1:38:06
It is a train to the pure state.

1:38:08
A clan of oil.

1:38:10
What is Zen? It is the movement of life. A clan of oil. He said all these worlds are shining in His eyes. All these worlds, all these worlds. He said, all these worlds are shining in His eyes. All these worlds are shining. All these creatures are shining in this garden. He said it is life. It's the movement of life in a glance without looking back. So

1:39:32
It's a train at a pure state.

1:39:34
When the wheels of the train are on the ground, it's the movement of life. Satsang is a hand. It's support. It's a hand of enlightenment, lifting you up, lifting And for the Arya, when we were with Rama, Rama was the leader of the Sangha.

1:40:17
And he always supported us, he was always the hand lifting us up. But when he went away, and we couldn't be lifted up anymore, we're all over the place. in spirit or financially. This would be a very beloved shrine to Kuan Yin or Canon. This was a shrine where there was a statue of Canon with many arms. It was something that everyone in the village really loved. They saw it as really a beautiful expression of divine compassion. So, the story with Avalokiteshvara, or multi-armed Kwan Yin, is that they have all of the arms so that they have a way to help people, many different ways to help. So one day a storm came, bad storm, and the shrine was wrecked and the statue within the shrine was broken. All of the arms were either broken in half or broken And the villagers were like, oh my gosh, what are we going to do? You know, this is a very old statue, it was a very beautiful statue. Should we repair it, or should we replace it? And they were kind of trying to figure out which to do. And then the little Zen master does a little, he writes a little calligraphy on a little placard and puts it in front of the statue. And it said, are now my hands. My enlightened compassion will now be expressed through you. So, the work that we do in following our paths in yoga, the work that we do in supporting or compassion, or let's say it's an energy of support. So while Rama was around, he would support us very often. But now he's not around, so we have to do it ourselves. But it's a good thing. It's a happy thing. Okay. Thank you very much. Okay.

1:45:22
Woof! Woof! Ha ha ha!

1:45:26
So,

1:45:28
in India, we went to visit Sat Chidananda. And Sat Chidananda studied with an enlightened teacher, Tapaswaji. Now, Tapaswaji went over to Sat Chidananda's family when Sat Chidananda was 10. And he said, Hey, I want to raise your kid. And they're all, okay. And so he grew up studying with his enlightened teacher, and his description of the world became an enlightened description of the world. Kind of The current guy, right? Because Kim Jong-il taught his son to see the world in a really weird way. And so kind of the opposite of that would be Satchitananda. He grew up seeing the world in a way of balance and light. And so he's like magic. When he grew up around the age of 24 or something, then his teacher said, now you can leave. We did what was necessary, now just go and live how you see fit. And he lived a very successful life. He became a very successful politician, did very well financially, just lived a very good life. So he, like, the Dharma just comes out of him. He just does the Dharma because he was trained that way. So we went to see him and I came late so I wasn't actually there but they were telling me he was just talking about dogs. He was talking about all the dogs that he had had and he was just talking about dogs. And then so Ganga Nath would say, so could you tell us about your enlightened teacher? Then he's all, oh, I had a St. Bernard once. So apparently he just talked about dogs. And then everyone kind of like left going, okay, he was really cool, but you know, there was nothing like spiritual, just a bunch of dogs. Okay, now, something happened on that trip. They told me the story, and then we just started noticing, like, magical things about dogs everywhere we went. Really powerful, beautiful things about dogs. One thing is, when we were at the Aya, Darshan or Satsang, so we got to this little backyard area with a little haystack in the middle. And I was like, where's Aya? I didn't see anybody. I thought there was some little old guy sitting there and some lady attending to making tea or something. And I was like, oh, I'm like, what's going to happen here? And then we just sat down and I'm sitting next to this haystack. And I was like, what's going on? And then all of a sudden, I was like, whoa, light is everywhere. And then these two dogs come over. And they were magical dogs. And the dogs would hang around us. We would pet the dogs. And it was just like this, I can't tell you how blissful and amazing it was. But we had many experiences, magical experiences with dogs. Very unusual, because on the first trip we didn't have any dog, nothing about a dog. So Sat Chit Ananda knew something. That's why he was talking about dogs. Just following the Dharma. Anyway, our most powerful dog experience is something that I'd like Ganga Nath to tell you about. If you please come.

1:49:46
First, I'd like to say that we really enjoyed hearing the experiences of all the people that went on the last trip. When Tara and I moved to India in 2006, we didn't come back to America for four years. And that's a long time to be in India. Those of you who have gone, you know, for two weeks can imagine what it's like to stay four years and never come back. And just before the first four years were up, it was like grace just descended on us and magical experience just started happening and we started meeting amazing enlightened masters. And Ajahn said something earlier about how we were stalking power or we were stalking enlightened teachers. On one level that is true, but on another level we just were surrendered to whatever happened. It wasn't so much like a conscious intention to meet those people. It was that we just were in the flow and all that just happened. It appeared to happen without any effort on our part to meet those people. Those people just came into our sphere of influence or activity. So it was spontaneous. It appeared to be spontaneous. Sure, we had an intention to go to India for spirituality, but we weren't trying to meet those people. They would appear in our life. When we were in Tiruvannamalai this last trip, we were staying at this resort. It's a very beautiful resort. It's called Sparsa. It's actually an eco resort. So everything is very ecologically friendly. And it has a very nice dining room and wonderful food. And I noticed there was a man sitting over in the corner pretty much every single morning, and I recognized him as being the head of an animal hospital. And Tara and I had taken a bat, of all things, to that animal hospital years earlier, a fruit bat. Has anyone here ever seen a fruit bat? Now, we might think, oh, a bat. Ooh, bats are kind of creepy, right? But if you saw the face of a fruit bat, it's absolutely adorable. It looks like a little kitten. It has wings, but the face is like a beautiful little kitten. And one day we were eating, this is back many years ago when we lived in Tiruvannamalai, and across the road a bat flew into an awning of a store and fell to the ground and an Indian man started beating it, trying to kill it. And I saw what was happening, and I jumped up and I ran across the street and I said, stop it, stop it, that's a living being. You can't kill that. Aren't you a Hindu? Don't you know about reincarnation? You can't kill that animal, stop. And he's like, oh my God. You know, and everyone around was watching me, you know, scream at this man. That's a living being, don't hurt it. So the guy backed off and we managed to get the bat to the animal hospital. That's how we knew about the animal hospital. So I noticed the man in the dining room and I went, Oh, that's that man who runs the animal hospital. So I went over and I started talking to him. And he, of course, was very curious about why we were in town, because he had seen us years before and knew that we lived there. And I said, oh, we're bringing groups to Tiruvannamalai on a spiritual tour. And he said, oh, maybe your group would like to come to the animal hospital and have a tour. So I said, sure, I think that's a great idea. to the table and this is like a perfect example of how these things just manifest without any intention. And so I said, Ajan, the man over there runs an animal hospital and he invited our whole group to go to the animal hospital. So you said, you know, he said we could come this hour, this hour after 2.30. You said, let's go now. Right? So we went to the animal hospital. Now this animal hospital is the only animal hospital like this in the entire country of India. All the dogs run free. No cages. 200 dogs that have been taken off the street. Since he founded this hospital, 28,000 dogs have come through. 28,000 dogs they've cared for, taken off the street, injured, many of them injured, maybe from car accidents. In India, it's not a good life to be a street dog. They're dirty. They eat garbage. And he has transformed that city by taking 28,000 dogs off the street and caring for them, healing them, feeding them. When we were there, they were beginning that very day, putting all 200 dogs through baths every day to cure their skin diseases. 200 dogs getting a bath every single day. They only have two vets, two doctors on staff. No hospital like this in the entire country of India. And it was amazing, right? Those of you who were there, it was so amazing. I was brought to tears. I started crying. He started explaining that one of the names of Shiva is Pasuparthi. Pasuparthi. Pashu means organism, an organism. Pati means protector. Pashupati means protector of organisms or protector of animals. So one of the names of Shiva is the protector of animals. And then when you add nath on the end, Pashupatinath, that means Lord, Protector of all living beings. If you put Shri in front, Shri means revered or worshipped. Shri Pashupatinath means revered Lord Protector of all animals. That's one of the names of Shiva. Earlier you mentioned about Shiva. Shiva is pure consciousness. Shiva is your self. Your self is pure consciousness. What you really are is pure consciousness. The ego creates the illusion that we are the doer. creates the illusion that we are the doer, that we're doing things. But it's an illusion. God is really doing it all. God is doing it all. It's our ego that creates the illusion that we're doing it. Like the ancient ones speak to? You all saw the movie. Doctor Strange. The ancient ones said to Doctor Strange, It's not about you. It's not about you. So, one thing I noticed when everyone told their stories, was that thing that you just mentioned, self-transcendence. There was a common thread through all the stories of transcending who we think we are and what we are. I was really moved to tears sitting over there hearing all of your amazing experiences that you had. When Tara and I started having these experiences in India, we knew it was our mission to share them with other people. We knew we're having these experiences, we're meeting these incredible masters. They mentioned Aya many, many times, but no one mentioned Aya sat in a tiny cave, no bigger than his body could fit into. A cave that he could barely fit into. He sat there for 18 years, not moving, meditating all day and night on top of Arunachala Mountain for 18 years, drinking only one glass of milk a day. Now that's amazing, right? who we all have been going to see, he was this amazingly wealthy man who Shiva appeared to one night and he said, give it all up, go move into a cave and he did it. And he lives there for over 12 years. 10 years in the hills above Rishikesh on just roots and leaves with no money at all and no food, just eating roots and leaves, sleeping with wild tigers who would come and sleep

2:00:36
with it.

2:00:37
Now, one interesting question that I want to end with is, why would we want to meet these people. We don't want to go live in a cave, right, for the rest of our life. We don't want to sit in a tiny little cave. Aya hasn't spoken for probably 15 years, not one word. We don't want to live like that, right? So why do we go all the way to India to meet people who sit in a little tiny cave, not speaking, drinking just one glass of milk a day. That's not how we want to live, right? I don't think. We don't want to eat just roots and leaves on top of the hills above Rishikesh, sleeping with wild tigers. Does anyone here want to do that? No. We don't want to give up our life and go live in a cave like Mahanandasita. to sit up, but the reason we do it is that when we go and meet those people who have reached a level of consciousness, which is so far beyond what we are experiencing, we receive an empowerment, we receive a transmission that boosts us, to higher states of consciousness. So then we come back to our ordinary life, working in Silicon Valley or whatever, going to a job, taking care of our little dog, and we are now experiencing it all in a different way. Everyone who goes on the trip, right, comes back experiencing their life that they left two weeks ago in a completely different way. And that's the beauty of all that. The man in India who takes care of those dogs, he's a saint. Probably no one who he knows, knows that that man is an amazing saint. He's doing seva every day of his life to care for animals that are suffering. And he's transformed the life of 28,000 dogs. It was so moving to meet this man. I just had to hug him and I was crying. It was all I could do to hold back the tears. I just wanted to sob realizing that this man cares for that many living beings. He's doing Shiva's work. He's doing Shiva's work. Thank you.

2:03:29
We thought we were just going to, you know, some animal hospital. Don't know why. Oh, some guy said he was at an animal hospital and invited us, so let's go check it out. It was very beautiful. It was very beautiful. And it was like really the height of the Sat Chit Ananda's dog dharma. There were a couple people on the trip who didn't have Scotty dogs, and through this dog dharma, they saw, maybe I should get a Scotty dog. But there was one thing when we were standing there, and there was all these different dogs around. And they all had names. And he knew every condition that the dogs were in and was helping all of them. It was really beautiful. But he said, he said, feel this space. And he said, you know, there's Arunachala, this is the energy of Shiva, the protector, as Ganga Nath explained. And we just stood there in silence for a moment, feeling that, that, that power, that manifestation It was really beautiful. It was amazing. The reason I bring it up is for two reasons. One, he has a website where he takes donations. And he said, even if you donated $10, that is like such a huge help for a dog for a month. And I was like, wow, if we all put in $100, we'd be able to support all the dogs for a while. I mean, it's just maybe just $100 to us, but it would be a big help. So somebody put on the wiki, the website. Somebody who knows the website put it on the wiki and then we can all click and donate. I was happy I was happy to hear that when I when I was looking at everything I was like let's give him donations let's make him a website oh he already has one see he's good he's ahead but it's really a beautiful thing so I'm glad that Ganga Nath got to share that with us it's very beautiful. I would like to again conclude with another meditation. This one is a practice of bodhicitta. We're going to practice bodhicitta for dogs. Dharma that Ganga Nath exposed and showed about this beautiful energy of Shiva for helping dogs. And since in our school we have a very strong dog Dharma, this connection is very, very powerful. Now, since we're here by the ocean, we're going to use the wave practice. So instead of the breathing, exhaling and inhaling, the wave comes up, it's a wave of light that crashes down on the suffering dogs of the world, of the universe. And then as the water recedes back into the ocean, it pulls all the suffering. And then a wave of light comes. So this is where we don't have to focus on our breath, we just focus on the natural flow of waves for compassion. So we'll just sit for one song with the focus on compassion for dogs. for dogs. the

2:07:42
the the the So, So So So So You Okay, very good. Well, oh it's late. Alright. Alright. It was wonderful meditating with you this evening. You did a very good job. And I will see you soon. Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
