0:00:00
When Kali was first asking me to recommend people for this interviewing process I was like she and she was asking for like people who had business experiences Amazing spiritual experiences or personal experiences with Rama I was I was like well, you know The the cool stories that I have that are a little bit unique were security stories. So I was like, let me tell you some of my security stories. However, she asked me who else could do an interview. And I said, well, yeah, Mudra, because Mudra's got like music stories. And I said, well, you know, she was looking for some business stories. And I said, well, yeah, Agni Kala, he was the head of sales in client server for the whole Sangha. That could be a really, really, really powerful place. I just remember something that was so magical during that time. It was a time where everybody was freaking out and going crazy. They were like, oh, God, we've, because during sales, they had to do cold calls, and everyone started hating cold calls, and they were afraid to do them. They had so much resistance, and it was mostly fear. And then I remember you were giving a class with everybody, and you said, you said, I'm not afraid to die. Yeah, and everybody was like, I'm afraid to do a cold call. You're all like, you're like, I'm not, I'm not afraid to die. And then that just like, for the people, you know, a lot, a lot of people didn't make the shift, but a lot of people like changed because of that. They were like, dude, this guy's not afraid to die, and we're afraid to make a fricking cold call, you know. That was powerful. That made a big change for people. Anyway, so, I don't know. That's probably like more impact on us than you would be. It was fantastic. Yeah, that was magical.

0:02:29
It was truly one of the highest experiences that I've had in my life. And all of that experience in a way prepared me for the working world afterwards and just having to be able to build a certain level of attention and hold a certain level of awareness in order to go through. I mean, I remember probably you fell down from a flight simulator by taking the train, especially that time in the morning, with everyone just crowding you, like right in the figure you're like, God, I'm supposed to be meditating

0:03:18
and just being all nice and happy and well everyone else is just like and I think, crazy day and got to work, oh, I'm so tired I have this and I have that

0:03:30
you know, hold your mind still it's not crowded train with quite a many of you being

0:03:38
extremely tentative

0:03:40
was quite an amazing experience.

0:03:43
It was like...

0:03:44
I remember that.

0:03:45
Yeah, I did think I would show up with a little, you know, broken backbone, start playing all these crazy sounds, It was crazy. It was crazy. Yeah, I have to agree. So, you know, I don't know about you, but many people have mentioned this to me, but while she's making a break, I do remember your special technique.

0:04:07
And I am happy to say I experienced this first hand.

0:04:28
Yeah.

0:04:29
That time when we did the recording of that album, I got back to the verges. Yeah. Yeah, we went through all this stuff and finally, you know, it was getting to the semi-finals after our class, then we'll go into the final email class. But anyway, so we're there, we're talking to each other, and that kid, I did not see it coming, but all I could do at that moment was just like put my hands right in front of my chest, because it was a big blanket, and literally he's just gonna pull off the face pretty much. It had never been, I thought, oh, that was an amazing day. I was always very amazed how easy you were able to handle your legs, just like another arm. To be able to do it like that.

0:05:38
That's quite amazing. I was like, oh hi, we're just telling an old Mark Webb story.

0:05:47
But I'll take it from here. Thank you very much.

0:05:52
All right. Well, thank you, Sambhar. stories that I hear whenever I talk to anyone on this wonderful biography journey, it's just amazing. And I kind of part of the reason I like to take a break, it's like cleansing the palate, you know, between people you talk to. Everyone has different stories. And it's also just partly I literally sit here and get so blown out. Because, you know, it's just pretty powerful, pretty powerful stuff. But our teacher, Rama, yeah, we all love him. Yeah. Oh, okay. So there we go. So, would you give me, you know, Sambhar started out his stories with just a bit of background, you know, how he even came across Rama and a little bit of what life was like before you met him. And that's, then that's cool because it kind of brings perspective to some of the next stories, which will be, you know, all about the transformation teaching moment that you had with Rama. Because I think that's really what works the best in a biography of Rama is to show who he was, he was a teacher. So I really, as I've said to this one other person, you know, I don't care if he bent down and tied his shoelaces somewhere. You know, I don't care about that. It's more the teacher, he taught in amazing ways. And I think that is the biography always of Rama is the amazing ways that he taught and we changed and we're the templates for other people.

0:07:44
Yes, absolutely. We are some of the byproducts.

0:07:50
Yeah, the byproducts. Yep. Let's start a little bit more. So what were you up to a little, not too long, but a little bit just before you, and then

0:08:05
you meet your mentor and then off you went, but let's start there a little bit.

0:08:12
Okay.

0:08:13
Well, this is at the time of my college years and I was doing meditation classes in college. I was part of it. I was president of a meditation club in my school and And the person that I was in a relationship at that time she was also into meditation and New-age, you know the kind of PC terms that were used back then Okay So and she happened to come across a poster in her school about meditation. And so she went and checked it out and then she told me about it. And I thought, sure, let's go see. And we went to this event center in, I think it was 26th Street or something like that. It's in Madison and Fifth Avenue, I believe. And that's where I first met my mentor. And it was a wonderful sort of meeting, just sort of convergence of time in a way where it felt, oh, wow, this feels so natural. This feels so like I've been in a way prepping for, for this, you know, um, back in college. And, um, so I went to several of his, uh, meditation classes and, uh, then he announced that afterwards, um, Rana was coming from, uh, from the West Coast to the East Coast. And she said, you know, if you guys want to meet them, you know, it'd be good. So I thought, yeah, let's definitely do that. So I went to the SUNY Purchase where we first met him, and it just felt like everything locked into place. That first time, as I'm sitting out in the audience, this was a huge auditorium room. I don't know how many people could fit in there, but it was really huge. So I was just talking through, well, actually, no, the other thing that is, you know, was pretty remarkable. In a way, based on some of the teachings, not just from my grandfather, but also the things that I was exposed from the East during my college times, I had an idea of what the teacher would look like, even though I already saw a picture of him, but I still somewhat had an idea as to what a meditation teacher or spiritual teacher should look like. So, as he walks up, you know, onto the stage, I mean, he was dressed up in just the most beautiful outfit, really nice and clean. And so, he just looks around and is really tall and he was drinking Diet Coke. And I thought, wow, that's interesting. So, and then as he sits down, he takes off his jacket and then he had this amazing vest that I thought, I have never seen a vest like that. But then he later on, he started talking about, you know, it was a Versace vest and, you know, the cost for that vest would basically pay someone's college tuition for a whole year. And I thought, that's amazing. Um, but aside from that, you know, the things, the, the marriages have sort of started to kind of pop up in my mind was like, okay, here's this person, you know, Western looking, um, not Eastern looking, uh, and he's talking about spirituality. Um, so then we get to the place of, of the time when we didn't meditate, you'd give us a technique, you know, the three points of meditation, which was the basic technique that our mentor introduced us to. And, um, I'm sitting there meditating. Uh, I happened to open my eyes. I just look across the head of all the people that were in front of me and up onto the stage. And I just sort of gazed gently in his direction and suddenly it was as if this stage kind of shifted upward. Like we were sort of on our side and he was still sitting properly. And then I thought, could it be my head that is so twisted around? So I kind of like grabbed my jaw and put it back, you know, so I could be centered. And it's like, no, it's not that. So, um, So I kept on looking and then that's when sort of things started to shift. And, um, Right from, from that moment is when, uh, I felt a sense of, um, yes, this energy, the quality, the look, but also the kind of like modern mindset about spirituality. You know, it doesn't have to be this sort of type of spirituality where we kind of go out and abandon ourselves and, you know, our looks and we let things just be and become sort of resigned about life because we're so focused on spiritual progress or spiritual refinement in a way. I guess the word is more later, but back then the spiritual thing was something to me that you know, someone who's so pious, someone who's not as, you know, they could carry themselves and in such a great presence like that, I had this more of like a religious kind of description in my mind in the past before I met Rama.

0:14:35
Okay.

0:14:36
So, and that's where the beautiful journey started. And then he came back to California. And so, after that time, I think we saw him several times more, but then he ended up announcing that everyone would move to the East Coast. And so, here we were, just a small group in New York, waiting to receive all the West Coasters. And, you know, so it was quite amazing, the level of anticipation that I felt at that time, that somehow, like there's this group of people that, that sort of felt the same or had this sense of, of grouping that it's almost like a family bonding itself, like one of those big, big, long, long time, uh, family reunions. It felt like that. So, um, and, you know, we went off and started looking for places where they could stay and sort of give them the New York mindset training. It's just something, oh, what's those, come in here, they're going to be like, oh, happy and smiley. You know, we have to show them how New Yorkers are. So, addressing the parts and making sure that you can make eye contact, but you've got to hold yourself in a level of, kind of have a sense of space, because when you walk in on the street, you don't want to be pushed out of your direction. So in a way, he gave us an assignment to kind of show them a little bit about how to be a New Yorker so they could integrate into that mindset. That's when he was talking about the West Coast and East Coast sort of different ways of being. So, in that process, you know, our meetings became more frequent and we started to go to different places, different venues to meet with them and to begin the journey. At least for our generation, for the T2 generation, it felt as if we were beginning a new cycle in a way, a new journey in our own lives. And being from all these different directions that we all came from, just from my own personal journey, I felt a sense of progression as things started to happen more quickly. And especially after meditation, it wasn't just something where I would practice it as as a, okay, that's something that I do in the morning or I sit and meditate and try to be quiet. But this was more like a purposeful type of an action where in the morning you wake up, you sit down to meditate, clear your mind so you can clear the thoughts from the remainings of the dream planes and then you can be very clear throughout the day. and as I started to do more of those things, suddenly things became a lot easier. They weren't as contradictory as they were before. So my day would go into much brighter experiences.

0:18:17
Okay. Can I ask some questions? Yeah.

0:18:22
Pretty soon, now pretty quickly after everyone got there, I think Rama was already laying out some pretty, you know, clear different ways to teach, right? Business ways to teach,

0:18:37
martial arts ways to teach. How did that, did that get, am I correct that that happened pretty quickly once everyone got to New York? Yeah, yeah, yeah it did. Actually, luckily for me, I mean luckily for all of us, but in particular for my experience at that time And he had a very interesting approach and you know after he found out that I was doing martial arts as well for a long time he invited me to do security and that's what the whole journey of security started as well. But the teachings as far as career as far as martial arts started quite quickly and everyone who was not on a career path, let's say especially technology path, we were encouraged to start to do freelancing, like admin jobs and things like that, just to get us into the corporate world initially. And also start taking some computer classes because of where he saw the technology going, he saw a tremendous opportunity as to what we can do with the use of our minds, the intellect that we could start to work with. And so, and as we think that was pretty amazing, especially on that side of the grouping of people coming together to kind of form something that perhaps it was, it might have happened here in the West Coast, but in New York was just quite amazing. You know, it went from having no direction in life in a way, some of us, and others who had no idea what they wanted to do with their life or career and all that. Suddenly, okay, now this is what I need to do. And in order to use it as a tool to keep being part of this movement or this group. And so we all started to take classes, started taking admin jobs to get us into the corporate world. And then after that, the next level of focus sort of came about where we needed to get into building projects in sense of web what just started then we needed to come up with different ideas as to how we can make products and software and and See and identify opportunities in certain industries. And one of his emphasis, which was the finance group, Wall Street, was one of those places where he'd say, you know, if you wanna go in there, go do that, because that's an area that needs a lot of structure. And so, and at that point, I believe a lot of the T1s already had a pretty solid career in, and specifically finance, but from the software perspective. So, and they then turned their expertise and taught us technology. And that's something that I've always been extremely grateful to our previous generation, T1s, to have taken the time to show us the ropes in a way. And afterwards, then we went on and did our own things. So building the products and that's something at that point, I was already part of security and the thing that I began to notice is how things happened so quickly, specifically when someone would say, well, you have this idea and I would like to show you. And so they say, okay, here's the idea.

0:23:07
And it's okay.

0:23:07
Now go and build something and then show it to me next time. I want to meet. So then they'll come back with their prototypes of what they wanted to build. And so they'll go get this grade, that needs to change, some changes over here,

0:23:22
or how do you consider this?

0:23:23
But somehow what I really loved about watching is that as I'm sitting, not sitting, but standing next, not really next to him, but just a little bit to the side and seeing the interface with our T1s and T2s as far as their ideas, he would go into this almost like a dimension of seeing or experiencing where he wasn't really focusing in a very single detail of the product that they were showing Rama, but he would almost see the whole structure. And then he would say, okay, do this, do this, do that. And then they'll come back next time and just, wow, that really works. So now it looks a lot better. And, um, fairly quickly, uh, someone who, um, had no experience in wall streets and building software. Now they had a direct experience with having already built certain products. So when they went for an interview, they already had the physical knowledge. So, well, yeah, I've built this and here, here's the part of that. And they'll show that to some of the people who they interviewed with and like, oh, okay, so this person, not just saying I, I, oh, that's the other thing. T1s and T2s, went into the financial markets, Wall Street type jobs, corporate type jobs, and climbed the corporate ladder really, really quick, even though we didn't have the PhDs or the masters in science and all this kind of things. Which, which it was quite amazing. And I remember my friend, well, friends of that time, they would say, huh, I've spent all these years and I'm barely making all this money while you guys are making all this money. So that was quite interesting to see, like someone who was looking at our group from the outside perspective and lamenting to the fact that they spent so much time in school and they were not where they wanted to be. As opposed to some of us, we just went in there within a year, were able to make huge inroads into the advancements of our careers.

0:25:46
So,

0:25:47
that was quite amazing. And, you know, of course, in order for us

0:25:53
to have that level of progression, there was the energy factor where we not just built the experience of working on ideas and products, but also so there was an energy cultivation throughout the process that then empowered by his direction and his energy would go into those products or into the person who was just about to go to an interview and they would just land a job. There was just this energy that would come through and say, and, you know, several times in my interviewing processes, they said, you know, I've interviewed a couple of other people that are similar, do you guys know each other? And of course we knew each other. It's like, no, I don't know that person, you know? But, so yeah, but they, they noticed that there was more than just the mental skill, but it was something about us that made us brighter, happier, you know, when we went for a job. So that was quite nice. Of course, nice to see. So, and throughout that process, after we had some ideas, then, you know, he basically asked a couple of us to basically look at, see how we start a company. Ooh, is that an echo? Excuse me? Oh, I heard an echo. I thought it was my phone.

0:27:43
Okay.

0:27:44
Okay.

0:27:45
Okay.

0:27:46
So after, so he asked, he asked a couple of us to start a company.

0:27:55
Yeah.

0:27:56
Yeah. So, and that was Team Alliance. And so, you know, going through the, uh, not just the, I mean, of course, this is 2020 to see how amazing it was, but someone who had no experience on building a company, um, or to actually compete with, uh, placement agencies, or what they were called back then, uh, headhunting agencies. Suddenly we went from having a no visibility into the marketplace to now being unnoticed by the way we approached our presentations to the corporations, by the way we spoke technology. And some of us actually did technology. Just a lot of the comments that we got is that from the managers that would go and pitch the idea or the company. Um, there's like, wow, you guys actually not just, uh, uh, walk the talk, but talk to talk as well, you know? So that's really good as opposed to, um, having, you know, most of the other companies, the places, uh, companies out there, they will take the shotgun approach. They'll say, oh yeah, you have a, uh, this, uh, technical need. Okay. Here are 20 resumes. And you can kind of go through them and find out which one you like and all that. So the shotgun approach, but what Rama wanted was to, for us to, to basically give them two or three. We already did all the interview and process, all the, uh, the, uh, sort of the sifting and pick out the right candidates that we thought, uh, would meet the needs. So we took a lot of the time, the interviewing process, away from their jobs, the managers. So they felt like, oh, this guy's actually here to help me, not just save me time, but also give me just the right candidates. And all I need to do now is make a decision. And of course, there was lots of different ways and opportunities in which the people who then became part of Team Alliance, where we had to go through the process of, you know, this is how we interview people, this is how we talk to the managers, and basically we had to be in a way where our energy had to be up all the time. So, and for those of us who were in Team Alliance, we adopted another practice that was sort of unheard of in a corporate type of environment, which was to have a midday martial arts class. So all of the people who were part of team Alliance, would go to this one dojo, which was right next to, not really right next to, but maybe like 10 minutes ride from where we, where the offices were in white planes and go and train with this martial art instructor. So we go there and our lunch break, basically we'd go there, do our martial arts training and then come back. Of course there were showers. They would take showers and come back to work, eat a little bit of food along the way, but our energy was up the whole day. So we had this really, I guess the word would be a single-minded approach to getting this thing off the ground. And so as we keep on working with the company, of course, there's been learning lessons in all areas. But the thing that was amazing in the whole experience is how we all came together for a single purpose to build something that was not done before. And that was our uniqueness in the marketplace. You know, we were technologists placing technologists. So, and then we had, of course, New York Times did a big piece on us and the technology center. And that's what suddenly gave Tmalliance the visibility. And then from there, the first generation, the T1 started opening offices in Seattle, San Diego, San Francisco, Austin, and Chicago. I think it was another city. So, and very quickly it grew into this national company from a very small little place in the World Trade Center, just a small, tiny place. So, but the teachings there that perhaps he used businesses as a way to get us to go beyond ourselves, beyond our sense of wants and dislikes and all this kind of stuff, to be united by a single purpose, to build something that is just amazing in this world of business. And that built up the confidence, you know, and even the people who did not have a technology experience or had never worked at an office, suddenly they were working in an office and they felt really good about it. And then a lot of us that moved on from Team Alliance, they went on to basically cultivate their own careers in technology from there on. So it was a lot easier for them. So something that, at least in my own experience, I had not experienced something like that in a spiritual type of setting. So, and of course, lots of really interesting things happen throughout the experience, you know, like afterwards, now we're going to think about it again, a time site, it's 2020, that space that we occupied in the World Choice Center, it's no longer there. So somehow, the reminder of how things are so transitory, you know, that when we think about now, it's like, wow, yeah, that little space in time in, in actual space, like it's no longer there, the physicality is no longer there, but the energy is still there.

0:34:35
You know?

0:34:36
So, and, um, after that, um, once team Alliance, uh, started to, uh, really really become a good business, then he started another project, which was the client server office and because I did a lot of placements in Team Alliance, in fact, that the New York Times story that I'm telling you about is the reporter is there interviewing Mordy and Hahnemann about the business and all that. And I just happened to be on the phone with one of my clients in Seattle and a placement happened and we had a gong right in the office where every time we made a placement, we'll go and hit the gong. And so I got the placements, I went up there, hit the gong and I was like, yeah, awesome. So everyone just clapped and then I came back and then I got another call that another candidate that I submitted, there was another placement, so it's like, and then went back and hit the gong again. So anyway, so the reporter came out and, you know, we talked a little bit. And, um, so it was part of that experience where even in that writing, you know, it was mentioned that here's the person who just made a placement, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. So it was, it was great. That's confidence boosting, you know? make sales and also get that company off the ground just like we did TMO IAMS. Just for a second, just for the uneducated, can you give me a one or two, a short description of the client server product or office? Yes. The client server was the company that had a product called CS 10,000, CS 12,000, which was a project management, well, actually not a correction, an enterprise project management software. Um, that level of stuff, that level of software did not exist back then. So he saw that in that particular area and the project management. Corporations needed to have some kind of structure and a way to be able to manage those, those structures. So and there were, I think, a couple of T1s and several T2s that got in the development team that built the software and they kept on improving it. So at that time, though, there was no other software at that enterprise level that had the same level of detail than CS10 and 12,000 had, even though SAP had something similar, but it was just very hard to use. And there were so many different windows they needed to go through to the point where, you know, you just sort of get frustrated and lost and you would not end up using the software. So the response to that was Rama said, let's build something that is much easier to use. So even in the software itself, and some of the intelligence, the business intelligence that we applied or learned and nurtured through the experience of Team Alliance was to embed a way to be able to say, okay, now we have a project. Oh, by the way, and this, this software had an AI engine behind it, artificial intelligence behind it. So when it would go through the process of asking the person who was given a project to build something, and so it would go through a series of questions and then give the recommendation of not just the client server architecture and just to put it in place in time, at that moment, there was a huge shift from singular computing, meaning a big mainframe, to go into distributed computing, which was a client server. And in there, in the software, there was this detail, the intelligence of it, that basically allowed a manager to be able to say, after they've been given the project plan, the actual architecture of the diagram, or as to how the servers and the computers will be hooked up and everything else, down to the hardware that it would be needed, also would go down to the actual resources that you need, the kind of skills that you would need. So if I were a manager that needed to have, let's say a network engineer, then I would go in down to his, uh, resource, uh, profile. And that not a person that I'm interviewing, but just in a generic profile that then I would have, uh, questions, specific questions that I could ask to this person and based on his answer, then I would know that, Oh yes, this person is what I need. So it was quite nuts how to, how to move some of the intelligence that we learned from Team Alliance into Client Server, which is quite great. And of course, as we all know, then that software later on got rebranded with Eagle Ray and then got sold again. But, um, part of, uh, uh, the moral of the story, uh, was, um, that with his ability to be able to see certain things, we're able to unify around this vision to build something great. So, and throughout the process, ClientServer, of course, since it's self-people, was just us, some of us were afraid to go out and sell because there's this sort of narrative in the mind thinking, oh, sales is bad and, you know, I'm not genuine, I'm not an authentic person while I'm making a sale, that kind of stuff, right? Try to sell something that perhaps the traditional approach is like salespeople would sell something that they don't even understand or they don't even see the value in it, but they just do it because that's our job. So some of that sort of mental and emotional imprint is really got carried over to, to us who were part of the sales team where I said, well, Oh, that's the only thing we don't understand the software. So therefore I don't really believe in it in a way. But because we were told to do something like that, then we had to do it. That Rama said, okay, so now we need to have actual place where all the sales people will get together. And part of my job was to be able to get their confidence up, but also to be able to break them out of a routine. The routine of thinking that they're not good enough, that they can't make sales. And, you know, they're afraid of making a cold call and things like that. So we started having this meetings in which at one point, it was kind of a funny time, since the sales weren't really hitting target in a way. Rama basically said, okay, well, let's see how we can shift this. And part of those teachings by not teaching in a way where I would get up in front of the evil. My first time that I actually had to get up in front of, I think it was like almost 200 T2s, occultists. I'm like, my God, I want to be in front of all of them. I don't know, you know, I started having all these doubts, all these doubts. And, um, part of my prior imprinting kind of started to sit in a little bit. And I thought, this is an opportunity. So, and something that sort of popped into my mind at that point was, um, about about death. What would I do if I die at this moment? And I knew that because I was also doing security, I was ready to die at a moment's notice so Rama could teach another day. And that, I knew through and through that I would be able to put my body in front of any harm, in front of any bullets, whatever it is, so he can teach another day. That I did not doubt at all. So I thought, this is Rama teaching me how to move beyond the sense of self criticism, beyond something that I think is a certain way and just be. Then the thought of dying popped up.

0:43:58
And I remember telling myself,

0:44:01
if this is my last moment, how do I choose to die? And the feelings that sort of arose after that was that there is no fear. I'm not afraid of death. And these things that we're doing is just a nice thing. It's for the Dharma. It's for something much more meaningful. So I got in front of everyone and then I basically told them, you know, I'm not afraid to die. And that would be a mentality that we would pick up the phone and make that call. So, because a lot of the group, the sales group, they were afraid and somewhat shy about selling. So, I share that moment with them. I was like, you know, I'm not afraid to die. If this is my last moment, I am ready to die. And that mindset, it almost like culminated into that one moment. All the experiences that I've had thus far with Rama just culminated into that one moment. And that's when they just became very clear. So in the way to get everyone out of the traditional form, you know, the fears and all those kind of things, is to just let them lose, to make sure that they just sort of make themselves act like fools in front of everyone else. Because if they can do that in front of everyone else, I thought, then it will be a lot easier for them to pick up the phone and just call. So then, some of them will get out there and start acting like chickens, and some of them will be like monkeys, and some of them will just do noises like elephants, but they will just act really, really silly and funny. But the idea was to break away that structure of what they thought their self-perception was. And then things started to change after that. Once, you know, they would be able to get up and say, okay, now I'm about to make a phone call, put a smile on their faces and do a little, you know, dance or whatever it is and make a phone call. So then things started to pick up after that. But that was a really great lesson that I and at that moment. So another story that's similar I will get related to Team Lions is that. There was a time, and this was before I moved over to client server. We had this seminar out in, I think it was Stouffer's Hotel. And there were some issues, you know, going on between the Team Alliance guys and Rama, meaning the two guys. So and somehow there's some information that was being passed from what he was saying over to them. But there was sort of like an assumption or confusion about it. So anyway, in the seminar, he brings that up and he says, you know, so somehow some of the things that we're discussing here is getting back to those guys. So you know, we have to make sure that we don't do that. And as he's talking about it, he starts walking towards, towards me because I was in the middle, um, on the front seat, part of my, um, uh, security role and just started looking at me while he's talking about it. Um, and at that moment I could feel the attention of all the people from behind me saying, you're the one who's been passing information over to those guys. It's like, oh, you know, I kind of shrugged my shoulders a little bit and, um, and I thought, okay, so that's not something is something is not right here, but okay, so I'm just gonna let experience all this until it's done. And then, then I'll walk up and, um, afterwards and talk So anyway, the seminar was over and I walked up to Rama and I said, Rama, I think the person that you meant to address that to is someone else that is also in the security team but he trains with those guys. And he's like, yeah, I know, but I knew you can handle it. So right at that moment, the words without the words saying he was trying to make a point. In that case, the point was made. So I thought, oh, great.

0:49:26
Excellent.

0:49:27
And that in a way sort of created a sense of, all right, so sometimes, you know, in order to make a point, we can choose random things that may not be associated, but in order to make a point, sometimes we have to zero in into something. And it just so happens that that person who was passing information over to those two other guys was not there at that time. So he had, I guess, had to pick the next closest person. Anyhow, but I felt much, you know, tougher after that. So now when I went over to be part of the self team in a client server, my feeling was like, if I could handle that intense level of pressure, I could handle anything. I could get up in front of people, talk about the software. I could do anything. So I felt in a way, inwardly invincible. I could do anything. And, you know, sometimes I would have to sort of participate in the sales call of someone calling a manager trying to make the sale. And so I would be there kind of helping them along and answer some questions that the person would have. And they would say, well, what if, you know, we could come up with different ways of you actually having to software into your corporation. And then, you know, so at least we can you can get to try it. You can get to see it sort of like back then. There wasn't the concept of tried by like there is now. It's like you either like it and buy it or you don't have it right back then. So but it was it was it was a wonderful experience that I went with those two particular experiences during Rama's teachings. And as I was hearing earlier about some of Samarra's stories, it's similar in a way that a lot of the things that we have in our mind, certain concepts, ideas of what we have or who we think we are and all those kinds of things, what we think is right or wrong, suddenly are just completely blown away. And then we actually get to see the truth. And then by seeing some, by having some level of clarity, then we can act properly. And in a way, how I feel about it now is that all those experiences really prepared me to really be there in the moment, in the present, when it was time to do security for Rama. Because, you know, doing the book tour and not just that, but also in New York, as you never know, some crazy person could just suddenly get up and say, oh, I don't like

0:52:21
this.

0:52:22
So, you know, it's a crazy thing. things. So we had to train for that. So that warrior mindset sort of sets in where we put in a certain level of armor, not just physical, but also an emotional armor that we are the front lines that basically take on the brunt of the blow and which is reflected right back So, I felt my level of, or I should say my ability to be fully present in the moment while I was doing security for Rama were definitely enhanced by those experiences of Team Alliance and client server. We also had another one, which is virtual Greenwich, which is something that was just amazing back then, but because of technology, the bandwidth was so, so slow that it could not be fully experienced like it could now, for example, right? And virtual Greenwich. Oh, virtual Greenwich.

0:53:37
That, okay. Virtual Greenwich, okay.

0:53:41
Yeah, the idea behind that is that we wanted to build a 3D representation of Greenwich Avenue out on the web. So when people would log on to this website, they could actually fly through the street or down the street and look to the right to the left and see the businesses That you would see normally as if you were walking down Greenwich Avenue So and at that time, you know, the development tools weren't really there so and in order to be able to see this this application application, we needed to build a plugin. And that in itself made it much more cumbersome for a regular person to log onto the internet, download the plugin, and then have to wait for a long time for the whole project to load so they can get to experience Greenwich Avenue. So we worked on it for a while, but it ended up not working because technology really wasn't there yet as far as developing 3D models, but also the speed in which information is being transferred from one computer to another. So probably I think it was like 25K, 45K modem or something like that. Something crazy that now I would think, oh my gosh, I must have been like hair pulling slow. And it's interesting because after that, almost specifically I wouldn't have a time, but many, many, many years later, after Rama's passing, I was in Colorado and I lived there for a while and I was teaching meditation. And those people who was teaching meditation I was using a little bit of that sort of like the business idea of building businesses as well to to use a spiritual teaching that is rooted here in the world. So just like what we did back in Greenwich and where we would meet in Starbucks all of our computers will be out on the table, drink our coffees. And, you know, in a way, way back then, I'm thinking Starbucks was just started. So in a way, our group kind of gave them more like, Oh, that place must be really cool. We should all go there. And then suddenly, you know, every Starbucks have opened up the, the, uh, almost like a little office where people just walk in and creative sort of, uh, you know, ideas would germinate in that place. Anyway, back in Colorado. So I'm sitting talking about this project that was literally like 10 years ahead of its time back then, and about the 3D idea of building a city. And I thought we could do something like that. So we're done with the meeting and so we kind of tabled a tie for a little while because we needed to learn certain tools in order to build this 3D models. And in order to learn the tools, we of course needed to get the tools first. And those tools were quite expensive back then to make it easier for us. So about six to seven months go by and then I happen to just log on to Google and they announce Google Earth. And I was like, okay, this is really interesting. And as soon as I logged onto it, I saw, oh my God, this is the 3D version of the world of Earth. And then I was like, huh, I'm going to go to the place in Boulder where I was, you know, based. And sure enough, there were small businesses that were, I mean, not business, but small buildings are being built on top of those flat images, like satellite images of the map. Then I looked and I looked into the group that built that and that group that built that was underneath the Starbucks that I was talking about this 3d version of the world. The engineering team was right underneath the Starbucks where, um, where I was discussing this idea with this guys. And I thought, ah, Google got a jewel from us. All right, well, we'll have to make the best of it. And so what we did is we started to use some of the actual 3D modeling tool that they built to build buildings ourselves onto the streets. And there are some buildings, hopefully they're still there, but there are some buildings that we built that were part of this street out in Boulder. So, and then afterwards, they Google what they did is they basically closed the open development platform for anyone to come in and build 3D buildings. And instead, they had a whole team who did that. That was in-house and they use satellite technology and ground penetrating radar to be able to get the altitude, the actual mass of the buildings and have it an automated kind of process to build this building already. And now with Google Earth, I mean, we can go anywhere in the world and in a way kind of experience the place that we are trying to visit or where just some point in the future, maybe go to, we can experience it 3d. Then we had, uh, Microsoft jumping into the play and then now Apple. But out of all those Apple went in there and basically made the whole world much quicker to load, much beautiful. And it's just really awesome to build in their application. I mean, in their devices. So, so yeah, so Google has taken one of our ideas and they just went right to the max of building Google earth. Um, so anyway, so, um, it would have been fantastic, um, after Emma's passing that, how do we retain that level of unity that we found when we were working in this company, this group together, or even to the point where we were dancing with them. I mean, those times were just, oh my goodness, way over the top. And the places that we raved were just like something that only we could say we experienced that once in a lifetime. You know, I'm sure all of us will remember the times in the Guggenheim Museum, the New York Public Library, just wonderful ways we had. So that level of unity that somehow was not sustained after his passing. So, but what really worked is basically it sets us off in our own journey in life to the point that now when we reflect back on his teachings, there's nothing but gratitude. There's nothing but love and amazing wholeheartedly thanks to Rama for having crossed a path. And I speak of myself, I can never thank him enough for having opened up my horizons, where I can see things from a different perspective than a normal person sees their life. And, you know, just nothing but gratitude. It's something that I always felt inspired by is that, you know, while he was with us, which was, I think, with the T2s, which is not a long time, but a small time, but we experienced so many things. We saw so many people just achieve amazing things, things that even they themselves could share and hopefully at some point you also have an opportunity to to talk with them that have created amazing things. Perhaps they could say that had Rama not sort of not into their path or or sort of come across their life experience may not have been able to be or achieve the things that they did without his influence. I agree. And that's all.

1:03:04
Let me ask you one question here because you brought up something.

1:03:06
I just tell me about dancing with Rama. What was it like? Oh man, that was, wow. Okay, so as part of security, of course, we had to be around him while we were in a dance floor. So before we got to the place, there was this anticipation, this sort of like ants just walking up our lower centers and we're like, ah, we're ready to dance. But at the same time, like all the other security members, we had a level of communication that perhaps before I go into that, depending on the time, it's worthwhile to mention one particular exercise that brought us to a level of connection without words actually were learned. At that point, Mo was the person who was in charge of security at that time. So he said, okay, this weekend we're going to meet in Westchester and Pound Ridge and we're going to train. Great. So, we, on my way up there, I got off the train and then someone was picking me up from the train station to drop me off to a place where we were all going to bus meet at the end of Michigan Road. So, as we passed the little Park Ranger Station, and right before we got into Michigan Road I noticed a person that was running in front of us and I thought just inwardly I thought I should just probably stop here and so I asked the person to drop me off there and I'm just I was going to walk the rest of the way. So I started walking and I kind of caught up with with him a little bit but not so close and guess who it was? There was Rama in his running outfit, just doing his morning run in Pond Ridge. And I thought, wow, this is just so over the top. And I kind of slowed down and I let him go his way. And then as soon as he kind of took a right towards sort of like a campsite up in Michigan Road when you pass the farmhouse on your left. Then I kept on running and I went to meet up with the rest of the guys. So, that time, the technique was to be able to find our way back to the parking lot. So, we walked up the trailways and then we went off trail. And once we were like way off, we were supposed to come back to somehow use the intuitive sort of feeling to let it guide us back to the parking lot. But before we did that, we weren't supposed, the exercise was that we were not supposed to use words. We were supposed to just talk with movements or energy. So and to add more confusion to that level of communication was like, okay, now we are going to move this huge rock from where it was over to this place without talking. So we had to use all these different ways of really pushing our energy out to the person who we were working with, moving the rocks. They were able to connect with us and say, okay, yes, I'm supposed to push it to the right, to the left, or make a little bit of a pathway so the rock will roll down a little bit. And throughout all these times, initially, it was really hard to really not use words, but still have a certain level of communication and collaboration in order to bring this huge rock down. So throughout the process, then suddenly it started to become a little bit easier where sometimes we'll grunt and someone will pay attention, it's like, oh, right. So we got down to the point where we kinda, we thought, okay, now we have it. So we'd roll it down. And then after it was done there, we're like, we think we're done. Then it's like, nope, we've got to put it back to where we got it from. So we had to put that rock all the way up again to where it was and to leave it as clean as we found it. Then after we had that sort of ability to use some way of energy of sending and receiving and to kind of have not just the energy but also like the kind of mental sort of ability to say, okay, this person wants me to do this or that. So then after that, we basically had to find our way back to the parking lot. And so we walked and walked and walked up the hills and the rich ways and like, and you know, if I remember correctly, I think it was my turn to guide everyone back to the parking lot. So, and the exercise part of that was to actually send the energy out to the parking lot to where we first met. So we can come back again and we can follow that energy to the same place. So we're walking around and down the hills and through sometimes like a little bit of a muddy area, but started with, you know, Rama, you know, being there somehow, or maybe he planned it or maybe not, but the idea is like, he just set off the whole day to go a certain direction. And then for us to go through that exercise of communicating and then being able to come back to the same place. So find, sort of send the energy out, set it in a place where you had a first impression of, and then find it. It's almost like having like a, you know, like a pulsating sort of feeling, where we can find the back to back to that again. And that for us, security team, it helped us so much when we were doing the events, Parama. Like there was a time when we wouldn't really talk, which is all we needed to do is just the gesture or an energy thing that sounded like, oh yeah right, so we'll know without communication, we can, we know what to do. So. You know, I'm going to ask you one. When you say talking about moving rocks, are we talking about boulders? Are we talking about pebbles? Yeah, boulders. A big one. No, not a pebble because that'd be easy to, you know, to move it around. But this was huge. This was like a boulder. I don't know. I would say maybe two, three hundred pounds, but it's huge. And getting it off the ground was like the hardest thing, you know, and some of us were wedding and I mean, but it was just, but we were so focused in, in actually making this thing work and we went from individuals to working as a one unit. Move the thing down and move it back up. And there was, so in a way, once there was this level of unity, there was no sense of identity. It was just, just oneness. It was amazing to be able to see. And perhaps, you know, that helped us along as we moved through doing Security for Rama, but also in our own lives. I know it helped me hugely, especially having to come out of a very traditional Catholic type of social imprinting in my family. You know, there's a heavy imprinting on that and all this things of rules and regulations are sort of, uh, that people have to follow, um, for, you know, to do something completely different. Even though way back when, before college, you know, I had the experience with my grandfather, which he was a medicine man, so he would show me some things with energy, but never, never really made sense until I met Rama. And then it's like, ah, okay, so that's what that meant. So that's what that was all about. So, um, so yeah, so I guess overall, I guess, uh, the story of all this is that for me particularly, uh, it helped me shift level of perceiving the world from a traditional to more of a dynamic, more fluid. And his teachings are absolutely unparalleled to any other teacher that we came across or I came across afterwards. So yeah. I'm sorry, I have a question about the rock. Because as soon as you started telling me about it, I had this image, you know, of Egypt, or even Joshua Tree, where, you know, Rama taught us that they levitated up those big heavy, so they learned that they had to do that. big heavy. So they learned that they had to do that. So I'm still trying to figure and I'm just trying to see this because I see along when you guys are talking. Yeah, do you think with you that would or not just do I mean, how much of this was physical? And how much of this was you guys just drawing in your old past life skills? And, you know, objects to move, heavy objects to kind of reverse against gravity. Yeah, especially when we had to put it back up there again.

1:13:48
It was crazy.

1:13:49
Yeah, it pushed me a bit. Not so much, yeah. Yeah, so it was during those times back in Egypt, where we could basically just reverse the polarity of gravity and move things around effortlessly. But by coming together as a unit, the rock that when we first looked at it, it was just this massive boulder that somehow like how in the world we're going to move this. But, um, somehow it, it became so easy once we all got into that oneness kind of a mode, things just literally just moved. Uh, and, uh, there was of course some, some physical, uh, exertion, but being the fact that had we got into the idea of thinking, Oh my God, this is so heavy. How can we do this we just decided to sort of let all that go and just go into the one collective sort of movement and the thing just became much easier to move it and yes there was definitely a physical exertion but it became a lot easier once all of that energy was combined so the So the thing moves down to the side and then back up the hill again.

1:15:16
Okay. Thank you. I can see. Everybody. Oh my God.

1:15:29
Yeah. So you're going to be that, um, we're all, our life has been shifted, our awareness has been shifted. Literally our shameless points have been, uh, aligned or at least brought closer together so we can do the rest of the work to, to align it and, um, and just live our life with purpose, with love, with a sense of community, with a sense of unity in life. You know, I mean, even back then, the things that were hard, I mean, for the, the first generation, the T1s, I'm sure meditating out in public was not as easy as it is now, for example, right? There was this social pressure and perceptions and things like that, that needed to be somewhat kept off of the radar, the social radar in a way. But now there is more like socially acceptable type of perceptions where meditation is just another part of life. If you want to just to do it, then it's great. You know, so, but that shifting that he brought into our lives, I think it's just, it's very inspiring and every time, at least for me, when I feel like, oh, maybe I'm losing the line, I realign right back there again. And it's just by being grateful and by being inspired for all the things that he did for us, so therefore giving me the energy, the inspiration to keep doing even more for my own self, for my own life now, it just makes things much happier, much brighter, much more lighter than heavier of the past, than the heaviness of the past. You know, so yeah.

1:17:19
It's lovely, yeah, absolutely. Hmm, well, what a nice conversation. Is there anything else you want to share with me? If not, I'm happy to take a break again for another 10 minutes,

1:17:35
but tell me if there's anything else you'd like to bring up. Um, I, there's one thing that, uh, perhaps it's worthwhile, uh, codifying it, and that is, even though it might not, it may not have come directly from Rama as far as the jokes, but it is a profound lesson in it, and that is in the joke that it's all about the young bull and old bull mentality. Do you remember that one?

1:18:08
No.

1:18:09
Okay.

1:18:10
Well, there's this young bull and old bull up in the ridge, you know, just enjoying their

1:18:17
day.

1:18:18
So, and they kind of look down and they see all this young cows that are in Estherus. So the young bull comes over to the old bull and says, hey look those cows are you know all ready. Why don't we just run down there and fuck one of them. So the old bull turns back to the young bull and says, why don't we just walk down there and fuck all of them? So as crass as may that sound like, but there's a profound insightful type of teachings behind that part of the tantric part of our teachings where sometimes we can rush to things, not really surveying the field and encounter so much opposition. But in fact, he was talking about something similar like that while he was telling us the joke. Then, um, if, when we mature in life, then we begin to see things in a much more broader perspective where we can achieve the maximum amount of results with the minimum physical effort. And now that night is sort of like, you know, being played back in my mind, he was talking about energy preservation.

1:19:56
Right.

1:19:57
And that, at least for me personally, that one joke has been sort of echoing in many areas in my life. And I'm like, wow, that's so much true in it. You know, aside from like the graphical images that might sort of bring up on other people's minds, but there's a very profound truth in it about how to be able to take things with calm, know, more of a broader perspective and not jump into things without really seeing what's out there. First, take your time. Get there. You'll get there at some point, but take your time and do it right. Yeah, that's nice. Absolutely. It sounds like a Rama joke. I don't know. I didn't ever hear him say it, but it sounds like one he would tell, so it's good.

1:20:54
Yep. Yep.

1:20:55
So, Kali, my deepest gratitude to you for doing this, what you're doing. I am grateful and happy to help out in any way I can in the future, if you like. So, first and foremost, you know, thanks for giving our teacher another way of being able to sort of pass on, not just his teaching directly, but the byproducts of his teachings, where now can people engage with them much more readily as opposed to reading just a story of somebody. Now they can see more of like, oh, this is what people have experienced. So then it's like, Oh yeah, this thing is, it's more real. This thing is more here. As opposed to some far and distant kind of a concept where, you know, we read stories about all these people who are in all these different monasteries and all this kind of stuff that we don't have a way to identify with it. And actually it's interesting because Rama, what he taught us, it's almost as if you went out, out there and did a survey, like the old bull, right? Did a survey of all the teachings, beautiful teachings that are out there, and just pick the ones that are like the diamonds of all of those and brought them together and just imparted it, taught us those teachings. So like the cream of the crop of all the spiritual teachings, that's what we were taught. And I think he has mentioned in the past that we were getting a PhD level of spiritual education. So the thing that I find also amazing about that is while we were learning, we learned all those teachings. Also, he took us to places that were all natural, like the desert, the islands and all those kinds of things. But he never really took us there to those places that he talked about. Perhaps because the teachings that he brought to us were so pure, so clean, without all the heavenies, all the traditional things that are associated with a lot of the teachings. Or we can just basically take it and just fly. I suppose being weighed down by tradition. It's really well said. Yeah. So, thank you so much. Thank you. Thanks to everybody.

1:23:19
You know, I feel the same way. I feel gratitude. I feel just awe because every time I hear a new story, I'm always, I'm trying to present it back out in ways that people can follow and feel like they were there. So it's the opposite of feeling like we had an exclusive club, it's just the actual opposite is to say, if you read this book, you'll feel like you were there, you had a front seat and you learned everything that we learned, all of our different teaching experiences and you can take what you want and then you can go back and pick up the talks and the tape. So whatever works for you, you can go further. But yeah, cool. Well, that's it's all exciting and there is still all of us, there's no one person, we're all doing our thing. And I think Roma, I'm sure that while he's probably been, I have the sense he's been,

1:24:35
he's totally with us, but I also think he's off fighting some new battles right now. Yeah, he's definitely with us, you know. He's totally with us, but. Yeah, he's there, the guy to go and help fight the big battles. Yeah, and you know, and I, for me, I just add a little bit to that area. Out of all the teachings that we have gone through Rama, and all the sort of life experiences we've had so far, and the things that he mentioned a long, long, long time ago, back in when he did that talk out in the Mentakit Island, about how the world's trajectory is. So now, because we have seen those things, it is up to us as the direct lineage holders in a way to make sure that we keep this body of knowledge moving forward in time. And when we think of ourselves in a way, it's like, oh, I am this, I am that, at the end of the day, we would not be here had it not been for Rama. So what part of the insights that perhaps based on my own life experience that I can share, is that when he passed, the physical body passed, a lot of those termas, those teachings, went into each and every one of his direct students. So the body of knowledge of Rama literally lives and breathes within our bodies and our beings right now. The opportunity that we have as being fortunate enough to have come across Rama in our life is to unify those teachings, those body of knowledge into one again. So by bringing us all towards unity to honor Rama in such a way that we become the brighter examples or lighthouses in this crazy world that's going on right now. So it seems like a lot of us and, you know, done things for other lineages and have totally forgotten Rama. And there's something that he said that I feel it is worth mentioning is that forget me and forget who you are. So, so yeah, we have an amazing opportunity in time right now, whether we are at a certain end of our life or we're just entering the maturing part of our life, whatever. But the fact is that the teachings of Rama live in every one of us. And when we come together, we literally become that body of knowledge becomes one again. So, just to get you to say. And you're inspiring me too, by the way. So, I thank you for those comments. I mean, I think we all feel this way. I know some of us feel this way. I think we all feel this way. But I think, you know, we'll just, I'm personally feeling closer to just thinking of new ways to act on this and create this incredible unity

1:28:30
that we're talking about here that,

1:28:32
because you know what,

1:28:34
I'm really hearing some really nice stories of unity and I've only talked to two of you. I think it's partly the martial arts like to hear more of it. And so I think that's just fascinating. I knew that new things would come out of this book, starting book two for everybody. And I think it's just going to be quite interesting. Yeah. It's lovely. Let's see. But we're all a heck of a lot. It's just incredible amazingness. And we've only, we, you know, sometimes after the teacher leaves, it takes a little while. And maybe it's taken us 20 years. It has. Maybe it has, because it's been that long where there hasn't been the unity that you're talking about to really reach anywhere near where I think we know it could be. But I feel 20 years is just 20, who cares, 20 years. It's just nothing. There's no time.

1:29:31
So.

1:29:31
So yeah, interesting. I'm seeing the poppets getting ready to pop here.

1:29:38
Wow.

1:29:39
Wow.

1:29:40
Well, well, listen, thank you. Well, well, listen, thank you. I imagine Mujer is on the phone, but I'm going to still take my five minute little break.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
