0:00:00
People on the last trip will remember Jyoti. So it is Jyoti's guru. And Jyoti had us all dress up to go see his guru. So it's really nice. It puts you in a good attention. There we dressed up in an Indian way. Here, I guess, we're in the West, so we look fantastic. Okay, we're going to have a seven-song meditation. We will be doing our usual seven-song practice. If you don't know the seven-song practice, just meditate. Simply meditate. That was a very nice meditation. It was very, very still. And I'm positive it's because of the clothes. When we were sitting with this Swami, at one point during the meditation, I opened my eyes to figure out why it felt so weird in the room. And I saw all these people who were meditating sideways, falling asleep literally, and facing out. All the good things. students and they were all sitting up straight, focused. I said, oh, that's good. Oh, look, they learned something. But I'm convinced it's the clothes because when we got there, when we landed, Ganga Nath said, okay, we're going to go to a clothing store so you can get the proper attire to go visit a spiritual master or a sacred place. So then we went and we got all these traditional beautiful Indian clothing and it was really nice. But I started to notice when we would go to the masters or the sacred places that nobody else would be wearing the traditional clothing. women would wear saris. But the guys were all wearing like jeans and t-shirts. And I was like, see the Indian guys, they don't do this. But then when we sit down to meditate, we're in a good attention because of the clothing. Yeah, it's true. It's the secret to meditating well. I mean, I learned this very early on with my teacher. The first time I saw him was in the Beverly Hills Four Seasons at a formal dinner and meditation. And, you know, just putting on a tuxedo, going to meditate. It's something that brings you into a heightened awareness. Or in the case in India, when we went to see Aya with Jyoti, he had all the guys put on little orange sarongs and little orange turbans. So we were his sannyasis to see his guru. And it was, when you're doing the high toenail, the right toenail, dressing the part for your spiritual practice, it puts you in a good attention. And then you have a bright meditation. So is the clothes all along. That was it. All right. So before dinner is ready, I'd like to tell you just a little bit more about this trip to India. I know that many of you are going to be going on the next trip in November. This is excellent. But this trip to the Anza-Borrego Desert with my teacher Rama, this trip to India was the most significant spiritual pilgrimage I've ever made. The first time I went to the desert with Rama, it was very magical. And I didn't know that magic existed, or I kind of had a feeling it did, but on that trip I saw it. So I saw in the desert so many dimensions, light, and my teacher performed miracles. So that changed my description of the world. And then many other power trips with Rama was very special. But this trip to India is very unique. It's very unique. There's ancient divine and enlightened forces and spirits that have impacted people and places that are still alive in India. On my first trip to India by myself, when I went to temples and things like that, I didn't see anything interesting at all. It was really, really, really lame and boring. But, you know, Ganga Nath somehow convinced me that India could be really special. I somehow believed him. I was like, why would I believe him? I don't know. Oh, I know why. Because he introduced me to Yuan Miao and then the Healing Lama and Peter Mountchastner. I'm like, okay, I'll give him some credit. Just a little. Enough to get me to India. And then in India, you know, the very first thing that we did, well, after getting the right clothes, see, that's smart, after getting the right clothes, then we went to see this temple where there's this stone, but this stone just glows with light. And I was like, wow, that's strange. And I'm like, I've never seen anything like this. What's going on with this stone? Something special, something unusual, something I've never seen before. So the thing that I really like is that I had been able to see dimensions and sacred places and people who had different attention and power. Things that are very, very, very different than I've seen before. For example, Maha Ananda Siddha. This guy is like, he's like there in the physical in front of you, but totally in another dimension. You're like, he looks like he's from out of this world, and you think he is. But this guy can do amazing things. Like, the way that he eats, or gets his nutrients, is he rolls around in a big giant fire pit. And it's like, wow, that's unusual. I've never seen anyone do that. And it's pretty amazing. And he lives in this cave, in this tremendous place of power. I think the thing about this India trip that is so wonderful is Ganga Nath and Tara Leela lived in India for seven years just seeking, seeking magic, seeking enlightenment, seeking places of power. They traveled all around looking, stalking, and finding, hunting power, finding the light. And they found it, absolutely. On our trip there were so many magical things. Even actually, when you first start the trip, it's because Ganga Nath and Tara Leela have, let's say, they kind of all, they have an altered awareness. They know the deeper dimensionality. And so, when we get there with them, they are our guides. They are our guides through India, through the roads and the hotels and everything, but they are also our guides inwardly. They are guides that show us the power and the light and the magic that exists in India.

0:10:05
So it was

0:10:07
really amazing. I mean you could you could literally get off the plane and start seeing, you know, power and dimensions. And that's not normal. I know most of you have only been to India once on this trip, and you might think that that's normal, but it's not. It's magical. You know, like, if someone was going to be, let's say, your guide on the pathway to enlightenment, and they knew very, very magical ways, then they show you amazing things, right? But if your guide only knows what you could read in a book, everything in the physical, then it's a very limited experience. So these are definitely esoteric guides. And the trip is amazing and fantastic. I might have said this before. But what I'd like to do is I'd like to bring up the people who went on the last pilgrimage to India to share an experience, share one of their experiences. And since this is a significant teaching, this is a power trip I want all of my students to go on, because it's very life-changing. It's good for us to share our experiences. So who's first? Padma, yes. Okay, so Darshan of Ganesha.

0:12:04
I sat by the pool for meditation before dinner, and there was a beautiful view in front of me of the mountains and the river. I could see stars in the sky and moonlight shining from behind the mountain peak. There was also huge white beams of energy shooting from the mountains into the sky. I closed my eyes and I tried to still my thoughts. I could feel many gods and goddesses and divine beings around me. It felt as though I had made connections with them in previous meditations throughout the trip and now I was able to connect to them again just by stilling my mind. I then asked all of them sincerely from my heart if there was any way that any of them could help me overcome my obstacles in meditation so that I could become enlightened. I explained to them that I wanted to achieve enlightenment not for myself but because I wanted to help others so that I would be able to bring pure genuine love and light into the world. I then opened my heart completely and all of the love that I want to share came bursting out of my heart and flowing like an infinite river and filling the space of their dimension entirely. Then instantly I went into a very high meditation, way beyond the self I know. I was transported into a high dimension of light. It felt like a timeless heaven realm where the gods live. Then I heard a mantra, Ganga, Ganga, Ganga, over and over and over again. It carried a feeling of deep and hypnotizing truth. Then I began to see Ganesha in many forms. I saw a white Ganesha, dark hair and green pants with jewelry and makeup. He was in a cave or in front of a mountain. He felt very ancient. This is one I've never seen depicted in any image or statue. I saw female Ganeshas, I saw masculine Ganeshas of all shapes, colors, and sizes. Many of them were dancing and doing mudras. I opened my eyes. Then the mountain in front of me changed forms and became Ganesha. It was very clear. Ganesha was the mountain. I could see his form perfectly. His trunk was turned to the left with one foot off the ground, his right hand in a mudra with his palm facing out towards me. The light of the mountain in his form. I could feel in the second attention an energy he was transmitting to me. It was powerful and profound. It had the quality of focus and pushing through. Tremendously powerful pushing stillness with certainty and conviction that eliminated thought, doubt, and self. The feeling went far beyond any words I could use to describe it. I bowed in complete gratitude.

0:15:26
Testing. India was a truly magical trip, and I'd like to share a couple of experiences which were highly transformational. The first experience happened a couple of days into the trip, while we were leaving Bangalore. I was watching outside the window, and suddenly the entire sky turned white. In front of me, there was an image of Ganesha, levitating with an open palm and a smile full This image was burnt into my brain for several hours and it would not go away. At first, after this happened, it felt like, okay, that was a cool experience. But as the trip progressed, it was clear that this planted a seed which slowly manifested throughout the trip. With every meditation, every experience, whether eating or meditating, together the obstacles which were holding me back were obvious. Ganesha was there, showing me where I was stuck, beating down my ego, and providing insight how to transcend these limitations. The trip flowed together beautifully, and my most powerful experience came about a day or so before leaving. I was alone in the hotel room and woke up in the middle of the night. Inwardly, I heard a voice that said, now is the time to go beyond self. With this, I sat up and meditated for about 40 minutes with the intent to have a strong focus and to completely go in light. The meditation was nice, but eventually, as it ended, I concluded that my meditation was sloppy and instead to just lay back and relax. Once I laid back to relax, suddenly my entire being completely left my body. There was no self. I was the sky, I was the earth, I became everything and everyone. The self was totally gone and there was a natural experience of freedom. It's unclear how long this lasted, however at some point I felt a strong physical jolt. My self suddenly realized it no longer existed and completely freaked out. With this state of panic, I instantly returned back into my body and looked at my palms, my head, and I said, whoa, I'm back. This experience instilled a deep feeling of peace and acceptance for things as they are. But it also revealed the severity which the self clings on to the illusion of the self. Seeing this intense self-cherishing reinvigorated the intention moving forward to do the work necessary required for enlightenment. The biggest blessing behind all this is that right there in front of us the whole time, our teacher that was there, Ajahn, showing us how to move forward. With proper conditioning, a pure heart, and an open mind, and by following the teachings as prescribed, enlightenment will happen naturally and on its own accord. Enlightenment is real. I'd also like to share a dream on the trip which was helpful in showing a path forward. In the dream, we were traveling through India together in a bubble of light. As we were doing this, we were all getting corrections towards our practice from Ajahn. Everybody was laughing and having a great time. And because we were having so much fun, it created an opening in which all of us could get many corrections at once. The corrections we were getting were highly specific to each individual. It was clear that being together as a group, our states of mind affected each other. And because of this, we all had the love and support for everybody as we were all working things out. The corrections I got were greater self-control, improved concentration, do not space out, develop a stronger focus on light. There were also corrections that were specific to yoga, which are do not be passive, develop wisdom, or the ability to listen to ten people talking at once and to directly focus into the dharma go out into the world and network and while networking say no a lot and often people try to draw you into their desires instead stay mindful until you find the yeses that enable yogic success

0:20:04
Aya. Meeting Aya started months and months before the trip. So I would see him in meditations where I would sit down in the morning and he just shows up very inquisitively, very very bright, and then he leaves. So it started happening a very long time before the trip. And on the trip, this got more and more powerful. So first he would show up in meditations, and then he was more and more present, up to the point where meeting him was a peak experience on the trip.

0:20:54
So we took an arduous bus drive down to the south.

0:20:58
It was our top bus.

0:20:59
We pretty much spent two days in the bus just to meet him. And that was a necessary penance to get our reward in meeting him. And as we got closer, the night before, I had a dream where he showed up. So he was more and more present. In the dream, it wasn't really a dream. He just showed up in my hotel room. I woke up at night, and I looked in front of me, and I saw Aya sitting in front of me in meditation. He was sitting there meditating. And I was like, wow.

0:21:41
It was a...

0:21:42
His blessing showed me a dimension of Samadhi meditation. So that's how we started, and we just kept getting better. The next morning, we went to see Aya with Jyoti. So Jyoti is his student, and he took really good care of us. He dresses up in the orange robe that the Asha described. And he took us to Aya's house and we went to the backyard and there was a little straw hut in the backyard. And there was a guy squatting behind it and then he disappeared behind the hut. And I figured that that's the hut where Aya lives. And then Jyoti didn't give us much details. He just motioned us to sit down by the hut. And then we just sat down there waiting. And as we were waiting there, that's when interesting things started to happen. As I was sitting there waiting, I noticed that things turned really bright. Everything became still, and there was a brightness. And we were sitting there waiting and meditating, and in that meditation I received two specific boons. The first one, I was sitting there and I heard Zazen music, the jewel in the lotus. That was my physical experience, but what it pointed to is that he pointed to enlightenment is within you, and you're in a lineage that can get you there. It was a reaffirmation of our lineage and the reality of enlightenment. That was beautiful. The second boon is one of personal nature. It came to me in the form of an inward blessing. It felt like, sitting there in meditation, it felt like Aja appeared and he smiled on me and his smile washed away my karma. It didn't feel like much at the time, but I think just this morning I realized that I lost a karma on this trip, a significant karma. One that I thought, the one that I thought I could never overcome. And I lost it. And I think this meditation with Aya was the one where it disappeared. After sitting there in meditation for about half an hour, we all, one by one, got up and bowed to the hut, and then took our leave. On our way out, in a separate building, we met Aya's wife to give our donations to her. And Aya's wife was in her 70s, and that's when I kind of put it together that if she's in her 70s, then Aya's probably old too, I thought he was young, based on the pictures. And that's when it hit me, holy schnitzel, the guy sitting behind the hut was Aya. So it's not like we missed him and we had a good meditation. He was sitting in the hut, meditating while we were sitting there, and that's why it was so bright. So there was sort of a lost connection there, but it wasn't entirely lost. After meeting him, we went down just a couple minutes away to the beach. There's a temple where Ayah sat in meditation for 10 or 12 years or so, and it's a very holy place. They built a temple for it. That's when His blessing hit me. It felt like I was sitting in a room, just not looking anywhere, and I asked, knocking a huge statue of a golden Buddha, left it there, and I didn't notice it. And when we went to the temple, that's when I turned and saw that Jesus Christ bears a tremendous blessing. As we went into the temple, we bowed to the inner sanctum, where Aya used to meditate for 10 years. We circumambulated it, and then we got a couple moments to meditate just outside the inner sanctum. And the energy was... I can't really even describe it.

0:26:28
It was a powerful...

0:26:29
The walls were soaked with Aya's light. And we were sitting in... we were standing in Aya's light. And that's when... that's when His blessing hit me. As I stood there, I became part of everything, and my mind was broader than I can put in words. It was a few timeless moments of power and brought in consciousness. It's very hard to describe, and it didn't feel like much at the time, but when we walked out, the world was different. I was different. Everything was calm and still, and I experienced the perfection of creation and the bliss of life. My perception of reality changed so much that I was more one with everything than being a particular thing. And then after a temple, we went down to the beach to jump in the ocean. And that was just beautiful. We went in the ocean and we were just playing around in the waves, splashing, happy to be alive. It was a beautiful moment of natural happiness. Like, it just felt very natural, like a natural state.

0:28:05
It's how things should always be.

0:28:07
Okay.

0:28:08
Oh. And a specific thing that I felt after swimming in the ocean and experiencing all these things is that there's nothing in the way of my enlightenment

0:28:15
that I can't overcome. It's very possible. This was the one thing. There's a second thing. Is there a second thing? Shiva Shakti? No? Am I close enough? How about now? So as everyone said, pretty much every day in India was epic.

0:28:50
But one time in particular stands out, and that was when we went to Garakshanath's cave in Hardwar. The location of the cave was very interesting. We walked through this, it was in the evening, through this crazy, busy, hectic night market with like cows and cars and rickshaws and motorcycles and people and in this little unnoticeable area there was an ashram. And we went in, and it was very quiet. There wasn't very many people there. And we went into the place where the cave was. So, you know, it was a very strange place for a cave to be. So we went in and we sat down. And we started meditating probably for about 20 minutes or so. I sat down and instantly it was like nothing. Like I wasn't there, I don't know how much time passed, or I just wasn't there. And then I guess when I came back, the first sensation I felt was I could no longer feel the floor beneath me that I was sitting on or my back leaning against the wall of the cave. I felt like I was just floating in space or just somewhere, but it was a very expansive feeling of just being home, even though there was nothing. And in that tiny, like short, however brief it was, moment, everything made sense. I can't really describe it, what everything is.

0:31:14
Um...

0:31:16
Just everything.

0:31:18
Um... And I realized after the fact that every spiritual experience I've had up until this point, or that point, was a small glimpse into this, um, like, what I was experiencing at that moment. And then I saw some stuff, and that was cool. Actually, the stuff I saw was pretty cool. So once I finished floating in space and nothingness, I realized I was sitting in a room, perhaps like some kind of great hall like a church or a temple, whatever, in a really large room. And it was just darkness and stars and nothing around. And the room went on forever, but it was definitely a room. And then I looked up and there was a cone-shaped roof or ceiling, whatever, that also went on forever. There was no end to it. And inside of it were planets and stars and galaxies and stuff. And then the meditation was over. And after that. And it was really amazing. I think the Ajaan has described awareness or truth in a way that, like, as if lightning strikes and you suddenly, for a flash, you see your surroundings and you see what's going on. So it was similar to that. Like suddenly everything makes sense, and then it goes away. But that's my experience.

0:33:21
So India was epic, as everyone says. But my brightest experience was my last day, actually. And I had been feeling a little homesick. Like I miss Kaya, I miss Vichy, and garbage is everywhere, and dirt everywhere, and everyone kept saying, we have to end it at Rishikesh. And when we got there, I was like, oh whatever, it's just another cave, you know. And so, okay, so now I'll read. There were a few people not from our group in the cave already, so we knew we would have to squish. I wanted to make sure that I got a good seat, but there were ten of us and the cave was only so big. I could have rushed in, but instead I let a few people ahead of me and I was the last one in other than Ganga and Tara. I have let others ahead of me in the past, but this time it was different. I felt it in my heart that I wanted everyone to have a good seat, even if it meant that I might get the crappiest deal. As we walked into the cave, it got darker and darker. I could see a small fire at the end of the cave, but there were too many people already inside, so I had to stop somewhere near the middle. On the right side, I saw this area that looked pitch dark. I had this longing to go into it. I had to feel with my hands because I couldn't see anything. Feeling around with my hands, I sat down and moved back as far as I could until I felt the cold cave wall on my back. I closed my eyes for meditation. This powerful overwhelming stillness took over me. It was like I was meditating, but I wasn't meditating. It was a deep profound stillness that I couldn't and I just felt because I had been missing Sivijay and Kaya I just felt them kind of like fall away and not like I didn't love them anymore like I still love them and everything but they were like falling away. They were like detached or something. And then also it was like where I was sitting or wherever I was, was like real life. It was like the truth. ever thought was real was not. And yeah, it was just this stillness. I really don't know how long it lasted, and it felt good, but it didn't feel good. It didn't feel like anything I'd ever felt. And like, when I wrote this, actually, it was in the car afterwards, and I was like a little freaked out, because I was like, oh my god, am I going to capture it correctly, what just happened? And what if I never get there again? So I was totally freaking out. But actually, it's like this thing that's real that I experienced that I've been hearing the Ajahn talk about all the time like life is an illusion this is an illusion and I'm like yeah this is an illusion but actually but actually when I was there in that moment I understood it like I experienced it for real. Yeah, and you know, the freakout is kind of interesting too because it made me realize that there's, like it wasn't the cave, like I originally thought it was like the cave. I'm sure it helped. But it made me realize that I have like still a lot of work to do and I could get back to that meditation and it was the meditation that was really amazing.

0:38:04
So, yeah.

0:38:06
So, my highest experience was on the top of Arunachala.

0:38:11
When we sat down to meditate on the top of Arunachala and I closed my eyes. I experience the wide God-dimensional light, which was bright and divine. For some reason in this light, before I started meditating, I did an assessment. I brought to mind a few things I wanted to achieve in this incarnation and asked for help from this divine energy. So the background story is that during the previous month, I had very powerful experiences in Bodhicitta, working through and finally removing deep karma I struggled with for a long time, and I was very deeply touched by how powerful the practice of Bodhicitta really is, and how much it works. So around the end of the month, I started focusing on practicing to remove the obstacles and suffering of others, using the same techniques that I figured out that worked so well on removing my own suffering. So one of the things I listed in my head as I was sitting on the mountain was to gain the ability to be efficient in my bodhicitta practice when I'm taking the suffering and obstacles of others. So after I thought that, I started meditating. And then I, it's kind of hard to describe, but it felt like my intention started moving through time and space and it kind of moved and then set on the practice of Bodhicitta with this new focus. It was like a laser focus, it was very intense and it had a new strength in it. So it felt like that this efficiency and what I was like, uh-huh, I think now it's going to work. So, and then without me really trying, people just started popping into my mind. They were people in the Sangha, some of you, who I knew were really struggling with their obstacles and suffering and karmas and different things. And they came to mind one by one. And so I started practicing and as I practiced on them, when I inhaled, so first I inhaled their suffering with this new strong intention of taking it, and then when I exhaled, I actually exhaled this divine light of Shiva to them to help remove their obstacles. And then after, this was about like 10 people or so, and then after this I expanded my focus and I started practicing removing obstacles from yoga. So I practiced on a body to remove the obstacles from the acquisition, basically. And then I expanded my focus again and I just practiced for our entire Sangha, inhaling everybody's obstacles and exhaling this beautiful, divine, white gold light of Shiva to everybody. And then when I came out of the meditation, I was like, wow, this is something else, because before that I never thought about putting the words Shiva and Bodhisitta in the same sentence. But then it made so much sense in that moment. And then this became kind of the theme of the trip for me, because the same dimension and practice kept popping up in different places. Absolutely unexpected. So I didn't actually try to bring it back. It just, in certain places it came up. One of them was the Ramalinga ashram. The other one was the Grácsnáth Cave. And then finally in Ríšíkes, we got stuck in this horribly boring satsang. But we were sitting in this really beautiful place in Ríšíkes, where we could see the mountains and the river. So I actually just basically ignored whatever the guy was saying, and I was just meditating, and I had the same exact experience as I had on Arunachala. But the most interesting of these following experiences was in Gorakshanath's case. So we were meditating and there was space and blue beings and all that stuff. And then at the end of the meditation, like probably like two minutes before we finished it, Shiva came again, so he appeared and later I realized that Gorakshanath and his disciples were followers of Shiva. So he came and I was like, Hey Shiva, can you please help and remove obstacles from my Sangha? And then he was like, No, you do it. And then I was like, Okay, I do it. And then again, the same dimension opened and the same intention came and then I was again in the same practice what happened on the top of Arnaca. And then that night after I went to bed, I fell asleep and then suddenly, not suddenly, so this was not in the dream plane, but I was not awake and then I had a darshan of Correctional, so he appeared in front of me, floating in the dark. He's actually light blue, which was very surprising to me. He was sitting in lotus, and he was meditating and just floating in front of me in the dark. And then after he went away, Shiva appeared, and he was not in a human form. with his presence, but it was really strong and it just filled everything. It was really beautiful.

0:44:05
Thank you.

0:44:07
So I was once told that if we were to think of the world as the body of the divine, that the United States would be the brain and India would be the heart. This was obviously before Trump was elected, so... Although the body part of the US is up for debate. This clearly unfolded the truth of India to me. To be more specific, the connection of the guru within the heart of the devotee. There really isn't something similar in the Western world, although Amin mentioned maybe a Justin Bieber fan without seeing fervor. So there are a couple of instances during this trip where we met some devotees and so I'd like to share some of those experiences. So the first one is with Saravanan. While sitting by the pool reflecting on the day, Saravanan, our happy India guide, started to reflect on his time as a devotee to Yogi Ram Saratkumar. He passionately told of how he had watched the Ajahn on the previous trip and was still in awe of the stillness he held in just about all situations he encountered. This was the stillness that us as students should study and try to emulate. Rather than focus on what our guru is doing in his personal life, like what he is drinking and who he is spending time with, Saravanan roared, it is the teachings and the stillness we should focus on, as our guru knows exactly the right teaching for the right student at the right time. So many people focus on whether the guru is pious or stays away from drinking or smoking, but this is the wrong thing to focus on, as the guru sees the whole picture. It is not for us to try to judge and say what is right or wrong for his life, but rather for us to learn by his living presence and teachings. Sarvanan told us the story of his guru, Yogi Ram Chakramar. One day after having his surgery, Sarvanan drove the yogi back to his ashram to mend. The yogi came in a wheelchair, and although he was not supposed to have cigarettes, he asked for one from one of his devotees. Many people tried to tell him he shouldn't smoke and he should watch his health because he just had surgery. To which the yogi yelled, give me a cigarette. No one has the authority to tell me what to do and how to live. He seeks the higher truth, or he sees the higher truth better than the student can and may be providing a teaching to overcome ego or see a higher truth. Saravanan went on to say that if you focus on the personal life of the guru, you may be misled from the path by what your ego believes to be right or wrong. Enlightenment and the path are bigger than this and we do not have the capability to see the entire path. The guru is the one who found you and put you on the path and if you think another path is better, then you might as well stop as you do not see the whole truth. The guru will show you the path and point you to the areas to go to travel the path, but as students, we have to accept that we must walk the path ourselves and experience what it is he is pointing at to get higher. Sometimes this may be painful, but with unwavering faith in our Guru, we have to walk it. Being on the path doesn't just require 100% faith in the Guru, it requires 200% unwavering, unbendable faith and complete surrender to the Guru. Saravanan explained that the relationship with the Guru and the student is sacred. One may have many teachers in their lifetimes, or in their life, or lifetimes, but only one guru. And this is a unique relationship that demands the 200% surrender into the trust of the guru. If he tells you to die, then die. Additionally, many people misuse the guru. This was pretty fun. They think of the guru like Google, where they can put in a question and get an answer This is not how the relationship works With Google with Google you find canned responses that can be for anyone searching But with the guru he provides the right teaching to the right person at the right time You have to give up expecting the guru To always give you answers and hold your hand and call you baby while you walk the path. His love is deeper than this and it takes going through the difficult times to knock away what needs to be knocked away to be polished off and get higher. During the discussion, as Saravanan delved deep into his heart and soul to express his golden-rimmed advice on devotion to the guru, Jyoti, our guide to Arunachala, started to purposely interrupt him. And this was pretty funny because I was sitting right in the middle of both of them. So Saravanan was really getting into this devotional speech, and as soon as he was hitting this really high point, Jyoti would grab my arm and point out his watch and, you know, just say all these funny things. And so it was a really interesting experience. Similar to how the mind can interrupt your connection to the path and the guru if you let it, Jyoti and his exclamations would barge in every other sentence that Saravanan spoke. But clearly demonstrating the heart and dedication of a true devotee and student, this did not keep Saravanan from continuing to provide deep truths on the guru-devotee relationship. His voice grew louder and his heart grew stronger through the opposition, gripping his being entirely with devotion as he provided us with this ancient knowledge based on his experience. This is a true testament to the singular focus that needs to be held, not only on the path, but to the guru who is lovingly guiding you in the right way. There were a couple of other experiences. Should I keep reading through? Okay. Another experience, these ones will be shorter. Another experience was with Devaki, another devotee of Yogi Ram Sarat Kumar. She said that although she had a profound experience with her guru when she first met him, she faced rejection after rejection from him initially. She lived about four hours away, so she would come to greet her guru and he would tell her to go wait for him in the ashram. After hours passed, he just wouldn't show up, and similar things like this would happen. Other times he would just tell her to go away, he didn't even want to see her. She went on to say that when something is hard to get, you begin to take notice of it. You focus and value it, because even if God came down and offered enlightenment directly to you, you wouldn't value it or understand it. So it's worth working through. Another one. Vivek, the owner of the Divine Ganga, along with Seema, gave a talk one night where he mentioned it is well known in India that there are many gurus who can make gems appear from their palms and tell you positive things to soothe your ego and show a lot of magic. They make magic happen and can do extraordinary things but it's not necessarily in those set of powers or tricks that the devotee, that enlightenment is and the devotee will not go far with this. Even those who do not have your best interest in heart can do magic. Time and time again, India showed that enlightenment is not found in the fireworks and fanfare of the illusion, but in the deep truth within yourself and trusting in the Guru that he's going to help unlock this. So, after spending the greater part of a month in India, arguably one of the holiest places in the world. Traveling from south to north and taking in the cream of the crop that Ganga Nath and Tarleela so expertly found, in my eyes there is no one better than our Ajahn. Not only do we have the privilege to be around an enlightened being, but we also have an unparalleled opportunity to sit with, drink, travel, joke, and even live with and around our guru. Not only that, but the structures he has placed for us to allow us to get higher, brighter, are just so incredibly powerful. There was really nothing like it when we visited people on this trip. This is not a normal experience, and it will not be taken carelessly. While chatting about the movie Arrival, the Ajan said, to know a language is to open up to a deeper level of connection. And this made me realize that none of the things that happened in my life before my guru were a mistake. They were all there in such a perfect way, so I would understand deeper when I found him. I had an experience on this trip where I came to peace and realized that every heartbreak I had endured before this was just preparation. So my heart would be fully and completely open for my guru. So, while times may be hard, I realized I would still have to go through these issues even if I was not in the study. The difference is I'd have to suffer through them slower, without our gracious guru to help show the way out, and without the support of the Sangha, who are all focused on enlightenment too. Swami Sakswat, the one who slept with tigers and snakes, gave the following advice when things are hard. The mind is tricky and will create a sense of boredom, pain, and reaction when it feels it's going away. Perseverance is the key. Pushing through it and knowing that this feeling you may be stuck in means the mind and therefore the ego is actually lessening. Because eventually one day you'll reach enlightenment and all will be fulfilled within it.

0:54:32
Thank you.

0:54:34
Dinner is back. How do we start with dinner? Go ahead.

0:54:40
I will probably tell a couple more stories during that. I will probably tell a couple more stories during that. Maybe we'll take a break and let the students have their dinner.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
