0:00:00
So this is a tough incarnation. The Kali Yuga is known as the Dark Age, the Iron Age, where things become very physical. In earlier ages, it's easier to meditate. It's easier to see light and spirit. But in the Kali Yuga, it's tough. It's hard. Now, I remember my teacher, you know, the Kali Yuga has been going on for a while, thousands of years. Buddha was talking to his students, and he was telling them, oh, we're in the Kali Yuga. Everything's really, really tough right now. And then 2,500 years later, it's even tougher. It didn't get easier. In terms of the auric field of the planet, it's the dark age because people. People create toxicity and dark aura and attention because of so many of us. Bumping elbows. So as the population increases, the dark age increases. This is a sign or a symptom of the Kali Yuga. Now the other day, last Thursday, maybe Wednesday and Thursday, I noticed a beautiful shift into the Kali Yuga. So even a darker, denser, more physical place. I just happened to notice it. So as I was saying, my teacher in the mid-90s was telling us, because he was a seer, he was telling us somewhere from 1997 to 2003 there would be a big, big, big shift, a deeper step into the Kali Yuga. And I really recognized that at the time of 9-11, 2001. So I was in a brilliantly beautiful meditation where I could see everything clearly, perfectly. And then after meditation, I turn on the TV and there's two buildings falling down in New York. And then I walked outside. And when I walked outside, I saw that the world had changed. It had become a more physical place, a heavier place, a place where there were going to be more wars, more fear, more anxiety. And it literally looked physically different to me. The world I could see had become more physical, darker. And I was like, oh, this is what my teacher mentioned. This change. But I noticed just last week another shift into the Kali Yuga. Not as big as 9-11, but definitely another shift. Krishna at the time of the after the battle of Kurukshetra, the Mahabharata. This is when the Kali Yuga started. And he said one day, Oh, here comes the Kali Yuga. And then one of his, one of How can you tell? He says, well, you know, you could tell by people in power, politicians, or wealthy, the wealthy people. So there was a, there was a very wealthy man, a landholder, had a dispute with one of the people in his lands. And this is just before the Kali Yuga. And then the dispute was solved very easily. And there was no problem, no hard feelings. And then the Kali Yuga came one day. And then Krishna said, Now, now watch. The next time this guy has a dispute, watch how he acts, watch how it's different. And then sure enough yet another dispute come up with a different person and they couldn't solve it. They weren't able to come to a mutually beneficial agreement. They weren't able to call a truce. wealthy landowner had to have his way. So he kind of forced his way because he was more powerful to get what he wanted. So when the Kali Yuga deepens, you can start to see it in people who have power. They start to use power in ways that are are more negative that have a bigger effect. So in the past few days we have seen in politics just a negative shift and it's something that's been growing and growing and growing, but the shift has happened. So we find ourselves in a place, maybe a couple weeks ago, it wasn't as physical, wasn't as dark. The thing about it is, having a shift like this, you kind of notice that you don't feel as good. You might have more depression, anxiety, negativity, physical pain. A psychically sensitive person starts to notice And what we have to do is we have to become stronger to deal with it. But a lot of my students over this period have been complaining about these hardships, difficulties. why is, you know, life is pain. As the Buddha said, as the first noble truth. And one of the conditions that we have to that aim is the Kali Yuga. It doesn't get easier. The conditions of the world don't get easier. In that case, if we can't wait around for the new age to come and for everyone to ascend and whatever. If that's not going to just automatically happen, and the world is just going to have more craziness, more wars, more difficulties, more inequality, then what we have to do is we have to make our physical lives strong, our financial lives strong, so that we can kind of insulate ourselves from the difficulties of the outside world. And we have to make our mind strong, our spirit strong. When we face this, we have to face it with a prodigious amount of positivity. You have to dig deeper, not into the color you live in, dig deeper into the infinite light that is within you so that you can be brighter in this world. So the world's not going to change, but you can change. And instead of just suffering, you can find your way to enlightenment. So I myself have gone through different sensitivities in this world and with my students on this great adventure. And there was times where I had a condition when I would get hit with a lot of negativity, I would pass out, I just would fall unconscious. And there were times where I had a lot of toxicity in my aura, and it just really is debilitating, physically very, very hard, painful, just very difficult. But at the same time, even though I had those subtle physical or physical difficulties, I was still happy. Still meditate, still practice mindfulness in Bodhicitta, and go higher and higher and brighter and brighter, and share the light and the Dharma with all of my students. So, it can't stop you. If you push, if you go deeper into the light, the hardships of the world can't stop you. So even though I was facing a lot of difficulty through these subtle physical and physical conditions, my meditations were brighter. I brought my students into higher, brighter teachings. My cultivation of the Dharma became stronger. So sometimes when something's tough, difficult, it gives you a reason to push harder than you've ever pushed before. So if you've been cruising through your incarnations in ease, in a nice place where it was before the Kali Yuga or something, you're just like, oh, yeah, it's so easy to meditate. Just sit down and life is nice and bright still. And your life has no difficulty, right? Like all of you have had, of course. It doesn't give you a reason to push if it comes easy. If you sit down and meditate and always go to a certain brightness, and oh, okay, that's really good. If you don't push beyond that, then you'll be there. If you don't see a reason to push in meditation, you won't meditate well. But when meditation is super hard to begin with, then you're like, oh. It gives you a reason to really push. When you can get it together in your meditation, to learn to focus and concentrate, it takes so much energy to do that, then you break through and then higher meditations, brighter meditations are easy once you know how to focus and concentrate. But to really get your concentration and focus, it takes a tremendous amount of work. And that's one of the wonderful things, one of the presence of the Kali Yuga is that it's hard to meditate. There's so many impressions from so many people, so many. A lot of you in your mystic scuba practice have gone deep underwater. You go to about 150 feet and you get below the aura, this Kali Yuga aura of the planet. And then the neutralizing effect of the aura of water holds that feeling of the mind of the world, the energy of the world, the toxicity of the human attention of the world. It pushes it away from you. And life, even if you're at the place of refuge, at the sandy bottom, there's nothing to see. There's just sand, right? But it's extraordinarily beautiful. And that's the way the world really is, all this toxic human attention. So the essence of your mind is simple and bright. A lot of the reasons you have a lot of hardships is because of dealing with a lot of imprints from toxicity of so many other people. So you have to find yourself and discriminate and push out all sorts of desires, all sorts of anxiety, all sorts of feelings of anger and depression. You and peace. So this is a tough incarnation. It's not easy and it's been a little bit tougher recently. And just another reminder that, you know, we're in the Kali Yuga, life is pain, the world's not going to get easier, we just have to work harder. We're in the Saturday before Easter. Tomorrow's Easter. That's one of the other reasons everything feels so great this weekend. It's a holiday. Let's get all holiday in America. Everyone gets mad. It's one of the beautiful qualities. You know we think that a holiday should be a time where we get together and have a good time with family and friends and it tends to be that people get together and stress out with family and friends and argue and have a difficult time. Sometimes there's some beautiful moments, but a lot of people struggle during this time. And so holidays very often are times where the whole country gets a little on edge.

0:17:05
So things are backwards.

0:17:08
A holiday should be fun, but it's not. But it's been this way for a long time. Because yesterday was Good Friday. You guys know what Good Friday is? Yeah, that's right. Yeah. Good Friday is when when Jesus died on the cross, to call it good. I can't think of anything worse, killing an enlightened teacher, like killing him on a cross. That seems like a bad deal to me. But we call it good. We're like, no, no, no, this is good. Good Friday. That's like how the British used to have this thing where they're like that one of the worst like things you could say to someone is good day sir you know and it really means like fuck off we're not talking anymore get out of here right but um they're just all good day sir and that's like, good Friday. Oh, no, wait. So everything, yeah, everything's backwards in this world. So, you know, when we, I was like, why did they call this good? And I happened to have a Buddhist calendar. And it was a calendar where, you know, Buddha, it was the Buddha's last teaching, where he's lying on his deathbed. And I was like, yeah, wow, you know, I was really reflecting on the death of enlightenment. There is a profound teaching at the time of Jesus's death, although people like to think it's a good thing, you know, they like to say, oh, yeah, he wanted to die. Yeah. He elected that. That was great. He wanted to die just for our sins. Yeah, a lot of people think that he wanted to die. That was a horrible death. And at that time, it wasn't an elevating karma for his students or the planet. It was a very bad karma, a giant shift into a worse world, a heavier world, the Kali Yuga, the darker time. So we find ourselves in Easter reflecting on that, reflecting on the fact that uplifting effect on many people. Like Buddha's last teaching was a powerful teaching of enlightenment. But if we don't cherish enlightenment properly, if it's hurt, it's damaged, then it's if we don't, yeah, if we if we heard it and we have bad karma as a result, it ends up being something that diminishes the opportunity of enlightenment and freedom our opportunity to reflect on that. Because we ourselves have that Buddha nature, right? So we're reflecting on our own attention to our enlightenment, attending to ourselves, to either lift ourselves up into a higher light in the face of adversity or sometimes we beat ourselves down. We get negative and we're not honoring that light within us which then diminishes our opportunities. So in this time reflect on this. And yes, there's an eternal quality to our being. It's a time where we can see beyond just the finite world because when Jesus died, he again rose on Easter. that he came to his students and he said, Hey, hey guys, you know, my physical body is gone, but I'm still here. My spirit goes beyond the physical body and that opens them up to seeing their own eternal nature. This opens us up to seeing our own internal nature. So while we deal with the finite, we might lose a battle. Our spirit is infinite. And at this time we have this reflection of the infinitude They have chocolate bunnies, Cadbury cream eggs. Those are great. Yeah, bunnies that lay eggs. It's a carryover from the pagan times. There's a jackrabbit God that would, that if you pray to it, it would come and crap out an egg for you. And then they said, hmm, we got this thing called Easter, but what about, what are we going to do about that jackrabbit god?

0:24:05
Cadbury. Cadbury will solve it.

0:24:08
So these are all wonderful things. Wonderful things. So in the face of adversity, we have to be better. We have to be stronger. Just recently, AppBuddy has made their release of ProcessGrid. And this was a very powerful yogic feat, because they created a whole new product line in a very short amount of time. The way, like, a very sophisticated product and done impeccably well. So in a very difficult time, and AppBuddy with mounting competitors and all sorts of hardships in the market has been growing, growing in sales and also growing this new product line that could be tremendous. So this is an example within within our own group of how to face difficulty. It is to be strong in the face of difficulty. It's to say, wow, things are so hard. We have to innovate. We have to grow. We have to be stronger. Instead of just keeling over, it's like, ah, I'm so everything's so hard everything's so difficult Why why try why push why succeed? because the alternative is to be weak Unhappy and hurt and to dwell in suffering Everything you know, there's always things that hurt and there are all those things that are tough, but if we always Fight to be impeccable, fight for the light, then we become strong and happy. This is a greater cultivation of truth. And in facing hardship, in facing suffering, dissatisfaction, and limitation. If you don't follow the truth, you'll start to dwell in limitation, dwell in suffering. So you must always seek to go beyond it. Now, recently, we've started the ARIA. And the ARIA is a group of Ramas students who the lineage promoters, I would say, of Rama's teachings. So this is an observation of the difficulties in life. You know, life is hard and difficult, but this is a way. A way of unity but a way of power following the Dharma that will promote a greater truth. There are two primary organizations that exist at the moment in Rama's lineage. One is the Frederick Lenz Foundation. The other is the Rama Meditation Society. So the foundation is where Rama's money and estate are. And it's being the custodian of of it is a lawyer and an accountant and they were not Rama students and yet they want to do something good and positive with Rama's money. So they're using it to do good things like they give money to some Zen place and some Tibetan Buddhist place and they they try to do something positive. The other group is the Rama Meditation Society and that is a group of Rama's students. They get together and they meditate together and that is a Sangha. That's where the students get together and share light. It's not a state organized by a lawyer and an accountant. And it's not just a sangha that gets together to meditate, but it is the people who are empowered teachers, empowered lineage holders, and people who promote and teach what Rama taught us to embody, which is his dimensions, his pathway to enlightenment. So Rama empowered many of his students to be teachers. So when they teach, they're teaching through Rama's empowerment. And the proof of that is the ST2s. First there were ST1s and then Rama taught them how to, he empowered them to teach. And then they taught and through their teachings, this group of new students, the next generation appeared and they were there. Is that a good thing?

0:31:07
I was one of them.

0:31:08
I'm happy it happened. But it was a real thing. I mean, you can't say, oh, his empowerments are stupid. They don't really work. We don't really value them. They don't have an effect. We have to say no. Rama's empowerment for teachers is a real thing. The example is the SC2s. He did this in 1997 in Barbados. We had to read 29 books to be able to get that empowerment in a very short time, it was like eight months. And that was the lineage empowerment. Now, the lineage empowerment is where, when you get that empowerment, you are in your being. There is a connection to the whole doctrine of Rama's teachings. With the teaching empowerment, there's specific methods. There's a number, there's many, many dimensions in many, many, many ways. And that's good, and it works. And the lineage empowerment is something that creates a complete connection with the student and the teacher. So I've had both of the empowerments, and that's why I know when I sit with you that what comes through me is teaching methods and also the authentic lineage of my teacher. So everyone in the Arya are lineage holders and empowered teachers, and who are actively spreading Rama's teachings. So this is something that has been, I guess, sort of missing in the Sangha, awareness of the fact that there are people, students of Rama, promoting Rama and Rama's lineage and Rama's teachings. And where the foundation isn't supporting them at all. They're giving money to Zen centers and Tibetan Buddhists because I don't know why, that's what they're into. And RMS is mostly focused on just Sangha getting together, remembering the light, remembering Rama. But there's another group of people. These are people who are promoting Rama's teachings. getting to retirement age and the ST2s are reaching middle age. And if we don't honor and focus on promoting Rama's lineage, it'll die out. It'll be gone. It'll be a book or a video, but that means it's gone. This school is a transmission of light. So Rama directly transmitted light to me. Rama directly transmitted light to all of his teachers, all the students, but especially his teachers and lineage holders. That light, if we take care of it, if we foster it properly, it can go on and on and on. Buddha, at the time of his death, well before the time of his death, he was looking at a sangha and he said, I can see that the lineage is gonna go 500 years. That means that the enlightened teachings would last 500 years, because a lot of the Theravada Buddhists say, hey, it's 2500 years and we're still here. Oh, you missed the, there's no more enlightenment of it. For 500 years, there was enlightenment through Buddha's direct Sangha teachings. And if we look at Rama Sangha, it could die out. It could die out very quickly. Or this magic, this light, this wonderful structure that Rama taught can go far into the future. So this is, the Arya is a gesture. It's a gesture to enlightenment, a gesture to the universe, to carry forth the teachings of an enlightened teacher.

0:36:03
This is where

0:36:05
many teachers can come together. Agni Kala is on board, right? Ganga Nath and Tara Leela, you know, Mandala, Dholmajit, you know, there's just so many people who can be a part of this to help promote Brahman's lineage. And then there's teachers back East who are doing their own thing. There's this group called the Dharma dudes. It's a few ST2 guys who got together and they meditate together and then they teach sometimes and stuff. So there's definitely teachers out there, even if they're teaching one or two people. This structure, this thing called the ariya, is something where it will be a positive impact to the Rama Meditation Society. When they get together in their Sangha meetings, and all of the Arya will also join their Sangha meetings, then it should uplift them. It's not so great. They can see, hey, wow, there's something going on. Rama's teachings are actually going forward instead of looking at the past. So maybe that could make them a little bit more enthusiastic, add a little bit more energy to the Sangha meetings. And then with the foundation, hopefully they recognize a reason to support Ramas, empowered lineage holders and teachers, rather than some other schools. Agni Kala said that it's like you go into a Shotokan dojo, and it's like, okay, Funakoshi started Shotokan, right? And then you go into the Shotokan dojo, and then they hired out this judo teacher, this kung fu teacher, and there's judo and kung fu and Shotokan. And then you're like, well, you know, and then they're like, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, it's important that it's just a weird vision. That's not that way in martial arts, not that way in a regular spiritual lineage. I mean, sure, we're open to lots of things, but we have to make sure that what we're focusing on, what the foundation of our tonal is, is supporting our lineage. And all these teachers, in all sorts of different ways, that they're expressing what they've embodied from Brahma's empowerments. There's so many ways that we're promoting this lineage. If they supported it, it would just be a good alignment. Then we would have the foundation supporting the Arya, the lineage, and then the Rama Meditation Society being those Sangha meetings, and hopefully inspired by the progress of the Arya. And this is what we are hoping to do. One of the great things is after our last Dharma talk where I brought this up, when I talked about the aria, Mandala was there and Mandala, she saw the light. She said, I see the light of this aria. And she said, I would like to help out with it. So she is doing the website and the messaging because she's really, really, really excellent at messaging, at communication. So she is working on creating that communication to the sangha, the feeling and the opening. It's really wonderful because she very directly sees the light of it, and she'll be able to make a very beautiful way of accessing and understanding the opportunity of the Ayah. So this is lovely. So I just wanted to say a few words about the progress that we're making. And again, this is just, it's just a gesture to enlightenment. I hope it's well received. But you never know. Anyway, so thank you very much. Just to let you know, for the summer solstice, we're going to be going to the Anza Borrego. So we'll be meeting in the desert. And then Sunday at noon, that's when we'll be done. So it's really a weekend trip in the desert, in Anzaburrugo. And hopefully Agni Kala will join us. He's a local.

0:42:21
He's a fixture.

0:42:22
Yeah. Even if we don't invite him, we'll just bump into him. Thank you guys.

0:42:27
Thank you guys for setting up the video.

0:42:29
So some of my students who can't be here, they really like the video. Yes? Is there a way for us to help with the audio right now? Um, positive states of mind. Yeah. There's a couple people who are helping out with the ARIA, you know, like website design skills. is taking on corporate development for the fund. Yes, so the investment fund. So this is really good. We have to talk to accountants and lawyers and find out what the best corporate structure is. And so right now, we're actually on hold with sending money to a foreign exchange because we want to get this structure down. So once we have the structure, the corporate structure, and we know how to get the money in, work out all the details, then we'll be open for more people investing. Yeah. Yeah. Okay.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
