0:00:00
So I'm not in costume as a pirate tonight.

0:00:02
I had my eye operation,

0:00:04
which is really nice actually. that I got with my eyes, it came from some karma of dealing with angry people. Looking at angry people, it hurts my eyes. That's why usually I'll wear sunglasses or I'll close my eyes when I am meeting with people. Because there's something very beautiful that happens when we meet together. People get very angry. I can't bear to look at you guys. You're burning out my eyes. And it's It's very interesting because this started probably in 2003, this condition called pterygium that I had on my eyes. I had the operation on this eye a while back, and then finally got rid of the whole thing altogether. And after the operation, I felt very good. I was like, wow, this is really good. Something that was physically wrong, caused by some difficult karma, got cut off of me. And then I felt that it was very freeing. My eye hurt, but I was able to get rid of a physical manifestation of some difficult karma. And I thought it was very, very good. I could really feel like go away. So I really like that. So tonight I want to talk to you guys about getting into shape, many of you are out of shape.

0:02:41
Yeah. And I'm not just talking about, you know,

0:02:44
like lifting weights and jogging,

0:02:46
although that's good too.

0:02:47
But when you get your life into shape, get your mind into shape, get your being into shape. Make it so that you feel good, you feel like you're making progress, going in the right direction. That's getting into shape. Well, there's physically getting into shape as well. I was talking to Greg last night, and he told me about this group of the guys who, they just were talking, they got together, and they were all like, hey, you know, what's going on here? They all noticed, just a little bit too much weight, right? And then they decided to make this little game together to get into shape. And I think they call themselves the Buddha Belly Boys or something like that. Something like that. And they're all like, because there's just a bunch of guys going, notice I got something extra. And then they said, yeah, you know, it'd be really good if we, like, you know, get together and kind of make a game out of this, use the unity of our sangha to get in shape. And then they made this thing where some game about like by the solstice who can lose the most weight or something like that So they're like eating right Exercising and all that good stuff see that's getting in the shape and When you get into shape you feel better Like just like with my eye cut some stuff off of it and It immediately feels better You know The reason that you put on weight For some of you. Yeah who are putting on is It's because you are sight sensitive psychically sensitive and you feel a lot of toxic energy in the world, especially in America. And in order to kind of make, to kind of numb yourself, you can eat. And eating will make your vibration slower. Eating chocolate, burgers, pizza, that kind of stuff, it slows down your vibration. If you're just sitting there eating green salads, it doesn't really slow your vibration down so much. That's why you're stuffing your face with burgers and pizza. Well, burgers, pizza.

0:06:15
And what it does is, just by eating, you become more physical.

0:06:19
Slows down your vibration and then all of these toxic, psychic vibrations of the crazy world we're in, they don't affect you as much. And then as you Energy doesn't go through fat, right? Not very well. So that means that if you have a nice polar bear layer, then what happens is when toxic energy's hitting you, it goes and hits that fat, and that fat is kind of a, it acts as a shield. So we all gotta fatten up. Wait a minute, no, no, no. Because what you'll notice is, while that helps a little bit for a little while, then what happens is your shield against toxicity becomes itself extremely toxic. So for a little while, it feels kind of good. Eating some food, putting on some pounds, negativity hits you, and then you're like, yeah, okay, this is all right, I feel pretty good. And then after a while you're like, I just wake up in the morning and I feel like, ugh. You feel like, you feel toxic in your own body. Because the natural way that chi will flow through your body, stops. It's like, okay, I'm flowing a little bit, then I hit some fat, I stop. And then you go, oh, and then you're just like, what's wrong with me? Why do I not feel so good? Because you're a fat ass. And it ends up being toxic. So at some point, like the Buddha belly boys,

0:08:27
you gotta say, wow, you know,

0:08:30
I really recognize that this isn't good for me. It's not healthy for me, it's not positive for me, it doesn't make me feel energetic and alive and positive, therefore, you know, let me do something about it. And so sometimes an individual will go on a fast or a diet or exercise a lot and then they'll slim down. But I like what they did. They were all recognizing the same thing and then they made a group effort to do it. So I said, oh, that's really good. I'm gonna join the Buddha Belly Boys.

0:09:12
Yes, food belly boys.

0:09:14
Because I did the same thing. I put on a couple pounds, a couple too many. And it started with the Indian November trip. I hurt my hip, right? And then so when I got back, I was going through like, you know, some pain. I couldn't exercise and stuff like that. And I used to love to have a certain amount of exercise to be able to clear my aura to feel good. But then I couldn't, so then I was just like, where's my pizza, where's my burgers? Pizza burgers, pizza sandwiches. And then I was like, okay. So it works for a little while, but then it becomes toxic. So in the past few weeks, I'm like, oh yeah, it's getting a little bit too much. My subtle physical body is becoming toxic. My physical body doesn't feel so good because it's been too long where I haven't been exercising and too many pizzas and all the good things in life. And then now I say, okay, well, now it's time to get back in shape. Because when you get into shape, you know, so I'm joining the Buddha belly boys

0:10:52
Triple B

0:10:54
Okay, so um

0:10:56
Yeah, and and and we're together in a song doing something fun. We're saying yeah Let's let's take off some weight. Let's get in shape get back into a physical balance Feels better into a physical balance feels better. And that's fun. Now there's something really cool that all of you can do if you're one of those people who eats, puts on weight to deal with the toxicity of the world. You could switch modes. So you can go from eating to deal with stress, putting on some weight to deal with stress and toxicity, to developing stronger power. So, one of our classic things, as we learn in mysticism, is when you go into toxic energy, or let's say even strong energy fields, when you go into strong energy fields. When you go into strong energy fields, changing energy fields, toxic energy fields, then your subtle body gets shaken all over the place. So that's why, you know, when we go to the Anza-Borrego desert or something, we usually will have some beef. Eating beef is good because you go into a very strong energy field. You don't want to get swept away. You want your aura to be strong. So a lot of people find that just like commuting, you know, going into traffic, it's so difficult for their aura, they have to eat. That going into the office is so toxic that they have to eat, right? So you feel this drive, you feel your physical body get out of shape, out of balance? And then you say, I gotta eat something, because they feel like this anxiousness. It's not just that you're hungry, like, oh, my body needs food. You have this anxiety going, ah, I gotta eat or I'm gonna get out of balance. Well, what you can do if you are dieting, being a vegetarian, you can, instead of using food to anchor your subtle physical body, that's a basic thing to do, then you can start using your power to anchor your subtle physical body. And this means that you can drive through traffic, you can go to work, even while fasting, and have no problem, not get all bent out of shape. That's when you start using your navel chakra, start using your power to anchor your aura. You start using your power to push off toxicity. It's a very kind of beginner's thing to just use food. And food, as long as you're keeping it in balance, it's fine. But as it gets out of balance, which it tends to do, then you start to lose that balance. You go up too much food and then you're out of balance and you got the big Buddha belly. So we seek to deal with the world,

0:14:26
not like most Americans.

0:14:27
Most Americans are sitting there going, ah, it's hard to get that pizza and hamburger in my mouth at the same time. Right? So, you know, I definitely did that in the past two months, sure, but then at the same time, once it gets to a point where it's out of balance, then I say, oh, I'm gonna go way back into balance. And then I'm gonna start using my navel chakra to deal with the world. So, you know, this is the way we go. It's a balance from the physical to the subtle physical. You do what works for you when you need to. So the thing that brought me back into the physical aspect was I had hip injury, but now my hip injury is gone. It went away, so now I can exercise again. Hi-ya! And then I'll be able to get my physical body back into balance, and then I start working with my subtle physical body, my energy body, to deal with the energy of the world. So this is something that you can all do. And you should, why not? Give it a shot. Try it. If you're someone who is always like, oh my God, I need food, otherwise I go nuts. That's because you're trapped in the body consciousness. But if you can focus on your power in a different way, then you could go through the day where you're not like,

0:16:14
I need...

0:16:15
Yeah. So give that a shot. And then, you know, and then you'll see something, you'll know something, or you'll know how hard it is. You're like, sometimes it's hard, sometimes it's easy. Depends on how you use your energy. But it is possible, very possible, to even fast or just be on a juice diet or a vegetarian diet and go through the world. So this is something that you can explore if you want. I was talking to Yana, Yana Sensei, and he was telling me about the time where he kind of converted to be a vegetarian, raw foods mostly, and he said, yeah. He said he changed his energy. And he said that it felt like there was this belt of energy around him, and that he was like, wow, it's cool, I don't have to, like, you know, do what we used to do, eating burgers to survive the world. I'm like, at this point, you know, the world is pretty tough. So it's got, it's like, you know, back in the early 80s and early 90s, it was like, whoa, I feel a little bit out of balance, let me have some steak or something like that, right? But now it's like, to deal with the world, you'd have to be like full-time at the McDonald's drive-thru. You're like, yeah, I got to work from home contract so I could sit in McDonald's and eat burgers. I do work on my biceps to get stronger. This is important. This is getting in shape physically. But as I said, more than just physically, you have to get in shape in here, in your spirit. When your spirit is out of shape, then you're all unbalanced, all unhappy, all irritated, and you're in a state of darkness. When you get in shape in your spirit, then everything's possible. When your spirit is in shape, then you're happy to meditate. You're happy to go to work. You're happy to do yoga. You're happy. You feel a goodness and a brightness all the time within. Even if you're working on things, trying to do better, trying to get the next level in every way of everything you're doing, right? But you're happy doing it. You feel positive doing it. You see progress. You feel good inside. That's spiritual luminosity. And no matter what the case is in your outer world, let's say you've got a big Buddha belly that you have to exercise, eat right and take care of. Let's say that you've got to get a job. Let's say that yoga is really hard. Let's say that you have all of these challenges that seem, you know, like a big deal. Things are hard, difficult, but when you are in shape in your spirit, then taking on all of those things is not insurmountable. It's not impossible. In fact, doing it kind of gives you a little bit of a smile, even though it's hard, because you say, yeah, you know, I'm going to get that job, or I'm going to get that next job. Yeah, you know, we're having some huge challenges in yoga, but I am going to make it happen. I'm going to do better. I'm going to be stronger. And in meditation too, you'll sit to meditate, and you'll be like, wow, this is great. Yeah, you might have a lot of thoughts, but there's something in your spirit from that balance that comes from being in shape, where you're excited about the pathway to enlightenment. You're excited about going from whatever level you're at to a higher level. You're able to say, okay, I was able to still thoughts a little bit. I was able to experience light a little bit. I was able to, when somebody was angry at me, instead of reacting back with anger, I was able to, you know, compassion, bodhicitta came to mind right away. You know, so this is what happens when you get the most important thing in balance. You get in shape in your spirit. So at the moment, we have a lot of spirits that are out of shape, that are like big, big Buddha belly spirits, big ass sumo wrestler spirits. Yeah, so it's like, we got some work to do when you're out of shape. What gets you to be a big fat-ass, big-ass sumo, 600-pound, totally out-of-shape spirit? Well, you guys are sloppy. And you're sloppy, sloppy, sloppy with your mind. So, you don't meditate well. You sit down, you wake up in the morning, you're all, I'm going to meditate. Listen to some music, you can check your watch, start texting someone, oh wait, wait, I'm meditating. Your meditation practice is not on point for most of you. Meditation being on point means that when you wake up, you get out of bed, and you're like, all right, the first thing of the day, meditation. And you're excited about it. If you're not excited about meditation, then you should get excited. Meditation's a really, really wonderful thing. It makes your day brighter, makes your mind sharper, makes it clearer, gives you more energy. And the most wonderful thing about meditation is when you sit down to meditate, you experience light. One of the most beautiful blessings of this lineage is the structures of light that are taught in everything, but especially observable in meditation. So when you sit down to meditate, you should be like, this is so cool because, okay, yeah, I gotta focus on the chakra, gotta try to get rid of, you know, my thoughts and stuff. But eventually, you will come into an awareness of light, the dimensions of light. Your mind becomes luminous. And that is a great, great blessing. A great, great blessing. So it's like when you can meditate, you go into experiences of these worlds of light, dimensions of light, these structures of enlightened consciousness that are created in the fabric of these teachings. And then you experience that and it's a great beautiful thing. You might have thoughts, but you have light too. So that's why you have to really look into that light, because the more you look into It's ecstatic. It illuminates your being, your consciousness, your spirit, your mind. And you say, wow, this is amazing. And then that's the opportunity. Every day you wake up, you should be like, yeah, this is it. I'm gonna go further in my meditation. I'm gonna go into a higher light in my meditation, a greater stillness in my meditation. That's a winning attitude. When you have that attitude about meditation, that means that your spirit is in shape, versus a big ass sumo. You're all like, okay, I'm gonna sit and go, I can't meditate. I'm thinking all my thoughts, and I'm just gonna keep and you know, that is, that's meditation for people who are not serious. Serious about enlightenment, serious about, you know, getting higher. You're not serious about making your mind stronger, waking your spirit up. That's for someone who's not serious. You're not a yogi. You're not actually like doing anything. It's a waste of time to even sit and meditate If you're gonna if you're gonna spend the time then wake up do it, right? Have a good attitude the the the light that you experience in meditation, even if you're a beginner is amazing, it's a miracle and If you can just sit there and develop your concentration, develop your focus, which takes years and years and years, you will be able to have a very strong mind, very strong willpower, personal power, expanded awareness, and you'll have the strength that your mind needs for enlightenment, for the higher teachings, greater levels of understanding. So you've got to get that right. It's not that difficult. You just have to have a good attitude. That's getting the spirit in shape. And then you just sit there, focus on the chakra. Bring your mind to it. And then when you fall off into thoughts, you go, oh, I was thinking. And then you come back. Sit up nice and straight, and that's meditation. I was talking to somebody about all these different meditation practices. There's this one where you meditate a certain way and it's supposed to give you a certain result. You're supposed to meditate another way and who knows what the result is, and then another way. Those things are very confusing. Sometimes they say, see all manifestations in the world as a reflection of your own mind. That's a meditation. Or, you know, see that your mind is empty of all things. That's a meditation. But to me, those are just results of meditation. Meditation is just stopping thought. And if you stop thought, those things are easy to see, because that's the truth. When your mind is still, it's easy to see the truth. Every thought that you have in your mind limits your awareness. Consciousness is infinite until you have one thought, and then all of consciousness is bound into one thought, and the karma of one thought, then your mind and your being is that eternity of awareness. And then you can come back from that meditative state and see life in a much more balanced, It starts with that good in-shape spirit, being positive and excited, and then you come into stillness through focus, through lots of practice of focus. And then seeing the higher truths, it is automatic. It's not that you have to ponder, who am I, who am I, like in yana yoga. My teacher said that when people are sitting there going, who am I, who am I, who am I, who am I? I'm not this, I'm not that, I'm not this, I'm not that. I'm not the body, I'm not the brain, I'm not anything. Then they, yeah, then they're still there. But that's just, that's looking at it the wrong way. All of these advanced ways of seeing the mind as emptiness and seeing all these different advanced meditations, those happen automatically when you stop thought. Moment you stop thought, you don't even have to ask the question, who am I? The answer is there. The mind is empty and all phenomena is a projection, a reflection of one's own empty mind. It goes from the emptiness to the suchness, which is the same. So, you have to start with that, you really have to foster that. Wake up in the morning and go, yay, I might suck, but I'm going to get a little bit more light in my meditation. You might wake up and go, oh, there's still a bunch of weight here, but I'm going to eat my salad and get on my elliptical, go jogging or whatever, and I'm going to lose a little bit more weight today. And then with these attitudes, you'll get into shape. You'll get into shape I wanted to give you guys a little feedback on the red alert list, because I haven't for a while. I've been watching. I'm like, hmm. So we went through a period of time where, and we do this from time to time, where I say, I'm not satisfied with your level of attention. Either bring it up or get out of here. And sometimes I put it to a point. I'm like, look, I need to see you make a shift, a transformation now, or you're out of here. And while there was some people who got off the list, there still were people who were on the list. So some people who were, let's say, harmful, they had profound transformations. They were like, I pointed out to them what they're harmful about, and I said, this is unacceptable. And then they went, wow, and they reacted, and then they got clear of what they wanted, and they said, I want to get rid of this harmfulness. I don't want it anymore. And then they did, what would you call it, some spiritual reflection, meditated. If you really, really care to change, if you really, really care to let go of harmful ways, then it's easy. It's easy. Some people have trouble losing weight. They're like, oh, can't lose weight, I went on a diet and then I got fatter.

0:33:59
But if you really want to lose weight, you will lose it easily.

0:34:02
If you want it, the pounds melt away. I'm not kidding. I'm not kidding at all. If you want it, it happens. And it happens with harmfulness. You got this big old fat sack of harmfulness, and you go, oh, I want to get rid of it and then It melts away very quickly. So some of the people who had very very bad Reactions conditions and karmas of harmfulness through that process the red alert Teaching they they said I want to change Then they took it to heart, they reflected on it, they wanted it, and then that stuff went away. And some of the people who were underperforming were not doing their yoga, were not succeeding in their career. These are the ways that I can measure your spiritual attention. If you're not succeeding in your career, if you're not doing your yoga well, then it shows me that you're not applying yourself to the teachings. If you meditate and have the right spirit, then you get a clearer mind. You get greater personal power. and anything that you direct your intent towards will happen. A job will happen. Learning tech will happen. You just have to say, this is what I want to do. And if you want to do it, it will happen. This isn't rocket surgery. It isn't. These are very pragmatic tasks for developing yourself. But if you are so filled with negativity that you're like, nope, not going to really meditate, not going to really focus my mind and my intent, then it won't happen. It won't happen. And you'll have reasons why you won't. You'll be all like, well, I don't think I can. You'll have doubt, and you'll let that illusion of doubt stop you. Or you'll have reactions. I'm angry at this person, or I'm very frustrated with a situation, living situation or something like that, or the situation with your yoga team. I'm very frustrated with it. I'm angry at this person. And then what you've done is, you know, you were in the school to develop personal power, and you got so angry at the school, you didn't develop personal power. You're an idiot when you do that. It's like you come to the karate dojo because you want to come there to be strong, to learn martial arts, to defend yourself, to gain power. And then you just start bitching at other people. You're like, oh, that black belt always is mean to me. You're limiting yourself. You face the black belt and he throws you on the ground, and you go, oh, I don't learn anything because I just keep getting thrown on the ground. Well, guess what happens in the dojo? You get thrown on the ground, you get knocked down, because you learn to get back up. You learn to face that power that threw you down, and you learn to become a victor over that. You can't just sit there and go, oh, that person's mean, or I don't like doing kata's, you know, and things like that. When you do that, you are kicking your own ass. You are throwing yourself down, and you're blaming it on other people. You're blaming it on the school. You're blaming it on the people in the school. When everything in the dojo, the dojo itself, the class, the sensei, the students, the structure, is all about teaching you how to be a black belt, teaching you how to be powerful, teaching you the techniques. But when you're an idiot. Because you don't even let yourself develop the skills. You don't let yourself develop the power. And it's just, it's stupid.

0:38:59
Retarded. Beno.

0:39:01
That's Spanish. So, so you really have to, if you're angry at people in the dojo, angry at the structures of the dojo, angry at the sensei, you are in a really bad situation. You're an idiot. You're a spiritual idiot. You need to wake the fuck up, get yourself focused on what's the truth of life. Being mad about doing yoga is the truth?

0:39:43
No.

0:39:44
Doing yoga is where you transcend the selfish jerk that can't do anything. The selfish jerk is like, well, I want to do what I feel like doing, playing video games. Yeah, yeah, I got really important things to do, video games. Yeah, you can play video games forever and it will never bring you outside of yourself. Or whatever you want to do. You follow your desire. You will always follow desire. The selflessness that you learn in yoga brings you out of yourself. It is not something you want to do. It's designed that way. And then when you think it is something that you want to do, you'll find out you don't

0:40:26
want to do it.

0:40:29
I'm talking about every level of yoga. Yoga is built that way. It just is. Milarepa never got a break. He's all like, do you think you got... He's all like, okay, I really want enlightened teachings from Marpa, I'm stacking up some bricks. Eventually he's going to give it to me and Marpa's all, take that shit down, build it over there. And he's all, it didn't get better for him. It is implicit in yoga that you have to continually transcend the self. It doesn't get easier. Talk to people who are yogis who get a score of a hundred. Look at the top yogis. They constantly, constantly push past past blocks of self. They get mad about something, they have a doubt about something, they have an idea, I don't want to do something, and they constantly go past it. This is the pathway to enlightenment. Constantly going past the self. Constantly. Until you're enlightened, there will always be a self coming up, saying, you can't do this, I don't want to do that, let's go do something else. And you have to constantly let go of the desires of the self and push forward into a structure of Dharma, mindfulness, compassion, meditation, yoga. In yoga you develop impeccability.

0:42:25
There's so much power in yoga.

0:42:28
You become strong, powerful, capable. That's where you move from being just a learner, a Padawan. You go from being a learner to a yogi. Someone who is not just thinking about ideas about spirituality. That's real spirituality. We do it with computers. You can do it with anything. You could do it with building towers. If only that was more lucrative. I'm gonna build a wall. And then, that wall, we're gonna make a lot of money.

0:43:17
We're moving to San Diego. And Texas.

0:43:20
New yoga program. Yeah, that would be a good one. I'm all like, look Trump, I'll make a deal with you. You just give me some money somehow and I will build you a wall, impenetrable wall, the wall of ego. We just need to have everyone's ego wall go to the border and everyone else, everyone will stay on their side. No, can't go through. Why? That's my self, my wall. Can't go through. I don't know. That's ridiculous. So yoga is the path where you make real spiritual progress. If you're an amazing meditator, you don't even need yoga. So if you're sitting there, you know, if you really, really want spiritual development and in your meditations you're going into the fourth jnana or into salva-kopa samadhi, like, you know, four or five times a week, that would be sufficient practice. But if you're not there, then yoga is a very, very powerful, very, very helpful way. Even that's what happened with Milarapa. Milarapa, you know, he was like this really strong spiritual being, had power and awareness. And he had to sit there and build walls for a long time, until he was at the point where he burned off enough karma to where he could sit in the cave and just go into Samadhi. So it's like when you're at a level... That's why I sit in meditation six or seven hours a day, because when you're at the level where you go into Samadhi in your meditation, that's what you should be doing, you know, focus on meditation. But if you're not there yet, then yoga is a very strong way to learn. But some of you, you guys have aversion to yoga. That means that you're selfish. You're like, I don't want to do it. Or you're like doing it for a while, but you see parts of it, parts of you that say, I don't want to do it. I don't want to do what my yoga leader says. I got a problem with this person on my team. Well, welcome to yourself. The practice is to overcome that with selflessness, with compassion, with redirecting your mind to the actual tasks to do the work. That's why it's called Karma Yoga. All you've got to do is get yourself out of your way and take an action, and then another action. You just got to do the work properly, develop your impeccability, and then guess what? You'll be bright, you'll be strong, you'll get into shape by doing this work. We call it, you know, getting rid of the karma. Karma is like getting rid of fat. You got some Like when they took the stuff off of my eye, I was like, oh, they cut off the karma. When you exercise, you start burning off that fat that you put on, because you were like, you were like, oh, I'm stressed out, let me eat some pizza. You're gonna burn off that pizza, and burn off, burn out that stress. You're burning off karma. And then you can enter the meditation hall. See, the door to the meditation hall is only about this big. So if you're a big fat ass sumo, you're like, oh, can't get in.

0:47:27
You gotta do some work.

0:47:28
When you can slim down, you can come through. And that's where the higher teachings are, the higher consciousness is. When your spirit is in balance, when your spirit is in shape, you're like happy, awake, alive. You see light and magic and all things at all times, even in traffic. Even when other people are angry, your first response is compassion. That's when you're in shape, in here. And when you got it here, and you got to get a job, you never had a job before, you got to get your next job, interviewing is harder than it used to be, you know, all these things, your spirit will rise. Your spirit is powerful when it's not limited with negativity and doubt. When it's not limited by laziness, personal history, and ideas of who you are and what you can do everything you need to do. You can do what you need to do. And you need to do what you need to do. Because, you know, as I said, the red alert list, some people transformed out of negativity and harmfulness. Some people who were underperforming started performing, and so they came off the list. But there still were some people who were harmful, and still some people who were underperforming. Now, at the April 2nd seminar at the Ritz, I did something very special for you guys. I gave you guys a hand to lift you up above where you were. So everyone's just like, oh man, you know, the Ajahn was telling us that, you know, we're doing bad and we're on the red alert list and all this stuff. And then at that seminar, you guys came up above your regular consciousness, your regular states of mind. And specifically, I was lifting people up above obstacles. Obstacles in your mind and obstacles in your spirit, so that you guys can see. And after that, everyone was in a very high way. Even people who were still not off the red alert list, they were in this buffer. And I was like, okay, I'm watching what's gonna happen. Are they gonna come crashing down into the self? Or are they gonna take that opportunity to just step off of the red alert list? Or even for people who weren't on the red alert list, stepping higher than the self, rather than going back into the regular patterns of self and obstacles of self. And so, then it was going along for a while, and then I talked to you guys about the Kali Yuga shift, and that was just painful. And so, after that I said, okay, this teaching or this transit of the red alert list, it's pretty much over. Even though I would still say there's people who are underperforming and there's still some people who are too harmful. Whatever that transit was, we've gone through it. And I would still like you, if you're underperforming, to really take it seriously. Get out of your way, focus your intent, and you'll succeed. And for those who are harmful, I'd really like you to practice compassion. Practice bodhicitta when you observe and reflect on your harmfulness and practice compassion. That's a lovely way to overcome harmfulness. So, you know, we shed some people, some people who weren't performing, some people who had, you know, bad attitudes, and that's good. The group feels better to be with people going away. And if you yourself are underperforming and you don't want to perform, you could leave. You could go. You can. You know, if you really don't want to succeed, you don't want to get your job straight, make your life more powerful. If you're underperforming in this school, you don't need to be in this school. One of the functions in this school, one of the structures, is to develop personal power. And not all teachers make you develop personal power. My teacher did, but not all teachers make you, and I make you. So, in this school, it's very important. In other schools, not so important. Go somewhere else if that's not, if you're not gonna do it, if you don't wanna do it, and you're just angry, and you're gonna stay angry, why give yourself such a hard time? Right? If you don't wanna do it, I remember at Karate Dojo in New York I was at, there was a family all taking karate together. Dad was really into it, the son was into it, mom was, yeah, okay, she did it. But the daughter, 15 year old daughter hated karate. But dad wanted his little girl to get a black belt, so she kept going. And then we got to this one belt rank test. She was going for her green belt or blue belt or something like that. And you could just see when she was doing her test, she was doing all the movements correctly, and in her mind, she hated it, didn't want to do it. And then so, but she did all of the movements. She did the kata. It looked okay. She did the Samba Kumite, and she did it all right. But I could tell, I was like, you could just tell the look on her face and everything in her mind, she hated karate. So, let's see, was it Sensei Takahashi? Yeah, he could see it too. And so he said, you know, you did the movements right, but you don't have the right spirit. He said, so you don't get your belt. And then he said, why are you here? Maybe, you know, if you don't want to do this, you should quit. And then her father's all, no, no, no, no. And then he talked to him, and he said, let her quit, she doesn't want to be here. She doesn't appreciate it, she doesn't want to do the work, she's just doing it because you want her to. So sometimes people get an idea, like, oh yeah, I should do this, because this is the pathway to enlightenment. There's a pathway to enlightenment everywhere.

0:55:38
Go read a book, go see Swami.

0:55:40
If you find the thing that you feel like doing, you could, from a book, become enlightened. Well, if you felt like that's the thing. You can make progress from a book, you can be a jerk. And if you're just going to be a jerk and you really don't want to succeed, then call it what it is and you can move on. You're not doing me any favors. You're not doing yourself any favors. Or you can wake up and say, you know what, I actually do want to get ahead. I do see that the structures in this school help people, make people stronger. I see that this is a path that I can grow in. So let me get rid of my negativity. Let me get rid of my doubt. And let me put all of my positive, in-shape, balanced spirit into succeeding. And then you'll succeed. And then you'll look back at your negativity and your doubt and you'll say, wow, that was really stupid. And I'll say, see? That's what I was telling you all along. I was telling you, you're an idiot. I mean, you are an idiot when you do this. To you, you're like, oh, it's impossible, or I hate this, and it sucks, and it will never work. And those are just very limited states of mind, very limited ways of looking at this wonderful opportunity before you. look at it as that doubt, that anger, is something that you have to overcome. You have to win in spirit, and the way to win in spirit is to get in shape. You've got to be bright in your heart. And then, if your spirit is aligned, you know, with the wondrous opportunities that the Dharma, the school, the teachings give you, then you can overcome all of the difficulties. You can transform yoga from being like something that you don't really want to do, you just kind of do it, you're kind of stuck in the same place in your yoga, you know, those things, you transform it into this place where you feel like you're flying when you do yoga. You're like, wow, I mean it's hard, but you're like, it feels good. You're like, I made a tower before I knocked it down and made another tower. You can't have expectations on what your results will be in yoga, you just do yoga. You just do it because when you do it, you perfect yourself. You gain power so that you can be successful in your career. You gain power so that you can have stronger personal power for meditation, so that you're more capable of dealing with the world successfully. You gotta do yoga. I was going to give a very, very special teaching this month, but I'm seeing something in this group that I'm really unhappy about. This is the women. The women in this group are getting caught in women karma. Past life karma, societal conditioning karma, which limits you. It limits you from being personally balanced. It detracts from gaining personal power, and it wastes a ton of personal power. And it also sets you up against each other so that you can't work together and you can't have that spiritual community. That is a very, very important teaching in this school, in this lineage. So I see women in this group fighting over men, and this creates a very, very bad energy in the Sangha. And it's stupid. It is such a low way. It is not an elevating way. And I know that you'll always blame the other girl, and that's the problem.

1:01:38
It is because of this that we can't move forward. There was a very special teaching I wanted to give,

1:01:44
but this is a bad vibration for the Sangha. It's not right. And you girls gotta change it, because it's bullshit. school, that women learn a new way. If all your power is in a man, then you are lost. You need to develop your personal power. But if all of your power is, oh, I like this guy, and I get mad and go into all this shitty state of mind kind of stuff, then you're wasting your time. You're wasting your energy. And you're breaking the opportunity that we have in this school. And the opportunity is to drop all that bullshit. All it does is make you miserable. All it does is make you miserable. You have to drop that bullshit. And then you have to work with other women. By working with other women and dropping that conditioning or your karma, then what happens is there's a structure in this school where there's spiritual networking, where women work together in a way that is very unusual, unseen since Atlantis. Just kidding. It's an ancient way. Because the great traditions in the Kali Yuga are mostly men traditions, boys clubs. And the boys clubs work a certain way. And in the Kali Yuga, women can't work together because they're always fighting each other. However, in more ancient times, in mystery schools, Atlantis and Egypt and others, there have been, there have been in the Kali Yuga as well. There have been schools of women that work together and network spiritually together. And a network of feminine power, is a very, very, very powerful thing. It's a tremendously powerful spiritual aid for women and for men. When the women in the Sangha network properly, it's something that helps the whole Sangha, it helps the men too. But when the women start to get negative towards each other, there's this horrible thing about fighting over men. It just boils down to a lot of bullshit is fighting over men. This is horrible. Unacceptable. It's garbage. It just makes you feel like, shit, you've got to get rid of this. You've got to stop fighting. And the people that you fight, you have to make friends with. You have to make allies of your enemy, because your enemy is in the Sangha, and they're not your enemy. You idiot. Well, you know, the ego is the stupidest person I ever met. And this is feminine, conditioned, karmic egotism. And it is completely stupid, completely retarded, and it hurts the school. And it totally throws away a very rare opportunity. You don't see this in other Buddhist schools. This school has a very particular structure for women empowerment and for women unity. And when you throw it away, because you're always angry at other women, you're always going into that karma, fighting over men, that's the way you break this. You break that opportunity. You don't only break it for yourself, but you create this whole vibration for the other women. You break that unity for all the women. Because when the women come together, and in the second attention, this is what we do the women are coming together, but when they're fighting Within that unity it breaks it all the women feel. Well, there's something that doesn't feel right So this is a

1:07:26
Horrible

1:07:28
Way of being. And all it does is make you feel bad. You have to drop this bullshit. You have to see your enemy, the girl that you're mad at, the girl that you're talking shit about, the girl that... It's just garbage, what you're doing. When you take that, let it go, and see that person as an ally, then you're networking, then you come into unity. You got to do that. Otherwise, you're not learning the lessons of enlightenment for women that Rama taught, that are implicit structures in the school. I know you might say it's hard to do, but if you want to do it, you will do it. But if you want to stay in your karma, and you want to be angry, and you want to be negative, then you will be making bad karma. You'll be fucking things up for all the women in the school. You'll be, yeah, you know, like, there was a great teaching I wanted to give, but this isn't going to work. Not even for the guys. I mean, we are one school. So, I've, yeah, I've been displeased with the performance of the women in their practice. You guys are letting too much bullshit come up. It's also, this conditioning is also, you know, conditioning of doubt and powerlessness. You have to be powerful. You have to own up to your enlightenment, your wind horse, your enlightened ability, your Buddha nature, your ability to give compassion to the person Yeah, otherwise, you know, it's like pearls before swine. It's like there's this beautiful teaching that Rama gave for the women that is so valuable, and then if you're just going to be a pig, you can't use it, and it's a sad waste. So take this opportunity to reflect on your conditioning and your karma, to see the limited states of mind that that brings, and vow to overcome it, intend to drop it, be selfless, and make allies out of the other women, instead of bitching, complaining, and going into all these little details of problems, you have to see the big picture in uniting with the women in the school. To fuck this up would be not smart, not helpful. I talk about Rama's lineage going forward. Rama had very profound teachings. Women, if you learn how to network here, and if you can teach other people how to do that in the It is a tremendous, powerful, supportive, enlightened tool. But if you fuck it up, and you guys don't learn this lesson, then you've squandered, you just throw it into the gutter, because you're reacting.

1:12:25
So this is something that I want to see a change in. No more bullshit.

1:12:32
Stop doing the same thing you always do. All it does is make you feel like shit, and other people too. Practice compassion. If you think someone... Stop blaming. You should switch blame into compassion just like that. You're angry at someone, you're bitching about someone, turn it into compassion.

1:12:57
No more thoughts of blame.

1:12:59
And then you'll see there's a huge, there's a tremendous spirit of camaraderie. There's a tremendous spirit of power and light when you can come together, when in your hearts there's a unity. You're no longer enemies, you're spiritual sisters. And then that's Rama's lineage. And the energy of that changes the world, changes your world, and then all of your vibrations and the people that you meet in the future or know now, They might come and act with karma and conditioning towards you and you react with compassion. Then they learn something. If you're going to be teaching as Rama's lineage goes forward in the future, if you can't learn this as a woman, then you have lost a great teaching. Rama, when he first started teaching, he was like, I'm teaching enlightenment for women. He put that in all of his posters and advertisements. And then you come here with your bullshit, with your anger, with your negativity, with your enmity. It's bullshit. Yeah, you bring bullshit into my school. It's time to stop. It's time to learn this lesson and to do it right.

1:15:11
And then that way.

1:15:13
You see, there is a realization in learning these structures. And it's a realization that changes you. And it's a realization that you can pass on. So when we go and, you know, do more in the future, it's something that goes. If you don't develop it in yourself, it doesn't go anywhere. You don't get it and you can't pass it on. That's why when I learned all of Rama's structures and teachings, I learned them all the way. I was like, okay, meditation is hard, but I want to be able to do it right. Martial arts is a discipline, I'm going to do it. I was really into that. All these things, I'm like, I'm gonna do them and I want to do them right. Because what I can learn, if I learn it right, I can pass it on. So I was telling you guys, you know, about the ARIA and I don't know, I probably didn't give you guys the last update, but basically what's happening is, at first I was like, there's the foundation, which is the lawyer, who's got money, and then there's the Rama Meditation Society, which is Rama students getting together to meditate a few times a year. And then I said, and then there's going to be this Arya group, which is teachers that are promoting Rama's teachings.

1:16:50
So that's the way I'm looking at it, right?

1:16:51
That's why I look at when my students aren't learning Rama's teachings, I look at, hey, in the future you can't promote it. So I'm like, you guys have to learn it right. I have standards. And then I was talking to Jana, and Jana's all, well, in the past couple years, the RMS has started actually teaching. So they actually have classes. They do, kind of like, go-to-meeting classes, where they will, there'll be a teacher who gives a Dharma talk, they meditate together. Another one, they have a book club where they read one of Rama's recommended books and then they come together, meditate, the teacher will talk about the book, give some insight. And then they have another class where they listen to one of Rama's old talking tapes that Rama said don't listen to. And then they spew that around.

1:17:55
Anyway.

1:17:56
But actually that's really good because then the teacher can talk about the tape and say, hey, this is what this means, bringing it out of just that fixed condition for those people and talk to the people in the class about it. So that's pretty cool. So they have those three classes going on. And the other thing that they do is they promote other teachers. So there's a gal, Isis, she has been teaching in San Diego. She has a Dharma center down there. She's been running it for 18 years. And so sometimes she comes up and does things around the country and they promote it. And Agni Kala actually also had some of his events promoted through RMS. So they actually are promoting teachers. And what I would like to do is work with the RMS. So instead of creating a separate nonprofit, RMS is a nonprofit. And what we could do, if they want to work with us, is we could just say, hey, you know, you guys have all sorts of things. So they promote teachers, they talk about their own events and their classes, they have Rama's books and music that you can get and stuff like that, and stuff about Rama. And we're going to propose to them, how about you have a teacher's menu item, and then you can click on that and see a profile, like a list of teachers. It's like you see Yana is teaching Wu Wei Do, just a little sentence about him, and I'm teaching whatever, a little sentence about me. And then you can click on that teacher, and then it'll open up a webpage just about what they're teaching. And these teachers will offer things. Like for Yana, Yana will offer anyone in the Bay Area can come and learn Wu Wei Do. So there might be several teachers in the Bay Area who maybe just have a few students and they teach them meditation. But then they go, wow, you can actually go learn martial arts with Yana. Yana is super cool, super magical. They all know that because they all know Yana's wisdom. So that's cool. And we're going to offer our Web UI Developer Certification class through the Golden State Institute of Technology. And that'll be a, you know, that's just a dial in and Lila has it very structured so that there's things they listen to and tutorials that they do. So she's like, she'll teach the same way she's teaching. We can just take on more people. When people are serious, the structures that we've developed, you can learn. So we can open it up. And this means that someone teaching in New York could be all like, wow, I got students, I want them to have a better career, they could take this class. How about that? So that's a big, these are things that can really help. Or, you know, we have our investment fund. So I really want to push that. I want ST1s and ST2s to invest in it because it'll be very, very helpful for them. So there's ways that we can help. Or there's a lot of ST2s at least who are still doing consulting. We have bookkeeping services.

1:21:46
It's really good.

1:21:47
So we have all of these wonderful opportunities to share things. Shiva wrote a book called the teacher's, you know, like Meditation Teacher Handbook or something like that, spiritual teachers handbook. So if someone's about to start teaching, they can take his handbook and read through it and go, oh, this is a really good way for me to teach. So there's like, you know, lots of things we can share. And that creates a stronger Sangha because the strengths that the teachers have created are things that can help out the whole sangha, and it networks our consciousness in a stronger way. So that's really what we want to do with them. And you know, it's something so complementary to RMS that they should probably like it. And then what we want to do with them, of course, they're really close with the foundation. We want to work through their non-profit to write all the grants. So we are going to write grants like crazy. We're like, I need a grant for this and for that. And we have a lot of things. We have meditation centers. We have a Bodhi Woods. People have books they need to print. All sorts of things, right? So we'll find out what every teacher's doing, what they spend money on, and we'll write a grant for everything. We'll be like, oh, why not? And we'll just do it because the foundation, I would really like if they actually align with the Ramas lineage. It would be better. But the guy in charge, the lawyer, wasn't a student of Ramas, and he doesn't know what to do. So we're going to hopefully give him all of these teacher profiles, show him that Rama's school is a lineage. He has teachings that people are passing on, because right now he doesn't know that really. He's just like, oh, no, Rama taught something. He was really cool. Now I'm going to give some of his money to a Zen center. I'm like, well, give it to Brahma. So this alignment of Rama's lineage teachers and the foundation and the RMS and awareness in his whole Sangha, the Maha Sangha, This is something that is a really, really bright Dharma. It's just a greater unity in Rama's Sangha. It is elevating consciousness that Rama's students teach and do useful, powerful things, and that they offer help to each other, and they inspire others to maybe teach and for everyone in for Rama's manga to see that, oh, Rama's teachings are going on there. They're continuing. That's something that's just helpful for them to see because they have kind of suck and mom is not here to teach anymore, so it's over. That's kind of how they look at it a lot of times. But this could give them a new view. It's a very, very bright teaching and opportunity. And I want my school to be an exemplary part of this, especially the enlightenment of women. And this is a place where, you know, if my school's broken in that way, then being promoted to the whole Sangha that I'm teaching, the people can kind of feel, oh, there's something wrong here. And then they'll be like, it doesn't feel good. I'll say, yeah, tell me about it. But when we're trying to like, you know, there's more, you know, it's like if you're trying to inspire others in your Sangha and create the structure of the lineage of the future, then there's a bigger reason for you to stop being an asshole. There's a bigger reason for you to overcome your karma that only makes you miserable. There's a bigger reason to follow Rama's teachings of enlightenment for women, unity, and then spiritual sisterhood. There's many, many structures, blessings, dimensions, and opportunities in these teachings. And if you do it, it's wonderful. Now, Agni Kala is going to be here on the 12th of Friday. And I'd like to make a sign up on the wiki. You can sign up if you'd like to sign up. But I'm going to review attendance here. And if I don't like your attendance and you want to show up, I'll tell you you can't. A lot of people are taking our Saturday meditation classes for granted. And that's just weak. That's weak. You're weak. That's weakness. It's because you're like, I don't like to be around people. I don't feel like it. I want to go party and do something else. I want to hang out with my girlfriend. Then you're weak. And you're not going to get opportunities. And you're not going to get teachings. If you want to remain weak, you'll weaken yourself. If you want to be a yogi, you need to wake up. You need to follow structures. You need to develop yourself. So I look at the attendance here. So if you've got decent attendance and you want to come, then you're allowed to. If you have poor attendance, don't even think about it, because I'll tell you, you can't. We're also going to have ISIS come here on the 23rd, I believe, which is a Tuesday. And she's going to give a very, very, very amazing talk. She wrote a book about dealing with chronic pain. And she'll give a talk about it and it's a very, very powerful talk, very amazing thing. But again, I'm going to look at your attendance if you want to attend that. So we'll have a sign up for both of these on the wiki and you can sign up if you want to. But I will look at your attendance and it may even be going forward. It will be going forward. So, I don't know. It might be in the desert, but there are certain teachings for people who attend, people at a certain yoga rank and have attendance. So I'll be observing. I mean, yeah, I mean, like, if you're, you know, I told you attendance matters. And if I see that you just don't attend, then I'm like, oh, you don't respect this. Why are you doing it? When I was given an opportunity to, you know, even when Rama was not there, an opportunity to go to any class, I went to all of them. I didn't skip one. You know why? Because I didn't take it for granted. I respected the opportunity. If my teacher told me to do something, I did it. It was like, oh, that's good for me, I'll go. You create a structure for me to go to. You think that when I'm not here physically, that there's no reason to show up. Well, then you're missing the big picture because you're an idiot. That's because you're out of shape in your spirit. You got a problem. You don't see things right. You don't get it. You're not like savvy to what this is all about. You need to wake the fuck up. So I'm gonna look at attendance. If you want to start doing things, start attending. If you don't like attending, get the fuck out of here. I really don't need you guys to be here. I'd rather have fewer people who are dedicated students. If you want to be angry at other women fighting over men, if you want to be a loser and angry at the structures of the school that help you, that would empower you and enlighten you, except for you're angry about it, I mean, why are you here? You could go. You don't think it's working, right? You don't think it's useful. No. You are out of shape in your spirit. And if you don't wake up, you'll just miss more. You'll just suffer more. So wake up. Get in shape. Get in shape. Kamsahamnida.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
