0:00:00
I'm going to go to the beach now. I'm going to go to the beach now. I'm going to go to the beach now. I'm going to go to the beach now. I'm going to go to the beach now. I'm going to go to the beach now. I'm going to go to the beach now. I'm going to go to the beach now. I'm going to go to the beach now. I'm going to go to the beach now. I'm going to go to the beach now. I'm going to go to the beach now. I'm going to go to the beach now. I'm going to go to the beach now. I'm going to go to the beach now. I'm going to go ahead and get my camera. Alright, it appears that we're all here. When you're seated, just make sure you turn your light off. I'm going to go to bed. Okay. I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. Right? Thank you. I'm going to go ahead and get my camera. I'm going to go ahead and get my camera. I'm going to go ahead and get my camera. I'm going to go ahead and get the camera. Okay. I'm going to go to the bathroom. Okay. I'm going to go to the bathroom. Okay. I'm going to go ahead and get my camera. Okay. I'm going to go ahead and turn off the camera. And bring the focus to the heart. I'm going to go ahead and get the camera. I'm going to go ahead and get the other one. I'm going to go ahead and get the camera. I'm going to go ahead and get my camera. Okay. I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. I'm going to go ahead and get my camera. I'm going to go ahead and get my camera. I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. I'm going to go ahead and get my camera. Okay. I'm going to go ahead and get my camera. And bring the focus to the third eye. I'm going to go ahead and get the camera. I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. I'm going to go ahead and get started. I'm going to go ahead and get started. Okay. I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. Okay. I'm going to go ahead and get my camera. I'm going to go ahead and get my camera. I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. I'm going to go ahead and get my camera. I'm going to go ahead and get my camera. Okay. Beautiful day. Can the people in the back hear me? So it's important to see the truth of your life. And the truth of your life is that you have a wonderful life.

0:28:10
You're in an authentic school of enlightenment, you have great opportunity, you have a peaceful life, many of you live uncommonly fine lives. on the wondrous gift of your life. Sometimes you get into a view where your life isn't good enough. You're not fulfilled enough. You don't have enough stuff. And you get unhappy, dissatisfied. But it's always good to remember that your life is a miracle, a gift, and that it's beautiful and wonderful and fortunate. In the Tibetan yoga, Buddhism, they always they address the people who learn Dharma as the nobly born. Oh nobly born. So someone who comes to the spiritual path, they are very noble souls, noble spirits. And you have Remember that when you're looking at your life in a way where it's like, oh, it's just everything's wrong. No, everything's great. Yeah. You know, when you're like stressed out and angry and lacking and dissatisfied and going through all the stuff, you're not seeing the great beauty of your life. It's a miracle to be alive. To be on the spiritual some news story. There was a bunch of coal miners who got stuck underground. Many of them died, but some of them survived. This one guy who survived, it showed him, and he was just, he's like, I'm just thankful to be alive. He's all, I love life. And then it showed him, you know, sitting on the beach and just like going, like praying to like the God and just like super happy, happy to be alive, right? Yeah, life is a beautiful gift. You kind of forget that sometimes. But when you can wake up and see, wow, I have so much opportunity. You know, I can go out there and do amazing things. Then you have the energy and the consciousness to enjoy your life. Or some of you guys know that guy, the realtor John in Pacifica, right? Yeah, he had a brain aneurysm or something like that. And he almost died, right? Can't even use like his, his left hand or something, right? His left arm, it's like, he said that he was happy that that happened. Because he was just going along in his life, blah blah blah blah blah blah blah, but then after that happened, he was all of a sudden happy. Happy to be alive. You didn't get stuck in a coal mine. You didn't have to go through this trauma to wake up and love your life. So, it reminds me of, what was it called? Joe vs. the Volcano. He's out there on his luggage, somewhere out in the ocean. And then the moon comes up and he's just grateful for his life. And you should be grateful for your life. You guys have wonderful lives. Don't take it for granted. And when you see that you have a wonderful life, then, you know, be happy. Get the energy together to go and do great things. Make your life even better. Share the light. Make more beautiful things. Yeah, I just saw a shooting duck. Okay, so, let's see. I remember recently I had this realization that my life is so wonderful. It was when I came from India. I was in India for a month. And India is hot and dirty and filthy and a lot of traffic and people are beating their horns all the time, everywhere. and there was a thermal bath there. So the next day I'm in the thermal bath for like five six hours and then I'm all like my life is so good.

0:37:13
Clean.

0:37:13
Oh boy yeah. So yeah your lives are beautiful and you know when you see that, no matter what work you have to do, maybe you have a lot of work to do, maybe you have some things to really struggle with, maybe there's people who are mad at you, and you know, all sorts of trouble, but when you are grateful for your life, you see that you have a wonderful life, then you can handle all that stuff. It's not something that just tears you down. It's something to work on. But you have this core, innate happiness about your life. And that's the truth of your life. But then there's the other truth of your life. So you have to first connect to that because you do have work to do, you have to face also the difficult stuff. So you say, yeah, I'm happy to be alive, everything is great, and then you have to clean up your messes. And that's where mindfulness comes in. So when you start practicing mindfulness, then you start to see the places where you have negative thoughts, negative feelings, difficulties, things that, you know, karma and aspects of your attention, that there's work to do. Hard things, right? Now, most people want to get away from it, I don't want to do it. But that's a wimp. And that person is just going to suffer because they're never going to fix what's broken. So we face our hard and difficult patterns. We go to it because we want to fix it. We want to take the stuff that's hard and painful and we want to be strong. So you can't get away from it. It's part of life and it's part of you. So what you have to do is you have to figure out how to deal with your mind, deal with the suffering in a way that's constructive and powerful that will bring you to freedom and out of suffering. So it's mindfulness. Now in the Enlightenment workbook we do this thing that in Tibetan Buddhism they call banishing the demons. And that is to identify what's going on in your mind, right? Figuring out where the, you know, what your thoughts are and what the bad thoughts are. When you can, when you can identify the difficult thoughts and the difficult things in your mind, then that's clearing your awareness, banishing your demons. Well, it takes a little bit of practice to actually banish them completely. But this is the process, mindfulness, where you're identifying the bad thoughts and then you're working on getting rid of them. Now, some people, when they're looking at the truth truth of their their life they come up with false truths they say you know what I don't like I don't like you because you look like this I don't like that because of this I don't like politicians I don't like lawyers or whatever people are, you know, opinions and reactions and things like that, those are false truths. When you identify what those are, they're something that actually walls you off more from truth. It's a reaction that pulls you away. So, what we have to do is we have to learn to open instead of having reactions. When you have a reaction, when you're trying to pull away from something because you don't like it, then you're building up defenses. So you become defensive about things. You know, very one-sided about something. You start to life. So we have to open our mind wide enough to accept these difficulties instead of reacting, building up defenses to move away. We have to open, open, open. In the Enlightenment workbook we have that story of, you know, having a glass of water, You're putting a big scoop of salt in it, and you taste it, and you're like, Oh my gosh, it tastes horrible. But if you go over to the lake, and you throw that same big scoop of salt in the lake, and you taste the lake, you don't taste anything. Your mind must be broad, wide. You must be able to handle the salt of life without making faces. I like salt. See, I'm working on that. So this is important because you have to face life. You have to face the difficulty of life. You can't be like going into a fighting match and you don't like it so you close your eyes. You don't end up better off. You have to face it, you have to look at it, and then that way you're able to deal with it. to think of ourselves, the limited self, in a false way, because we have ideas of ourselves. You know, you have ideas of yourself. You think your certain way, there's things you like, there's things you don't like, and you really think that's you. You think that you're the body, you think that you're what happened to you when you were 12, and you think that that's you. And you get fixated on a self that is limited. But that is not you. You're greater than that. But when you have these ideas, then you get stuck in suffering. So it's like, say, desire. When you have desire, you say, this is me. I have this desire. and you told your story after and you did so, so I told you a story, what is it? There was a man who owned a shoe store and he decided that he was going to just tell the truth all the time. So he's all like, I'm going to tell the truth. I'm a truthful being. And on the left of his shoe store was another shoe store. On the right of his shoe store was another shoe store. And then the store on the left, they put a big sign up that said, the cheapest prices for shoes in town.

0:46:00
He was like, whoa.

0:46:02
And then the store on the right said, even cheaper over here. And he was all, OK, I'm going to put a sign that says, even cheaper here. It's the cheapest ever. But then he's all like, but that's not true. Oh, but I desire business. But I can't lie. So then he put up a sign that said, main entrance. More fear, it makes you react. It throws you into a very, very, very small focus on, I've got to survive, you know, I can't do this, it's me, and then something bad is going to happen to me, right? So fear is something that always draws you into the self as well. So, these are the things that diminish your sense of beauty of life. Just the miracle of being alive. You go, oh, it's amazing to be alive. I'm under the stars. Everything is beautiful. And then you go, oh, I'm afraid of something. Then it's gone.

0:47:37
Yeah.

0:47:39
Fear. Fear is something you have to watch out for. Fear of success. You can't fear success. This is something very important. It's a strange thing. You say, yeah, I want to get really good at my work. But, there's a part of you that fears making that shift to having that success. Um, let's see, what's his name? Berkshire Hathaway guy.

0:48:28
Warren Buffett.

0:48:29
What's his name? Warren Buffett. Warren Buffett, yeah.

0:48:32
I was just reading about Warren Buffett. And he was like, yeah, you know, I've known all my life that I was going to be very, very wealthy. He didn't have a fear. He had a lot of past lives being wealthy. So, but he knew he was going to be wealthy and he just knew it. He was there already. A lot of people aren't there. They're like, oh no, I have a definition of myself. I can't be that. If you're there already, inside, then success comes. Because you're afraid of it. Fear is holding stuff back. So don't fear success. Open yourself to the fact that you are going to be very successful. I remember when I was a new student for like six months or something, my mentor told me, you are going to be a millionaire and I was like what? Get out of here. I was like that doesn't make any sense. That's crazy. And I just rejected that idea. I was like it's impossible that's not me. I was like why would anyone ever need to make more than $50,000 a year? That's how I was. So, you have to really, inside, say to yourself, I can be great, I can succeed. And see yourself succeeding. Let yourself succeed. Don't have fear. Let the fears go. There was a very successful businessman. Someone asked him, How did you get this great success? He said, by making the right decisions. Well, ok, then how did you know how to make the right decision?

0:50:50
Experience.

0:50:52
How did you get experience?

0:50:54
By making the wrong decision. Don't be afraid to make mistakes. You learn from mistakes.

0:51:00
Let yourself succeed.

0:51:02
And on the way to success, you learn things. It's great. Another aspect of self that diminishes us, holds us in limitation, is small self views, limited views. We really think we are a certain way, but we're greater than we suppose. There was a king in India a long time ago, and he had a little boy, and his little boy had an interesting birthmark. On the palm of his hand, he had a birthmark that was in the shape of a star. And somehow, there was a... Actually, I don't remember, but somehow the little boy disappeared. I was like, was there a flood? I don't remember. So the little boy is like five years old and then somehow he disappears and the king loses his son and he's like, oh bummer. 20 years later, the king is walking down the street or something like that, and then he walks past this beggar, and the beggar puts his hand out for food, and he sees on the beggar's hand the same birthmark, the star. And then he goes, Oh my God, this is my son. So I lost him, and now I found him. And then he goes, he goes, gets him up and he goes, hey, you're my son and come over to the castle. So then the beggar, his son, goes over to the castle. He brings him into the castle. He feeds him. He was hungry, so that was great. And then he goes, okay, here's your room, this giant palatial room. And then when the sun sets and it's time for bed, the beggar, his son, walks back outside and sleeps on the street. And then the next day he brings him back into the castle and he just keeps doing the same thing. I mean, he'll eat the food, but then he doesn't see the castle as being his. He thinks his place is to be out on the street. So this is what we do. We create ideas of ourselves. What we can do, what we can't do, who we are, who we're not. We walk out of the palace, and we sleep on the street. We create ideas. And what you have to remember is that you're a prince, a princess, and you should sleep in the palace. We limit ourselves with these ideas, these self-views. That's why it's really important to connect with the greatness, the miracle of just being alive. Because then you can let go of small views, small minded views. And attachments, yes. Attachments, they hold us down, they hold into a very fixed state

0:55:04
We hold on to so many things

0:55:06
Hold on to something over here and something over there, and then we can't go anywhere We get very very stuck in attachments Yeah I had a student who Her her father was was very close to death and he told her, he said, I'm going to pass away very soon. And she said, no, you're going to be okay. She's like, no, you're going to be all right. You'll make it. And he's like, I'm really thinking I'm not going to make it, I'm going to die soon. And she's like, no, no, no. And that was where she was just holding on, holding on to something that was false. But she couldn't let go of it. So she was like, you know, suffering. And then I told her, let your dad pass. Let him go. Let go. And then she did. She became detached. And when she became detached, she felt all of this light and all this brightness and just accepting life and not having to fix to anything in life.

0:56:50
Yeah.

0:56:52
So let go. Let go of stuff. People, places, things. Let life be. Let life flow. And then that way you're not fixing yourself. When you're attaching to something, you're fixing yourself. You're fixing yourself to be in a stuck condition. When you can let go then you flow with life and then it's very beautiful. So fixed views, attachment, desire, fear, these are the things that, they're veils so that we cannot see our true nature, we cannot see the light. for the truth. You have to start asking the right questions. You know, spiritual masters ask the right questions. There's a story of a Yana Yogi, a master, and this is a great one. The student says, how can I become enlightened? And then the master says, who is the I who would become enlightened? Right? It's the yana yoga. But then the student says, who is the I who would become enlightened?

0:58:59
And he ponders it, and then he becomes enlightened.

0:59:05
Yeah.

0:59:06
Yes, yes, yes. What other kind of questions are there? Asking the right questions. If you dropped an uncooked egg on the concrete sidewalk, would it crack? You gotta ask the right questions about your life, about yourself. And don't assume anything. Do not assume. No assumptions. When you make assumptions, you make an ass out of you and I'm screwed. This monk goes to the Zen master and the Zen master says, oh what do you want? She's like, where do I find enlightenment? How do I get to enlightenment? And then the Zen Master says, Enlightenment is the top of the mountain. And then the monk looks out of the window and sees a mountain. And he says, OK, thank you, Zen Master. So then the monk goes and climbs the mountain, gets to the top of the mountain, looks around for enlightenment, doesn't find it, gets frustrated, goes back down to the mountain, and goes to the Zen master roars with laughter. And then the monk finally has his satori, his enlightened moment. Because he realized that he didn't mean actually the physical mountain. So don't make assumptions. No assumptions. Now, when we're facing a hard stuff in life, it's important that we open to it, we deal with it directly, and in a mature way, which is our Buddhist mindfulness and compassion. Because most people try to numb themselves so that they don't So, our country is more in debt and more fat than ever.

1:02:32
You know why? Because people in our country are trying to numb themselves to the pain.

1:02:37
The pain of life. You know, people are more on drugs than ever. You guys hear about the opiate crisis? People are on painkillers. They say, oh, life is pain, well then I'm going to take painkillers. Buddha says life is pain. My painkillers had a different plan. My Vicodin said, life isn't that painful. Yeah, so people are out of balance with understanding life. They're trying to go against the truth of life. And they don't feel very excited about life. So someone says, no, I feel emotionally bad, right? I'm going to go out and buy a pair of shoes. I'm going to go shopping to fix it. I'm going to buy stuff to make me happy. And then he goes again. And then they say, OK, I had a bad day at work, or somebody yelled at me, or I feel sad because of the traffic. I'm going to end up with pizza and a beer.

1:04:17
A lot of beer.

1:04:19
So, people try to numb themselves. They don't want to face life trying to withdraw from life. But if you try to numb yourself from pain, then you numb yourself from joy. If you try to run away from something painful, then you can gain peace. But if you run away from it, if you run away from the pain, you are never going to have peace. This is very important. So, we take off the gloves, we feel the hot, we feel the cold. You have the gloves on, you're desensitized from life. We want to know the truth. We want to touch the hot, we want to touch the cold. We want to know what is real, what is true, what's what. So you got to ask questions about life. The spiritual path is the path of inquiry. We ask, who am I? What works? What doesn't work? How do I get higher? What is real? Religion is kind of the opposite of that, right? In religion, there's no question. They just tell you what's what. They say, you're a sinner. And then they say, you suck.

1:06:13
You know, they just tell you, that's the way it is.

1:06:16
There's no question. I remember when I was a kid in Sunday school,

1:06:21
they were telling us the Moses story.

1:06:24
And they were like, oh, so Moses came and he took a staff and he made it turn into a snake. Because God is cool. And I was like, wow, yeah. I was like, that's awesome, that's cool. And then the Egyptian magicians came over with staffs and they turned them into snakes to prove that Moses isn't so cool and our God's not so cool. Moses's snake ate the other two snakes. And the Sunday school teachers all like,

1:07:15
See? Our God wins!

1:07:18
Our God's greater.

1:07:20
And then I was all like,

1:07:22
I was like,

1:07:24
Can you tell me more about the Egyptian gods?

1:07:26
And they were like,

1:07:28
No, no, no, because our God's better. And I'm all, well, yeah. You know, our gods snake. The other gods stink. But I'm all, it's pretty freaking cool. They're okay, God. My Sunday school teacher was so frustrated with me. My mom was like, so what did you learn in Sunday school today? About the Egyptian God. Yeah. Yeah, you know, Religion is very rigid ideas and they become more and more rigid. Religion, spirituality is something that is fluid and it is like feeling, faith, connection and spiritual awareness. And then when you add religion, you add ideas, concepts, and really a lot of fear. You've got to be God-fearing. And fear pushes you into a very rigid, one-sided view of life. And then you're like, you know, then you're into a lot of religions. It's like, my religion is good, yours is bad. We do the same thing in politics, right? It's like, I'm a Democrat, you're a Trumpian. I'm an Obamaite, you know, or whatever. So yeah, so religions are very, very, very rigid. It's not fluid. We find in spiritual inquiry where we can see the truth, find the truth, see what's higher, see what works. We're finding, we're learning, we're asking, we're looking for the truth. And then we find it. And it's very beautiful. You have to look at your behaviors, the things that you routinely do, and see if they make sense, if there's truth in it. You have to ask the big questions.

1:10:28
Who am I? Who am I?

1:10:32
Who am I?

1:10:34
Nobody.

1:10:36
What is life all about?

1:10:40
You have to seek those questions. Or the answers to those questions.

1:10:44
Because then you're going beyond yourself. You're going to the essence of being. Now in Japan they did this with the koan. The koan is this question that doesn't make any sense and doesn't have any answer. An answer that is outside of self.

1:11:27
What's going on?

1:11:33
I remember one time, somebody asked a spiritual teacher, they said, this is the sound of two hands clapping. And then they asked the spiritual teacher, what is the sound of one hand clapping? And this is a basic koan that you could read in a lot of books. And the spiritual teacher just sat there and then the teacher said, oh you didn't understand the answer? It was really good. So when you ask yourself to see the truth, when you want to see the truth of your life, when you're asking those questions, and when you have that sense of gratitude for the miracle of your life, then you can move beyond the koan, beyond the question, to a greater truth, to a greater unity of awareness. Dojin Zenji said, great Zen master, he said, people think that their mind is thoughts, ideas, concepts, maybe feelings. He said, but the mind is the rocks, the trees, the mountain, the sun, the moon, the stars. Your mind, you, your spirit, greater than the small definition of the self. Wonderful. Do you guys need a break? Yeah?

1:13:40
Okay.

1:13:41
and then we will come back and meditate just a little bit more. And we'll head back. And we'll head back.

1:13:50
Okay, so girls are going to go this way, guys are going to go this way.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
