0:00:00
Hello, welcome. I'm so glad you could make it this afternoon for meditation and the mysteries of life. We'll begin together today with meditation to discover the mysteries of life. So we're going to sit for three songs. The first song will focus on the navel chakra, the second song, the heart, and the third song, third eye. Let's begin.

0:00:40
So, this afternoon, I would like to share with you routines and everyday practice. In Buddhist mysticism, everyday practice is not practicing every day. That is to say, in learning everyday practice in Buddhist mysticism, you have to learn how not to practice every day. Because practicing every day, day in, day out, becomes a routine. Routines are limited. Routines are kind of ruts of attention. They limit you from possibilities.

0:13:51
So, spiritual practice is outside of routine. It is fresh, alive, new in every moment. It's not a routine. When you find yourself doing a spiritual routine, then there's no light in it, there's no spark, there's no spirit. You're just going through the motions. So it's necessary to break out of routines to experience spirit. And this is what we do in everyday practice. You know, I was in China visiting a Zen monastery. And the monks were going through routines. They wake up every day, they come into the meditation hall, they sit around, they do some chanting. Their whole life is a routine. And there's very little spiritual light in that experience. There's a lot of structure, but it has become a routine in their minds. It's funny, the more people practice, the more they come into a routine of attention. They say, okay, I practice every day, so I know what it is. I know what practice is. I know what meditation is, I know what my spiritual studies are. And these become ideas and concepts that become concrete in the mind. But those are limited, limited ideas. Because if you're outside of routine, you don't know what's going to happen. You know, you can have tremendously, amazingly higher experiences if you're outside of routine. But if you're in the routine, the tension, the same thing happens again and again. Routine is karma, and spiritual realization is outside of karma. It's like every day I get up in the morning, brush my teeth, take a shower, sit down and meditate. You know, that's a routine, but it has to be new and alive in every moment, and then it's no routine. You're not stuck. Routines start with actions, you know. You sit a certain amount of time meditating you read a spiritual book you come to a seminar once a month Meditation class once a week and these can become routines But if you see it in a fresh way You are able to practice without the without habitualizing your experience. And then it's a living experience of spirit. And then you're not going into creating a karma of activity, a rut of attention. Your actions and thoughts fashion your awareness of life. And if you have routine thinking, then you have limited awareness. And they are cut off from the possibilities. Possibilities of higher attention, higher awareness of enlightenment. It's kind of like working with clay. So if you take a piece of clay and you, you know, you fashion it into something, then you say, okay, there, my clay is now some form. And then if you just let it sit there, it gets dry, and then it's hardened into that form. So when you say clay, you say, oh, it's this form. But if you would keep working with the clay, you would be able to work with the clay, bring it into one form, maybe add a little bit more water, change it into another form, change it into another form. This is what we do in Buddhist mysticism. The clay can be any form. We don't get habitualized into seeing it in one way. And the potter was making a spoon out of the clay, and he said to the clay, beware, and it was. So, routines are like jokes without a punchline. Really. It's like where the magic is gone. Snowflake who? Now if there was a good answer to that, you might laugh. Or it's like, how many penguins does it take to screw in a light bulb?

0:19:38
And if there was a good punchline, then that would be good, but

0:19:42
but routines lose the magic. You lose the punchline of life. And the joke's on you.

0:20:07
So what's the best thing about Switzerland?

0:20:12
There's so many things. But the flag is a big plus. So having a punchline is a good thing, and that's what spiritual practice is. Outside of routine, there's something that's alive, some magic routines, you're just sitting there going, oh. It gets heavy and burdensome. And it gets boring. When you do routines, practice is boring. You do it every day. You're like, oh, I'm doing my meditation again. And then it gets boring and difficult. When your practice is boring and difficult, you're definitely in a routine state of mind. You have to break out and see spirit. So, I read this story about a man from Los Angeles. He drives out to the southwest and goes to this little shop in the middle of nowhere on Route 66, and he goes in the shop, and there's this Native American man who's selling things, and he finds this beautiful pot, and he's like, wow, this is very fine craftsmanship, and it was only $5, so he buys it, and he's talking to the Native American, and the Native American says, yes, I made that, and he's like, wow, this is really nice. He brings it back to Los Angeles. And a lot of his friends say, wow, that's so beautiful. Can I buy it from you? And so his friends are like, yeah, I would buy one of those for $100. So he's like, really, okay. So he sells it to one of his friends. And he says, you know what? I'm gonna make this into a little bit of a business here. So he goes back out into the desert, goes to a little shop, goes over to the Native American and says, I'd like you to make a hundred of these for me. And then the Native American says, okay, I'll do it. But the price is going to be $100 each. And then the man says, what, why? And he says, once a month, I make a pot, and I get so much joy from making a pot. But if you want me to make 100 pots, then there will be no joy. He's like, I'm gonna charge you $100 for the pain of making 100 pots. So this is how it can become. It can be very boring and heavy. Now, if a Native American would have Zen mind, then he can make his 100 pots and be happy doing it. But he's just like, oh gosh, it gets boring, it gets painful to do something like that. So routines are where people get bored, tired, and then jaded. The jaded monk. You go to the monastery and there's this monk who's been there too long, and he's just all, ugh. Some new monk comes in, and the new monk is like, I've been here so long, I know what happens around here. Everything stings. So, yeah, that happens. And that's what happens with routine mind. So, we've got to break out of those routine ways of looking at things. You know, when you're in routines, you keep on repeating things that don't work Routines don't work and when you're when you're doing them Over and over you're repeating something that doesn't work Because remember routines are in karma spiritual awareness And enlightenment is outside of that that pattern. But when you find yourself doing that pattern of practice, you keep doing the same thing over and over, it's ridiculous. But it's what happens when you get into that routine mind. It would be like if you're a computer programmer and you code something and it doesn't work, and then you go, okay, okay, delete it and code the exact same thing.

0:25:14
And it doesn't work again.

0:25:15
And then you go, okay, okay, delete it, and you code it again, right? It doesn't make any sense. But that's what people do. Yeah. You know, it's subtle, breaking out of the routine of mind and being awake in the moment in the spirit. It's subtle, but it's possible. Rigid practices don't have spiritual awareness. They don't have results that really are satisfying. But you must have engaged practice. Otherwise, you're not doing anything. You're like, okay, my meditation has become a routine, so now I'm not gonna meditate, right? That's not engaged practice. That's falling into a different routine, the routine of being lazy. So, it's a more, yeah, it's a more base routine. So you have to have very engaged practice, but you also have to get outside of routine. So once a monk goes over to his master and says, Master, what is enlightenment? And his master says, Enlightenment is the sky. And then he says, Ah, yes, Master, I see. Enlightenment is endless. And then the Master says, Enlightenment is the tree. And he says, Oh, yes, I see, Master. It is solid and rooted. Now I know what enlightenment is. And then the Master says, Enlightenment is the river. And then the monk says, Yes, yes, I see, Master. Now I know. Enlightenment is fluid. And then the Master says, enlightenment is. And then the monk's waiting. But then all of a sudden, the monk realizes enlightenment. Enlightenment is. And this is where you say, is what exactly? You know as they say in the Upanishads, it is, it is, it is. How can it not be? So with engaged practice, you know, that's why Zen is so interesting. It gets you to like start looking outside of your normal state of awareness of life. You're like, it is, it is, it is. What is? How is it? It is. So this monk, very engaged, he was going through a routine mind. Then he had satori, enlightenment. So this is the practice of seeing things in greater ways. You know, people like to take these sutras or some lesson, or one teacher said this, and we say, okay, that's it, that's how it is, there's no other way, you know, it's concrete. But it cannot be that way. There's no particular teaching, no particular way that is completely concrete, because everything changes. So you could take Buddha's teachings and Buddha's teachings made monks enlightened back when he was teaching. And then you could say, Buddha said this, so this is the way it is. And then no one becomes enlightened. So that's kind of the way it is in Theravada Buddhism now. It used to be that Buddha would teach, and during his teaching, people would actually become liberated. And then now, they wrote down what he said, and people go, oh, that's interesting. They can't get out of seeing things differently. So things got to change. You can't just take it the way it used to work, because things change, and you have to take that clay, add a little water, and keep working with it. Yeah, this is important. You know, I had someone I met in Munich. She came to my meditation seminar, and I was talking to her before it, and she had been learning Japanese Buddhism, Daijou Buddhism, and she was learning this, she learned this long mantra, and she would practice this mantra every day. And I was like, oh, so, you know, what was your experience? And she said, well, you know, it was hard to learn some long mantra in Japanese. And I'm like, what's it like when you do it? And she's all, I don't know, I just do it because they told me it would bring me spiritual merit. And I'm like, oh, okay. And then we had a meditation seminar and during the teachings I saw a big transformation in her. So afterwards, I spoke with her, and I said, so what was your experience in meditation today? And she was like, it was amazing. I had this amazing realization. And I was like, oh, very good. So it's interesting because a lot of the practices, a lot of the spiritual teachings that they will teach you in the temple, that the great master will show you, a lot of them are routines of the past. They say, oh, at one time, saying this long mantra brought someone realization. And but now, not a lot happens if you say that long mantra. So you have to, you know, you have to experience spirit where it's alive. Otherwise, you're in a routine. A lot of people get comfortable where they're at. People who are beginners, people who are intermediate, people who are advanced, they get to a place where they're comfortable. They get to a place where they're all, oh yeah, okay, I'm in a certain routine of life. I'm pretty much happy where I'm at. I'm not putting forth a lot of effort. I'm not really trying to see life in greater dimensions. I'm aware of what I'm aware of, and I'm pretty good with that. So, that would be where you are not growing. You're in a routine. And when you're in a routine like that, then you're not aware that you're going to have suffering because of that. You're not motivated. It's kind of like the frog in the frying pan. If the frying pan is really hot and you put a frog in, it jumps out. But if the frog is in the frying pan and you slowly turn the heat up, then the frog will just sit there until it's cooked. Yes, I learned this in a French cooking class. How to cook a frog. Yeah, so that's why you have to be, you know, you have to be savvy to the suffering that exists in life. Right? That's why Buddha said the first teaching is that there's suffering in life and you got to do something about it, unless you like suffering. So it's important. It's important to really put forth effort all the time, whatever level you're at, to say, wow, I want to know more, I want to get higher, I want to get stronger, I want to try more. Like, for example, my teacher was a very powerful meditation master, master and he didn't just say, okay, I can go into these high states of mind and that's cool. He would keep on working on it. So, he got this like balancing board, you know, it's like a ball and then there's a board that goes on top of it and then after his meditation he'd stand on the board and see how long he can stand on it, keeping balance. And then he said, okay, now the next day when he meditated he says, I will meditate stronger and it will give me a clearer mind and I should have greater physical balance. So then he would meditate stronger. And so every day he was meditating stronger and he was standing on the board longer. So even he, who was a great spiritual meditation master, kept on pushing his practice. really try to see the greater dimensionality of life and get outside of the routines of thought. Don't just get comfortable and hang out. Enlightenment goes on and on. Yeah, people are funny. They get comfortable. They say, okay, I got to a certain level. Like someone might be poor, then they work really hard and make a lot of money, and then they end up in the routine of wealth. And then they're like, I'm comfortable with this. Or spiritual people do this very often. They learn a lot of stuff, read a book, you know, go on a vipassana retreat, fall asleep, and then they go, okay, I know what spirituality is, I have a certain awareness, I have a definition or whatever. And then they go, that's it. Then they end up in the routine of spirituality. But we have to break these routines. Yeah, in Rinzai Zen, they say, one enlightenment is not enlightenment. Enlightenment goes on and on. If you have a Satori, Samadhi, spiritual realization, that is a good thing. But if that's what you rest on, if that's where you stop, then you're limited. There was once a toku, a young toku. The toku is a reincarnated master. So in one lifetime they were a great enlightened master, and then they reincarnate. And then they have to go through a lot of training before they become a master again. So this one toku heard of an enlightened teacher who lived in a cave. He was actually an oracle. So this tulku goes to the cave and he sees the oracle and he says, can you teach me something about an enlightenment? And the oracle says, oh yes. He's like, I will show you this cool thing. And so the oracle goes into Samadhi and then all of these projections around the oracle appear that show the future. And then after he's finished, then the Tulkku says, this is your self-delusion. He says, you can teach me nothing about enlightenment. And this was to say that this oracle could go into samadhi, into perfect states of mind, and then he could show things of the future, but that's all he would keep doing. And the tulku was like, that's not enlightenment. Enlightenment is even beyond that. So that the Oracle had gotten to a comfortable place in his spiritual practice, but it wasn't enlightenment. So then the Tolku is like, okay, so I'm leaving. And then the Oracle says, well, then I'm coming with you. Because he was shown a greater truth by the Yeah, so people get comfortable. Comfortable in whatever state of mind that they're in. Beginners get comfortable with basic understandings, with self-clinging ideas. So whatever level you're at, you have to look, how do I go beyond it part the clouds get a bigger picture? That's important and a lot of people get some insight From Spiritual teachings and then they lose it in the in routine mind this happens Very often it could be something kind of Like let's say we go to the desert or to Mount Shasta, and we have these experiences of great spiritual power where you see miracles, you have great realizations, your spirit becomes free, you see all these wonderful things happen. And then you come back to, you know, your house, your job. And then it goes away. And you're like, hey, where did it go? I had this really high experience and now I'm upset again. Because you went back into the routine of your life. So we go on these power trips to break out of routines. But eventually, you have to come back into your life and break out of the routine while you're in it. Because routines, they bury the spirit. They bury spiritual realization. Long ago in China there was a merchant and he was bringing his wares from one village to another and he had a carriage, he was carrying things, and he comes across this sage and the sage is going along the same way and he says, oh, would you like to ride in my carriage with me? And the sage says, okay, so they're traveling together for about a week. And the sage is teaching him and sharing with him these amazing truths of life. And then the merchant has Samadhi, God-realization. He's like, wow, it's amazing. And he changes because of it. He sees like his fears go away, his worries go away. He sees the truth of life and he's elevated. And then the sage says, okay, now I'm going somewhere else. And so they part ways. And the merchant goes back home. He goes back to his friends, to his business, and, you know, goes back into his life. And little that spiritual realization that he experienced turns into concepts. He's like, oh, I experienced something, and then now it's not a living experience, it's I, yeah, I had an experience, and it's now a concept. I learned something. That becomes an idea. And then his fears come back, his worries come back. Slowly, all of that stuff comes back. And then he ends up in the routine of his life, not in that spiritual realization anymore. So, years later, again he's traveling to another village to bring his wares, and he comes across the same sage. And he says, oh, we're going along the same way, can I travel with you? And the sage says, yes. So again, they're sitting there. The sage is sharing with him all of this beautiful dharma. And he has samadhi again. And he realizes the truth and is very happy, elevated. All of his fears and worries are gone. And then, after a week, the sage goes, Okay, I'm going to go some other direction. And then he says, hmm, last time I went home and all of it went away. And he said, this time I'm going to follow the sage. So he left his things and left his business. He left the routine of his life and he carried on with the sage. And then he became an enlightened sage. So, when we go into the routines of our life, they bury the spirit. So, it's very important to, in your life, break out of the routines. And that's what the practice of Buddhist mysticism is. It is to be in your life and break out of the routines of your life.

0:44:27
Yeah.

0:44:28
It's funny, some people, they'll have a certain spiritual understanding, awareness, maybe a high moment, and they go, wow, that was a good thing, and now I wanna try to get back to it. I wanna get back to that experience. So what they do is they sit down and they remember a certain high state of mind that they were in and then they try to go back to that. But that's also a routine. Trying to get back to an experience is trying to get back to a place. It's a routine mind as well. So we don't want to do that. You just want to just be in the moment. Let the opportunity of now be here, because if you are not trying to go back to somewhere, you might find yourself in a much higher place. So I see accomplished meditators do this very often. They have been in a dhyana or a samadhi, and so when they sit down to meditate, they try to go back to the same place. They say, that is spiritual, that is a good thing. And so they try to get back to it. And when they try to do that, they're going into routine mind. And if they're good at it, they can keep going back to the same states of mind. And maybe it's an elevated state, but it's still a routine state. There was a woman once looking in the mirror the day before her birthday and she says, I wish I was six again. Her husband hears her say that. So the next day he takes her to the circus for her birthday. He gets her some cotton candy and a balloon. She's like, okay. Then he takes her to like, you know, the amusement park. She goes on roller coaster, gets sick to her stomach. Bumper cars, she almost gets whiplash. You know. Then he takes her to like Chuck E. Cheese or something like that. And then, and she's like, what? And then he takes her home and he says, well, how did it feel to be six again? And she said, I meant my dress size. 6 again. Yeah, don't try to go back to when you were six, or back to a state of mind. We want to be aware of the opportunities of this moment because then you can go much higher than the previous state of mind. If you're always trying to go back to that same, to that other state, that other condition, Let yourself be free, and you can go farther.

0:47:40
Yeah.

0:47:41
Now, there was once a Zen master who told his student, 100 foot pole and climb to the top and balance on the top. If you can do that, you can be enlightened. So, his student took a 100 foot pole and spent years learning to climb it and stay balanced and he was able to climb eventually all the way to the top of the pole and balance at the top. That's no easy feat. I mean, it's very, very, very complicated. You have to have amazing strength and balance to do that. So he honed his attention, his physical attention, his mental concentration, and he eventually got to the top of the pole. And then he yells down to the Zen master, look, I'm at the top of the pole. He says, now what? And then the Zen master says, jump. Yeah, this is a famous Zen koan. So, it takes a lot to be able to get there, but then once you're there, there's some good things about it. You've developed yourself to be able to get to the top of the pole. Tremendous development. And, from up there, you have a beautiful view. You're above the fog. But the Zen master says, one should proceed on. No matter what understanding you have, what level of realization you have, one should proceed on. And that's why the Zen master says, jump. Because if you've made it to the top of the pole So then in the story the the The student jumps off the pole and then has the tori Right before he hits the ground and dies. I guess they don't say anything about hitting the ground and dying. Yeah, so, yeah, this is important. At any level of understanding, you have to keep going. And letting go of where you're yourself proceeding on is where the power of enlightenment lies. There's always another pole. You jump off, another pole. There's always more to learn, more to experience. Enlightenment goes on and on. And there's nowhere to just say, okay, I've gotten to this point, there it is, now I'm just going to chill. We always keep going. You can't just stick to one way of looking at things. One way of looking at things becomes fixed, and then you can't grow. There's always, outside of routine mind, there's so much. And routine mind, in following a certain teaching, a certain way, it's limited. once a practitioner of Taoism, he goes to a master, and the master says, here, I'm going to give you a teaching that is going to bring you to enlightenment. It was a clay tablet, and it had teaching inscriptions on it that taught breathing exercises, meditative exercises, kind of qigong, stretching and breathing, like all of these different ways, mantras and chanting. And he said, you know, do all of these exercises. And there was many, many, many, many exercises and a certain sequence day and you'll become enlightened. So the man goes into a cave, he brings the clay tablet and he goes through it every day, working on it, working on it, working on it. And after about six months, the master comes to him and says, all right, show me your practice. So he takes the clay tablet, he's looking at it, he's reading it and doing the practices, and the Taoist master gets furious. He rebukes him and says, this is not practice, and he takes the clay tablet and smashes it to pieces. And then he storms off. And then the man is like all upset. He's like, oh, I was doing it wrong, and now it's broken, and I won't know how to do it because it was so complex. I can only remember some of the mantras, some of the exercises, some of the meditations, and I don't even remember the right order. But I have no other practice, so I guess I'll do what I can remember." So he starts doing what he can remember. And then six months later, the Master comes back and says, show me your practice. And he says, okay, well, this is all I can remember. And he starts doing it, and then the Master watches him. And when he completes it, the Master says, perfect practice. So we always have to take what we know, and we have to smash it to bits, and find out the truth of life beyond what we thought we knew. It's more fluid. It's outside of routine. So how do we do that? That is the big focus. Well, a great Zen master, Dojin Zenji, he said, to know Zen, you have to think unsinkable. So we meditate.

0:54:58
We are mindful.

0:55:00
You know, to to to break out of routine, we really have to start looking at our thoughts. So, we think the same thoughts over and over and over and over. We have routine awareness because of our routine thinking. So, if we start to be mindful, we say, well, I keep thinking these, you know, weird thoughts, or thoughts that don't give me greater personal power, thoughts that make me feel sad or depressed or angry. You start to see these systems of thoughts that we have. So if you start to address those, you start to change your routine of thinking, you look at life differently. Your awareness changes. So, think unthinkable. So, in Buddhist mysticism, instead of being egotistical, ego-cherishing, we try to be selfless. We try to find ways to undo that self-cherishing quality. Instead of trying to attain something, we try to forget about attaining something. You know, when we're trying to reach goals, we try to forget about that. And just to be, just to act. And instead of trying to think about stuff, we try not to think about stuff, which is meditation. When you meditate, you break out of routine. Now, we meditate twice a day, every day.

0:56:57
That's our everyday practice.

0:56:59
But it's not a routine. If your meditation is a routine, then your meditation is boring and hard, difficult. But if your meditation is not routine, then your meditation is bright and beautiful, and there's spirit in it. So we do it every day. So we have that, we have that, what we could call a routine, but we break out of the routine. In the routine, we break out of the routine. This is Buddhist mysticism. That's why it's magic. But it really is. So we make our meditation a special time. It's a sacred experience. It's where we sit down to experience eternity, our higher self, where we go beyond the physical world of finite experience to an infinite world of light, power, and spirit. So we make it a special experience. We don't just sit there and go, okay, I'm sitting around, I'm going to sit and go, focus on something. Right? We go, this is awesome. I have this great opportunity to find a higher light, a greater experience How wonderful. And then you sit down and you start to focus and you bring a new attention, a living awareness. And you find that you break out of how you meditated yesterday. And oh yeah, I can't meditate, everything's just hard, I just sit there and think. Throw all that away and you say, I'm here in this moment with this opportunity. We have an altar, a little place where you meditate, and we make it a special place. It might be a corner in your room. You might have a little funny table or you might have candles, incense, flowers. You make it something special. You might have a little picture of Buddha. Buddha's like, hi! You know? And you make it a very, very beautiful, happy place. Make that place special. And you sit there, and you don't just sit there and go, okay, it's morning and I'm going to sit and meditate again. Break out of the routine and every time that you meditate, smile, be happy. It's a beautiful opportunity and that's what we do in Buddhist mysticism. Let's do that. We're going to break out of the routine of meditation by meditating. So I'd like you to have a focus on the third eye. We're going to sit for just one song, and we will let go of what we think of meditation, let go of what we think of the world. No idea. And just experience the opportunity of this moment. Be here now. This is meditation. And don't have any worry, concern. Just bear witness to your mind. Now we're going to do this with open eye meditation where you look up to me because I am not in routine mind and by watching me, by looking to me, you can go beyond your routine mind. Wonderful. Okay, let's begin.

1:01:37
Thank you. the the the the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so So Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, you Very nice. Meditation is a direct experience of spirit. It is letting go of the routine of self, self-thought, self-reflection.

1:03:44
In meditation, you stop thought, you stop the routine world, and then you experience light, power, liberation from suffering. So this is very good. So, thank you all very much. We're going to take a break for about a half an hour. Then we'll come back and talk a little bit more, maybe a little bit more meditation. Okay, thank you.

1:07:42
The rest of the meditation seminar will be outside of the routine of meditation and talking. I'm like, usually I come here and I talk, so now I'll just sit here.

1:07:55
Laughter All right, very good. You guys are doing very well. Let's Meditate again

1:08:11
We'll sit again for three songs Still your mind

1:08:16
And let's begin the the

1:08:32
Oh

1:08:34
So

1:08:36
so so so so Thank you. you So, so So so so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so you you So the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so the the the you When we can break the routines of self, the routines of the mind, we can get past obstacles obstacles to our success, obstacles to our happiness. The routine ways of acting, they bring us into dissatisfaction. We see a lot of trouble. But if you can break those routines, you can find many possibilities for success. With any difficulty that you're facing, whether it's financial,

1:22:59
spiritual, physical, there's a brick wall, and you keep running into it. Bing! Right? And you go, okay, now when I get past that wall, I'm going to do it again. Bing! Right? That's how the mind works. For a while. Until you break the routine of running into a brick wall. I know it doesn't make any sense, but just reflect on your thoughts when you're facing a difficulty. You're running into the same difficulty again and again and again. And so that's routine mind. That's what the narrow view a rut of Attention and that rut leads you right into a brick wall but if you can Break the routine of mind then you can walk around the wall So in when you're considering your life consider what your obstacles are and how you approach them. And you'll see that very often you run right into the obstacle and it's a clash. But when you can stop thought and meditation, stop looking at life in the same routine, then you see ways around, you see opportunities. Opportunities for success are everywhere, but we miss it when we are looking at life in a certain way. So long ago in China, there was a farmer, and this farmer would very often go to the temple where there was Master Wu. And Master Wu was a Buddhist master, but he was also a master of divination. So he was able to know things about the future. So he would advise the farmer about his business. So one day, the farmer decides to go over to Master Wu and ask him about, you know, what to do. So he walks into town from his farm and he comes across a beggar. And the beggar says, millet, millet. And the farmer goes, I'm gonna help him out. I'm gonna buy him rice. Rice is even better than millet. So he gets him some rice and he goes, here you are. And the beggar looks at the rice and goes, millet, millet. And then the farmer's all, rice is better. Then he walks on, goes to the temple, and he says, I'd like to see Master Wu." And then they're like, he's not here. So he goes back home, comes back the next day, there's the beggar again, nail it, nail it, gives him rice again, and goes to the temple, and then, where's Master Wu? He's not here. This happens day after day. And finally, he's like, I couldn't get any advice from Master Wu, so I'm just gonna focus on the best crop here. I'm gonna plant rice.

1:26:32
And then that winter, there's a flood,

1:26:35
and all of the rice paddies are washed out, but the farmers that grew millet weren't washed out. It was a stronger crop. And then he lost, you know, all this, he lost his complete crop and he was all, oh my gosh, he's like, now I gotta go see Master Wu just to complain. So he goes into town and then there's the baker and he says, rice, rice. And then he's like, there's no rice. He's like, I'll buy you some millet, here's some millet. And then the beggar's all, rice. And then he goes to the temple. Where's Master Wu? He's not here. And then this young monk says, Master Wu is only doing public teachings now and I know where he is. And so he says, oh, take me to Master Wu. So he brings Master, so the monk brings him to Master Wu. Well, he says, this guy is Master Wu. It's the beggar, right? And then he's like, what? Master Wu is a monk in robes with a bald head. This beggar's got matted hair and a big beard. And what is this? But he looks at the beggar and looks him in the eyes, and it is, in fact, Master Wu. And then Master Wu says, rice, rice. And then he goes, aha, and he goes right back to his farm and he plants rice. And in the receded flood waters, it was good for making rice patties. And then that year, no flood, and a lot of the farmers who had planted rice, they went with millet this time because they were thinking, maybe the flood will happen again. So he had a great year that time because he listened to Master Wu. See, but he was in a routine consciousness of things have to be a certain way, and he wasn't able to take advantage of an opportunity. So when we look at things a certain way, we might miss the options, miss the ways where we can have great success because we're so fixed on, it's got to be like this. Yeah, in Buddhist mysticism, we have a big focus. Our everyday practice is in our work. It is finding those places in our work outside of our routine to find great success. So, so many people when they work, are working in routine, right? They're like, I'm a computer programmer, I just do the same thing. I'm a dentist, I drill teeth. But they just, you know, they're functional, but they're just going through the steps again and again and again. Even if it's a new job, they go through the same routine of working. And we do our work to break out of routine. We work on selfless action and engaged impeccability. And through this, we are able to go outside of our normal routines and see greater opportunities for success. It's one of the primary practices, everyday practices, in Buddhist mysticism. Yeah, and it's great. It transforms your day job into the spiritual path. We work on selflessness. We're not just going to work to get our paycheck and do whatever, right? We're actually, part of what we're doing is giving a lot of light and dharma, sharing it with others, just in a context that is useful for them. So your co-workers aren't probably interested in meditation and stuff like that and hearing about the Dharma, but you express the the Dharma you express the light when you're working with them because of your meditation because of your mindfulness because of Developing yourself and cultivating yourself in the Buddhist way Everything that you do conveys that light of spirit to them. So this is our our way of Contributing to society. It's a way of being selfless and offering back to the world. And that's another way of breaking the routines of self. Through our work, we're able to take on challenging situations, difficulties in a new light. We break those routines of reaction and we find higher, more beautiful experiences. So one of the greatest routines of self is seeing others as affecting us negatively. So you'll say, that person did something mean to me. That person hurt me. That person messed me up, so I can't do things well, or something like that. It's always pointing to another and blaming. This is a very common routine of self. But we want to get outside of that routine. We want to see that there's no other harming you. That you are actually capable of working in difficult situations and finding your way around the brick walls. But so often we're blaming others. And we have to recognize that we have the hang up. Even though a person does something that bothers us, it's us who is bothered. That is the routine itself. So like, let's say someone shouts at you. Your boss goes blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And you're like, oh, I feel bad. My boss is mean and did that to me. But let's say you were not you. Let's say you were a Buddha. What would Buddha do? Buddha would get yelled at at his boss and go,

1:33:29
doesn't bother me.

1:33:30
So we have to recognize that it is because of a routine reaction that things are bothering us. So we want to look outside of that routine and say, I don't have to be angry because of what that person did. I don't have to be sad because of that what that person did. Let me walk around that brick wall instead of smashing into it again and again and again. People are funny the way they think. Someone's called me something mean, so then I keep going back into it again and again and again. It's like, okay, okay, you've done it enough. Let it go. Go around it. So these are important routines to let go of. Yeah, in our work, we are able to be fluid, recognize that things change. Sometimes in your work, you get fixed on, I gotta do it this way. And then some situation comes up, some person has a different idea, and you get stuck on, no, but it has to be done like this. And that's when you get into this routine of attached view. And when you do that, then it's just really hard. You can't change. You're not fluid in your work. But things change. And it's best to break the routine of this idea that it has to be a certain way, and then go with the flow of your work.

1:35:24
Yeah.

1:35:25
There was a Zen master sitting in the Zen temple, and in the morning meditation, he proclaimed, I've discovered the truth of life. And then, after meditation, the monks go about their day. And then, later in the evening, one of the monks comes to the Master, and he says, Master, what is the truth of life? And the Master says, I cannot tell you. And then he said, but master, this morning you said that you realized the truth of life. And then the master said, as soon as I realized it, they changed it. That is the way of things, the way things are. So we embrace change. There's a truth in change. And if we stick to fixed ideas, then we fall outside of the truth. So we do our work in a way where we're not in our work. If you're in your work, then you're in routine mind. And if you are not in your work, then you're outside of routine mind. So, if you go to work and you go, Oh, okay, I'm going to practice this. You go to work, you kick your feet up on the desk, and you say, I am not in my work. Then your boss comes over to you and says, why aren't you working? And you say, I am not in my routine, mind. And then your boss will say, well, you're not gonna be in a routine of a monthly check if you don't start working. So this again is where we break routines in a routine. Like every day we go to work and we do our work, but we break the routine of work while we're in our work. So we work hard with great focus, impeccability. We do our job really well. We do excellent work and get things done on time. Boy, we do perfect work. That's our goal. But at the same time, we remove ourselves from the work.

1:38:09
There was a Zen monastery.

1:38:13
A monk is walking down the hall past the kitchen and he sees the Zen master come out with a tray and he had some little cookies and tea on the tray. And the monk says, oh, master, you didn't have to go into the kitchen. I could have made that for you. And then the master says, I wasn't in the kitchen. I didn't prepare this. And he walks on. And the monk goes, hmm? And then later on, he's walking, opens the screen to the garden, and he sees the Zen master coming up onto the balcony with these shears in his hand, and he looks, and the garden, the bushes, and the trees are all perfectly pruned. And he says, oh, master, you didn't have to prune the trees and bushes. I would have done that for you. If I knew you were coming to the garden, I would have volunteered and the master says I wasn't in the garden I didn't prune the trees and the bushes and then the monk says but master I saw you coming out of the kitchen and I saw you coming out of the garden and then the master says I went into the kitchen but I was not there. And I did not prepare the tea, the tea was prepared. I didn't go into the garden, and I didn't prune the bushes and the trees, but the trees and the bushes were pruned. And then the monk, realizing this, has satori, realizing this truth that you can be in an action without being in an action. There's no self in the action. When there's self in the action, then there's trouble, there's problems. You have all these ideas, you're like, oh, it should be like this. It should be like that. I don't like this, I don't like that. I have this trouble, I have that trouble. When there's self in your work, self in your actions, then there's limitation and hardship and suffering. So if you're a computer programmer and you're in your work, then you'll start thinking things like, oh, my boss is giving me a hard time, right? Or you'll start thinking, oh, I've got to learn this new technology, and that's going to be like a struggle. Oh, I'm trying to get this thing done on time, but it's not getting done. You start adding these self judgments, self ideas. If you're a business owner or salesperson, you know, I hate this, I don't like this, you start adding yourself to your work, right? And that self is a routine. If you can work without any of that self, then work is fluid. There's no need for judgment, fixed idea. There's just the work itself. This is a very important practice in Buddhist mysticism. Remove your judgments. Remove your ideas. Can you just do perfect work? That is selfless and impeccable. Then you, through this practice of what we call job yoga, you're able to erase the self. You're able to act with no self-acting. And then that's perfect action. And in doing that, there's so many, that's where you start noticing master woos everywhere. It's true, yeah. Any situation in work, you can succeed. Any situation, you can change. So this is an important practice. When you are focused in your work perfectly, there's no need to think. There's just complete focus on work. And you're like, well, you know, if you're working without thought, maybe you might say, my code might not be so good because I wasn't thinking very much. No, no, no, no. There's a perfection to work. You go, you might be doing something that's very, very logical, right? That takes a lot of mental activity, but when you are removed from doing the work, from the self doing the work, then there's just a perfection, a beautiful perfection. You might be doing lots of things. You might be thinking about the work, you might say, but there's no self in it, and there's no thought of self. There's just perfect work. And when you're working perfectly, it's powerful, it's beautiful. This is a very important practice in Buddhist mysticism. So you want to work without thinking. It's kind of like in martial arts. If somebody is coming over and punching at you, if you're thinking about blocking, then you could have trouble. But if you don't think and you just block, then it's perfect. So if someone's coming and you're like, oh, I'm anticipating, I have a little bit of fear, I'm thinking, oh, maybe I should block now. You might block too soon and not successfully fend off the attack. Or if you're, you might have latency because you're afraid or you're thinking and then they might punch you and you're blocking too late. Punch, block. So in martial arts, like in sparring, there's no thinking. You don't have time to think. Thinking just gets in the way of action.

1:44:54
So this is the way it is.

1:44:56
You have to be completely involved in your work. You can't have, you know, all these reactions. You have to give yourself to your work. And then work becomes beautiful and powerful. I remember one student, he was given the task of doing sales as his yoga. And he hated sales. He liked being a computer programmer, but then when he had to do sales, he was like, oh my gosh, so much resistance and so much trouble. Doing cold calls and getting all the rejection, he's just like, I'm depressed and miserable and I hate sales. There was just so much self in that that he was miserable. But then, after a while, a couple years later, he joined a yoga project where he loved the yoga teacher, because the yoga teacher was enlightened. And then he gave himself to the work. He had to do sales. And then he did sales with no reaction because he loved the project and he gave himself to his work. And then he did all those cold calls, got all the rejection, but he did the work and then he ended up being very successful in sales and the company took off and did very well. So it is possible, whatever you're doing, you can give yourself to your work, and then you won't be there to complain about it. Yeah, complete selfless action is outside of routine, and it's powerful, it exposes spirit. I remember once I went to see a guru who was a bhakti yoga teacher. So all of his students would practice devotion. And at one point, this woman got up to sing a song and she sang a song for her guru. It was a song about devotion and love. And she sang it with so much heart and sincerity. And she was acting, like, she was acting, she was singing, she was singing a song that she had practiced many, many times. But she transcended the routine and so much power and love came out of her. It was like just a response to reflect the beauty of that spirit that they had experienced. And I thought that that was so beautiful. People listened and they loved it and then just when she was done, they were beyond themselves, beyond action in clapping. You know, one-hand clapping, the exercise. No, no, we'll do two hands this time, but the advanced stuff, we'll get to the one-hand. All right, so, here's what I'd like you to do. Okay, when I say, go, I want you to clap. Okay?

1:49:20
Ready?

1:49:21
Go.

1:49:22
All right.

1:49:23
All right.

1:49:24
Whoa, okay. Well, that was a good round of applause. Thank you very much. There's too much.

1:49:38
Okay.

1:49:39
You clapped, but you were there. Okay. So just observe this. It's just a simple action without being present in the action.

1:50:20
Okay...... Okay.

1:51:18
Pretty simple. But you saw something there. Now I'd like to do the same exercise with you. We're going to sit, and just still your mind, nice and easy. No anticipation, but when I clap, clap with me. And we're just going to do one clap. But we're just going to sit, still our mind, no anticipation, just relax. And then when I clap, then we're going to all clap together. And this is just an exercise of being in the action, but no self in the action. Just follow me. Still mind and follow me. So we'll sit just for a few moments in.

1:52:38
. Okay.. No anticipation. All right, this is interesting.

1:54:49
So this is the part of the evening where I want to ask the audience, what was your experience? So in this experience of clapping, if you had a spiritual awareness, a seeing, a feeling? What was your experience? I'd like you to share with others. It's helpful to share spiritual experiences because it adds insight to the whole group. So, if you would, if you had a spiritual experience, a seeing, some kind of awareness, I'd like you to share with the rest of the group. Okay, we have a hand up over here.

1:55:48
So the moment you started the exercise, I felt a sensation in my palms and it was like pulling or warmth and then I felt it connect up to my back up to like through my spine and in the back of my head and I felt like we were all connected by I don't know felt like electricity and then a ball of white light appeared above you and around that moment is when I heard a clap, but your hands didn't clap, and we all clapped. And then we all resumed, and I continued to feel that feeling, but I didn't see the light again, and I tried to not recreate the experience, and then you clapped, and then we all clapped. Very good.

1:56:44
It's a very good scene.

1:56:51
Over here, behind you. Behind you.

1:56:54
I also felt that electric vibe in the palms,

1:56:59
but then I just didn't know where I am.

1:57:03
I just heard one clap in my mind and then suddenly I heard that my hand clapped and it was over.

1:57:22
For me, I still feel that electricity in my hands,

1:57:27
like it's still vibrating at the moment.

1:57:29
And I didn't know when to clap,

1:57:32
I went to exactly clap, but then it just went with the, I don't know, it went with everybody, or there was some vibration that my hands literally went up and it clapped. And it all happened together, like none of us, it didn't happen like, you know, one of them is clapping now and the other one is clapping later, but everybody clapped together. So, I don't know what that sensation, how that energy came in, but then we all clapped together, which is quite interesting and very, I mean, I feel really good at the moment.

1:58:14
Very good, very good. Anyone else? Okay. So it was an emergence and it came from a very deep, spacious place

1:58:31
and there was nothing at stake. So that was really nice. Very good.

1:58:40
Alright, that's good. So, yes, you all did very, very, very well. This was a very special experience because why did you all clap when I didn't move my arms? Because that was what it was about. And the second one was also good. So, very good. You guys did a very good job today.

1:59:10
This is outside of routine.

1:59:12
Right? So this is an exercise of being outside of routine when you can just be so still that we all clap together without me making the full physical movement.

1:59:39
That's outside of routine.

1:59:41
So thank you all so much.

1:59:42
It was beautiful meditating with you today,

1:59:47
sitting with you today. And our next meeting is going to be in Shasta. So we're going to be at the winter solstice together. And this will be a very, very, very magical trip. But it'll be cold. So be prepared. Yeah, I remember once I took a group of students. I guess it was, you know, some new students. And they didn't know that when we do these magical journeys that they're usually very, very cold. So they weren't prepared and were sitting around in the snow and they were like almost dead. And I was like, oh, this is even better than I thought. So, prepare. Yes. Yes. So, thank you all so much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
