0:00:00
So, in Amrit Chakita, there's two important sources of energy that we have a connection with. The first is what we practice in the chakra cleansing, where when we did the chakra We said hey And then that that energy of the Sun that that connection is very very powerful There's a way to draw energy from a Banyan tree Now first of all you have you have had to see a Banyan tree in real life They don't grow a lot of them in California, but there are some. But it's important. You can't just look at a picture and be able to draw the energy. You have had to actually see a banyan tree. And if you haven't seen a banyan tree, find one and go visit it. Go on a field trip, go hug the tree, take a look at it. A lot of you who've been on the India pilgrimage, we went to Tapaswaji's ashram and we've seen beautiful banyan trees. So that's a good one to bring to mind if you've been on that pilgrimage. And there's a practice to make that connection. The practice begins with Guru Dhyana, and then you do a sankalpa, and in your sankalpa you make the intention. You say, I will make a connection with this banyan tree that I've seen before so that I can get energy from the banyan tree. And then, with your palms up, you close your eyes, you focus on the third eye, and you envision the banyan tree. And then when you see the vision of the banyan tree, you ask the banyan tree to give you energy. And then you just be still with the vision of the banyan tree in your mind. you will sit for up to six minutes, but at some point you'll feel your hands, you'll actually feel your hands tingling because of the energy of the bandage. And at some point you're going to get so much energy that you're going to go like this. It's going to be like a little jolt. You'll actually move. So that is the point where you have had enough. And that's when you end. That's where you say, thank you, Banyan Tree, for sharing your energy with me. And then you conclude the exercise with, Loka Samasta Sukhino So, you know, in Amritya Kirti, it's very similar to our practices. We are mystics, right? So we make connections with energies, connections with places of power, you know, different types of things in nature. And in Amritya Kirti, it's that cosmic energy from Surya, the sun, and it's also the green world, the tree. So the banyan tree has a super powerful aura and a very powerful aura of healing. It worked for Buddha. Okay, so the second way The grass is always greener. So it's best to do it around sunset, but you can do it any time of the day. Go out to a grass field and you can stand or you can lie down. If you stand, you have to take your shoes and socks off so that your feet are touching the ground. Or you can lie down, which is even better, but somebody had a concern about tics. So you can stand if you're concerned about tics. And you'll lie down or stand. You'll do Guru Dhyana, Sankalpa, with the intention of drawing good energy from the grass. And then you will have the intention, or then you'll ask the grass for energy. So after you've stated your Sankalpa, then you say, Hey grass, give me some good energy. Now, when you're doing the one with the grass, it's important that you close your fingers. If you have your fingers open, then the energy will come in, but it will come out of your fingertips. So, it's very important that you close your fingers. You can just make fists. Close your fingers. You'll lie down or stand there with the, after asking, you only have to ask once, just feeling the energy of the grass. And then this exercise is for up to six minutes as well, and in this exercise you'll also get the jolt. And then when you get that little jolt, Then you go, okay, that's enough. Yeah. Now for me, six minutes was way too long. It was more like 90 seconds. I'm like, there's the grass, and I'm like, bing, okay. It worked, thanks, grass. Then you thank the grass, and then you do loka samastha sukhino bhavantu. This is the practice. So make sure that you do this. These connections with the sun energy and the energy of the green world are very important. Good. Now, Guru Raghunath, I like to structure things for you so it makes sense. But, you know, one of the first teachings he gave was there's no diet for Amrit Shikita. You can eat whatever you want. And then when I was there last time, he talked for about four days about being a vegetarian. So he said, being a vegetarian is good. And he said, you should be a vegetarian. And in Amrit Shikita, it's better to be a vegetarian. And he said, you know, how would you like it if someone ate you? And I said, yeah, I don't think I'd like that. And he's like, so? The poor little animal, the chicken you eat, doesn't like it either. And I was like, okay. So, I eat spinach and cabbage

0:07:38
So, you know

0:07:40
But uh, you know the spinach and cabbage they don't like being eaten either But anyway, he said that it's best to be a vegetarian and don't smoke and don't drink alcohol So he talked about it for about four days so I decided I would tell you. But the very first teachings were that there is no dietary problems. You can eat what you want, drink what you want. And I've heard people come to him and say, you know, I drink coffee, I drink alcohol, I eat meat. And he's just like, okay, no problem. And then he's like, do this exercise, here's how you heal yourself. But for me, on this one, he talked for four days about being vegetarian, so I lay that before your feet.

0:08:38
Right.

0:08:39
Right. Okay.

0:08:40
Okay, now we get into a practice called yoga nidra. Yoga Nidra is a way of entering a sleep state that is wakeful. And it is a way that relaxes your body and stills your mind. Yoga Nidra. To do Yoga Nidra, Guru Dhyana, Sankalpa, with the intention of becoming relaxed and awake. And then you lie down on the ground with your toes, relaxing your toes, feeling that your body's heavy, relaxing your heels, your calves, your knees. You just start feeling like you're sinking into the ground. Nice, beautiful relaxation. And just, you know, continue to the hips and the back, shoulders, elbows, hands, neck, and head. So just sequentially relaxing. After you've completed the sequential relaxation, you continue to just lie there, relaxing. And you enter into a state of relaxation. It's kind of like you're asleep, but you're awake. It's a very magical experience. So, yoga nidra. The only way you'll know what it is, is by practicing it. And you can be in yoga nidra as long as you want. You can do it for five minutes, you can do it for an hour, Suki no Bantou, three times. Okay Now there's two very powerful teachings for health. One is called blood cleansing and blood cleansing heals any blood disease. So, you know, high blood pressure, it'll heal that. Diabetes, even cancer of the blood. So this is a very powerful technique for blood healing. For this exercise, Guru Dhyana, you get the gurus in your pocket. They come and help. You do Guru Dhyana, Sandkalpa, to say I want this healing. If you have diabetes, I want to heal my diabetes. If you don't have any blood disease, you say I just want my blood to be cleansed. Clean, happy blood. And then you'll take your thumb and you'll put it on your back below your heart chakra in the back on the left side. And you could do it with the other thumb but you just have to get this spot. It's kind of right under your shoulder blade. So you can go ahead and try and get that spot. And what you do is you sit there for eight minutes holding your thumb there. It gets a little uncomfortable. It does get uncomfortable, but this is the way to cleanse your blood. And if someone has a blood disease, it heals it. It's very powerful. After you've done eight minutes, Loka Samastha Sukhinobo Okay, the the final teaching is the teaching of spinal healing This is a very good one Because a lot of people have spinal problems and this this is like even horrible spinal problems. This is It seems kind of simple, but it's very powerful so To do this exercise, Guru Dhyana, Sankalpa, I will heal my spine. My back pain will go away. And to do this exercise, you stand against the wall. I'm not going to stand against the wall too much. But you'll stand against the wall, your heels have to touch the bottom, so it can't be like a runner, right? It has to be, you have to be flat against the wall. It has to be completely flat all the way down. So your heels will go against the wall, your hips go against the wall, your shoulders go against the wall, your head goes against Yes. So it's a simple thing, and then afterwards, loka samasthas, if you don't belong to. It's a very simple practice, but that's the way that it heals backs. So there was a woman a degenerative disease, like her one of her discs was like, it was like dissolving or something like that, and she had horrible, horrible pain, and she had nerve damage, and her feet hurt, and everything, and she was, she's all, yeah, yeah, so I stood there, and I did that for four months, and then I got healed by doing that? So a lot of things in Amrit Chakitsa might seem simple, but it's magical. So anyone with a back problem, heal yourself. healers Wonderful, okay your questions. Yes Probably why don't you give it like a month?

0:16:04
Could you repeat the question?

0:16:06
Because you're the only one who might be more familiar.

0:16:07
Oh, yeah. OK. So if you want to see your blood getting cleansed, right? So let's say you do some blood work with your doctor, right? And then you say, oh, OK. Now I am going to do the blood cleansing. At what point should I go back so I can see results? I would say go back after a month. If you do it every day for a month, there will be significant aid. So that would be good. And then for your back, you'll notice your back feels better. You don't need to ask your doctor. Yeah? The more you do everything the better you are Yeah, so them. Yeah, the more that you practice any of these practices the the stronger you will be at healing The five peas practice practice practice Yes Yes?

0:17:13
So the back ceiling, you said you have to kind of reach the wall and have people chair, so if everyone has chairs on there, can it be like a door?

0:17:21
Yes, it could be, yeah, any flat surface, so a door, yep. Yes?

0:17:30
Yes, so while you're doing any exercises

0:17:44
It's always good to do guru dhyana So if you're you know laying on the grass you could just sit there and still your mind or you could sit there and do Guru Dhyana and Doing Guru Dhyana supposed to enhance everything. So when you got your thumb, you know for eight minutes Touching this is the area of the spleen You'll you'll be doing Guru Dhyana or you can just fill your mind but Guru Dhyana During the practice like also when you're standing against the wall Guru Dhyana enhances all all practices. Eyes closed is better. So when we're doing a Guru Dhyana, we have our eyes closed. When our eyes are open, energy is coming out or we're bringing our focus to things that we see visually. So it's better to have your eyes closed But if you're not doing Guru Dhyana and your eyes are open it still works Yeah

0:18:58
Yes

0:19:00
Yes

0:19:02
Near the near the ashram is a botanical garden the botanical yeah

0:19:11
so um, it was a few blocks away I Didn't see him. Yeah, but right next to the ashram. There's a banyan tree. Yeah Yes No, nothing like that came up so

0:19:33
Guru Raghunath usually wears white, but the other healers wear

0:19:38
Gold and red Okay, yes

0:19:43
You can't yes for yoga nidra you can do it on the bed If you don't get it six minutes, yes, so yeah when you're when you're getting the green world connection, focusing on the tree, asking for energy, if you don't feel a jolt, then do it for six minutes and then you're done. Same thing with the

0:20:42
grass. Yes?

0:20:47
Yes. It's still in the process. So there's two seventh level healers who are going to be coming to San Francisco and they're going to, you know, we have SF1 Center and during the day we don't do anything there. So from 9 to 6 there's nothing happening there. So we're gonna open up the healing, Amrit Chakitsa healing, for all of the San Franciscans. Yeah, including you. And so they're gonna come to start it. They'll stay for about six months, but there's two other healers who have long-term, their long-term plan is to be in the Bay Area. And so one of them's getting married to a US citizen who lives in Silicon Valley, and another one is coming in to move in with her daughter in Silicon Valley. So we will have permanent seventh-level healers to heal all of you. Yay! And getting a tourist visa in India has a lot of red tape so right now they're they're working through all the paperwork and they have been for a while and Eventually, they will be here But it's probably going to be a few months Good

0:22:18
Thank you all very much. Now, let's see. So Amrit Chakita is a healing system that is fun and cool,

0:22:20
Kīrtiṭaka is not a spiritual practice that really brings you to enlightenment. So the goal when Guru Raghunatha is teaching, even though there's meditation and all sorts of mystical and spiritual things, his goal is not that you be... he's like, this isn't like here, do this and you'll be enlightened. He's like, here, do this and you'll get healed. So that the teachings for enlightenment are the teachings for enlightenment. This is good stuff, but it's not the teachings for enlightenment. So some people got confused about that. They're like, I feel these different energies from these gurus, and now I'm confused. Don't be confused. You know, you wouldn't go to like a karate sensei and be like, oh, this is the spirit, you know This is this should teach me enlightenment or I should become enlightened from this This karate sensei and I feel this weird energy from the karate sensei because he's different Yes, karate is different There there's things that we do in karate that that help our spiritual path, but karate is not the pathway to enlightenment karate is a pathway to black belt and and These healing teachings are not the core teachings of enlightenment. They are healing teachings So when you're you know, when you're dealing with like these these weird gurus and higher dimensions and stuff it's just like dealing with a karate sensei You don't expect them to be fully enlightened and to make you enlightened or something like that. You're just like, oh, hey, I'm doing something that this person's good at and they're helping me. So, yeah, don't be confused. This is just like going Like going to a doctor, right? You go to a doctor, you say, hate is hurts, and then the doctor pokes it and hurts more. So they are just like doctors. And, you know, they're not people, we don't we don't practice devotion to them. We don't, we don't pray to them. The mantra, Guru Dhyana, is like the phone call. That's how you access them. That's how they hear you. And they go, oh, this person wants to have the help. Then I will help them. So think of it, we're not praying to them. They're not our gods, right? They are healers. And a lot of you go to a chiropractor, acupuncturist or something. So this is just like that. Guru Dhyana is how we make a connection. It's not like we're praying to them. And we respect them. If you go to a healer, an acupuncturist who heals you of some pain, you respect them and you thank them. But you don't sit there and go, Oh, you're a God. Go to your acupuncturist, your chiropractor, Oh my God, you're a God, God. So don't be confused It this is not the pathway to enlightenment. It is the pathway to healing and it's fun That's one the other is This is self healing So for some reason people keep asking me oh, can I heal my dog? Can I heal my friend, my mom? And I'm like, oh, don't. Yeah, the scope of this is self-healing. Guru Raghunath says, if you've learned this, and you try to heal somebody else, you're in trouble. You're doing something wrong. You could get sick. There's all sorts of problems. You can tell other people how to self-heal. So like, let's say that you know somebody who's got diabetes. You can tell them how to self-heal. You could be like, do this for eight minutes, then you'll like have an arm problem.

0:27:08
Your blood problems will be gone. You're out

0:27:11
After some practice you can figure out the position where it doesn't hurt so bad Like you can you can rest your hand on your back and you can push your your hand against the chair So you'll get used to it. I did at first I was all Okay, but anyway you can tell someone and And, you know, for best results, they have to do Ushapana, they have to learn Guru Dhyana, they should do chakra cleansing, they should do Chakra Vijja, 21 days, and then they will be ready to be powerful healers. But even if they don't do all of that, even if you just teach them that, it works. So this is very important. This is self-healing. And people keep saying, can I heal this person or that person? Don't do it. I will teach in the advanced teachings all the way up to seventh level. So you can learn the rest later. Right now, you be healthy. You make yourself self-healthy. If you know someone who needs help, tell them how to help themselves. This is good. This is powerful. This is wonderful. So, Ram Rinpoche said that there's two reasons why I should not be healer. He said to a lot of people don't be a healer One is you pick up toxicity, right now in amrith chakitsa There's a way to take that toxicity and get rid of it. So that's very good So that answers that that that problem, but the other problem is karma You have to be able to see someone's karma and understand it and know how to address their illness. So sometimes someone will come to Guru Raghunath and they come with some illness and it might be high blood pressure or anything and he says, I can't help you. And then they go, okay, and they go away. And then I say, why can't you help them? You help so many people with this. And then he says, it's their karma. They should go through this. So he has the seeing of when to heal and when not to heal. And I also have that seeing, I can see the karma. Sometimes it's better for someone to go through something, an illness. So until you have that perfect discrimination, which you will in the advanced teachings, then it's better to not do that. Now maybe in the more of the Amarath Chakitsa advanced teachings that I'm gonna get next time, there might be an answer to this. And if that's the case, then I'll say, great, there's an answer, and here's what you guys can do, but I don't know that

0:30:27
Yes

0:30:29
now

0:30:31
In

0:30:33
In our friends chiquita, they do certain they work through certain dimensions and the healers are all happy and bright and They get they get happier and brighter from healing. So that's very nice. Now, in our school, we work with a lot of other dimensions that they don't work with. And so, what works for them might not work for us. So I have to figure that out. So I know what you guys have learned right now. Good. Self-healing, wonderful. Going forward, I have to research it more. Okay. Good. Thank you all very much. Congratulations Going forward, I have to research it more. Okay. Good. Thank you all very much. Congratulations on completing the self-healing course.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
