0:00:00
That tantric sex is very, very important. This is a school of enlightenment for women. It's also a school of enlightenment for men. However, the considerations for men and women in the same school are considerations of tantric sex. Being that there's men, that's one sex, and there's women, that's another sex. I'm not talking about doing it. So, being a school of enlightenment, and having men and women in the school, it helps the men, it gives the men more of an opportunity for enlightenment and it helps the women. It gives the women more of an opportunity for enlightenment. So if this was just a group of guys, how spiritual schools tended to be for the brief history of spirituality on this planet, then it would be a certain vibe and a certain lesson and a certain pathway to enlightenment. But when there's women in the school and it's a school of enlightenment for women, then there's a greater opportunity for the guys. Same with women. If this was just a school for women, that would be cool. But when there's men, then there's a greater opportunity and by opportunity I usually mean it's harder with a bigger challenge. Ok so but this is a very fundamental and important aspect of this school that this is a school of enlightenment for women and for men, and that the considerations of the things that you must be aware of and take care of, these considerations are things that are very, very, very powerful and helpful on the pathway to enlightenment. To begin, we start with the body. So a man's body is a little bit different than a woman's body. They have different parts. And also in the subtle physical, the aura there's differences. So a man's aura it has it's very very it's very dense let's say. So like when you look at a man's aura generally their aura is close to the body and very dense. And a woman's body is aura, subtle physical body is different than that. It tends to be wider, taller, and it is more porous, more open, softer. So, this gives a woman the edge, spiritually. A woman could take transmissions of esoteric teachings, can take empowerments, can take the light of enlightenment from sitting with teacher right into her aura. And it fills her with light and brightness. And she can use that light to direct her consciousness. So for a woman, because of her subtle physical body, there's a spiritual advantage. This is good. For a man, because his aura is more more closed or more dense. The luminous fibers are closer together. Then the teachings, the transmissions and the light, it's harder to get in there. So it takes more time for the light to get into a man's aura. So a man must be more patient and must have discipline. That's why all these practices of the East are always like discipline, discipline, discipline. Because the guys need that in order to have the light sink in. But a woman, the next consideration is that the good thing about a manzor is once that light gets in, it's like his aura traps it in there, holds it. So it's like if she's filled with light from a meditation in the desert on the solstice with her enlightened teacher, and then she goes into a place that's very draining, or into a relationship or a talk with someone who she has a close connection to that's very draining, then all of that energy can go out very quickly. So it's important to understand your aura and guard your mind in your life. Because if you come to this desert trip or filled with light and power and you care about that, and that's what you want, then when you go and talk to your friends or you are driving down the street, you have to watch your mind. You have to protect yourself so that you don't lose that energy. Same for guys. But it is very, very, very important with women. Very important. Women lose a lot of energy because of men. So women's interfacing with men, attachments to men. This is a place where a woman loses a lot of energy. The energy of her aura goes away. So this is a very important consideration. For men, personal power, lose energy because of being directed or misdirected to spend your energy and time and attention on women. And it's because the women interfacing with you are trying to convince you that that's a good thing to do. Spend energy on it. And so men lose energy this way. So the famous thing that a monk would do is join a monastery, go into a cave or something and never look at a woman. And then that's their way of getting out of that trap of losing energy and attention. This is a real thing. This is why monks are in monasteries. This is the ancient spiritual tradition. Now, you become a stronger spiritual person if you're a guy and you have such a strong focus in your mind, your energy is not drawn away by a woman. So, it's like, it's good to have women in a proper way. A way of balance, control, and love, instead of a way of passion, and desire, and attachment. And then you'll find that you empower the women in your life, and that you, by empowering them and not looking at them in desire and attachment, you gain from that. You gain love and brightness from that. Sex. When a woman has sex, her aura is damaged. This is the way it is with 9.999 situations in the world. It's like the man's aura is dense. It's also very coarse. has sex with a man, their auras come together. And when their auras come together, the woman's aura will be hurt. It will be damaged. So this is something that happens. It's the way because of the differences in aura. Now, for a man, his aura is not damaged, but men lose vital energy in sex. So, it's hard to meditate. I mean, they might sit there and practice, but they really cannot still their minds to the point that they would if they were salivant. And they really can't get to higher states of mind like they would. They're losing vital energy. Now if they're doing it, having sex once in a while, okay, so they lose some vital energy. But if they're doing it regularly, weekly or something like that, you're losing precious vital energy that could be used to bring you to a higher state of mind. And so, you know, if you're sitting around meditating, working on developing your concentration and focus, but then you don't have the energy to like push yourself into a higher state, then you know, you will lose vital energy. Hooray! This is why, you know, generally in spirituality, they say, don't have sex, you enter into a state of mind of passion. So the worst outcome of sex is deep attachments. This is where the self says, oh, I like this person. This person is mine. They give me this experience. I get this. I want this, I expect this. And when you do that, when you're existing in attachment, it's very, very, very limiting. You're limiting your consciousness. And these are very, you know, from these experiences in sex, these are very deep attachments. And They're very fundamental to your awareness of your awareness field, what you're aware of in life. So these are places that one must be very careful. This is very, very, very important to observe. You have to be very, you have to look at your life. I know in the Enlightenment workbook we are looking at relationships and understanding which ones are positive and which ones, you know, we're losing energy. But this gives you a very, very important aspect to look at. This is something where you can lose your spiritual potential. And for a man, you know, not being able to meditate, not being able to go into a high state of mind, you know, it's like you have the potential to, but if you cannot muster the kundalini to go up because you're losing vital energy, it's not good. And for women, if your aura is broken, if your aura is damaged, then you're leaking energy. You're like a sieve. You can get lots of energy, you'll be filled up, but then it goes away right away. So these are important to observe. The next important thing is conditioning. We are conditioned. We are formatted a certain some ways that we see and think about men and women that came from a societal story at a very young age. Now women are told that they are strong and powerful and these are stories these these are not true and but when everybody starts to believe the same story and then you know the girls are wearing pink you know little girls I want a pink one why because I was told a story that pink is nice for girls. And the boys are, I want to play with little toy trucks. Because that's what boys do. So we're highly influenced because of this social conditioning. And this social conditioning puts us into a great confusion. And this is a confusion you've got to figure out, otherwise you'll be backwards in life. This occurred long time ago. There have been ancient times and ancient ages. Different lokas and different yugas. Different universes and different ages. Different times that we don't even have records of. Like Atlantis was a real place. And we just don't have any records of what happened there. It was a great age. And in ancient times, there have been times preceding this age where women were in charge. It was a woman's world. The leaders were women. They were enlightened women. And there were men too, right? But it was really a world led by women. That has changed. Now we are in a world led by men. The world led... the previous age, world led by women, was a more spiritual age. where spirit was the thing that made one, you know, noticeable, popular, strong, able to, you know, let's say there's an apple, and there's a man and woman looking at the apple, oh, I'm hungry. And they both go for it. And then the girl gets it first, and the guy pulls it out of her hand and pushes her over. And he goes, I'm stronger. I win. I control the world. Because we're in a physical age, the physical strength was the first thing that put man above woman. Now if we were in an age where things weren't so physical, then spirit would win. Spirit would get the apple. My spirit got that apple. And since very, very far back, this condition of I'm stronger, I'm bigger, I'm in control, then we've started this conditioning of man is strong, man is powerful. because women were pushed down physically and this became the story of society then women started to develop a different way of trying to have power in this world and the different way is manipulation so generally men try to have power over women and women try to manipulate men. That's the operating system So I Was mentioning for a guy a woman tries to influence you to spend energy on her so women do this this thing called wrapping. And it is where they extend energy lines from their second and third chakras to the man's third chakra, the navel chakra. And their energy lines wrap around it, and then they start pulling to control his power. A woman's power in this world for thousands of years has been completely dependent on the man that she gets. So, you know hunt a little bit or something or build a small house or whatever you get the weak husband then your life kind of sucks but if you can get the big strong husband who's got you know he's like a Gaston kind of guy then your life is better it makes your your life better if you can get the right guy. And so that's how manipulation started. A woman couldn't just go over and say, I choose you, because the guy is the one who's choosing, or he thinks he's choosing. He's getting wrapped. And that's how he decides. So women do this manipulation and you know this is a way that they've been you know dealing with the situation where they're physically pushed down and society has relegated them to you know really the second class and then they say oh it's gonna be like that well I'm gonna be sneaky and and women learn this even muggle women do this even yeah really it's true there there they're all taught at a very very young age by their mothers sisters and society they just come to know that's That's where they'll get power in life by Influencing manipulating My teacher once

0:23:47
Held up a picture of a

0:23:49
Private jet and then he said how would you get, how would you, you know, if it was your mission in life, how would you get one of these? And then he said, most women will think, I'm going to find a guy to marry who can buy, who has that job. And a man, men don't say that. They go, I'm going to start a new Facebook that's better than Everyone will like my thing. So, this is very, very, very important. Because of this always seeking power from a man, women take a step back. When you are just expecting someone else to be powerful for you, to give you what you need, then you don't develop yourself. You become weak. So it's very important for you to recognize that you don't need anyone, you can do it yourself. You can make that business. You can make that Facebook that's better than Facebook and get your private jet. Yeah, so you can do it yourself. You don't need a man to do it for you. Start observing that in your life. Women take a step back. So, I remember we were working on some little computer programming classes or something, and the teacher noticed that, you know, we were in little groups of like four, and we're sitting there talking about what we're doing and doing it on the computer and then the teachers said the guys are all over the computers right the guys are all right let me get it no let me show you I'll do it and then the girls just let them the guys learn more because the guys are hands-on so where you step back and why you stepping back. Don't step back, step forward. There was a situation that came up recently. There was one gal who was being hired as a tech lead at some company. And because she was the tech lead, they were like, hey, we need you to build a team. And she said, great, because I know good people. And then she brought a few of her friends in. And then one of them is a very strong, good programmer. And he comes in and he does a good job in the interview, asks for a lot more money, and then they go, hey, here's what we'll do. We want to make you the tech lead. And then he's all, whatever the client wants. So then I was talking to her about it. And I said, how do you feel about that? And she said, yeah, I don't have a good feeling about it. And this aspect where women don't promote themselves, women step back. Women let things happen to them that don't aid their personal power. And my teacher told the guys, don't do that to women. Don't be the guy on the computer when she's supposed to be learning too. Don't do something where you just talk over her. Don't want to listen to her idea. So, yeah, it's like guys, don't be guys in society. You have to start understanding your social conditioning and undo it because it's damaging. So I was at I think it was General Electric. Yes. General Electric. I wasn't even there yet. So this gal got a job as a programmer at General Electric. And then she said, Oh, wow, they're looking for other people. I said, Oh, give them my resume. So then I got in for an interview. Did really good. But I I knew that she was asking for 100. So I'm like, so I got hired for 150. And just a programmer, I didn't take her position or anything like that. But then, you know, I met with her after and I was like, yeah, I got the job. And she's all cool. And then and then I was like, yeah, I got I got for 150. And then she was all, oh. Hmm. So I observed her and I saw that just because of that, like her personal power went down. And I was all, hmm, hmm. Like, that's weird. I'm like, it seemed okay for me, you know. And I'm like, why would your personal power? And so I was like, why would you feel bad? And she's all, I don't know. I just do. I'm like, if I was in the same situation, would I feel bad? And I'm like, yeah, actually I would be all like, oh, man, I should have asked for more. Or, you know, I don't know. It seemed like there was some inequality, inequity. And so reflecting on my teacher's teachings, I was like, hmm. I said, well, how about this? How about, since I'm making $50 more an hour, how about I split that with you? So we both make $125. And then she was all, I said, does that fix it at all? And she goes, absolutely. And then there was no problem anymore. And that's more money than I was going to have because I was looking for a job. So it was that turned it into a win-win. All of a sudden it fixed her personal power. And so I was like, oh. And I did this because I was truly reflecting on my teacher's teaching. You can't just push. Guys, you have to be mindful. You have to observe when you're being a guy that is detracting from the power and enlightenment of the women in the school. You can't just be like, I'm getting my way. I'm talking over you. My point is more important. You have to give people a chance to grow and be powerful. So this gal, she, my student, back to the first story, she was all, yeah, I don't feel so good about that. She's like, I mean, I'm not gonna do anything but like it's just I it's just a feeling that just something doesn't feel good and I and I said yeah well you should do something about it and she's like nah I wouldn't do anything about it and I said but you should do something about it and then Like what? Like ask for splitting the difference. And then she said, okay. I said, yeah, I mean that's what I've noticed made things right me in the past. And that would fix it. So I said, so if you were splitting the difference, then how do you feel? And then she says, yeah, that's perfect. I feel perfectly fine. No more imbalance. That's the way to fix it. So then she tells the guy and then the guy acts like a guy. Period. Bothered, angry, pushing, fighting, reacting. not following the teachings of Tantra. So a lot of my older students have maybe heard me talk about auras before and that women don't stand up for their power sometimes. And that they're supposed to be mindful about this in the study especially. But in the whole world, for sure, but definitely with women in the study. So one must be mindful. You've listened to these talks but are you practicing it? I've practiced it when I was an intermediate Like I really, really was like observing and careful. And my awareness grew because of that. My sensitivity grew because of that. And then I became aware that when I took some action to hold myself back so that a woman could be powerful in the study, that she was more powerful and I was more powerful. And it took a lot of self-effacing. It felt like I had to just be like, okay, I know what's right, but I just have to sit here and shut up. And then when I observed the way that the woman would do something which was different than me, and maybe the outcome wasn't as good as if I did it in the physical, something very magical spiritually happened to me. Like for her, she got more personal power and stuff. And for me, for supporting the enlightenment of women, the empowerment of women, I gained something spiritually. I gained awareness, the gentleness, the harmlessness. And before, you know, when I started in the study, I was very, very harmful. Then, when you start in the study, you have conditioning too. And your conditioning has you very confused. Your conditioning tells you that you are strong and powerful. And when you deal with women, you try to get your power over on them. And that is something that is sort of backwards. When you're dealing with women, because women are actually powerful, they have a powerful second attention, a powerful spirit, and you have a conflict because something in you fears the woman's power. And so that's why men do bad things to women. Because a man wants to get power over a woman, but a man senses the woman's power is stronger. And so then the man gets angry and reacts and is harmful to women. So men in general have to say, you know, in this situation with this person, am I respecting my power? Am I stepping forward to be stronger guys are pushy. And also, you have to, women have to observe their manipulation. No manipulation. Okay. Do we need another bathroom break? Yeah. We didn't even need to ask. We're just gonna do it. Okay. So we're gonna take a break as fast as possible. Men, there has to be a deeper reflection on your interactions with women in the back? Wow. Okay. Turn me up. Turn me up. Yeah. Okay. Why not? Yeah. It's just more. Good. Thank Can you hear now? All right. So yes, so men in the group, it's important to stretch your awareness in dealing with women in the group. So you have, it's like a constant koan. When you interface with a woman in this school, you have to be deeply pondering, am I empowering her? Am I cutting her off? Am I hurting her? You have to be wondering about that so that you can stretch your awareness to see what's going on. Otherwise, you'll stay in your regular awareness field, your outlook, framework, model of life and that model of life itself is harmful to women because that's the conditioned way that you are given. Now a lot of guys say, oh no, you know, I'm good to women, like, you know, I did this good thing for a woman, I did that good thing for a woman, I told my manager to hire a woman when she was there, I, you know, put her on a big project. All sorts of ways a guy starts to say, well, I did this, this, this, this, this, and that helps women. And a funny thing is a guy could be like, go over to a girl and say, I did this, this, this, this, and this, and this to help you. So I empower women. And then the woman will just burst into tears because she feels horrible. So you got to look deeper. You have got to stretch your awareness beyond your conditioned awareness. And you start to do that by listening to these important teachings to see that there is something beyond the way that you are looking at it. And that it's very, very, very enlightening for you to stretch your awareness, to learn how to be supportive and harmless. One of my students gave me a link to a TED talk. It's a transgendered woman, and she's like, I was a white man for 45 years, and then I became a woman. She's like, when I was a man, I was thinking about how it was for a woman. I thought about it in a certain way. But then when I became a woman, life showed me a completely different experience. She actually changed and transformed her awareness field. This is something possible to do. There's a story of a Taoist master, and he has a student, and the student, he's very, very negative towards women. He's like, oh, women are evil, women are bad, you can't even look at them. And he had such an aversion to women, because the spiritual teaching said, don't look at women, women are bad, they take away your enlightenment. So he's all, no, no, no, can't look at a woman. And then his Taoist master decided to give him a good lesson. So the Taoist master was walking with him, and the Taoist master pointed into the shadows and said, Look! A demon! And then the monk looks and doesn't see anything in the darkness, but his master is saying there's a demon. And then the master says, The demon's coming for you! And then the monk goes, and he runs. And then later on, he's hiding or something, and then the master finds him. And then the master says, that demon is onto you, and he's hunting you. And then the monk says, oh my god, what should I do? And then the master pulls out some, pulls out a dress. Says, quick, put this dress on. You know, take off your monk clothes, put this dress on and the demon will not see you, right? Because the demon's looking for a monk. You'll be wearing a dress. And then, so he does. And then he finally goes, you know, this isn't going to work. The demon's going to find out. The way it's going to work the best is if you join this nunnery. You can join the nunnery to find that monk he wants to eat. And so the monk goes to a nunnery. And then he lives with the nuns. He's more afraid of the demon than his aversion to the women. And then eventually he completely changes, he transforms. From living with the women, he sees that they are spiritual, they're not an obstacle to enlightenment. And then one day his master comes over and says, okay, I was just kidding, but you were a jerk and now you're not. So, it is possible to see the other side and you should tempt yourself to see it. There's two of his students, a woman and a man, and he did this thing we call shifting the assemblage point. And this is a very powerful way of shifting the way that you are aware of life. did is he took the woman and he shifted her to look at life as a man, to actually perceive life as a man. And then he did the same for the guy. Pushed his assemblage point to perceive life as a woman. And the woman, she said, wow, this sucks to be a guy. It's pretty heavy to be confused and afraid of a woman's power. If that's the way that you always are, you're not happy, you're not balanced. So this was a teaching for them to see the other side. This is what the transgendered woman did. She went from being a white man to being a woman. And that just totally gave her a hard time. She's like, but I know, she's like, people are treating me like I'm stupid. They're all mansplaining stuff to me. She's all, but, she's all, I know what I'm talking about. I used to mansplain people. So she's like, I know the other side, but people are treating me like I'm stupid. It's very interesting. So she knew both sides. And the thing is, it's very important for men in this group really have a deep reflection on supporting the enlightenment of women, the empowerment of women. Now, as I was saying, the guys have bad conditioning. Society has told you, you are strong. And you're powerful. And that you have to get power over the woman. That's what society has told you. And that you're afraid of women because they have true power. And then you start to react in crazy ways. So recently So, recently at Bodie Woods, this came up as an issue. There was a man living there who had bad condition. He was unaware of what he was doing with his energy. He was just, you know, just, you know, when you have bad conditioning, you have this framework of seeing life. And you just, like, whatever you do, you're actually putting energy into it. So your outlook actually has an effect on whatever you were perceiving. And if you have a bad, if you have bad conditioning, it actually like does something. You're like, I'm not doing anything. Just being, just you being there with your mind, with your awareness, the way it is, can be damaging. And that's what happens to men with, with the social conditioning. You're just automatically formatted to be harmful. Throwing like sexual energy at women. If you just like look at a girl and you're like throwing sexual energy at her, you like her, you have desire for her, you're throwing energy in it, and that energy hurts her subtle physical body. I think I read something somewhere where it said guys think of sex 11 times, no wait, once every 11 seconds. And guys have gotten so hyped up because of the manipulation of women, they're like out of control. That's why guys think this. Otherwise, like, if a guy gets out of the energy, this manipulative energy. A guy won't think of sex very often. So I remember this old movie Wayne's World, right? Where Garth, Wayne and Garth were at a nightclub and Garth was seeing all the pretty girls going by and he was doing these pelvic thrusts and going shwing to each one of them. Guys totally do that. And it hurts the aura of women. So it is something very, very destructive. And guys just do it, too. They see a girl, they look at certain parts and energy shoots from them and hits the girl's aura. And that's why a guy could be like, I did this for you, this for you, this for you, this for you, and the girl still feels completely trashed, completely held down, completely disempowered. So you have to change your awareness. I remember I was with my mother on the beach not too long ago, and it was a little bit windy and I had a scarf, so I gave it to her and she put the scarf on over her head. And so, about a minute later, we're just sitting there talking, and then about a minute later, I say to her, you look like you're wearing a hijab. And then I said, where did I just get that from? And I look over and there's two white people walking by. So they, because of the world we're in, the war we're in, the president we're in, because of the way that America is right now, people are, like white, regular white people are afraid and they're very sensitive to something like a Muslim. So I'm sitting there looking like me, whatever I am. And then my mom's wearing, you know, the hijab. And then so they just look at us and they go, oh, interesting. So people, the way that they see things, affect reality. Like that's something that I picked up, because I'm psychic. But it's something that is not a very, it wasn't a very good feeling. It's like a, oh, I'm afraid, that's their energy. So when you have, because you're a man, you've got all of this influence. When you look at women, you're looking at them in a way that immediately is limiting to them. So you have to open your mind. You have to look deeper. And you have to be very, very conscientious about the actions that you're taking, the way that you talk to women. It's very important. And women, you have to be very, very observant of manipulation. So that thing called wrapping is a very, very, very common natural thing. Women do it all the time. But that's like the men, no swinging. The women, no rapping. So, rapping is a means of influence. It's like when you take your intent and say, I want that, or I want to get this out of this person. I want to have some outcome from that person. Then you're probably rapping. So you have to lay off on the manipulation. in this school need to work together. They need to develop a proper sisterhood, a proper sangha. So women in this world tend to work against each other. And the reason why they work against each other is because in the past, you know, you could have a boyfriend and you're going to marry him and that's your power in life. But then your own sister could take him right from you. And then you're like, oh, that was going to be my power. Now it's taken from me. So because of this, women don't trust each other or work together. But on the pathway to enlightenment in this school, it is necessary. It is something that you have to learn. If If you don't learn that, if you continue just to hold enmity for someone, for another woman, then you're not going to be enlightened. You're not learning what you need to learn. And of course, you'll see women make mistakes. They'll do things out of their conditioning that's negative, but this is a place where you need to have compassion instead of scorn. This is a place where you have to, with the kind mindfulness, you can their conditioned ways. You can create an atmosphere that directs them away from such behavior. That if you just keep on saying, oh, I don't like her because she did that. Then you're not learning what you need to learn. It is extremely important to have a successful sangha. A sangha that works together. If this group did not work together, then you would not be here. I would definitely be teaching someone, but not you. If the sangha doesn't operate well, then I would not be here. I'll be in Paris, teaching the Prisans. So it's really important that in this group, in the sangha, that we work together well. That's why when we talk about tantric sex, it's very important for the women to do their part, for the men to do their part, to bring this awareness into a continual practice in this group. So for women, you can't hate other women. You have to work with other women in the sangha successfully. And all of your negative, petty thoughts, you've You've got to learn to put them away and attain a greater connection because there's power in that connection. And that's where you're free. You're free of that social view of that guy is the only way I'm going to be happy. Social view of I can't trust another woman. You're free of that. And then you'll see that working with other women, connecting to other women, is beautiful. There's such an amazing magic in a team of women who work together. And if you've got a problem with another woman, then you've got to really, really, really reflect on that. That you are not following the pathway to enlightenment, that you are following conditioning. You're stopping yourself from enlightenment. You're stopping yourself from supporting another woman, you're creating dysfunction in the sangha. So you have to say, I don't want to be a jerk. Why do I want to be a jerk? And you've got to dig deep to find from that other woman that you're bothered by, a connection, a way to support her enlightenment. This is one of the most terrible things that I've seen women do is undermine each other, be angry at each other. And it all stems from men. You want the man. You want the man's attention. You want whatever you want from the man. That's where it's coming from and then you and and even if it's not about that You guys are sitting in the kitchen and like she takes the last egg or something and you're like, yeah But this comes from your social conditioning of Scarcity of the man with the power that's going to make your life good. And so you're acting like a fool. You're not doing something that'll make your life better. You're following the social conditioning that's been laid out to you to keep you weak. So when they take the last egg, or they take the man, then you say, I don't need a man. It's very important for you when you start to get mad at the other girl to start looking at like start being mindful in this way to say okay I'm stepping away from enlightenment when I'm thinking this, when I'm reacting like this. Now let me break this down. I don't want to be an idiot. I want to be powerful. I don't need that egg to be powerful. This is important. So someone asked, what if you're in a relationship? And you know, because I just said, you know, guys are destroying women's wars left and right. So what do you do? So if you're in a relationship, that's fine. No problem. If you're in a relationship and you don't want to be in a relationship, then there's a problem. But, you know, as I said, celibacy is very good. I mean, I practice, you know, tantric sex every day. Tantric celibacy. Yeah, so, no, yeah, celibacy is a tantra. It's a practice. It's an observance that's very important. When you're celibate, you don't waste energy. is the easier way. However, you can't be a hypocrite if you're like, gosh, I really want a relationship, but it's bad, so I can't. And then after like six months to ten years you'll kind of go crazy. Yeah, I knew this Buddhist monk once. He disrobed in front of me. It was horrible. So he was a Buddhist monk and then he just at one point flipped and he's like, I need to just party. So he learned computer programming and is working with him and he's all like, he's like, you know any good nightclubs? He's all, I'm looking for chicks. And I'm like, wow. He was totally, like he was a monk for a while and then he flipped and then he was just like partying, picking up chicks and having a good time I suppose. Yeah so you have to be, you can't be a hypocrite, a hippogriff. Okay yeah you can't be a hypocrite, you have to you know be true to Now if you are in a relationship, you must use the relationship as practice. So that's where a guy has to say, whoa, I seriously, I have an intimate connection with this person, your auras are connected. And if you have negative energy, bad ideas or something like that, it's going to really hurt the girl. So you have to hold your energy back or in a high place. You can't have aggression. And if you have passion, you have to make sure that it is pure and not coming from a dross conditioning. And both of you have to work together with a high degree of mindfulness. You have to be very, very, very observant of the other. And when, you know, to have a good relationship, you have to like say, okay, we can do it your way. A lot, both of you. So it's very, very important that in a relationship, you have a baby, then you use then you use the baby as a mindfulness exercise as well. The baby becomes a power object, power baby. You know, you have like, you raise your children impeccably, you love them, you teach them, you guide them. And by doing that, impeccably, it's very powerful. The one thing that you shouldn't do with a baby is make it your whole world. I see this a lot, especially in Hungary. They have a baby, and then that's the most biggest, that's it, I'm putting all, I'm shoveling all my power into that baby. I was all like, you know, you could spend like 90% less attention and energy on your baby and it's going to be, your baby will be fine. And then they're all, no, I have to throw all of myself into this baby. Wow. Okay. So yes, especially mothers do this. They'll have a baby and then they'll put too much energy into the baby. And what they're developing is attachment. They're throwing all their wishes, because that's the second place where women waste a ton of energy. So, you know, I saw this television show on the airplane. It's called Everybody Loves Raymond. Anyway, I only saw it like once, but when the show was starting, he's all, hi, I'm Raymond. This is my wife, and this is my mom and dad, and here's the kids. The show's not really about them. And I'm like, oh, that's how I should be. It's like, yeah, there was a couple kids in the background, because the demographic who watches that has kids, but it was mostly about his adult life. So, you can raise your children perfectly, properly, teach them to be responsible, strong beings. They mostly learn by you being strong, you being a great person. Then they see that, they have a connection to you and they get that. Just sitting there, like, looking over your baby. Does he need anything now?

1:12:30
How about now?

1:12:32
Pizza? You know, like, stuff like that. It's a waste of energy. So that's a place where people waste a lot of energy. So when you do have a baby, it does take a lot of energy. So you actually have to put a lot of energy into it. And if you make, and so, you know, that's where you have to say, well, what do I want to do with my life? Do I want to have a baby and put a lot of energy into it? Or maybe I want to put a lot of energy into my meditation practice. you either way. One way is a bit harder, but it could be fun if that's the thing that you're interested in. Now, it could also be very dangerous. So, you know, I remember I had this one student who got pregnant and I said, bad, you manipulated the guy, you're bad. I know what you did. And then she was like all crying. And I'm like, well, whatever. Anyway, she had this delightful son. Wonderful photo. And the thing was, you know, she was like, can I be enlightened even if I have a baby? And I'm like, of course, yes. And he said, but you're acting in a wrong way. And then she continued to. And she just poured energy and attention and attachment into the kids. And then she couldn't stay on the pathway to enlightenment. She put too much energy into it, attachment became more important than enlightenment. So this is something that I've seen it happen several times. It's where there's a woman who really wants enlightenment and then has a baby and then too much energy goes in, and then she can't be on the path. She doesn't have the personal power anymore. So, you must be careful with babies. powerful. The nature of women are that they have power. It's not a physical power necessarily. It's a, we'll say, spiritual power. So women have power. That's the way that they are. And in the physical world, it could look like weakness. In the physical world, it could be unseen, invisible. But when a woman comes onto the pathway to enlightenment, she awakens her power. Men don't have this kind of power. This is a spiritual power, it's a great power. Men don't have that power. It's not innate to a man's experience. Men express enlightenment in a different way. Men express enlightenment in love. So men are so confused because they think they should be powerful when they should focus on expressing love. And women think they shouldn't be powerful because of their conditioning, or men told them they're not powerful. So, in this school, we get it right and we focus on women developing power and we focus on men developing love. So women must start looking for ways to develop Personal power to be strong and that means you have to do something. You can't be passive you have to take action You have to look for the way to get ahead In you know you have to step forward instead of Stepping backward you have to take responsibility for your life you can't just let somebody do it for you. And then you're going to achieve power. You're going to start to see your power. And then when you start to see your power, you're going to be totally unhappy. And you'll be, you'll just be, you'll, sure you'll be powerful because this is the structures made in this man's world, but you will be unhappy. So you need to start to look for in all of the constructs of your world, you need to start to see love in that. You need to see love in your life. And then you'll be powerful and you'll be happy. But love has to be the first and foremost thing. Otherwise, no power is worth it. For women, power is worth it. So some men, especially my older students, you should start, you should take a different look at your life. Your work, your martial arts, everything. Your meditation practice, your sangha. And instead of looking at things in the way of personal power, which is what beginners do, right? Beginning men must develop personal power. But then, after you're an intermediate student, you should start looking at your life and say, instead of calling it personal power, call it personal love. Say, all right, so I'm going to work and I'm doing my computer programming. And then you could say, how much do I love this? How much can I express love in this experience? You can love your job, love it, you can. And instead of just like working hard, pushing, being in a world of power, you can work hard, push, do lots of great things, but you can also love it. And that is what you should do to explore your true nature. To express love in your work, express love in your martial arts. It's funny, I was teaching, we were giving a martial arts demonstration and then I was teaching a little bit of wu-wei-do in India. And then there was this, the son of Guru Raghunath was there, his name is Nagaraj and he's a very, very evolved being. But anyway, so I'm sitting there showing martial arts and I'm all like, look, and you smack the person and then they die. And then afterwards, he says, Oh, Sampara, you have so much love in your teaching. And I'm like,

1:21:20
Okay, and then another time, it was really fun.

1:21:23
Sometimes I am a, what do I call it? Difficult teacher? No, no, no, and I'm not a difficult teacher. But I give people a hard time sometimes. Like you guys just know the polite more. Yes. But I had one student on the trip who was very confused. And so I gave him I you know I like yelled at him and I gave him a hard time and I pointed out very difficult things for him, pointed out mistakes, pointed out the hard things that he has to do to change. And so basically I yelled at him and then Nagaraj goes, Oh, Sambhara, you teach with so much love. Which is true. Yeah. So, you know, like I might be doing martial arts. I love martial arts. I love it. I might be yelling at you. And when I yell at you, I am expressing love. I am. It's not something that is like maybe going on in the background. It is all that's going You guys are all good. Now we can start yelling at people with love. Please do. Yeah. Now if you're yelling at people with love, I'll be happy. But guys, definitely look for personal love in your life. And that would be, I mean, that's your nature. And that's what would make your life happy and beautiful. So look for that. So this teaching is a teaching of the basics of being a man, the basics of being a woman and interacting. But it's a practice. This is something that you have to start seeing. You have to start doing. And then you'll be powerful versus weak. Powerful. Happy versus grumpy. Yeah. So this is the way of things. Now we're going to do a meditation. This is going to be a meditation of power. A meditation of power for the women. It will be followed by a meditation of love for the men. So, go ahead and focus on your navel chakra. Now this meditation is just going to be for a few minutes. This meditation will be a transmission of power. And it's a transmission of spiritual power, a transmission of feminine power. And it is something that really opens the door in your spirit to your natural great power.

1:25:13
Let's begin. Very good. Okay. Now, we're going to bring focus to the heart. So, when we're doing these exercises

1:25:32
together, the men are also learning from the power of women. And the women are also learning the love of men. So we're going to have a heart meditation and this is where guys, you can open your heart and this is where you're going to elevate yourselves from a person of power to a higher power, to the power of love. It's a greater expression of enlightenment and an expression of your true nature. power aware In your work in your play in your interactions in the sangha you're going to be love aware so this is a Powerful tantric transmission of the true nature of the power of men

1:27:00
Let's begin.

1:27:02
Very nice. Now I would like the gals to stand up. Arise warriors of power. Thank you. And have a seat. And then, if you would, please stand up, arise, warriors of love. Very well. Thank you. Wonderful. So, thank you all very much. It was beautiful meditating here in this beautiful

1:29:32
important and fundamental teaching.

1:29:39
Tomorrow we will be meeting at the same place at 7pm. Don't be late. Don't be late. Be impeccable, Beyond Time.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
