0:00:00
Welcome, everyone. I'm so glad that you are here. We're going to have a wonderful afternoon and evening together. Let's begin with meditation. We will meditate for three songs, one song on the navel chakra, one song on the heart, and one song on the third eye. So sit up straight So sit up straight and let's begin.

0:00:28
So tonight I wanted to share with you enlightenment. I thought I would go for a light, simple subject. Actually, enlightenment is the most important subject in Buddhism. I mean, Buddhism is not about reading books, gaining ideas, and intellectual understandings that you can bring to parties and impress people with. It's not about wearing spiritual clothes and going to see this swami or that monk. It's not like a lifestyle. It's not becoming a swami groupie. I saw this cute cartoon comic

0:03:59
where there was these two Buddhist monks high up on top of these mountain peaks. And after 40 years of silence, fasting, prayer and meditation, one of them yells to the other, hey, interrupts And the first monk says, Why are we doing this again? The goal of all spiritual practice is enlightenment. That is the reason. It's not anything shy of that. It's not to embolden the self. It's not to have new ideas. It is to be free, spiritual liberation. So for that monk on the hill there, why do we do Buddhism? Why do we do any spiritual spiritual practice. It's because these practices, these disciplines, they lead us to greater and greater experiences of enlightenment. And this must be one's intention in coming to the spiritual path. You know, we don't come to the spiritual path because we seek to have position over people. And we don't come because we're just seeking power or just seeking intellectual knowledge. We don't come to the path because we are seeking enlightenment. Now it comes to the time where you say, oh wait, so what is this enlightenment? Enlightenment is something that is elusive. It seems like just some great thing, some exalted spiritual condition. And it is. Enlightenment is the highest, the brightest, and the most noble of all things. It is the complete awareness of life without any mental modifications. Enlightenment is something that we experience experience when we merge our mind with the infinite. Enlightenment is not a state of mind. It is beyond all states of mind. It is union with all things. When the self goes away, the ego, then there is enlightenment. We act out of a limited self, a self that has desires and fears and sees itself as separate from the universe. And when we, through our spiritual practices, let that dissolve and fall away, then we experience enlightenment. A light emerges. They call it the Dharmakaya in Tibetan Buddhism, the clear light of reality that is the infinite nature of your being. When you experience that, you see that that light has always been there, that it's here right now, and that it will always be. Enlightenment is letting the self's dark thoughts and disturbing dissolve, letting them fall away. It is being free from suffering, liberation from limitation, Enlightenment is a big, eternal, amazing thing. So it's really great. It is apprehending the totality of life, the totality of your being. Now, don't let this put you off. It being so big, such a big, grandiose, lofty goal. It's better to be at the bottom of a ladder that goes where you want to go than at the top of a ladder that goes somewhere you don't want to go. Right? So, being on the pathway to enlightenment is the thing. It's a good thing. No matter where you are, whether you're at the bottom or the top, it's being on the right ladder that really, really matters. I mean, if you choose a ladder that's easy to climb, you climb it, you might find And you say, wow, look where I got. I got here. Or you might climb a ladder that goes way, way, way, way, way up. Then you find that you climb and climb and climb, but then eventually you're on top of a great, beautiful palace. So the ladder that you follow, you know, matters. You know, if you follow the easy ladders, you might find yourself to be a garbage person, collecting garbage, dealing in garbage, garbage dealer. Most people

0:20:13
deal in garbage.

0:20:15
And if you follow, you know, the long ladder up to the palace, then you're a royalty. You're a king. You're a queen. So, enlightenment is, you know, it goes up a little further than the palace. It keeps going up into the sky and then into infinity, this ladder. But it's a good ladder to be on. The higher you on the pathway to enlightenment, you have a greater view. So, we do spiritual practices because they bring us greater enlightenment. So, you climb that ladder a little bit more and a little bit more and then you can see a greater view of yourself, of the world, of eternity. And it's, you know, this big, grandiose, eternal thing, it's also very practical. Enlightenment and the study of enlightenment helps us with practical things in our lives. It helps us with our work. It helps us with our relationships. It helps us with dealing with difficulty. So, even though we're shooting for intergalactic oneness, We see that on the way, we learn things that are very helpful in our lives. So, when you're able to deal with the practical things of life, you know, the difficulties in life, everything in life in a better way. So, practical enlightenment You know, being in balance when you hit traffic. Practical enlightenment is loving your work. And it's learning to let go of the pain of the past. It's learning to drop stress. It's a way out of stress. It's learning to deal with difficult people, angry people, jealous people, people who are just negative, but it's learning to It's practical enlightenment is finding balance and opportunity in all aspects of your life. It's, you know, feeling good about your body. It's, you know? You make a game out of it. You say, yay, I'm going to clean the toilet now. And then I get ten points. The points don't mean anything but just the fact that you get them. Why not? Make it fun. So enlightenment is practical, you know, when you're dealing with the difficulties of life, it's a way to see through limitation. It's a way to do things better so that they work out. Sometimes the self blocks you, the ego, the limited view. It reacts and it blocks you from doing things in an intelligent way. And it increases your suffering. There was a story of a layman, a Buddhist layman, who was a merchant, and everything was going fine, but his mother felt very ill. And when his mother felt ill, he stopped focusing on the business and he would spend day and night with her because she needed someone to attend to her. And then he started running into more problems, so he went to visit his Buddhist master. And he said to his master, oh, this is horrible, you know, my mother needs these herbs to heal her and I can only afford, you know, to give her half of the herbs that she needs and she's very sick and I just can't bear to leave her. And the master says, you need to see past your attachment. Your attachment is driving you to do things in a way that actually doesn't help your mother. And he says, what do you mean? I'm helping her all day, every day. And then the master says, here's your spiritual practice. See your mother as the Buddha. Tend to your mother as if she is the Buddha. And then he says, but it's my mom, you know. Then he goes, no, no, no. She has Buddha nature. She's enlightenment is within her. And I'm going to show you to see it. So he goes home and he's taking care of his mother and he starts this magical practice where he starts to look beyond his normal relationship and he says, oh, the great Buddhist master said that my mother is Buddha. So he starts and has a great spiritual realization, he sees beyond the karma that he had with her, beyond the story of their lives, he sees her eternal being. He sees Buddha in his mother. When he has this realization, he's happy and balanced. He no longer has fear and attachment. Then he realizes there's a better way to take care of his mother. You see, he was a merchant and he left his business to take care of his mother. And then all of a sudden he couldn't afford the herbs. So he says, oh, okay, instead of clinging to my mother and being like, oh, I have to be at your side all the time. He went, he hired, you know, an attendant, like a nurse to take care of her. Then he went back to his business and he focused on increasing his business.

0:28:18
He made more money.

0:28:19
He was able to afford the herbs that were necessary for his mother, and then over time she was healed. So sometimes when we look at solving a problem or anything in our lives, how we operate in our lives, if we're operating out of attachment or fear or desire, we might be doing things in a way that doesn't really work. So by seeing his mother's enlightenment, he was able to let go of his attachment. So this is a liberating experience, very practical. He's dealing with, you know, an ill loved one is dealing with a business. And there's ways through practical enlightenment that it can help. We often think that enlightenment is somewhere else, you know, for probably somebody else, you know, some monk in an ashram, you know, some swami in a cave, right? But, enlightenment is in all things. Enlightenment is accessible here, now, in your relationships, it's just hard to see. But it's true. I mean, even for the monks, they have to see this. There was a Zen monk who, he loved to be in the monastery, but sometimes he was asked to go to the nearby village and get things at the market, and he would go there and just really hate it. He'd be like, oh, I feel so bad there. I want to be back in the monastery, in the meditation hall. That's where I want to be. That's what's good to me. So, he goes to the Zen master and says, you must not, you know, you must excuse me from doing those tasks in the city. I cannot be in the city because enlightenment is not there. It is only here in the meditation hall. And the Zen master said, oh, really? Well, then, so then the Zen master says, oh yeah, that's true, but it's not just the meditation hall. It's the sacred candle. It's the flame. So they go over to the altar, and there's a candle. And the candle's always lit, or there's always a candle on the altar. And the Zen master says, It all comes down to this, this flame here. Enlightenment is in this flame.

0:31:37
That's why you like it here,

0:31:38
because enlightenment is in this flame. So then the monk goes, oh, okay, cool. All right, then the Zen master goes away, and the monk just sits there, meditating on this candlelight. Meditating and meditating, staring at it, until one day he has a revelation. He's like, wow, I see, yes, of course, enlightenment is in the candle. So then he's like, okay. So then he takes the candle, he's going around walking everywhere with the candle. And then finally he goes over to the Zen master and says, Zen master, yes, I got the candle. And the master's like, hey, that's supposed to be in the flame. And then the Zen master says, oh no, no, no, no. Enlightenment is in the water. And then he says, what? No, it's in the flame. I had, I saw it, you know, I had the, you know, big realization. And then the Zen master says, okay, let me take the flame. Give me that flame.

0:32:50
So he gets the flame from him

0:32:52
and he picks up a glass of water. So he's got the flame, glass of water. And then he puts the glass of water in front so that the monk can see that. And then he puts the flame of the candle behind. So then the monk is looking through the glass of water, seeing the flame. And then the monk has what we call satori, a spiritual realization of enlightenment. And he says, enlightenment is in the water. Right? So he was experiencing definite ideas. Enlightenment can only be here, it cannot be there. Enlightenment is this, but it is not that. And eventually, he came to a true realization, which is that enlightenment is yin and yang. It is the fire, it is the water. And then the Zen master, after his realization, immediately gave him a basket and sent him to town to get some things at the market. So he goes to the market and then he sees enlightenment in the market. So he no longer had an aversion to one way or another way, one place or another place. was able to see that enlightenment is in the monastery, but it's also in the village, in the market. So, enlightenment is not just for a certain type of person. Enlightenment is in everyone. Enlightenment is not just for a certain, you know, job or a certain monk or swami, enlightenment is available and accessible here and now. Enlightenment is finding perfection. that there is perfect consciousness, unobscured. It's finding the perfection of being. It's finding that in your life and in your mind. So, enlightenment is perfect, perfect consciousness, perfect awareness. But you can't get too hung up on ideas of perfection. If you're seeking perfection and you start to have an idea of what it is, you might miss it completely. There was a man who was seeking enlightenment and a friend of his says, oh, there's this great Zen master coming, you should hear him. Let's go to his Dharma talk." And he says, Oh no, no, I've read about this Zen master. I'm looking for the perfect teacher. He's not the perfect teacher. Another friend says, Oh, there's this great Tibetan Rinpoche coming. And he says, Oh no, I've read about him. I'm looking for the perfect teacher. He's not the perfect teacher. One day this man decides to go to India, travel around to find the perfect master. So he goes to India, a couple of months later he comes back and his friends ask him, did you find the perfect master? And he says, yes, I did. And then they say, oh, wonderful, what happened? because the master was looking for the perfect student. So perfection is not in concept. And if you're hanging on to concepts of perfection, you're missing life. Perfection is of the mind, consciousness. But it's not something that you'll necessarily find in the physical world. If you're looking for perfection in a job, in a relationship, in a car, in a piece of music, in a good steak dinner, you might not. And once you find it, it might not be so perfect anymore. So in the physical world, in the transient and the finite, perfection is limited. But in your state of mind, in your consciousness, in your awareness of life, you can experience perfection. Part of perfection of mind is being broad enough to accept the ups and downs of life. Perfection accept that the finite world is not perfect. Yeah. So if you're hooked on, you know, everything in your life working out, and being perfect, you might be very frustrated. But if you find in your mind light, freedom, the perspective of infinity, then when things don't work out in your physical life, then you'll be okay. There was a woman in Japan who wanted to go and give a gift to his Zen master, and she put on a kimono. This is an ornate dress. It takes a long time to get it perfect. She did her makeup and her hair. She wanted to look perfect. And then she got a beautiful bouquet, a specially made bouquet of flowers, just very beautifully, elegantly done. And then she made a special cake. And then she had some other presents. So she's got like these three presents. And they're all just wonderful, beautiful things to give this Zen master. She dresses perfectly, and she has this idea that everything's going So then she goes outside to go see the Zen Master, and it starts to rain, so she has to go home and get an umbrella. But then she's so upset that it's raining because it's not perfect anymore. So she's a little bothered by that. But then she's like, no, it's okay. I'm presenting myself perfectly, and all of my presents are perfect. So she finally gets to the monastery and she says, where's the Zen master? They point outside. He's outside in the garden, just getting rained on. Sitting there, enjoying the rain. And then she says, okay. So she goes out there and she's just so proud and happy that she's got these perfect things. And then as soon as she gets in front of him, she slips and falls and falls into some mud, so it ruins her dress. Her umbrella falls down, she drops her cake, she drops her presents, she drops the flowers, everything's ruined. Her hair is ruined, her makeup's ruined, and she looks like a mess. And then the Zen master looks at her and says, And let that be your life. Or at least, you know, have that inner Zen master that lets everything fall apart and still see the perfection in every moment. It comes from removing that which defiles consciousness. So, the nature of your mind is perfect, but there's so many influences that will obscure that perfection. The first influences are your karmas. So, you know, when you take a certain action, there's a certain result. When the action is based on self-interest, such as desire, then some sort of overlaying kind of darkness over your bright, perfect consciousness, some kind of limiting factor. And there are influences like other people, you know, someone can come over to you and yell at you, make you feel bad, and that reaction of feeling bad also affects your awareness, your consciousness. So, even though your true nature is perfect consciousness, your experience of mind has been defiled over different thoughts, feelings, and reactions. So we seek to remove those things from our lives. And if we remove them, we can get back to perfect consciousness. Kind of the way of Eastern spiritual practice is to go into the ashram, the monastery, removing yourself from the world so that those defilements can not affect you and you can find pure consciousness. So, a long time ago in India, there was a man who was very bothered in his life. He was a merchant, he was trying to run a business, it was very difficult, he would stress out about it. His mother-in-law, oh my gosh, you know, responsibilities to the family, you know, and his business partners, just all sorts of things were bothering him. What do I do? And the guru says, you know, there's some lake nearby. He says, see that lake? And it's a perfectly still lake. He says, this is the nature of your mind. He says, but then when he got, takes up some rocks, throws a rock in. He goes, you got your business, you know, you got your partner. He's throwing these rocks into the lake, and there's all this rippling effect. You got your mother-in-law, it's a big rock. So, you know, he's like, you have all these things and it disturbs the lake. He said, so, you must remove these things so that you can have pure consciousness. So, then he says, okay, I'm going to settle things with my business partner. So, he settles whatever dispute or trouble they have. And then he goes, OK, that that helped a lot. You know, I feel better. Then eventually he he says, OK, I'm going to settle the problem with my mother-in-law. And then somehow he does. I know what he does. He like doesn't hang around her anymore. It's like, oh, mother-in-law's over. He just gets up and leaves the room. And then he's like, I've solved it, you know. And then eventually, he makes a deal to leave his business altogether, but still have money coming to his family to take care of them. And then he kind of goes out into the backyard into a little shack, and he just meditates. He removes himself from all the things that would upset him. And then he has a very, very, very peaceful mind. So, this is, you know, this is the common story of spirituality. Let go, get away from the things that, you know, are difficult. And that usually means going into a cave, you know, or not interacting with the world. And then that way you can find pure consciousness. But there's another way. There's a way that is applicable to our lives in the West, where we don't have to run away into a cave. We can face life and deal with life and still find pure consciousness. There was a woman in San Francisco, went to the Zen Center, and she was having trouble in her life, she was suffering, like many people. Her husband had become cold and distant. He was stressed out about work and he just wasn't like the supportive, loving husband that he used to be. They had kids and she was running around always taking care of the kids. She was really drained from taking care of the kids, just tired because the kids made noise and she had to run around and clean up after them and cook for them and provide for them and drive them to soccer and everything, you know. So she was like, whoo, you know, three kids, that's pretty intense. And then she also was working. And at her job, her manager was really, you know, mean and she always had, you know, anxiety at work. So, she's, you know, this is the modern times in the modern world, and she asks the Zen master, or the person in the Zen center, what should I do? And they said, you should, you know, everything is Zen, everything is enlightenment. So, you should see enlightenment in your family, in your husband, and also in your work. And so, she took that to heart and she really meditated a practice, a discipline, not just an idea. And then she came to understand her husband. She really got in touch with her love for him, and she had compassion for him, and she knew he was going through a hard time, so she really came to understand him. opened up and started to be the loving husband again. And she started to see that her labor for her children was just a beautiful selfless giving where she didn't have to be upset that she's spending so much energy because, hey, those are her kids. That's what a mom does, right? She just got out of that selfish, oh gosh, this is so hard view, and started to love the labor that was her path. And at work, she just decided, I'm not going to be offended or afraid of my manager anymore. I'll do the work, whatever the work is, I'm just not going to have any more anxiety about working there. And then she was promoted. She did well at work. She wasn't hiding at work, and her work excelled. So, we can find in our lives, with all the difficulties that are there, we can look into every single difficulty and find enlightenment. Enlightenment is not in a different condition. We can find it right here, right now, in our lives. You can turn a situation from negative to enlightenment. You can turn a difficulty with a person into love and compassion and find enlightenment. You can turn a place where you're lacking, like you don't have the job that you want, you know, or you have a problem at work, you can turn that into the pathway to enlightenment. So, enlightenment is found in every place in our lives. Enlightenment is everywhere. There's no place that enlightenment is not. So, we have these two ways. There's the Eastern traditional way, which is get away from your mother-in-law. And then there's a Western way, which is, get away from your mother-in-law. Just kidding. It is to be with your mother-in-law and see enlightenment in that relationship, even in the hardships. So, both ways work. Both ways bring you to the same place. It's like the time these two Buddhist monks went into this cave for meditation and it was pitch black. And one monk said, wow, it is so dark in here. And the second monk said, really? Because I can't see anything. So it's realizing the same thing, right? But it's important that you realize the truth, the truth that it was pitch dark, right? By running away from things in the world, you know, a certain situation. Yeah, like, I don't like my job, it's draining, so I'm just going to, you know, quit my job. But maybe by doing your job, you would have found a greater truth, if you run away, then it leads you to what experience. Maybe then you become poor and homeless, and then you can't practice meditation anymore. So, you have to come to a condition of higher truth. It cannot weaken you, it must elevate you. So, if you're going to step away from something, it has to be stepping away so that you can be higher, stepping higher. And if you're going to become my pathway to enlightenment. And then you get emphysema and lung cancer and die young. That didn't help you, you know, that didn't help you get higher. So when you're going for enlightenment, sometimes there might be something that you step away from, but you have to make sure it's elevating, and sometimes you will embrace something, and it has to be elevating. It has to get you to that same place. So understanding, seeing the truth is most important. One more story about that. There is a famous Chinese Kung Fu master demonstrating martial arts. There's a big crowd of people around and he had one of his students get in front of him and he said, he yelled, attack! And then the student comes in with a punch. He kind of moves to the side and then he touches an acupuncture point on his ribs and then the guy's arm falls down limp. And then the master says again, attack! And then he punches again, and he steps to the side, and he touches a different acupuncture point on his arm, and then the other arm falls down, limp, like this. And then he yells again, attack! And he comes in with a kick. This time he moves out of the way, and he touches a point on his ear, and then the leg falls flat. And then he yells again, attack! And the guy can't attack anymore. And then he yells again, attack! And the guy doesn't attack. And then one of the guys, someone in the audience who's watching says, wow, the master has the ability to make his opponent deaf. Seeing the right thing, doing the right thing, it matters. If you are proceeding in your practice where you do things that are ill-advised, where you're not really seeing the truth, then it doesn't help you. So it's very important that you follow the path of stepping away or stepping into, that it brings you to a true understanding. Okay. So thank you. We will take a break for about 15 minutes, then we'll come back, meditate a little more and talk a little more

0:57:14
All right, let's let's begin with another meditation. We'll sit for three songs

0:57:19
the

0:57:26
the the so the the the the the the Oh, So, so Oh, the the the the so you I'm going to go get some water. So Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so So you you the the the the the the the So So so so so so so so So so You're my hero Very nice. You guys are getting the hang of this. Meditation, stilling the mind.

1:11:41
When there's no thoughts, that's perfect consciousness. Enlightenment is emptiness. Emptiness of self, emptiness of thoughts. It's not a presence, it's an absence. We see an analogy in Zen. We say there's a mirror, and we're looking at the mirror to see truth, but the mirror is very obscured. There's all sorts of stuff on the mirror. Actually, a better analogy is a car windshield. It's like, you're trying to drive to get somewhere, right? And then your windshield has all this stuff on it. It's got all these things, like you put your coffee on your roof and started driving and fell on your windshield. There's like dirt, there's like sticky sap from a tree, there's like pigeon droppings. You've got all this crap on your windshield. You're trying to drive somewhere, and it's hard to see. It's dangerous. You can get hurt, you might have an accident, because when you look through the windshield, there's all this stuff overlaying it. And these things are reactions of self, right? The ego is taking all of life and consciousness and eternity and bringing it into a small, confined, limited view. When we can open up and let go, wipe everything clean, then everything Everything is open, unlimited, free, eternal. So when we can wipe away the things on the windshield, we can then see life in its eternal sense, its pure aspect. But what are those things on the windshield? things like frustration, things like desire, these are, you know, expectations, all sorts of just things of the self, even thoughts, attachments. And enlightenment is simply letting them go away or washing them from the windshield so that you can see life as it is. That way you won't get into accidents. You can see as far as you can, you know, as the horizon. So we want to let go of these things. You know, enlightenment doesn't mean that, you know, you're going to avoid unpleasant things. It doesn't mean that you're going to get all of your desires. It means that you'll be strong enough and have a great perspective of mind and spirit to face any hardship in life and still see truth, still see that life is beautiful. It doesn't mean that you'll get your desires, it means that you won't have these invested desires. So you won't be like, oh my gosh, I won't be happy until this thing happens. You'll get to a point where that comes off the windshield and you don't have an attachment to that desire. Your fulfillment and happiness doesn't come from external things. It comes from that eternal light that's within you. So, just like in meditation, letting go of thoughts, the moment you let go of thought, there's light and there's spirit, something you can't even describe in words. This is what we seek to do, let go of these things. And it is a path that brings you to a greater satisfaction than you can imagine as a self. Buddha had a student, a lay practitioner, his name was Uga, cool name, caveman name too.

1:16:29
Uga.

1:16:30
Anyway, so Uga was a householder, you know, he's like some merchant had some money, and he had been following Buddhist teachings for some time, and then he invited Buddha to come over for dinner. And so Buddha came over and he brought 10 monks with him and they all came into the house and Uga and his wife cooked. So they cooked the best possible food that they could for Buddha and his monks. And they just did it in a very selfless way. So they were happy seeing Buddha and his monks eating. And then it was a tradition sometimes to give robes to monks. And so, Uga had these beautiful silk robes, and he offered them to Buddha, and Buddha accepted it. And just by being very selfless, Uga, in that evening, became liberated. He attained enlightenment. And all the monks were wondering why. You know, they're like, hey, we're following all your teachings for so long and this guy just gives us like something to eat, you know, and then all of a sudden he's luminous and enlightened. And Buddha said, you know, it's not just a monk that could become enlightened. A householder, when they give of their house, they're giving from their heart. And they could give so selflessly that the self goes away. And this is what happened for Uga. So, it's through different practices, meditation, stopping thought, selfless giving, letting go of, you know, attachments and desires and giving of yourself completely. the self, erasing the windshield and seeing eternity. Enlightenment is not something so complex. I know if you read some spiritual books, it can be quite confusing. They go into all sorts of abstract structures. They make up all sorts like ideas and ways of looking at things that could be very hard to understand. I remember I was reading some of the Tibetan Tantras, these advanced teachings, and I have perfect discrimination in seeing, so I understand what they're talking about, but that the symbols are so complex and you know, very very mired in cultural symbolism, and also a systems development of pieces of understanding. And so it's very difficult if someone were to pick up one of those books and say, I want to learn about enlightenment. You'd be like, whoa, maybe I better incarnate as a Tibetan again. So, you know, and a lot of people who give teachings, they'll give teachings that can be very complex, either too simple so that it doesn't do anything, or so complex that you come out confused. So, enlightenment is actually very simple. And the teachings are really something simple enough that a 12-year-old can get it. So, you're like, oh no, what's wrong with me? Just kidding. Yeah, so, you know, there's a lot of times where one could become too mental, get caught up in too many mental processes. Enlightenment is easy. You can feel it, and see it, and sense it, your spirit. If you overthink it, you end up in all sorts of ways of looking at things where it brings you out of reality. There were two, or there were a few, Zen monks discussing the subject and the object. What is real, and what is illusion. And they were sitting there talking and talking and talking and then the Zen Master came over to listen. And one Zen monk figured it all out. And he says, all of this is an illusion. All of you are in my mind. And then the Zen Master said, oh, am I in your mind? And then he said, oh, yes, Zen Master, you too are not even real. You are just in my mind, like enlightenment manifesting in my mind to tell me stuff about enlightenment. Then the Zen Master says, hmm, how about that tree? Is that tree in your head? And he says, yes, that tree, even though it manifests and looks like its own thing, is actually in my own mind. Then the Zen master, you notice he already changed the words, he picks up a rock and he says, is this rock in your head? And then the monk says, yes, even that rock is in my head. So the Zen master throws the rock, hits him in the head, bounces down on the ground and he's like, ouch. And the Zen master says, doesn't look like that rock is in your head. But in a lot of different types of spiritual practices, they get very brainy in talking about the perception of life and what's real and who's the real I, who's the I who perceives the I. You know, things like that, you know, and it gets a little bit too out there. I like to be very practical and True story there is a there is a Advaita teacher like a Swami and he's he was teaching like this about you know, who's the true eye and he went on for an hour and And then one of his disciples afterwards, goes over to him and he's all enthusiastic. He doesn't, you know, he's like, wow, that was an amazing talk. And then he said, but, but master, you must be even smarter than Einstein. And then, then he said, Swami says, what do you mean? And he said, well, they say that only maybe about 10 people in the world can truly understand Einstein and nobody can understand you. He meant it as a compliment. A little bit. So, you know, enlightenment is funny. There's humor in enlightenment and there's life is just funny. You got to have a sense of humor, because that's the way life is. You could be sitting there one moment, empty of thoughts, experiencing eternity. Then the next moment, you could be on the highway, in the rain, changing a flat tire. And when you do that, that's funny.

1:23:58
It is.

1:23:59
You've got to have a sense of humor. And then you look at it, like, wow, this is really funny. And then you start to say, all right, well, now I have something to do. I have something to do that's very, very definite. Change my attire. Let me have fun with this. That's the spirit of enlightenment. To see eternity. To bask in that illumination, and also to experience the world with its difficulties and troubles, and to have a sense of humor, and to do everything as perfectly as you can. Enlightenment isn't an impossible thing. I like to say enlightenment is as easy as Sunday morning on a Thursday. Just kidding. But, you know, it's just that enlightenment is pretty unpopular. People tend to really cling to their desires and their fears, their ideas. When letting go of those and opening to a greater dimension of their being seems scary. And if you want enlightenment more than anything else, you will be enlightened. But if you want other stuff, then you'll get other stuff eventually. And then it'll go away. Enlightenment is something that sticks with you. You know, it's something that once there's an attainment of enlightenment, it doesn't go away. It's an eternal attainment. If you get stuff, because you desired stuff, you'll get it and then it will go away. Things that one desires in the transient world remain transient so it doesn't create satisfaction, just temporary relief, temporary joy. Enlightenment is something that people make religions out of. They say, oh, there's something bright. Now let's organize it. And now let's put some custodians in to take care of it. And then it becomes not enlightenment anymore. They put it up on a pedestal, then they get afraid of it. You know, they go through all these different processes of limitation around enlightenment. Enlightenment is something that you can all attain. Enlightenment is something that's already within you. It's not something that's foreign. It's just something that you want to get in touch with. When Buddha attained liberation, he was walking down the road, and the first person that he met noticed something about him and said, no. And then he said, Are you a man? And then Buddha said, I'm awake. So enlightenment is not a giant, grandiose, amazing thing, although it is. It's just natural, the natural state, the essential state of your eternal being. And when you are completely immersed in the infinite aspect of yourself, there's nothing super special about it. It's just the natural way of being. The way of the self is unnatural and creates difficulty. So this is important. You should consider your enlightenment. Consider your state of consciousness, consider your usual awareness. What is life like for you? Are you constantly seeing eternity in all things? Is that your perspective? Do you feel balance and harmony even when facing difficulties? Do you see luminosity when you meditate? Are your thoughts completely still? What is your experience day to day? This is a teaching that draws your attention beyond that routine of consciousness, you can start to see enlightenment within you and within your life. So I'd like to give you an esoteric teaching. It is the teaching of enlightenment. It is a direct seeing of your enlightened eternal nature. This is a teaching that is beyond words. It is a direct experience of enlightenment.

1:29:42
Yeah, so that's pretty easy, right?

1:29:44
Not setting you guys up for anything, like, really big. But it's true. And the best way to experience this is to, I mean, don't have any expectations. Just try to be a little bit still. You're going to bring your focus to the third eye. Don't focus too hard. Don't try too much. Just try to be a little bit still. And then you'll look up here towards me. In the inner worlds, I will open up the gateless gate, the doorway to enlightenment for you to see your own true nature. So we're just going to sit for one song. Let's begin.

1:30:32
the the the the so so so Oh, the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the the the the you Very nice. Now I'd like you in the audience to share some of your experiences in this

1:33:02
esoteric teaching. This is very important because sometimes you have a seeing, a vision, a spiritual understanding, but because you're not so practiced in the disciplines of enlightenment, you'll experience it and then you'll say, Oh, my eyes were messing with me, or it was just nothing. Don't be so quick to dismiss these spiritual experiences, they open you to a whole new world of eternity. So, if we share, someone who says, Oh yeah, well, I experienced this, or I saw this, they might trigger your awareness, and you say, Oh yeah, I saw that too, but I just immediately dismissed it. And then when you hear that someone else had a similar awareness, then you say, oh, maybe that is something. So this is a practice of having completely spiritual experiences and bringing them into your physical mind, your physical awareness. So, if anyone in the audience would be so kind to share their experience. That would be wonderful. Oh, it's me? Oh, hey. I just wanted to say I'm a really big fan. And, yeah, during my

1:36:42
vision, I had seen a lot of animals just morphing in the back. And I'd also seen you transforming different faces from male to female. And I kind of feel like that lesson gave me a perspective that we're all interconnected, like, in life, that we're all woven out of the same tapestry.

1:37:43
Okay, very good.

1:37:43
I mean, I don't know about the cockroaches, but the symbols, you're interpreting the symbols

1:38:09
correctly.

1:38:12
Yes. The first thing that started to happen, or that I noticed, was I was wondering, are my eyes supposed to be open? Wait. And then I started to notice, and I'm not sure if it's because of my age and how my eyes are changing, I could see two of you. And then tried to not focus on that. But then my eyes began to flutter. And, but I, this is the funniest part is that behind you on your left shoulder from here is a shadow that I've been looking at since sitting down here earlier that reminds me of a lion's face and ear.

1:39:03
So that was my experience.

1:39:04
I also saw an animal, it was a horse behind you. It was like a large horse, it's gold.

1:39:25
And I also saw your body disappear and your face was just smiling in the sort of, it's like the center of a golden daisy or something. And then your body came back and it looked like you were in gold robes.

1:39:52
So my experience was less visual and more of a feeling. And so when the meditation started,

1:40:12
it felt like there was a tidal wave or an ocean of just energy and everything was pure energy. And then halfway through it felt like it moved up into just a whole world of love energy. And it felt like everything was just the same thing. And it was just one big ocean of love. And it felt very beautiful.

1:40:43
there's some visual awareness. Animals, the universe, everything disappears. But sometimes the best seeings are awarenesses, feelings.

1:41:04
So for me, it was a lot about feeling as well.

1:41:08
It was gold, light everywhere, and you were pretty bold and sharp and crisp. But the feeling was like no pain, no nothing. It was like stillness. And at one point I felt like this is how it looks like to be dead. And it was really amazing. I was just like, perfect.

1:41:43
feeling kind of silly right now, because I think I was the only one who missed the directions. I thought I was supposed to open my eyes after the song ended. So I had my eyes closed the whole time, but immediately once the music started, like, it was like something just hit me,

1:41:58
and it kind of stayed, so I was kind of freaking out for a couple seconds, and I was like, calm down, calm down. But I did kind of see it was like a black, a solid black top hat that was just coming at me at the beginning, but it was just feelings through my entire upper body. I don't know what to think of it, but it was very powerful.

1:42:34
I saw your body and the background kind of shift around like this, and then I saw you

1:42:45
like your body was like standing up, but you were like in the position that you were in,

1:42:50
so it was almost like you became like the shape of a Buddha. And then I saw my dad, and I started to tear up, and it made me feel like that I shouldn't be afraid of like my family dying and it was just really beautiful.

1:43:20
Thank you.

1:43:26
This was a esoteric lesson of enlightenment. Can someone get me my Disney princess diary? I'm going to answer some questions. But this is very important. The pathway to enlightenment is not something that you can gain from a book. You might learn some things from a book, but it has to be an experience.

1:44:03
You have to have experiences in light. Thank you.

1:44:06
Experiences in light. If things that you read in a book drive you to experiencing light, then that's good. If a talk that a teacher gives drives you to experiencing truth, then that's good. But if all you do is hear talks and read books, and you don't actually experience it, then you don't make much progress. So, this was an experience. And every time you meditate, you have an experience. So meditation is the foundation of the pathway to enlightenment. Meditation is stopping thought, going into light, experiencing spirit beyond self. So make sure you're doing your meditation. It's better than just sitting around doing nothing. noticed something by sitting here with you. Because when I'm talking to the audience, I'm also really connecting with each one of you. I'm teaching not just everybody, but everybody. I've noticed that the right people are in the room. You have something going for you that is very, very helpful for enlightenment. And it is your subtle physical body. Your energy body has a signature of what I would call, you know, the advanced practitioners. It shows me that you've developed yourself in meditation in many past lives. And what it appears to be is what I call the crystal sphere. So your aura, your subtle physical body, is a complete sphere around and surrounding your physical body. And it looks kind of crystalline, which is just a dimensions in your aura. Now this is important because this is an aura that's very good at accepting transmissions of kundalini and that illumination to develop yourself. Now, most people, the vast majority of people have what I call a mushroom aura. It looks like a mushroom. It goes like this and then opens up. And for them, if they would meet an esoteric teacher who transmits power and light to them, the power and light would go in and they would feel it and they'd say, wow, something magical happened. And then that power and light would very quickly go out of their aura. But when you have the crystal sphere aura, what happens is that light goes in and then it bounces around inside. And then you're able to harness it, experience it longer, integrate it into your being, so that you can practice better, meditate better, have higher, brighter experiences. So, you've been an advanced spiritual seeker in past lives. You know, you're kind of every lifetime born with a body and born with a subtle physical body, and from lifetime to lifetime that can change. Maybe you started off in the mushroom aura, and then you've developed this crystal sphere. And it gives you an edge on the pathway to enlightenment. The same way that if you were like seven foot tall, had an athletic build, you'd probably be good at basketball. It'd be a good thing for you to go into, right? Because you, for some reason, have the karma to have the athletic build and the height to help you with that game. So you guys are like the basketball, you know, basketball material of enlightenment, right? Yeah, you can join my basketball team, the Enlightenment All-Stars. You know, so you have an edge, and it's very important for someone who follows the advanced path, the fast path to enlightenment, to be able to take these transmissions and use them. So for all of you who are new, you are invited, if you'd like, to become a student of mine. And if you're a student of mine, you'll continue to take your, you know, classes with your meditation teacher, weekly meditation classes, working on the Enlightenment workbook. But then I will start to work with you inwardly, making these transmissions of light and power. And then you can take advantage of your crystal sphere to use these teachings for your benefit. So I'd like to thank you all very much. It was a very beautiful evening of meditation with you. But I will answer a couple of questions before we go to the India presentation.

1:50:56
All right, so sometimes I get questions from you, you give them to your meditation teacher

1:51:02
and then I'll eventually get them and I write them down in this book. And then I like to... I mean, otherwise I could like, you know, have it on my phone and read it, but this just makes it more funny. All right. When there are horrible things going on in the world, like gun shootings, or you see something terrible happening, don't we have an obligation to fight back? What is the enlightened take on activism? means action. So activism is karmaism, and that means that you would engage in something that keeps you in karmas. So I would say, what you really want to do is go beyond karma. Activism is something that can be a trap. You can get caught up in something, see something on the news, and then you say, oh, I better do something about that. But then you can watch the news and then find a thousand things to be an activist about, right? And then if you put all of your time and energy into that, then you're just reacting. This is karma-ism. Things happen way over there, you hear about it, and then you react to it. Something happens way over there, you react to it. So, this caught up in matters that you don't need to get caught up in. You don't have to fight back. There's not a necessity to fight back. In fact, if you find peace, if you take the whole world and find peace in your mind, you become enlightened. You're not fighting, you know, to save the baby seals or, you know, trying to pass gun laws or something like that, you just sit and you find peace in your mind. Then what happens is you create a vibration, you create a light that goes throughout the whole world and it makes everything in the whole world a little bit better. So instead of you, you know, taking one cause to throw your life into, and then falling into that battle, that karma. Or trying to take a thousand things and depleting yourself. If you can just let go of activism, karma-ism, and find the light within yourself, the truth within yourself, then you create a more enlightened effect for the whole world.

1:54:48
Okay.

1:55:03
Lord Ram is said to be Mar Yada Puru Shatam, the greatest of all men that ever lived. But he failed his wife. He sent her into the forest while she was pregnant. Mythological books provide justification saying Lord Ram did that for the greater good of society. Couldn't he have talked to the people of his kingdom and changed their minds instead of punishing this innocent woman? is sending her into the forest something that's wrong, how can he be called Marayatapuru Shatam? Interesting. So this comes from the Ramayana, an ancient tale of an enlightened guy named Rama and his adventures and misadventures. And essentially what happened was his wife was stolen away by a demon, brought to, you know, some other location. And then Rama had to go with his monkey Hanuman with him and get his wife back. And he succeeded. They had to fight a big battle, had all these great adventures, and he came back a big hero. And then in the book they start to say, well, people are thinking she spent a long time with that demon. Maybe she's not pure anymore. You know, things like that. So, first of all, towards the end of the Ramayana and Mahabharata, these Indian classics, they get a little weird. And, you know, these books are thousands of years old. So it can be that people reinterpreted them and wrote different things. People add to. So they might have said, you know, it could have been different. It could have been that Rama said, I don't care what anyone thinks. This is my wife and we stay in Ayodhya happily ever after. But then scholars, a thousand years later, say, oh, that doesn't look right. You know, so they come in with their social moral ideas and then they go, we should change the text. That could have very well happened. So you never really, really, really know. However, if that did happen, this is a person who's considered an avatar, a completely fully enlightened being, a complete perfect expression of life. So, if he said, hey, honey, people are talking. I know how to solve this and create peace. And, you know, sometimes people just don't listen, even to a ruler, even to someone who's, you know, enlightened. They'll just be like, no, I'm still, you know, they have their ideas and they can't let go of them. So maybe he said, this is the way to solve the problem. You go out in the forest and hang out there. Now, if Lord Rama appeared right before us and he told me right now, get off stage and go to the mountain and just live there, I'd be like, yeah. Because there's going to be something very, very, very beautiful and magical. There's going to be a great dharma in it. So instead of looking at it as a bad thing, maybe look at it as her pathway to enlightenment. not a punishment, but a way for her to move forward, to be higher. Now, she and her husband Rama, they lived in the forest together for years. So, maybe it's not such a bad thing. Maybe not a punishment, but a blessing. But I still think the story was corrupted towards the end. Animals raised for food live very unhappy lives, especially when they get slaughtered, the conditions are very bad. And a lot of the time, the animals go through a lot of physical pain and also experience a lot of fear, seeing the other animals die in front of them. aren't we vegetarian so that we don't support these practices? Don't support these practices. That's my answer. So this is a interesting... So the world that we live in is... it's like corrupt If you were going to do everything right where no one would get hurt by what you consume or what you do, you couldn't live in society. You would be, you know, living in the forest with realms of life. So maybe, yeah, that would be a way to go. So first of all, karma to you is what you are aware of and what you focus on. So if you don't know anything about animals being cut up and put into meat and on your plate, if all you get is a hamburger served to you and you don't know where it came from, it's just something you eat. This probably was happening when you were a kid. You like, oh, there's food, I eat food. You don't get any bad karma for the death of that animal. Now if you were given a knife and someone said, here's a cow, if you want a hamburger, go for it, right? That's where, if you killed that cow to make a hamburger, you would get a lot of karma. But when meat to you is something that you buy in the supermarket, and it comes on a little styrofoam platter with saran wrap, if you just say that's food, and you buy it, you don't get a lot of karma. So it's important to realize that what you think about, what you dwell on, starts to create more karma. So you could say, well, I saw a documentary about this, and the animals were so sad, I never want to eat meat again. Then you don't have to. The more you think about it, and you look into it, the more you see how horrible it is, and then you can't eat meat anymore.

2:02:07
So good.

2:02:08
Don't eat meat anymore. But the more you think about it, the more you get into anything. Like paying taxes.

2:02:20
Right?

2:02:21
So if someone said to you, that dollar that you're going to give in your taxes is going to buy a bullet that's going to kill someone, then would you give the government that dollar? I'd be like, no, I don't want to kill someone with my dollar, right? So the same way that you eat a burger, you kill a cow, you pay taxes, who, you know, you might be buying bullets that kill people. So there are structures that we live in that we really don't have the power to change. And if you think about it, you're going to be a vegetarian who doesn't pay taxes, living out in the forest with Rama's wife. Because if you really think about it too much, then you're going to be like, oh my gosh, you're going to start chirping out. But the structures that exist here, we have to be fluid and say, I can't change that structure. If I don't pay taxes, I can get locked up and put in prison. So you have to be kind of fluid. Understand that life isn't perfect, far from perfect. But in the physical, like I said, in the physical, things might be killing animals and buying bullets to shoot people, but you can still be in your mind in perfect consciousness and still eat a hamburger and still pay taxes. If you can affect a system that will create real change, then be a part of that which is good. So if there was a movement where a billion people said, we're going to stop eating cows because we like them as friends. Then I would join that movement, and then that can create real change. But if you just said, I'm going to personally choose not to eat a cow, then great, that's good for you. We've got some good questions here. All right, so, since becoming your student, I have had a few amazing internal mental experiences with you. It was like you were showing me kinds of great spiritual things. And like, same time, like we were playing like great friends. Like when I was, a lot of likes. Like when I was 10 playing in the park. These experiences gave me profound insight, but they don't happen often. Sometimes I really, really try to have the experience, but nothing happens. Why? That's great. So, it takes some time to develop this connection, understanding it, working with the energy in a positive way. The fact that you had very, very bright internal mental experiences, this is good. This is a step in the right direction. Enjoy it and honor it, because that's what should happen. But it shouldn't happen all the time in the beginning. It takes time for you to process things, to learn things, to do. There's a part that you've got to do on your own. I just give teachings in the right places. Sometimes you don't even notice the teachings. So, the fact that you have this awareness is great awareness. And this is part of that wonderful adventure. But over time, the light integrates in your being, where you have a constant connection to enlightenment through me. And you're always able to draw on that light, even if it's a bad day, you draw on infinity, you draw on the luminous, eternal light of being, and then it makes things a little bit better. It's like the meditation teachers. They have a deeper connection that they have really ingrained in their awareness field. So when they're teaching meditation to you, power comes through, insight and wisdom comes to you, light of enlightenment comes to you. It's because they've worked on this for a long time. And so it takes a little while to let it mature, to practice meditation and mindfulness so that it becomes stronger. But very good experiences. Okay. Good questions. Thank you very much. It was a wonderful evening of meditation and enlightenment on our last India pilgrimage. So a lot of light and energy and power comes through this. So if you would like, we'll take a break for 15 minutes and if you'd like, you're welcome to come back and see this presentation. and see this presentation. Thank you all.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
