0:00:00
All right. Wow. That was wonderful. All right. Good. You guys are looking very good. Ah, okay. Very good. Very good. All right. So we finally made it out here, hiked up into the gore chair, sat down, meditated. And now we're going to go somewhere else. This evening is about going somewhere. And Now, I have this weird hobby. I like to get obscure tantric texts and I like to read them. And let me tell you, they are obscure. You know, it's funny because all of the secret teachings of Tibet are now written and published. And it always says in the beginning, oh, you You have to be initiated and go through all the stuff, but the translators, we translated it and published it anyway. So all the secret teachings are published. They're very, very, you know, like if you read it, you'll be like, what is going on? Very obscure things. So you do have to have either really excellent spiritual discrimination, or you have to be initiated in school to understand what's going on. But I found an interesting text that talked about some things called Sukhavati and I recognized this thing called Sukhavati. I recognized it because I had been there, I had experienced Sukhavati many times here in this desert. Sukhavati, this is where we're going tonight. We're on a journey, a journey to Sukhavati. What is a Sukhavati? Sukhavati is something that Buddha called a Buddha field. This is a dimension of power and enlightenment. And in this desert, in this particular place, you can access Sukhavati. It is a dimension that exists that is very, very powerful, very, very, very bright. And Sukhavati illuminates your mind. Now when you come on a power trip, your life changes forever. And this is going to be a very, very, very beautiful, powerful transformation. Because tonight, when we go to Sukhavati, it empowers you. So one of the great things about Sukhavati and then things would manifest like an ashram would appear. Really. This is what they say in the text. would just appear that the monks needed. So Sukhavati is something, and this is a very, very, very powerful magic. Sukhavati is something where when your mind is illuminated in this Buddha field, the things that you need in your life. And it could be, you know, oh, I got a job. It could be, oh, I got a new car. Or it could be something just really appears. Like, wow, All right, so we are on a journey tonight to Sukhavati. And for my older students, too, this is a game changer. I know we have brand new students here. Good for you. You came in at a good time. All right, so tonight we're doing the advanced teachings for enlightenment and, there you go. That's very lovely. Wonderful. So Sukhavati is very, very, very special, very, very magical. And how do you get to Sukhavati? Well, if you know where it is, you can get there in But in this tantric text you have to go through all sorts of stuff. You have to go through like 30 years of training to be able to get to Sukhavati. But I know the secret. I know the shortcut. I know the way. Now there's a time and a place and a door and a key. So time and place. This is a secret to get to Sukhavati. So we are here in a place of power at a time of power and in a place of power at a time of power That is where you can access super body And we're going to and it's gonna be great All right, so

0:07:49
Let's talk about

0:07:51
the summer solstice is a time of power. There are times that are more powerful than others. The beginning of the summer, the beginning of the winter, the transition into spring, transition into autumn, the solstices and the equinoxes. These are times where it's easier to meditate, times that have more energy. So in the summer solstice, there's like the longest day of the year and it's a powerful day. It's a day where there's greater energy. It's an active energy and it's an active energy that pushes things together, creates unity. And so in that energy, we can meditate, and we can develop our personal power. So it's a powerful time. Winter solstice has a very beautiful emptiness. And then the equinoxes are times of balance. But we're here at this great time of energy and unity. And so this is a time where we can, as a sangha, create great, beautiful transformation. Because the energy of this time, it's like these dimensions open up. Dimensions. Dimensions. There are different dimensions. And dimensions are different experiences of life. So you could be, you know, experiencing the subway in Manhattan, you know, going to work, a bunch of people around you. And it's like that's certain experience of life, right? And you could then all of a sudden be on the beach in Hawaii. And that's a different experience of life. But there's other dimensions. There's subtle dimensions. And a subtle dimension could be love. So you could be, you know, normal experience of life. And then all of a sudden just focus on someone that you love or something that you love and then all of a sudden you enter into a different state of perceiving life a different dimension of life, so there are Unlimited dimensions there's thousands and thousands. There's no end ten thousand and more dimensions different ways of perceiving life. And when you perceive life through the right dimensions, then life is powerful, and life is beautiful. And if you perceive life in boring, dull dimensions, then you're like most people on the planet. But this is why in Buddhist mysticism, we start to learn about times of power. Because during times of power, we can start to see that there's more dimensions available. More ways to experience life, to look at life. And it's beautiful. Sukhavati is a dimension. It's a dimension of mind. It's a dimension of the universe. And when you can perceive life in that dimension, then you're in a Buddha field. This is an enlightened dimension. So, we are here to experience enlightenment. Why not? It's grand. Yeah, and then when we get back to, you know, the Bay Area, then I'll start seeing a whole bunch of things appearing. There'll be like Buddhist ashrams appearing over here, chicken sandwiches over there, Mercedes, good job. Okay. So, this is just very, very exciting. Times of Power. Times of Power. This is a great time of power and it's very conducive to a still mind. So this is why we come here to meditate. Times of power, very beautiful. I'm having a good time here. So a teacher will direct the dimensionality. It's kind of like this wind. This wind is a wind of power, and this wind is washing through you. This is a very powerful wind. Like, it has power. And it is washing through you and washing away toxicity. And a teacher can direct the energy of wind. The energy of wind can direct the energy of the time of the hour. So we can attune ourselves to flow. Let's do that. Let me show you what I'm talking about. Because I'm sitting here going, woo. And you guys are all like, something's happening. All right. So go ahead and sit And close your eyes. Bring a light focus to your third eye. And I want you to, in your mind, not out loud, just repeat the mantra, OM. And we're going to just sit for two or three minutes, but in this experience, we are going to be aligning with the kind. Let's begin. Very nice. So you are aligned. aligned with the dimensions, the energy flow of the summer solstice.

0:15:24
So, we're a couple of days after the solstice now.

0:15:29
Now, the solstice is a particular time. But it's really kind of a opening, a doorway. So it opens, takes a little while to open and then takes a little while to close. So a general rule of thumb is you start to feel the solstice transition opening about a week before and then it gets to the point where it's wide open, the moment of the solstice, and then to close. So, you know, it takes about a week to close. So we are, you know, definitely in that solstice transit, so the dimensions are completely available. Now, the solstice is something that brings us just beautiful, beautiful energy, beautiful dimensions. So it's kind of like, you know, on Christmas, like Christmas comes one day and all of a sudden you get presents. You're like, whoa, I got presents. This is great. And it's just because one day came where there were presents. Now this is a very natural Christmas, right? This is, this is based on the cycles of nature. And then it comes and it gives us spiritual presence. Our present is presence. And these beautiful experiences of peace and beautiful dimensions of light. So these are what we are able to experience on the soul system. Boy, yeah, these are good presents. I mean, I remember I used to get really funny, weird presents for Christmas. And we're like, why don't I get this big, giant Rastafarian belt buckle? I'm like, I don't even wear belts. I don't know. So we get good presents. They're wonderful. And we, this is Buddhist mysticism. We learn to feel, like we just did in this meditation exercise. We learn to feel the energy and access the dimensions of the solstice. And then what that does is it actually creates a power. It blows like a wind and fills our sails and pushes us forward. So we are able to take the energy of the solstice and really make a shift. And then that gives us momentum for a period of time up until the equinox. And then we attune to the dimensions of the equinox. We meditate, we still our minds and we experience those dimensions and again from from that power it pushes us forward. So we're constantly attuning our awareness to the cycles of nature, to the seasons, to the solstices and the equinoxes. Those are times of power and we learn to utilize that power to to to help us in our meditation, help us in our yoga, help us in our spiritual advancement. So this is a very fundamental practice of a Buddhist mystic. We make goals that are associated to those times. So we say, okay, I want to get a new job. I'm going to do it by the winter solstice. And then when you achieve your goals, you become powerful. And then you go into the solstice transit and it launches you even further. So it's very important. It's great to set goals before equinoxes and solstices, because when you do that, you gain greater personal power, and then you go into the solstice ready to change, ready to transform.

0:20:07
Now, solstices,

0:20:10
there are times that we have to also prepare ourselves for. We have to have discipline. And we have these four times a year where we always are checking our minds, checking our discipline, checking our what we call tonal, our awareness of our physical lives, awareness of our minds. We need to make sure that our life is bright and tight. So when we're coming up to solstices, when we're coming up to quinones, times of power, we're always making sure that our closet is clean, our room is clean. We're making sure that we needed to. Uh-oh, here's someone going, oops. Yeah, but we want to make sure that all of our affairs are in order, clean, everything in our lives, relationships, you know, everything's taken care of. And then our life is tight. Our life is bright. And then we can take advantage of the time of power. If your life is kind of sloppy and messy, then you can't really feel these dimensions. Like, your mind is all over the place. So, it's important that you have a tight mind. You practice mindfulness, that your life is clean, that your affairs are in order, and then you're able to come into the time of the solstice and truly take advantage of the beautiful dimensions. So this is what Buddhist mystics do. Every solstice, every equinox, we're settling our affairs. And this makes you, this is really good, this makes you have a tight, strong life. So these are our holidays where we get ourselves together so that we're ready. We can take advantage of the opportunities that the solstice offers. It's very lovely. We take the energy of the solstice and we use the power that we gain to elevate ourselves to advance our spiritual practice to you know, increase our our rate for our jobs, move to a more beautiful location, to do things that empower you. Now it's very important that you direct your mind after experiencing the power of the solstice because you're going to have that push from the energy and you're going to go somewhere with it. And if you don't direct your mind, you can spin out, you can go in a bad direction. But if you are focused on, okay, after this experience of these dimensions of power, now I'm going to go and do this. Set your goals for the next sequence. Then you will be putting this power in that direction it will elevate you to be strong because of it and then you'll be able to take advantage of the next equations even more. Yeah so power is like that. If you don't direct it then it'll start to come out if you go and put that formula on your rose bushes, they'll grow big and beautiful. But if you just kind of like walk around with a formula and you don't really know what you're doing, then just kind of drips down by your feet and then a whole bunch of weeds will So you have to tend to your garden properly. It's very important. So when you are leaving this place, start directing your mind to what you want to accomplish. of the solstice will help you to achieve those goals. Lovely.

0:25:12
Okay.

0:25:13
So, why don't we take a break. And now, we must discuss places of power. That's why I'm going around telling people don't go over there. In a place of power such as this place there are many, many, many, many dimensions of power here. And some of those dimensions of power are vibrations or experiences of awareness that don't promote a positive experience. So there are tremendously intense energy lines here that if you sit in it, if you sit in that energy field, it will make you feel very bad. It'll get you very confused. So when you come to this place, this place is very technical. So you have to be very careful where you go. That's why I'm like, don't pee over there. And I'm working with the energy lines here in a mystical way so that we can have a very, very powerful experience. So if I've gone over to you and said, don't go there, don't feel bad about it. I'm just observing the energy lines, what would work for you and powerful about. Places of power. Power have a vibration. There's an aura that vibrate and when you go to a good place of power. The vibration. Picks you up. So you have a vibration and then the place has a vibration and then you start to vibrate faster when you're in the place. You go into the place that has faster vibration, and then you go, woohoo! Feel better! And there's different powers, different vibrations. This is a very good vibration. Good vibration. So when we're here in a place of power, our sub-physical body actually becomes powerful. We start to soak up the powerful energy of the place. It's wonderful. But again, this place is a place you must respect. There's some places of power where it's like, maybe everything is easy going. But this place, you really have to respect it and be very, very careful. Now this is a very wonderful place of power from our lineage, because my teacher used to take me and other students out here and show me different dimensions of enlightenment. And so this is a place where I've been many, many, many times. And I've come here with my teacher. And it's really like our school's place of power. It's very good that for your first power trip, you come to the Anza Bureba. Now, places of power, sometimes you have to be careful. Power is a tricky thing. Where the light shines the brightest, you can find the darkest shadows So, in a place like this, there's dangers. So you have to have your wits about you. You have to be focused. So, people have come here, none of my students, but I've seen other people come here and had some very, very bad experiences. So here's a really important rule. Don't go wandering around places of power by yourself. Do not come to this place of power by yourself. There's places of power that you can go to. Yes, it's okay. Like Shasta, go over to the bunny flats for an hour or so, that's totally fine. During the day, not at night. That's a safe place. And here, just don't come here by yourself. Don't come here without me or another enlightened teacher from our because you don't know what you could get into here. People have gotten into trouble. There are difficulties if you don't know what you are doing. We have to respect this place greatly, and all places of power. If you are new to places of power, you have to be very careful and respectful. Little by little you will learn about it. So my older students have been here, and still they won't come here by themselves. They don't want to mess up. But they know other places of power that they can go to, because they've learned enough about how to work with places of power and the dimensions that they have. This place is an inter-dimensional vortex of amazing dimensions of cool power and light. And just by being here, we start to gain those powers. We're like little sponges soaking up beautiful, enlightened energy. Good, my wind sock is really helping. So, when you're going to a place of power, this is why we're not just sitting around chatting and having mundane conversations. Because we have to have a solemn respect for the place. And if we start talking about video games or something like that, then our attention starts to go into a mundane field, a dross awareness. And it's not refined, and you can't open up to the power. You start to mask it over. So that's why being quiet, being still and reflective is important. You be a spiritual warrior when you come out to a place of power like this. Yeah, treating a place of power like this incorrectly, or coming out here and getting into the wrong dimensions, have the wrong experiences, find the wrong beings, and have trouble. So you have to respect this place. Just like we were in France Point last night, and the officer who we bumped into, he said that someone died there that day. They walked in, they're hiking around, and then dead. Heat exhaustion. But who knows what dimensions that person experienced? Throughout this desert there's intense energies, especially this place. So we must respect the power of the desert. It can be deadly. And when we have that awareness, then we're sober, then we're focused, then we're not messing around, and then you're going to do very well. Coming to this place is kind of like scuba diving. If you're trained, if you're focused, if you're doing the right things, then it's very powerful and enjoyable. But if you're a mess, you know, untrained and all over the place and you forgot to turn on your air or something like that, you got your weight belt on, you're not inflated, you know, that happens. That really does happen. And that's because people are not focused and have the wrong state of mind. But when you have the right state of mind, then you're able to take advantage of being in a place of power, I can show you amazing things. We are going to make a connection to this place. When you make a connection to a place of power, you become friends with the place. And you have a luminous thread that brings you to the power of the place, connects you to the place. And that connection is something that you can recall in meditation, you can recall when you're sitting in traffic. So at any point you are able to bring to mind the feeling, the power of the place, and you're transported back here. So you'll be sitting in traffic and then you go, I remember this beautiful place in the desert and how it felt. And then instead of being bothered by traffic, you are empowered by the place. You move your attention from the physical world that's draining to this beautiful place of power. So as Buddhist mystics we learn how to connect to places and how to use that connection to enhance our life in the world. So what we're going to do is we're going to make a connection with this place, a connection that will always be with you, that you'll always be able to draw upon. And to do this, we are going to have an open-eye meditation. And I want you to look to the top of this mountain, the center top point, wherever you perceive that to be, I want you to just look up in that direction. You will very, very quickly start to still your mind, very easily see the aura of the mountain, but then there's something else that I'm going to show you right up in the top center of this mountain. So just have a soft focus on your third eye and gaze to the top of the mountain. Okay.

0:37:55
Very nice. Very nice. Very nice. All right. That simple exercise is an exercise of casting your attention into a profound dimension of power that is the heart of this place. So, I need some audience participation. I want you to tell me your experience, what you saw, what you felt, what your awareness was. And I'll start with you.

0:38:48
Speak into the mic, please. I saw a gold light on top of the mountain. It felt like a... Louder and closer.

0:38:52
It looked like the sun.

0:38:53
Gold. Warm color. Gold. And I was like, I don't know what to do. I was like, I don't know what to do. I was like, I don't know what to do. I was like, I don't know what to do. I was like, I don't know what to do. I was like, I don't know what to do. I was like, I don't know what to do.

0:39:03
I was like, I don't know what to do.

0:39:04
I was like, I don't know what to do.

0:39:05
I was like, I don't know what to do. I was like, I don't know what to do.

0:39:07
I was like, I don't know what to do. I was like, I don't know what to do.

0:39:09
like a sun, gold, warm color, gold sun bursting out from the top of the mountain, like lava or something.

0:39:21
And it felt like a connection with the crown chakra is just illuminated and filled up with this gold light and it bursted the same way. It's a very powerful, immense energy I feel in my head right now, so I'm trying to crown myself.

0:40:26
Me too.

0:40:28
Thank you.

0:40:30
Alright, that was very good, very accurate. Anyone else want to share what their scene was?

0:40:40
Okay, good.

0:40:42
I saw what seems to be a guardian at the top,

0:40:46
but then I felt like maybe it was also you at the top.

0:40:49
Yeah.

0:40:50
Okay.

0:40:51
Yep.

0:40:51
All right, good. So, there were other things to see up there, but at least you get a couple ideas that are good scenes. Places of power. This is a place that Buddhists want to go to. Buddhist mystics want to come to a place like this. Because there are other types of places of power. There are divine places of power. So they are very, very different than the places of power in the Southwest. The Southwest of the United States has many places of power. The Southwest of the United States is like the naval chakra of the world. So there are many beautiful, amazing places of power. And they're places of pure power, spiritual power. But in India, all the places that we go, they're not extremely powerful, but they have some divinity, a connection to divine dimensions. So when you climb to the top of Arunachala, there. It's like, wow, there's Shiva. Whoa, he looks blue. It's true. And then you go up to Rishikesh, right? And then you go into the Gorak Shana cave. And then all of a sudden you're transported through the dimensions next to Gorak Shana. Gorak Shana comes over and says, Hey, welcome to my cave. Whoa, he's really there. Or you might see Ganesha. And it's just incredible. You go to these places and the divine, you know, the divine is present and it's manifest. So those are divine places of power. So if you go to the place, you get the blessing of the God. Now, Buddhist mystics are not looking for a God to bless them. Buddhist mystics are looking for truth, are looking for freedom, are looking for enlightenment. So we come to not places where some God will sit there and go, Hey, you're a good little guy. I'll give you a little blessing. Here's some spending money. I mean, that's cool. That's why we go to India. No, that's really good. But it doesn't, you know, we don't worship gods. Gods are incarnate beings as well, just better ones. So we don't worship gods as Buddhists. We acknowledge them, we bow to them, we care. Well, yeah, they're wonderful. But we want to go beyond self, beyond even an incarnation of a god. We want to have a full experience of the totality of our being, which is eternity. Now there's other places of power that have a big effect on you. And that, well, let's say, not a place of power, but a place, the place that has a big effect on you is the place you live, wherever you frequently go, has a tremendous effect on you, on your power. So, you know, for example, if you live in West Oakland, that's a very high crime rate neighborhood. It's like you're existing in a place where your life could be affected. You could walk 20 blocks and not even get out of a crime scene. You'll be stuck in all of this terror, where you could be attacked, you could be robbed. Versus if you live in Seacliff in San Francisco. Beautiful area. The sea cliff. It's nice to live there. Big, beautiful mansions. If you live there, something's going right. You know, there's just good energy there. Right there next to the sea. With the seagulls. Versus next to the bay with the bagels. my old bagel. So the place that you that you live. It has a higher population. There's tons and tons of cemeteries there. There's more dead people there than living people. And it's really cute. When you drive into Coma, they have these signs that say, Welcome to Coma, So don't live there. But places where you live really tremendously affect you. So I had this co-worker. He was born in Cambodia during the time of the Khmer Rouge, which was killing lots of people. It was a time of death. He lived in a remote village. He was like 12, and he was a farmer. He would farm, and that was his life. He was illiterate, never went to school. Then one day the Khmer Rouge and they burned the village and killed a bunch of people. Somehow he got into some camp, and then the UN, somehow he was lucky enough to come to America, went to school, realized he was a genius, got a PhD at MIT, and then he was the head of artificial intelligence at Citibank. So I was working with him, and he was just a great, talented guy. But he said, yeah, you know, I would have lived my whole life if there wasn't that war, and if I didn't come to America. My whole life I wouldn't have had education. I wouldn't have been able to realize that I'm very, very good at these amazing technologies. So if he was there in that life, he would have only had a certain experience, but in a different place He has much more opportunity so You can consider the different experiences that you can have if you live in Hawaii. What is life like? Sir, there's certain opportunities there. We lived in Hawaii for a while. It's kind of nice and The thing is that we have a software company, so we were together building something. But if you live in Hawaii generally, you know, there's good weather, you can go out into the ocean anytime you want, it's very nice, but then the opportunity for, you know, your career is far diminished. If you live in San Francisco, your opportunity for career, your livelihood, the strength of your career path is much stronger. So different places, different opportunities. What would life be like if you lived in a third world country? If you were in Somalia or something? Your life would be drastically different. you would have far less opportunity. So the place that you live has a tremendous effect on your personal power. That's why we try to live in beautiful places. Because they open up different opportunities. So let's say that you live in Pacifica and you live in the San Pedro Valley. That is a place of power. It's beautiful. I love it. And so living there, you're constantly getting good energy. It's great for meditation. It's a wonderful place. So, you know, versus like if you live downtown, like Tenderloin, San Francisco, that's kind of an area that some not so good energy. So you try to put yourself in a place where you have better opportunities to feel good. Live in a sea cliff. That would be much, much better than West Oakland. So that's a place that affects you. And we really try to get to these places where there's places of power, where you can engage with it, you can live there, you can be there for a long period of time. This is a very intense spiritual place of power. You can't hang out here very long. It's too intense. But there are places of power that you can live in that have a good vibration that help you to thrive, to help you make money, to give you a good happy life. So, you know, a place that comes to mind is Walden Pond in Massachusetts. This is a place where Thoreau lived for a year, and it's a place of power. He could live there for a whole year and just have a very deep, beautiful experience, deep reflective awareness of life. So this is good. Sometimes there will be a mall built on a place of power. So in places like Rodeo Drive, that is a place of power. So if you go there and just stand there, it's strong. It's very good. So shopping there, putting your attention into things there, focusing, it brings you into a high state It's a funny thing. So there's all sorts of different types of places of power. There's like the houses in the sea cliff, for example. The sea cliff is a place of power. It's a place where if you reside there, it makes you stronger, more powerful. It helps you make more money. So this is where we get into places of power that are practical. Places that help you to do different things. We come to a spiritual place of power for money. Because it will help us to gain money. It's a very useful thing. So for example, Wall Street. Wall Street is a place of power for money. If you work on Wall Street, you're making money. But more than that, when I take my students to New York, we'll walk through those energy lines and we'll really connect to the power of the place. So, I mean, there's plenty of people on Wall Street making very little, but there are people, mystical people in Wall Street who connect to the energy lines, very powerful wealth lines, and then they use it to make themselves fabulously wealthy. And so when we go there, we connect. We're mystics. We're not just walking around downtown. We're on an adventure through these powerful wealth lines. So there's places of power that help you thrive, where you can live. There's places of power of wealth, places of power of education. Stanford, for example, it's a place of power of education. And very powerful. So, if you go to school there, then you gain a power, the power of the place. And that gives you a tremendous energy. I mean, UC Berkeley is a great school. You can get a great education there. It's fantastic. But it just isn't a place of power like Stanford. So if you're a mystic and you're at Stanford, you gain a greater power because of the dimensions there. When you are in a place of power, it changes the way that you think. So if you go to, like this happened for me, when I was learning computers for the first time, my My teacher had his older students give us lessons. And one of the older students went to Stanford and was able to get a room there to teach. So the first class was in some auditorium in Stanford. And I was all afraid of computer programming. I was like, oh, I don't like it, and I'm bad at it, and I had all this doubt. And as soon as I got out on the quad there on campus, I was just looking at the campus, and I was like, wow, it's beautiful here. That's the first thing I thought. And then I felt good. And then the next thing I thought is, maybe I can do this computer programming thing. The place of power, it uplifts you to a can-do energy. And there's also a lot of people on that campus who resonate with that. I can do. I am smart. I'm going to be great. But they gain from just the energy of the place. So places of power change the way that you think in good ways. So if you are in a place of power of wealth, you will start to think about more powerful opportunities for wealth. There are places of power for healing. There's places of power for developing martial arts. There's lots of different places of power. But Buddhist mystics seek the places of power, where we can just feel enlightenment, where we can reflect nature, places of power, different things in different places. You might go to one place and there's a bunch of cactuses, and you're like, wow, this is not a good meditation cushion. You might go to another place and there's strawberry fields. And you're like, oh, this is great. Strawberry time. We were thinking about getting a couple of strawberries to join our band, Vayu, because we wanted I love. Where would we be that humor. I didn't know it was going to happen. They liked my Hitler jokes. As soon as they got there I was all like, welcome everyone. I'm all, hi. Just kidding. They had a very good sense of humor. And I don't know what was happening. Oh, I know what happened. I was teaching in Budapest and they just had the elections. And so they elected their own little mini Trump. They got their mini Trumpet again. And what's his his name? Orban? Orban. Because Orban is a lovely aged Scotch. Orban. Yeah. So they just had the elections and then I meet with the Hungarian Sangha and I'm telling them jokes and stuff. And given all my jokes are bad jokes, but they're funny. And they were just, the, everyone's just looking at me.

1:00:28
Okay.

1:00:29
Yeah, so the Gemins are very funny. Yeah, so different places have different things in the subtle dimensions as well. There are many, many, many beautiful powers, beautiful dimensions, dimensions of life that we can access, that we can connect with, and it's wonderful. Now we have a time of power and a place of power. And when the two come together, then there's possibilities for true, amazing transformation. It's kind of like the pyramid. There's a pyramid in Egypt, and right on the summer solstice, as soon as the sun comes up, there's an alignment, that the sun is in some perfect position where like light comes through a shaft and goes down and points at something. Or Stonehenge also, right? Summer solstice. The sun comes up and the light goes directly to the altar. And it's the right place and the right time. However, you've got to know what to do. There's an alignment, but then if you don't know how to open the door at that time, then you miss the opportunity. So a thousand years ago, maybe the Druids knew, they'd go, yes, this is the time, and then they did something. They did something not in the physical, they were in the right place at the right time, but they were able to open the right dimensions. It's like, you know, lifting the mists of Avalon. When you lift the mists, then you're in another dimension. So at the right place, a place of mind that we can experience at this time, at this place. Time of power, place of power. But it requires knowing how to do it. So that's what I'm here for. I know how to do it. And the way that I do it is with what we call Buddhist magic. Now you experienced a little bit of Buddhist magic when we were looking at the top of the hill. You were seeing the energy and power of the place, but I was exposing specific dimensions for you to connect with. So I was using Buddhist magic to direct you to a dimension. That's what I'm going to do for you with Sukhavati as well. However, we are going to do some more Buddhist magic, just for fun. For fun and for medicine. To still your mind and to change your description of the world so that you can see that things are not so physical. That life is magical. That things can change, that you can change, that there's magic within you. So, let's do this. I'm going to do Buddhist magic. And Buddhist magic is really easy because it's like nothing. You're like, so, I'm standing around. Perfect. If you see me standing around, then you've got it. So behind my cushion here are some amazing dimensions. That's why I kept pushing people away. Don't walk on my dimension. I'm going to use that later. So I'm going to cross into these dimensions and I'm able to do what we call Buddhist magic. So I'll just do it, and then you just have a still mind, and you can follow me through these dimensions. So we'll sit for just a couple minutes.

1:05:55
Fantastic. transporting you from the self to eternity. This is a way where through the powers of this place, through Buddhist magic, you're able to take a vacation from the self for

1:06:24
starts to become liquid, not so fixed. And you can cast your attention into worlds of light and of power. So, again, I would like to ask people in the audience to tell of their their experiences. And I'll start with you. It started out like in Doctor Strange. The mountain started coming towards us. It was like a roller coaster ride. And then we went and it stopped being very physical. And then I saw you as an African-American chief, standing there, and when you lifted your hand, we jumped into the mountain. The mountain extended outside, and we were sitting in the mountain. And that was really cool. And then toward the end, I saw the camera zoom out, and I saw further and further away, and the magic of this place extended to the whole world. So the liquidity of reality that we experienced here applies to everywhere. were. Good scene. Okay, and we have here. I saw, can you hear me? Yes. I saw you disappear most of the time. You kind of became one with the place and you were transparent.

1:09:16
And also you were completely gold light. You turned into gold light. And when you were holding your hand up, I felt that was like a vortex, like a dimension,

1:09:37
like a dimensional vortex.

1:09:39
I think that's it. Very good. Yes, what she said. Are you guys hearing? Just close to your mouth. Okay, so yes, what she said.

1:09:51
and there was when you put your hand up to your heart or around that area I very subtly not even with eyes at all just felt or saw almost like a wind or vortex spinning around you like around your body like this and with that was like a cylinder of some sort. And it was like maybe green. I kind of went with that. It was like you were in the middle of a tornado.

1:10:36
All right. Very, very nice. I mean, we can go on and on with these kinds of things.

1:10:42
But there, so I was in the middle of a vortex of many dimensions that I was working through. And these seeings are all accurate. So, it's important that we share our seeings because sometimes you'll see stuff you know share our scenes because you know sometimes

1:11:05
You'll see stuff and because your description of the world has no place

1:11:09
holder Your your mental model doesn't have that in it. You'll be like You'll immediately throw it out. I just saw something Immediately Yes, I don't know what that was then you let it go. But when other people say, this is what I saw, then you say, oh my gosh, I saw something like that too. Then it starts to open your awareness of the possibilities of life. It's wonderful. Here's a fun one. Okay. Ah, there's a big bright star.

1:12:03
Look up at that star.

1:12:04
Soft focus on the third eye.

1:12:05
Just a light, yeah, light focus and just gazing at that star.

1:12:06
And I'm going to say, star, you've got places to go.

1:12:07
You've got to move. You've got to move.

1:12:09
You've got to move.

1:12:10
You've got to move.

1:12:11
You've got to move.

1:12:12
You've got to move. You've got to move.

1:12:14
You've got to move. You've got to move. You've got to move. You've got to move.

1:12:18
You've got to move. You've got to move.

1:12:20
You've got places to go. You've got to move. So we're just going to sit and look at the star for a couple minutes.

1:12:34
Okay.

1:12:58
All right, very good. Yep. Star on I always have a good time with that one. It's just so happy and funny to be like watching that star just move around. Yes, yes. Buddhist magic is always happy and funny and jolly. Okay. So now, we're going to, we're going to close our eyes, sit up straight. to Sukhavati, this place, this dimension, the Buddha field. And this place is like an oasis. It's a place where there's abundance. There's life-giving energy. So it's important to identify what you need. What do you need for your spiritual practice to be supported? Is it a job? Is it a car? Is it a house? Is it a black belt? I don't Just know what you need. Not something attached to self-desire, but what really promotes your spiritual practice. Do you need to let go of anger? Do you need to think of it anymore. But we're going to, together, go into a new dimension. This beautiful Buddha field. And just by being You are illuminated, you are enlightened in a way, where that dimension of power and light acts upon your mind and transforms you. So just being in that place, it's something that brings you into a heightened, more enlightened experience. So we're just going to sit just for a few minutes in silence. And during this time of power, in this place of power, I will open Let's begin. Very good. Very good. But it doesn't stop there. Sukhavati is a dimension that you're in now. a dimension that you're in now. It's a dimension that you're connected with. And it's a dimension So there was a Taoist practitioner. He goes to his Taoist master and says, I've heard that huo jing, which is a golden fire, can make me enlightened. And the master says, where is this Hoa Jhin? The Master says, oh, it's far in the north. So the man sets out, travels for a long time, gets to the north. And when he gets to the north, he sees a fire. It's not a golden fire, it's a forest fire. He said, I'm afraid. So he stands outside of the forest for a while, and then finally he sees a way through, and then builds up his courage, and runs through the forest, and gets to the other side. And then he's like, wow, I don't see any, I don't see the Huaoqin. So then he just falls asleep. In his dream, his master comes over, and he says, Master, I came to the North, but the golden fire was not here. And then the master says, Oh, that's right, because Guo Jin has moved to the South. You must go to the south, he finds a dragon. The dragon is angry, chasing him and wants to attack him. And he sees, he's running away from the dragon, he's having like a big adventure trying to get away from the dragon. He's like, ah, it's so scary. And then he sees that the dragon has this big thorn stuck in his back foot. And he says, oh, the dragon is angry because he's hurt. So then he has compassion for the dragon. First the dragon was just his enemy. Then he has compassion for the dragon. So while the dragon is trying to eat him, he goes and pulls the thorn out of the dragon's foot. And then he and the dragon become friends. And then he says to the dragon, hey, I'm looking for Huo Zhou. And he says, where is it? And the dragon says, oh, it's not down here in the south. Huo Zheng moved to the east. And so he goes, OK, I'll travel to the East. So he thanks his friendly dragon friend, and then he travels far and long to the East. And he gets to a home where there's 24 beautiful women. And he walks in and he says, I'm looking for Huaoqin. Is it here? And then they say, Yeah, it's here, we'll show you it in a little bit. Just come in and have dinner with us. He's like, okay. And then he has dinner. And then they say, You'll rest, we'll show you in the morning. And he says, okay. And then in the morning, they say, Oh, we'll show you a little bit later. And then it goes on and on and on for days. And he says, look, you've got to show me, is there huo jian here or not?" And then eventually he realizes that it's not there. But then they say, stay! Don't you want to hang out with us? We're beautiful women. We're hot chicks. Movie reference. And so he says, no, no, I need... He's like, you guys are beautiful women, but I need to find Hua Chen. So he says, OK, I'm going to go back to the West and ask my master again. They travel long, far, gets back to the West, goes to his master's temple, and then his master says, Oh, Hua Chen, come here and have some tea with me. Sukhavati is within you.

1:23:36
You've got it. You guys are very, very, very bright, and a very, very high state of mind.

1:24:04
And you've done very well on this trip. Good job. Now, before we leave, I'm going to talk a little bit more, because we have to go back into the physical dimension. And drive, not crash. Be very focused on our way back. So we have to turn our attention to being grounded again. So, what shall we talk about? Something to bother you. Bother you into being a living being.

1:25:16
Let's talk about relationships.

1:25:18
Relationships are bad.

1:25:20
Everyone needs to find their own cave and stay there.

1:25:23
If you find yourself in a relationship, you can use your relationship as a very strong sangha relationship. It's a sangha relationship. So we say, we are really strong sangha. We support each other like sangha. So we transform what would normally be a mundane, normal thing into something that is the Dharma. And then you'll have many opportunities to practice getting over your ego, because your partner will be showing you your ego every time you get mad at them. Every time you get out of balance, you know, someone very close to you, it's easy for them to get you riled up. So that's good. That's always lovely. And if you have children, you make your children into little baby Krishna. A lot of you guys don't know, I used to talk about little baby Krishna a lot. Little baby Krishna opened his mouth and his mom was like, okay, this is my favorite story. Little baby Krishna, well, he was like four or five or something, he started eating dirt. Because, I don't know, why not? And then his mom said, and then, and then she goes, let me check. And she opens I'm sorry. I brought you by. All right.

1:27:47
Hold on.

1:27:48
Okay. Just laugh. You're looking all right.

1:27:51
I think we can make it.

1:27:52
So we're going to start with the first question. I'm going to start with the first question.

1:27:54
I'm going to start with the first question.

1:27:55
I'm going to start with the first question.

1:27:56
I'm going to start with the first question. I'm going to start with the first question.

1:27:58
I'm going to start with the first question.

1:27:59
I'm going to start with the first question.

1:28:00
I'm going to start with the first question.

1:28:01
I'm going to start with the first question.

1:28:02
I'm going to start with the first question.

1:28:03
I'm going to start with the first question. I'm going to start with the first question.

1:28:05
I'm going to start with the first question. I'm going to start with the first question.

1:28:07
I'm going to start with the first question.

1:28:08
I'm going to start with the first question.

1:28:09
I'm going to start with the first question. I'm going to start with the first question.

1:28:11
I'm going to start with the first question.

1:28:12
I'm going to just head back to the cars. So our mission right now is to head back to the cars. We're going to meet at the cars, make sure that everybody's there, and then we're going to drive back to Christmas circle together. Focused. Grounded. So we will have Manjushri. My Manjushri. There's another Manjushri here. And Hathor is here too. Hathor is cool. She has a black belt in Aikido. I didn't know that. That was awesome. I was here last week and she did a demonstration and teaching and it was very Wu Wei Do. It was very, very powerful So it's lovely to have friends join us. Beautiful evening here with you. This is a transformative evening.

1:29:43
Life changing.

1:29:44
This dimension, this energy, you have a connection. It's within you.

1:29:52
And it does something.

1:29:53
It does something beautiful. Coming to the desert on solstices, it transforms your mind. These experiences are profound. Sure, we are just sitting around in dirt. So our mission is to get back to Christmas tree circle. Focused. Grounded. We'll have Manjushri lead the way. Everyone who doesn't have to go to the bathroom until they get to the car is to go. And I will need to talk to Zen and the caretakers before I leave. Zen and the caretakers. Thank you all very much. Now focused attention on your way out. Make your goals for the equinox. Use this power to take you attention on your way out. Make your goals for the equinox. Use this power to take you higher. Good night everyone.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
