0:00:00
Good afternoon. I heard, I heard Dolma Jeet say, ultimate. So I'm like, this will be ultimate. Ultimate Frisbee. Yeah, so Dolma Jeet is a student of my teacher. So, oh boy, over 20 years ago we were sitting in the audience like you guys. So it's nice that she can be here and I'm so glad that you guys were able to see Ganga Nath and Tara Leela's presentation on Zen, how to do Zen. It's really good. Well, let's begin with meditation. We'll start the evening still in our minds. We'll meditate for three songs. First song will focus on the navel center. Second song will focus on the heart. The third song, the third eye. Let's begin.

0:01:08
Wonderful. So I'd like to share with you how to do Buddhism. There is a way to do Buddhism and a way not to do Buddhism. Yeah. So Buddhism is kind of like an aesthetic. There's underlying ways and underlying means and structures that make it into a beautiful form. Buddhism is like a beautiful tapestry of balance, something that yields greater awareness of the spirit. But like an art form, there's other types of art forms. So Buddhist art, Buddhism is a particular style. And when you learn within that style, then you can produce that beautiful art. You can say it's like, you know, a language. There's the right way to do it and the wrong way to do it. So for example, Chinese.

0:08:54
If you're speaking Chinese, if you know the structures, you've worked on it, then you can do it the right way. But if you don't know it, haven't worked on it well, then you can't do it right. So when you can do it right, you can communicate effectively, you can find truth and awareness, get information, give information. But if you don't know it, then you know, if you're in China, you're like, what's going on? I was in Hawaii speaking with one of my Chinese students and I just started speaking Chinese to her, but the wrong way. So I started going, 不吃醋,我好吃少. And she speaks Chinese. And she's looking at me, and she's like, wait, can you say that again? And then I kept going on and on and on. She's all, it's funny, I just can't understand you. And I said, it's because I'm doing it wrong. Because I don't know how to speak Mandarin. But I know how to sound a little bit Mandarin-ish. But I can't convey any information, no truth, right? So in order to know the Chinese way, I would need to do some more study. Yeah, so all spiritual paths are like languages that you have to learn, you have to know the way, but all spiritual paths lead to truth. They're describing the same truth. I remember visiting a bhakti yoga school, and this is the practice of love And when I was there, they talk in a certain way, they have certain practices that are very different than my practice. And they're chanting for their guru, they're loving their guru, they're always like, guru, guru, guru. And it was very different for me. I didn't have any of those practices, but I could see the underlying truth in their spirit and it was very beautiful. Or like Advaita master. And in Advaita, it's very different outwardly than what we do. In Advaita, they get to what is the essence of this experience, of this moment? Who am I? the truth of experience in the self, they come to that liberating truth. And I always say that this is an advanced practice, a very advanced practice. And most of the practitioners that I come across of Advaita, they're just intellectual. They're like, who am I? Hmm, I don't know. I'm hungry, I know that. Or actually they go very intellectual. But Nagaraj is able to do it for real. For the real. Some of us went to Mount Shasta recently and we went up to sit and meditate on the mountain for two nights. And when we went up there, it was 38 degrees at night. And he went up there with a T-shirt, in a T-shirt and with no socks or shoes on. And we sat there, you know, on the mountain meditating. Everybody else had big jackets on, because they were cold. And he said, I felt the cold. And then I asked, who is it that's cold? And then he was able to see the truth, that there is no self. And then he wasn't cold. Then he said, then I was warm. So that's very powerful, because you can see the truth that way. That's real. So while Nagaraj is around, you guys should talk to him, because he's able to see the truth. It's very unusual. In Buddhism, we would say he's the third level of liberation, the non-returner. It's a very powerful thing. That's through Advaita, a very advanced path. Even in Buddhism, there are different ways to do Buddhism. You know, you might have Tibetan Buddhism. They do Buddhism differently than the way that Buddha taught it, Theravada Buddhism. In Zen, as we have learned, there's a way. There's the Zen way, which is different than the Theravada Buddhism, different than Tibetan Buddhism. So there's different ways of Buddhism. Once a Tibetan Buddhist Rinpoche, very high level, met with a Japanese Zen master. And they get together and they sit down

0:23:05
and the Zen master looks around

0:23:06
and he sees an orange on the table. And in a very kind of Zen way, he picks up the orange and he says to the master, he wants to see what this rinpoche knows. And he puts the orange out and says, what is this? And then the rinpoche looks at him, then he looks at his assistant and says, what, he's never seen an orange before? And then there's these koans, these challenges of looking beyond the physical. And so the Zen master was acting very Zen. And then the Rinpoche was like, what? He was acting very Rinpoche. Yeah, so there's different ways, different ways. And it is like different languages. But once you know one spiritual language well, then you can know the essence. The essence. Yeah, I was in Amsterdam once, and I was sitting alone in a cafe, and then some guy comes in and he's sitting two tables over next to me. And he started like coughing, clearing his throat, coughing. He started gagging a little bit, seemed like he was choking. And then I got up, I was like, oh my gosh, I'm gonna go help him. Then I got up and walked over, then I saw him on his cell phone, he was just speaking Dutch. And I was like, oh, it's okay. That's my way of saying hello to Peter, my Dutch student. Yeah, so he's got his language down, but we're working on the spiritual language. It's bad when one becomes two. But it's good when you're established in one way. So if one becomes two, you fall out of balance. Like if you're learning karate and judo at the same time, and you're not a black belt in either one of them, you probably will start getting confused between the concepts of Judo and Karate. But if you are a black adult in either of them, then you'll see that the other art complements what you already know. You gain more awareness once you're established in a way. So a lot of spiritual seekers dabble in a little of this, a little of that, heard this dharma talk, read that book, there must be a cohesive way. This is the way of doing Buddhism. Now, the essential way of doing Buddhism is the way of limitation. When we do something, we do something in karma, in finite attention, and we have little results or, let's say, limited results. When we are doing, we are making the world. We're making the world of obstacles, of good and bad, of hardship and ease, and pleasure and pain. When we can act without doing, we can go beyond the world. Buddha said, we are what we think. All that we are arises with our thoughts, and with our thoughts we make the world. When we can still our thoughts, when we can look beyond the limitations of the finite world, look through the transience, we can find truth, an opportunity that reaches beyond anything that our mind, our finite mind, could ever conceive of. And this is the Buddhist way. Long ago in the Ming, the era of the Ming dynasty in China, the emperor said that he wanted to have the perfect teapot. And many, many Ming potters, masters, would bring him teapots. And he would taste the tea in it, and he would say, it's not perfect. Now the Ming Dynasty was a time where the Chinese potters had come to the height of their artistic beauty. And so there's amazing Ming vases and teapots. And the emperor never found one that he liked. So he reached out throughout his kingdom asking the pottery masters for teapots. There was one master named Chung Chen, and he was also a Buddhist, a lay Buddhist. When he was invited by the emperor to bring a teapot, he went to his Buddhist master, and he said, I want to make the perfect teapot. Drop all ideas of making the perfect teapot. He said, I'm going to give you a mantra, and I want you to say this mantra and only focus on the saying of the mantra, the syllables. And then you're going to make a teapot, but you're not going to be thinking about what you're doing with your hands in any way. You're just going to let your hands go automatic, but you're going to be focusing only on mantra. And so he said, okay, so he taught him this mantra, and then he went out and he got all the materials he needed, and then he's doing the mantra, doing the mantra, and his hands just start making something. And then he is finished, he bows, he looks at what he made, and he sees the perfection in it. So then he brings his offering to the emperor. Now, when he walks into the court, there is the Emperor's mother and the Emperor's first council, his attendant. And he comes and shows them the teapot. And everyone in the court is shocked and amazed because what he brings is this really ugly, terrible looking teapot. Not characteristic of the Ming Dynasty pottery. It is brown, unpainted, he left it in the sun, he didn't put it in a kiln, didn't smooth it out, and it kind of looked like a rock with a spout and a handle. And the attendant said, what is this? How dare you bring this horrible thing? The emperor will hate it. And then he says, guards, put this man to Buddhism, that's the way to do Buddhism. It makes everything better. Oh wait, there's more to it. The emperor's mother says, well, wait a second, let the emperor decide. And then the attendee goes, okay, all right. So the emperor comes. The emperor sits, looks at the teapot, and goes, hmm, it's very strange. You know, he doesn't get angry. And then he tastes the tea, and then he says, perfect. And then from then on, this is the teapot that he would use for his tea. And it's still, you know, it's in a museum somewhere. It's like a famous, famous teapot. So we have to get rid of our thinking to make something perfect. That is the way of doing Buddhism. Now in the West, we very often think that we have to do more. So it's like, if we are in a condition where we're not happy or we need some stuff, we say, okay, in order to fix this situation, you know, get past the limitation or an obstacle or achieve something, gotta do more. I gotta do more. Gotta take more action. But in Buddhism, we always look deeply for what not to do or how to do without doing. And we find that there's more powerful ways in that reflection. Now, let's take for example being fat. It's a good example for Americans.

0:33:40
Being overweight.

0:33:43
So we say, I ate myself into being fat. Now I gotta jog my way out. An action got us there. We gotta take an action to get out. But when we do this and we think this way, we end up in the struggle. The struggle of action, the struggle of limitation. And then, you know, what do people do? They start jogging, right? They start running. And then they go to a gym and they get a personal trainer. And the personal trainer just yells at you. And then you truly feel pathetic. And then, you know, you're exercising for a long time, getting yelled at by your personal trainer, and you know, it's like, it takes a long time, and you know, at first, you know, you're just getting your footing, and you're not really getting the success you want to see. And then, you're still going to McDonald's, but you've changed what you order there. So you go to McDonald's and you're like, all right, I'm getting a salad and carrot sticks. You're like, okay, so you've changed what you're ordering, this is good. But that's kind of a funny thing. If you're an alcoholic, do not go to a bar to get, you know, your latte. There's lots of places to get a latte. But you're like, oh no, I usually go to a bar for my drinks. Yeah, so, you still go to McDonald's, right? But you're getting salads there, so that's better for you. But then it changes, because you'll say, well, you know, I had a pretty good day with my personal trainer. He only made me cry twice, so I think today, instead of carrot sticks, I'll go for the fries. And then after a little while, you'll be like, well, I'll have a salad and a Big Mac. Yeah, at least at a bar, you know, if you drink too much, they'll be like, oh, we can't serve you anymore. But at McDonald's, you can be fat and they keep feeding you. So, it's fair. And then, you find yourself, like, choosing on your vacation. You're like, oh, I can go trekking in the Himalayas. Or I can go on a cruise ship where it's like all-inclusive, you know, buffet. And then you go, okay, I'm gonna go to the buffet to Hawaii. And you're like, should I get off and see the island or should I stay in the buffet line? All of your pictures are gonna be of the buffet. They're all, see the volcano or the chocolate fountain

0:36:50
chocolate fountain

0:36:52
so, you know This is when you're all caught up in the struggle You know people who struggle with like weight with a losing weight. They are in this you know hilarious struggle of What to do? Now the wisdom of Buddhism is what not to do. So for example, Ganganath was talking with Swami Sashwat about going on this hike, a rigorous hike, I got to lose like 60 pounds. So then what Ganga Nath started doing was, you know, instead of like going into that whole struggle of what to do, he started to say what not to do. And he started this thing called intermittent He wouldn't eat breakfast or lunch, and he would just eat dinner, whatever he felt good about for dinner. And by doing that, he started to do without doing, and his energy changed. Like a lot of people think, I can't do that. But if you do it, your energy and your attention change. And then he lost so much weight. And more importantly, he feels great. He feels so much more energetic. And he didn't have to get into the struggle. He practiced the Buddhist way of non-doing. So, we want to let go of doing. We want to learn to do, to take action, in the Buddhist way, without doing. And this is simply not adding additional ideas to what you're doing. You just do in a way of stillness and perfection. So, there is action to take. You have to act. It's important that you act. But there's a way of acting where you're not adding desires, fears, ideas. You're not adding anything from the past. You're not thinking of the future. You're simply acting. Now, a lot of people will say, but, you know, I practice doing without acting, playing video games, just like, I just find myself at home. Or the way I got fat, I didn't try, right? I didn't try at all, it just happened. Now these are aspects of unconscious action. You are doing, but you're not aware of what you're doing. So, non-doing is awareness. Awareness of what actions you're taking, it's intentional action. But it's also letting go of any additional information. Thoughts and feelings and concepts, they always overlay your awareness field so that you can't see action and the moment clearly. You're unable to see it. So, for example, if you're cutting carrots and then you start thinking of somebody at work who was mean to you and that you're angry at them because they did something, oh, you might cut yourself. You might miss the carrot and cut your finger, right?

0:41:20
Yeah.

0:41:21
Thoughts overlay your awareness field. You can become completely unaware of the physical plane because you get caught up in thoughts and feelings. And those are bad thoughts, but also good thoughts. You might have a new romance, and be sitting there cutting and thinking about, oh, Juliet, oh, Juliet, she's so lovely. Ouch, where did my finger go? Thoughts, whether they're good or bad, you know, they cloud your awareness, and they make whatever you're doing, doing. A lot of people bring fear to thoughts, desire, and thoughts to their actions. And then your doing is caught in the finite, and it is not non-doing. Now, when you can let go of all these thoughts, you can find the perfection of doing. And the perfection of doing is beautiful. Every action, every endeavor has a perfection. and that is to express itself perfectly. So when you're trying to do something, trying to learn something, trying to achieve something in business or in martial arts or anything, there's a dharma to what you're doing. And if you can get the self out of the way and just do the work, do the action perfectly, then you can achieve that Dharma. At first we sense it in spirit. You're like, okay, I'm trying to do a business. You sense in spirit that truth, and then you just act perfectly, and then that truth will unfold into the finite world, into this world. You'll see the perfect truth. Now, in sports, we hear about this. So, in physical action, a lot of great athletes talk about the zone, right? They're like, I'm, they're playing, they're doing it perfectly, even though they are so trained, they have a thousand techniques that they can do. They have strategies, tactics, you know, plans that they go into the court with. But when they're playing, all of a sudden, all of that goes away and there's just perfect movement, perfect motion, perfect action. And then that's where they talk about a spiritual experience, being in the zone, one with the action. And then that's where they perform the best. Same thing happens in learning computer programming. Same thing happens in business. We want to get into the zone, the zone being perfect action, where we have to be impeccable in everything that we do. If you're not impeccable, you can't get into the zone. You have to have tremendous attention to the physical. But then at the same time, you just let go of it all. It's like, let's say an ice skater. They're about to do a quadruple axel. That's where they jump up in the air and spin four times. It's hard to do. So they are skating, they set it up, and then, bam, they jump and let it happen. The moment you set it up and let go, it just happens. So there's tremendous attention, but extreme abandonment. That is the way of doing. You have to be precise, but you have to let it go. Kind of like throwing a basketball, right? Shooting, shooting, you go, just let it go. At some point, you set it up right, and then you let it go. Gotta do that in your lives. Buddhist monks, they also have a practice where they get into the zone, and that is walking meditation. So in Theravada Buddhism, Mahayana Buddhism, they often practice this walking meditation. And so, they're walking, they're just very aware of every movement. They're focusing on every sensation, their heel, touching the ground, of their hips, of their shoulders. They just become completely mindful. And then they enter the zone. They have complete awareness of the physical, and then they enter this very still state, a perfect state of walking. And this is the zone. So it's like, aha, I've attained it, perfect walking, hooray. It's not as impressive as LeBron James scoring the three-pointer to win the match from the center court. Buddhist monks are like, I've attained the same zone, it's amazing, but it's unimpressive.

0:47:17
Yeah.

0:47:21
So, in Zen Buddhism, there's a saying, before enlightenment, cut wood, carry water. After enlightenment, you're doing. You're doing the cutting of the wood. You're doing the carrying of the water. After enlightenment, there's no more doing. You enter into the zone. Just perfect action.

0:47:59
Yeah.

0:48:01
Zen masters say things like that. They say, the secret to Zen is, when I sit, I sit. When I eat, I eat. And they say other things. But they're just present in the moment, keeping it rated G. When you're doing, the shadow of the self casts over everything that you do. Then you're dissatisfied, you're not happy, you're struggling. When you're not doing, or doing without doing, then everything that you do exposes the eternal light of truth. Everything that you do. There is a wonderful story from the Shaolin temple. This was maybe a hundred years after Bodhidharma had passed away. There was some petty tyrant or someone who sent an army. They had territorial conflicts and they sent an army to take over the Shaolin Temple. They said, we're going to use that as an outpost. Go in there and clear those monks out. Kill them if you have to kill them. So a general comes and he proclaims, we're taking over this temple, and you can get out or we're gonna get you out. And one Shaolin monk comes out and he comes to the general and he says, I have a proposal. Just try taking me out. If you can take me out with a bow, then all the monks will leave peacefully. Because they know that they can fight at the shell end. So they had a big army. And they said, you know, so here's what we'll do. I will sit here and you can get your best archer and if he can take me out with one arrow, then all the monks will leave peacefully. But if I live, then you guys will clear out and not bother us. And then the general says, I've got a great archer, he will definitely kill you. And then the monk says, then do we have a deal? General says, okay. So the monk sits in front of the gate of the Shanlin Temple, and then the finest archer comes over, strings his bow, and then aims, and the monk's just sitting there. Then he shoots. And the monk goes like this and grabs the arrow right before it hits him directly in the heart. And then this action came from extreme power. It came from not doing. The monk was just sitting there with a complete blank mind, but he had tremendous training, tremendous cultivation of his impeccable awareness in martial arts. And so that action of engaged impeccability and complete selflessness created a powerful experience. The general was amazed, and the general not only sent his army away, but then the general became a student of the Shaolin. So, when you are impeccable and selfless, then there is power in everything that you do. Yeah, Bodhidharma said, everything I do is Zen. 1984. Quote from Bodhidharma. So yeah, this is the way. Yeah, in the last martial arts teaching that we had, I teach my students martial arts as part of this physical practice of

0:52:52
Doing without doing

0:52:54
So there's a lot of Support in our school like the Shaolin School where they have martial arts We we have a lot of support a lot of structures a lot of practices around martial arts in our school ways of finding that perfection in martial arts practice. So you know, you could be sparring and you could be practicing during the sparring lots of blocks and kicks. You could be bobbing, weaving, you know, doing all sorts of techniques, thousands of techniques, without any awareness of self. This is where the dancer becomes the dance. You become one with the movement. And if you were to think, that moment of thinking would stop you and you would get hit. So we just move. We go with the movement. I had one student who was very successful at that pretty early, in the last martial arts test. So she had been doing jujitsu for less than a year. And usually it takes, you know, two, three years at least to get a black belt. And during the test, she passed. And I was surprised, I was like, wow, she's very, very good. But she was explaining to a group of us her experience during the test. And she said, she just stopped thought. There was no thinking and she was just acting. And that way her movement was perfect. You can learn amazing things. And you can learn them very quickly. You can learn amazing things quickly. This is the fast path. And when you get the self out of the way, then you can just, you can become something greater, that truth that's within you. practice. She was failing in her computer programming school. She actually, she failed out. She took a six-month certificate course and she flunked. She just was like, I just did horrible. And then he said, when you are going to do computers, you're gonna learn something new, you gotta get rid of your thoughts. You're thinking, I can't do this, I'm not so good at this, I'm pretty bad at this, you gotta let go of that. You can't be like, oh, I'm afraid if I can succeed or not, or any ideas, not even ideas of, oh, I'm gonna ace this, this is gonna be great, no problem. I've seen that before.

0:55:58
Yeah, so it's like, no thought, just do the action.

0:56:02
If you're reading, just read, be present when you're reading. If you're doing a tutorial, just be present. Don't think, just do whatever you have to do in the tutorial. When you're listening to a teacher, just listen. Don't sit there and go, well, I think this. I don't sit there and go, well, I think this. I don't agree with him.

0:56:27
And when you code, just code.

0:56:29
So he told her to, he gave her this big, thick, like thousand page book, and he said, after your meditation session, open the book and read it. Read every word in the book. Don't judge anything. Don't have a thought of I can't do this. Don't even have a thought of I'm learning this and understand it or I don't understand it. Don't make any judgment. Only read. And then she said okay. So, you know, little by little, took her, you know, three months or so, but she came back to him and she said, I've read the book. And then he said, good, now get a job in that technology. And she's like, well,

0:57:26
I don't know how I'm gonna do that.

0:57:28
She's like, I don't have experience, I don't know how it's gonna go. And he said, just work on the interviewing process. Don't have any ideas if you can pass an interview or not, just go to it. When they ask you a question, don't have any fear, just answer what you know, anything. Just don't have any judgment, don't have any ideas, just do the action. So then two weeks later, she comes over to him and says, I got a job. And then she's like, but now I don't know if I can do the job. I know I can get the job, but can I do the job? And then he said, just go to work and just do what the tasks are. And it worked out very well for her and she became a very, very excellent computer programmer. So a lot of times when we're learning something or doing something, you know, like you might be doing business and you might be like, I see the world like this, I think it's like that, this is a problem, that's a problem. Don't judge it so much. Don't make it concrete. Yeah, there are things, but do the actions that you know you must do. Just do them without any concrete idea of it's going to work or it's not going to work or I'm afraid of this or I have a desire for this. Just do it. Then you can see opportunities to go around what might be a brick wall. You can look at it from a point of view of self and say, there's no way around this, it's impossible. But then when you stop the doing, then you find many ways through. So there's ways that bring opportunity. Now, the essential practice of non-doing is meditation. In meditation you stop thought. And the moment you stop thought, you stop the finite world. The moment you stop thought, you're out of the transient world where things can mess you up or not mess you up. Out of the dualistic world of good and bad, pleasure and pain. The moment you stop thought, you enter into the eternal awareness of perfection. You take a really profound leap into perfection. It's just the most beautiful thing. Meditation is the essence of all spiritual practice. When you can meditate, then you can look at your learning, what you're doing, in a whole new dimension, where there's just this really eternal wonderfulness, bliss and ecstasy, and possibility. The self is always saying, no, the gravity of existence is pulling me down. But in meditation, you are spiritually elevated. You can fly. And it makes all of your doings non-doings. So meditation is very important. There's also a great aid when you have an enlightened teacher. An enlightened teacher can bring you into their non-doing. So to learn to meditate, to stop thought, usually takes a little bit of time and earnest practice. You have to be able to have strong concentration, strong mind, and you develop yourself to the point where you can really focus, slow down thoughts, and finally let go into that transcendental light. And then you feel that spiritual empowerment and bliss. But a lot of times, you know, you're struggling with concentration. Thoughts are always jumping around, pulling you here and there, and you're like, oh gosh, it's so hard to just concentrate, to focus. It takes time. But when you have an enlightened teacher, they can bring you into the non-doing state right away. So we're going to do that. This is an esoteric teaching, a secret teaching of non-doing. And to do this, you simply sit up straight, and I'm going to do this teaching. Now these esoteric teachings, they're very interesting. The way that the Tibetan Buddhists do them is very, very, very structured, but it is esoteric. So you have to have the awareness of the dimensions. So, for example, in one esoteric teaching in the tantras of Tibetan Buddhism, there's a mandala that describes it. They say, yeah, here's a mandala. But if you only look at the mandala, you don't understand it at all. It's just some physical thing, it's a doing. But you have to learn to undo, to not do the mandala. And that means that in the mandala, it's a circle, and there's a Buddha in the middle, and then there's the first layer with all of these like dakinis around, and then there's like all of these different mystical creatures and different bodhisattvas and buddhas, and there's a perfect balance in this picture. Now, every Buddha, every dakini, every mystical creature, every symbol in the mandala means something. It has an energy, an awareness. And in order to know this tantric teaching, you have to know what each of those things mean. So the Tibetan monks will sit there and they'll envision in their mind, close their eyes and see that mandala. And after meditating on it, they get to know what each, they get an intuitive seeing of what each of those symbols mean. And then they can be that mandala. I am that mandala. I know all of the dimensions and I know how to bring it together into that balance to transmit to you through Kundalini and attention a teaching, a true spiritual teaching. So we're going to sit up straight and I'm going to express this esoteric teaching to you and guess what? You don't have to do anything. Just sit up straight, open your eyes and look to me. We're going to sit for just and not do. Let's begin.

1:05:17
So, so So Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so so you Wonderful. Now, as is very important, after an esoteric teaching, it's important for you, the audience, to share some of your experiences.

1:10:07
This is important because in the esoteric teaching you are exposed to dimensions of mind that is not in your doing. And you experience it in your spirit and then immediately you might come back into doing again. And so, when somebody can share an experience that they had, a feeling, an awareness, a seeing, they'll say, oh, I realized this, or I saw this. Then you'll say, oh wait, yeah, so did I. I just forgot about it immediately after. So, it helps you bring into your doing, not doing. So if you would, if you've had a seeing or an experience, please raise your hand and we'll bring a microphone to you so that you can share. Okay, so So at the beginning I saw a deer running right behind you.

1:11:06
It was kind of like it went through your body

1:11:09
and the auditorium was kind of spinning like we were changing locations. So we were probably in some kind of meadow and then we were like going somewhere else. And then I saw the flowers wilting. It was kind of like in real time, like you recorded them over a certain period of time and they just wilted. And then I saw your body kind of like implode and you turned into tiny specks of dust and for a moment I thought I saw the Milky Way where you were sitting kind of like in the center of your chest. It was like a Milky Way Yeah, I swear I'm not on drugs All right, thank you

1:11:51
Hello. I just stopped thinking. It was really, really beautiful. That was all. I'm not sure how to express it. It was just empty and extremely bright. Don't worry, the LSD is at home right now. So, no, it's like, when I was looking at you, Simvera, like, you were like, where there's one moment where you were just standing still and there's another moment you just appeared to like blend in with the background like a hologram. And then like the background, what normally we would see as your backdrop, it just begins swirling and like I can see patterns like like in like one of those like warped like you know what it was like warped like wavy mirrors and I saw swirls and like like hand signs and then you were like in the three-dimensional like layer by layer like a hologram. That's how I that's how I saw it.

1:13:38
Very good.

1:13:40
Okay.

1:13:41
Yeah.

1:13:42
Something's happening.

1:13:43
I, similarly to the nothing, there was immense peace and a radiance, I mean, like just energy. And I just really got instantly connected to a massive amount of doing that I'd never noticed before.

1:14:09
So that peace was just incredibly calming.

1:14:12
For me, I truly felt and saw you become a master. And in that way, usually I see you sometimes get bigger and smaller, but in this time you shrunk and you shrunk to like a, I don't know why I want to use the word dojo, but I felt like we were almost in another realm. It was such an intense feeling. I felt like we were transported through the necklace that you're wearing. I feel immense power, very bright, but every diamond and the crystal that is in there has power. And I believe that we are able to be with your teachers and the ones that taught your teachers and continue that within your teachings. And I felt there, I felt here, I feel here now and thank you so much.

1:16:07
Very good. Okay, okay.

1:16:15
I think that's enough. Something's going on. But there's many, many, yeah, many, many dimensions in this teaching. These were very good scenes. So thank you. Now we're going to take a break. We're going to take a break for 20 minutes, then we'll come back, meditate a little bit more, talk a little bit more about non-doing. Thank you. I'm just going to sit here and do non-doing. Now, I engage you in a talk to engage your doing mind, but I direct you in the talk to the non-doing mind. My students often look at me and look at the doing, and they don't see the power of the non-doing. But over time, it's powerful. It's ultimate. All right, yeah. So non-doing is the essence of the way to do Buddhism. But it's very important that you do your non-doing becomes dispelled. It becomes a doing. So we always, you know, we focus on that selfless action, but we don't show it to others. We are inaccessible this way. When you are accessible, then you're depleted and you enter into the finite world. You're influenced by the awareness of others. So we are inaccessible in our non-doing. So long ago in China, there was a Taoist master who lived on one side of a lake, and a Taoist master who lived on the other side. One day, one master called his student over, and he said, I have a magical scroll. This scroll will enable you to walk across the lake, and I want you to give this scroll to the Taoist master on the other side. He's gonna read it, and then he'll add some commentary and then you bring it back right across the lake. Walking across the lake would only take one hour. If you had to go around, it would take a few hours. So the student said, okay, thank you, master. Took the magic scroll and just walked across the lake. Got to the other side, met the other master and gave him the scroll. Master looked at it, read it, smiled, giggled, made his commentary, rolled it up and gave it back. And the monk goes back to the lake. He's about to cross it, but he puts the scroll down for a minute and he starts preparing himself to cross, as monks do. And then this other monk comes over and goes, I've got to see, the monk from this side, he says, I've got to see what it says, I have to know the power. So he sneaks over and gets a scroll and opens it up. And he goes, huh? And then he reads it aloud. It's all like, oh, honorable Daoist master, would you like to come over for tea tomorrow at 4 p.m.? And then the commentary is, yes, I'll be there, thank you. And he's like, hey, this is just an invitation to a tea party. And then the monk who used a scroll to walk across water says, what? And he looks at it and he says, that doesn't make any sense. This was supposed to be the scroll of power. And he's like, well, I don't know. So he rolls it back up and he goes, I guess I'm just going to go home. And then he walks right into the water, splash. And he says, it doesn't work anymore. So then he has to walk all the long way around and he gets back. So there was a power in the non-doing. There is power, tremendous power in non-doing, and it is the way of miracles. Physical miracles, business miracles, computer programming miracles, career miracles, and walking on water miracles. But if something becomes a doing, and especially if it's influenced by someone's becoming accessible, then all of a sudden that magic goes away. So we practice inaccessibility, and this is not the practice of locking yourself outside of your house. This is a practice of holding the light within you. It is not sharing your deepest hopes and dreams and beliefs all the time. It is being able to hold the magic and not do. Then these miracles can come through you. Most people are very accessible. They want to tell you everything about their personal history. They want to tell you all of their opinions. They just go, here it is, man, you know, and here's what I think, and here's what you should do, and this is what I did in the past. And when they do that, they're just showing everything. And then they're showing all doing of their self, of their karmas. It's just, they bring it all out. Being accessible is kind of like going to a poker game where everyone's showing their cards, right? They go, they get the cards, and they go, here's my cards, there's your cards. Then there's no chance to gain in the game. You just play the cards that you get. And that's just karma. You're stuck in karma that way. There's no like, oh, I can trick this guy into betting more. There's nothing like that. There's no opportunity. So we hold our cards. And then we have options. Then there's opportunity. Yeah. When people are accessible, they're messy. They're like sloppy attention. It's just like putting all the stuff out all over the table. It's all a big mess. So someone comes over to talk to you and then they're like, let me get rid of all this garbage around you, this junk that you're saying, all this personal history, all this stuff, and you're like, oh, goodness. What a mess. Dealing with people who are accessible, you're dealing with a lot of their karma that they're putting up, and it's a messy situation. That's why in Zen, you walk into the Zen monastery and it's clean, there's a very beautiful cleanness to Zen. And accessibility is a clean, beautiful way of being. It's powerful because it's clean. So when we look at our minds and we see that we're showing this, showing that, showing this, showing that, let's clean it up. Make it a beautiful zendo. And then we have a really powerful experience of clean attention, clean clean awareness. Now, when you are accessible, you're sometimes harmful. You might say something about yourself that actually really hurts and bothers another person. So in the Buddhist way of non-doing is to not cause harm. And you might say something that to you is no big deal, but to another person they're greatly bothered by it. I remember one time there was a student of my teacher. He was working with this other guy who, they got along really well. They were friends at and they were getting along, everything was fine. And, you know, the student had been doing computer science for three years and was, you know, in a senior position, but this other guy, he was doing computer science for like a long time. He was a professor of computer science from an Indian university, so they were both in senior positions. But all of a sudden, this student, he said, wow, yeah, just amazing. Like three years ago, I didn't know anything about computers, and now I'm making $100 an hour. And then the other guy was like, what? He's like, you're making $100 an hour, and three years? And then he's like, oh my goodness, because he was making half that. And then all of a sudden, he's so upset. And he tried to go and renegotiate, but he was signed in a contract, and he couldn't move, and he was so upset and frustrated and felt that it was so unfair. So this guy, this one student, just said something that's neat to him, but he became accessible in a way that bothered the other guy. I mean, just imagine if you were at work, right, and somebody comes in and starts saying stuff that shouldn't be at work, right? They come in and they start saying, you know, I really support Donald Trump. I think that you should come to a rally with me. And then you'll be like, whoa, you know? And they keep saying things along those lines. It might be something that would bother someone. So this is just showing something that shouldn't be there. It can cause harm. So we want to stay clean. We don't want to harm anybody with anything, right? We want to be able to go and have a positive interaction in every place that we go. So within accessibility, we learn to avoid the pitfalls. Because, you know, psychic messages actually affect you. What people think about you affects you. In ways that you might not see very clearly, but it's very strong. There was a man who, at the age of 50, became a woman. He was just like a man's man. He did football, and he fixed cars and stuff like that, and he was a businessman. And then at the age of 50, he became a woman, and he was driving down the highway, his car broke down. You know, called a tow truck, brought it to the shop, and then at the shop, you know, the mechanic opens it up, looks at it, and he comes over, because he's fixed cars his whole life. So he comes over and they go, oh yeah, this thing's broken. And he's like, oh yeah, okay. Then he starts asking some technical things. They're like, oh, do you have this part or that part? And then the mechanic goes, yeah. Another mechanic comes over and they're talking about it. He's asking them technical things about it, because he knows about it. And then they say, yeah, okay, so it's gonna cost this much to fix. And then she says, I'll fix it myself. And they say, oh no, you can't do that. And then they mansplained her about how it has to be done right and all these things. And then she was like, oh, OK, I guess I can't do it. And then she said, all right, you guys go ahead and do it. And then while she was waiting for it to get done, she said, why did I just do that? Of course I know how to fix this. I've done it since I was 16. But these impressions of what people think, they affect us in powerful ways. So we try to not show things that will get people to think about us in certain ways. And then that way, we are not so affected in limiting ways. There was, at the time of the Buddha, a monk who got noticed that his father was very ill and might be passing away. So this monk left and he went to visit his father and then he ended up staying with his father because his father was very ill and he had to take care of him. And so he didn't come back. And it was one of the Buddha's arhants who came looking after him after a couple of months. And he came over and the monk now was not wearing his robes and his father actually had recovered. And he said, why don't you come back and be a monk again? And the previous monk said, oh, no, because my dad says it'd be better for me to help with the farm and all these things. Dad said this, dad said that. I gotta do what dad said. A lot of times, the people closest to us, their thoughts about us, their ideas about us, can be the most restricting, because they know us the best. We are more accessible to people who we've known longer, or people who we've been close to. So, this guy got stuck. Five or six years later, his father died. And then, he went back to the monastery. And he said, wow, you know, I just couldn't leave. My father thought I should do it, so I said, I guess I have to do it. So his father had an idea that trapped him. And this happens to many, many people. Being trapped by other people's thoughts is a very big obstacle to really establishing yourself on the spiritual path. So this is something that's very important, this kind of inaccessibility to even people who you've known very, very closely is important. Inaccessibility is important in all relationships because the tendency of the self is to be accessible to the point where you're stuck. You can see this often in romantic relationships. Two people come together, they like each other, they fall in love, they want to be together all the time because they love each other. And then they start wanting to know everything about the other person. Oh, I want to know what you like, what you've done, all the things. And then they're just sharing all this stuff, all this, everything, every detail. It's like, I love this person, so I just want to know everything. And you know what I call this, this sharing? It's like vomiting. You're like, oh, I want to share what's in me, blah. I want to share what's within me, blah. And you're all, oh, oh, you had corn for lunch.

1:33:14
Blah. You know.

1:33:16
So people are constantly doing this until they have a big mess. They know everything about each other. And then, guess what happens? The magic is gone. This is a very normal cycle in relationships. Everything's beautiful. I love this person. I want to know everything. And then I get bored of them. The magic is gone. And you say, oh, okay, whatever. You used to be this amazing magic person, and now you're just a person. But it's because we do that thing like in The Matrix where Agent Smith is making everybody else into Agent Smith. So you go over to that person that you love and you want to know everything about them, but by being accessible to them and them accessible to you, you're making them into you. And then you don't see them as that magical person anymore, you see them in your definition. So we want to let go, let go of all of these ideas. We want to veil the light, this is very important. As you practice, you start to gain light, spiritual light. And we want to veil the light so that the world cannot see it, so that no one can see it. We want to just have that light within us and not just be showing it to everybody. And this is important because if you're constantly putting out and showing with your energy this light, this inner light, then people react, especially when your light becomes very strong. People react to you. They start to look at you and want your attention, or they start to get mad at you. They go, what's going on with this person? And they start, something in them gets out of balance. Just having light, sharing light can really, really upset someone. You might think, oh, this is the brightest, most beautiful, most powerful light, and then show it to someone, and then they might get very unbalanced. They might have a huge reaction. So we want to veil the light. We want to not always show. There is a time to show the light, and that's when it will help. When you show the light, you say, oh, I see, let me show you what I know. And you show someone some light at the right time in the right way. And in the sangha, we do this often, in the right way, it's beautiful. And you can do it in any other situation, in the right way, sharing the light is powerful. But for the most part, we veil the light, we don't constantly show light. Very important. Otherwise people will take a lot of attention. We gain a luminosity in our discipline that is very, very, very, very rare in this world. So people start to take notice of you and they start to think about you and be interested in you. And then you start getting all of these psychic impressions from their desires and fears.

1:36:37
So we veil the light.

1:36:39
Now, being inaccessible is where nobody knows exactly who you are

1:36:48
or what you're not doing,

1:36:50
including yourself. Yeah.

1:36:54
When you are inaccessible,

1:36:56
you don't wear your emotions on your sleeve. You don't put forth your ideas and the things you really believe in, your hopes and your dreams. You don't put those things out. You're not showing those cards, you're not making that mess. You're holding it in, you're veiling the light. And then you're dealing with every situation with the proper etiquette, in the clean way for that situation. So it's like, if you're at work, you're not sitting there going, oh, let me tell you about this spiritual book I read. That would be strange, unless you find the right person to share it with. It's not the etiquette of the workplace. If you go into the dojo, you're not gonna talk politics on the mat. Inaccessibility is doing the right thing, the proper etiquette for the right situation. And then things work very smoothly. Inaccessibility is not like hiding. If you're trying to hide something from someone, then you're more accessible. They're like, what's your problem? There's something very, something stands out when you're hiding. So you're at work and then someone says something and you're thinking spiritual thoughts and you're all, oh, I'm not going to tell them. I'm seeing his aura, but I'm not going to tell him because that would be. And then people are like, whoa, you're, but I won't tell you. Then it's a strange thing. So being accessible and hiding. When my teacher, this is a great story, I think Ganganath told me this story. When my teacher taught about inaccessibility, then the next day, all the students wore like sunglasses and hats and trench coats to their computer programming school.

1:39:03
Don't look at me, man.

1:39:08
Right, so that's hiding. And when you try to hide, you're silly. Inaccessibility is simply doing, it's simply doing non-doing without adding any extraneous self-information. And then there's a perfection in your doing, and then nobody can see your non-doing. It's perfect. Inaccessibility is not being cold towards other people. It's not being distant from other people. It's actually letting the non-doing come out between people. So if you sit there and you're just like, okay, we're having tea, we're having dinner, we're meditating, we're working together, whatever you're doing, if you have that clean inaccessibility, you're not bringing up other weird things of the self, and you're just letting the perfect etiquette of the moment surface, then you let the magic of the other person, their non-doing, come up. You let the magic of your non-doing come up, and then it's a much more profound, beautiful, and powerful experience. When you're sitting there doing with people, your conversation is like, ugh, right? It's just in the finite world. But when you're not doing, then you're always bringing in the power. And when you're inaccessible, that everything that you don't do. You know, there's all those stories of spiritual teachers being inaccessible. A lot of times we look at the stories of the Zen teachers or some teachers and we see this amazing insight and we say, wow, that's so weird. It's strange what I what they said But then oh, I see there's a greater wisdom to it. So they will act in inaccessible ways The teacher acts in inaccessible ways because you you can't access they're not doing otherwise, there's no realization So there's a famous Zen story where there's a Zen master and he's in the monastery and there's a cat in the monastery, a beloved cat by all the monks. Now there's the East Dormitory and the West Dormitory and one day the monks in the West Dormitory, they have the cat and they go, okay, we can have the cat overnight in our dorm and the monks from the East Dormitory say, no, we want the cat in ours, in our dormitory tonight. So they're fighting over the cat. They're like, I want the cat. Who wants the cat? The Zen master, who's a very peaceful Zen master, he gets up, comes over, grabs a knife and the cat. And he says, enough arguing. If you can say one good word, you can have the cat. And they were like shocked. And they're like, what's he gonna do with the knife? And they didn't know what to do. So then the Zen master kills the cat. And they were like, oh, it's horrific. But there was a profound teaching in that. They had an attachment. And that teaching broke their attachment. an inaccessible non-doing beyond their concepts. Yeah, so it's very powerful. And then there was another Zen master came to visit the next day. His name was Joshu. And in front of all the monks, the Zen master talked about what happened the day before. And he says, what would you say, Joshu? And Joshu took his shoes and put them on his head. And then the Zen master said, if you were here, the cat would have lived. Again, it's an inaccessible way of non-doing. It's sharing insight in a profound way. So you want to not do. It's important, very important, to be inaccessible to yourself. This is very, very important in self-development. Now we're often accessible to ourselves. We know what scares us. We know what we want. We know what we don't want. These likes and dislikes, fears, inversions, desires, play in our head over and over and over. So we become accessible to ourselves, and then our non-doing ceases. But the Buddhist, to do Buddhism, you've got to be letting go of inner accessibility. Like, let's say that you're in a karate tournament. You're fighting someone. If you're accessible to your fear, you will do bad. If you're in a job interview and you are accessible to your doubt, you're like, I don't think I can do this job, then you will do bad. If you're accessible to the belief in the obstacles that you see in your business, then you will do bad. Being accessible to all of the negative things in our mind makes us do a bad job. If we are inaccessible to those things, then we can do a good job, then there's possibility. If you're inaccessible to the bad things in you, then you start to be able to cultivate the good things in you. But if you're accessible to all the bad stuff that comes up in your mind, then you can't cultivate the good stuff. And believe me, there's good stuff. So let's say that you have doubt and fear. If you are inaccessible to doubt and fear in your spiritual practice, in your job or whatever, then you will see that you can succeed. When you see yourself succeed and you see success, success, success, the doubt and fear are not there and they become invisible, not part of your awareness anymore. We work on being inaccessible to negativity in our minds. When we look at something as bad,

1:46:04
we're not seeing the full picture.

1:46:06
When we're looking at a limitation where things are stuck, we're not seeing the full picture. There's more than that. So if you say, ooh, you know, it's gonna be bad, it might not be that way. It's like quantum physics, quantum mechanics. A thing is only a thing once you observe it. So if you observe something bad, you go, yep, that's bad, then it becomes something. But if you let it be open, yeah, maybe it's here, then there's a probability. It's not in a specific place. It could be here, it could be there, it could be this way, it could be that way. That's when you open yourself up to profound opportunity. So, we don't identify, this is my obstacle and it's going to stop me in business, in career, in meditation, in my personal life. We don't identify anything as being anywhere for sure. We identify there's many options. And then we can, instead of fixating on the reality of bad, we can be inaccessible to that to see many, many other ways. Once I was having a sushi dinner with my teacher and some other students. And there was this one student who was like, ew, I really don't like fish and raw fish, that just seems horribly disgusting to me. And he tried one, a little bite, and he was like, oh, this is horrible, it's just disgusting. So he sat there through the dinner, just making faces, looking at the sushi and just eating it, and he was like, this is terrible. And at some point, my teacher said, I want you to really give it a shot. I want you to really eat a piece of sushi. And then the student said, OK, master, for you, I will do it. And then my teacher got the waiter to come, whispered an order. He says, I'm getting you a special sushi. It's going to be power sushi, sushi of power. And then when the waiter was coming back, he said to the student, now close your eyes. The student closed his eyes. The waiter comes and he's got a piece of a slice of chocolate cake. And then my teacher cuts off a piece, you know, of like sushi-sized chocolate cake with the frosting, and he puts it on the plate in front of him, and he says, with your eyes closed, I want you to pick up this sushi, and I want you to put it all in your mouth and eat it. And then the student's like, okay, master. So he grabs it, and he's like, and then he puts it in his mouth, and then his face gets all screwed up in a terrible grimace. And then my teacher says, how do you like that chocolate cake? And then the student goes, hmm? Then he starts laughing and eating it happily. And my teacher says, see, you had such a strong idea of something that was bad that you changed reality to experiencing that bad thing. When you could have been, had no idea, no concept, and you would have said, oh, I like this. This is a chocolate cake. So, then the student practiced that, that night, and sushi became his favorite food. Yeah, honestly. So, we can do this with our lives. Instead of believing and being fixed on something being bad and limitation, open yourself up to the possibilities through non-doing and in accessibility to others and yourself. And then miracles happen. Yes, this is the way to do Buddhism. We are inaccessible and free to manifest the greatest truth. Not just thoughts and ideas and concepts and fears. Where we can find a greater awareness in the universe. And have greater success. This is the way to do Buddhism. So thank you all very much. It was beautiful meditating with you today. It was wonderful to have Ganga Nath and Tara Lila here showing you how to do Zen. And how to do Buddhism, Zen is Buddhism. And how to do Buddhism is in Zen. And Zen teaches us how to do Buddhism.

1:51:39
It's lovely and powerful.

1:51:41
Yeah, so, you know, a lot of people can't understand non-doing and they can't let them, they can't stop themselves from being accessible. They just, they don't get it. They say, well, no, I really want to be accessible to somebody. I really want to do, I can't stop doing. But you can do it. You can do it, that's why you're here. You were invited here because your teacher, your meditation teacher knew that you could do it without doing it.

1:52:28
So So

1:52:30
Observe this. Observe this in your life. All right, so thank you all so much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
