0:00:00
I thought we would just begin with meditation together. Maybe we can sit for three songs, maybe the first three songs of Canyons of Light. So we'll meditate on the navel for the first song, on the...

0:00:30
It will take two minutes to set that up.

0:00:33
Okay, great.

0:00:35
I have a voice from above. Miracles are happening. So, a very important principle in Amrut Cikitse, this healing system, it's very kind of mainstream with Buddhism and spirituality. It is being aware of the present moment. And it's a very important thing. So there's some foundations of the healer. A healer has to be in the present moment. So if you're going to really take seriously making your health better, if you're thinking about the past, then you're not bringing all of your attention to where it has to be in order to create healing. So, we simply want to be in the present moment. said that when he got this teaching from his gurus, he said that it was very hard for him and that it took him two years of complete focus to bring his mind into the present moment. But then he said, once he got his mind into the present moment, he was much more happy, much more balanced and much more clear. So this is a practice that's in many Asian spiritual studies, to bring your mind into the present moment, into right right now. And in this healing system, it's important, otherwise you disperse your healing energy. So we're going to do meditation and in this meditation you'll be very, very focused on right now. Just be aware during our meditation while you're focusing on the chakra that you are being very, very present here, that you're not thinking of thoughts of what happened earlier today or anything in the past, but you're bringing your attention to right here, right now. Wonderful. Are we ready for meditation? We are ready with the first three songs of Canyons of Light. All right, wonderful.

0:04:27
Okay, let's begin. ♪♪ the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the the the the the the the the the the the So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. Thank you. the the the the the the the the the so So the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the the the the Oh, ♪. the the the the the the the the the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the the the the the the the the the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the the the Wonderful. Alright, so, meditating in the present moment. Your hope in being in the present moment is your dimension of understanding in your meditation. going into the past and going into the future, then you're dispersing your attention. If you're focusing on healing, you're dispersing your power, your healing power. So it's very important that the mind is completely present when you're healing.

0:15:23
Now it's good to be present all the time, but especially when you're going to be doing one of the practices, Guru Niyana or Sankalpa or something, you want to make sure that you're completely present, you're not thinking about the past, thinking about the future. That just brings you out of balance. The past and future don't even really exist, it's really this moment that exists. So when you go into past thinking or future thinking, then you're coming out of reality into concepts and ideas. So for a healer, as a foundation, one must heal in the present. then you can unlock tremendous power.

0:20:28
Simple.

0:20:31
The second part of a healer's disposition is that of a positive mind. So whenever you're going to be healing yourself, you have to be positive. So, if you start to heal yourself and you're like, oh, I'm never going to get better, oh, drinking this lemon water is not going to help me, then what you're doing is you're completely cutting yourself off from the power of positivity. And if you're negative, then you're just closing the door. Is that a hand? Or you're itching your head? Okay, yeah, so when you're healing, you have to be completely 100% positive about what you're doing. Because any negativity or doubt really cuts you off from the healing powers. So these are just simple things. Be present when you're going to do it, and if you're not positive, if you have doubts, then it's not going to work very well for you. So you have to rid your mind of doubt. You have to have complete confidence and a positive mind. Yeah, don't think about the past. We say, the past is dust. That's our mantra for not worrying, for letting go of concerns for the past. And we say the future, it's not even here yet, so why worry about it? So, yeah, it's important. Yeah, you know, the CEO of Ikea, he died last week. He was an interesting guy. When he would go traveling for business, he would sit in economy class. He would sit to work at a cubicle. He didn't have the big corner office. He was very frugal, because he was worried about the future. He's like, oh no, he's like, we must be frugal. And maybe it's kind of funny. You know, sitting, you might sit next to him, you're flying somewhere, you're like, whoa, the CEO of Ikea, why are you sitting on an economy class. Well, you know, Steve Jobs also sat in an economy class on his own private jet. So it's not too far out there. But you can't worry about weird things. You know, it's like, hey, if you have the money, get yourself a jet. Or, you know, so he passed away last week. But there's a holdup on burying him because they're still assembling his coffin. So, yeah. Humor is a good way to stay positive, right? Like, you know, laughing. Laughing is completely positive. So, if you find yourself not being positive, then look up some jokes, you know? And there's this thing where you can find a lot of jokes, it's called the internet. And then, yeah, just look at some jokes and laugh. Because when you laugh, there's positive energy. So, positive energy is good. Yeah, you can't fake laughing. If you're sitting there by yourself and you're like, ha ha, ha ha, you're like, no, it's not working. working, just find something funnier. And then there's a beautiful honesty in laughing, ha ha ha, ha ha ha, but then you might find yourself with an evil laugh, mu ha ha ha, mu ha ha ha.

0:25:30
And that's funny too.

0:25:31
So anyway, staying positive is important. Even if things are difficult, you should stay positive. So I remember one of the healers, it was Kameshwari, actually. She said, it's hard to stay positive. She's like, I'll be in the healing room. And the healing room is like this big room. A lot of people are lying down being healed. The healer goes and puts their hands on someone and they do the healing magic. And then she's like, and then outside through the door there's a bunch of people just laughing and talking and whatever, you know, like so much noise. And she's like, it bothers me. She's like, because, you know, they know we're sitting here healing people and they're doing something that's disturbing to you. Positive in your mind and you can heal. You can heal anywhere. He said, you can be positive in any situation. And he said that, you know, the world is like a crazy place and you should just accept that the world's a crazy place and not worry, not fret. He said, if you're in the middle of the market, you shouldn't complain about it being busy and loud and noisy. So, be positive. Accept that the world is a crazy place. It is. And he also said about people, everyone's selfish. Everyone is selfish. And once you can accept that, then you have no reason to Because of course they're acting in their own self-interest. So be positive. So living in the present moment, being positive, this is the foundation of a healer's disposition. And so you have to make sure that you practice it. Okay, now we're going to talk about another practice. It's more water craft. And guess what? You have to drink more water. Funny enough. Okay, so this one is called Ishta Siddhi. And Ishta Siddhi is a power. So we have certain practices of meditation and then we have certain practices of disposition, and then there's some mystical practices. And this is a mystical practice. This is a way of developing a specific Siddha power, Siddhi power. And this is like is personal, like self-resonance, something that is good for you. So, you know, if you like chocolate cake, you go, oh, I resonate with that, right? If you don't like spinach, you'd be like, oh, I don't resonate with that. Yeah, and so once you are clear on what works for you, what you are drawn to, what you want to draw into your life. So you can say it's kind of like a, you know, make a wish, to make it simple. You say, oh, I wish for some chocolate cake. Boom! A chocolate cake appears. Wow! So, this is actually a very, very, very magical practice. It's developing a power within you to do things that are magical, manifesting things into your life. And so, it's quite lovely. It draws upon very, very powerful dimensions, ancient teachings, and it includes drinking more water. All right, so what you do is you take a one and a half liter vessel. It could be a bottle or it could be a bucket. Anything that's one and a half liters. And then you take a larger bucket that could contain that water. So it could be the same size or it could be bigger. And that could be a big bowl or a big bucket. Then you're going to have a glass that's going to be water that you drink. This glass is gonna be 350 milliliters.

0:31:43
So you only have to drink 350 milliliters, not so bad.

0:31:47
Okay, so what you do is you take the 1.5 liter vessel, bucket, bottle. You fill it up with water. Then you take the 350 milliliter glass and fill it up with water. The larger one, 1.5 liters, goes on your left. The 350 milliliters on your right. And in front of you the bigger bowl that's going to contain the 1.5 liters. You pick up the 1.5 liters, you hold it to your third eye, and then you think about all of the negative things in your life. You think about the things that cause you suffering. It could be physical pain, emotional pain, any kind of pain. You can think of negative influences, maybe people. And you can think about just anything, like hard circumstances. Like you're like, oh gosh, I have to walk so many miles to go to school. I don't know, whatever. So anything that's negative in your experience, especially things that will get in the way of what you want in your life, like that chocolate cake. You're like, what's, yeah, man, the thing that's in the way of me getting my chocolate cake is, you know, the baker, he's hoarding it, I don't know, whatever. So, then you put this vessel against your third eye and you think about all those difficult, hard, horrible things. And what you're doing is you're projecting them into the water. You're putting those into the water.

0:34:05
After you put them into the water,

0:34:07
you're going to look directly down into the water. Yeah, if you had a bucket, you're supposed to look into the bucket until you see your reflection clearly. But if you have a bottle, you might not. But you're supposed to look down into it. But if you have a bottle, you might not. But you're supposed to look down into it. And then, you're going to slowly pour that water out into the bigger bowl. And as you pour the water out, you say, you can say it aloud or you can say it just in your mind, that all these bad things are going into the water. You know, my aching back is going into the water. That angry person at work is going into the water, or is going into the bowl. So you slowly and intentionally pour out all that negativity into that big bowl. Then you put it down. Then you'll pick up your glass of water that will be on the right and you'll put the left hand facing up, the right hand facing down, your palms over and under the water and you bring it to the navel chakra. And you hold it there. Actually you can bring it to the navel or the heart. If you want something more like lovely or something more powerful. But this is where you're going to state what you want. So you're going to choose something you want. It could be a piece of chocolate cake, or it could be a Ferrari, or it could be perfect meditation. It could be something physical, it could be something spiritual, but it's got to resonate with you strongly, what you have a burning desire for. And it can never be something bad, it can't be negative, it has to be something that's just positive and it has to be something that you feel is aligned with the Dharma. So you're like, oh, a Ferrari could be aligned with the Dharma. It'll make me feel happy and I'll meditate in it, or whatever. Yes. So, you will hold it here, and then you will say seven times, aloud or in your mind, what you want. I want that cake. I want that cake. You know, so, mmm, cake. So whatever it is that you want, you'll say it seven times. And then you will envision having that thing come true. You'll envision yourself having the cake, eating the cake, being happy with the cake. And after envisioning it, then you will drink the water. You don't have to drink it all right now. You can take your time drinking it, but that is Ishta Siddhi. So again, I will write this down for you so that you should do it every day until you see your wish come true. And he points out that a lot of people have gotten healing from doing this practice. So a lot of what I did when I was there was I met with a lot of patients and they would say, oh yeah, I did Ishta City and then my health problem went away. So it's a powerful way for healing, but it's also a powerful way for other stuff, for getting other stuff, including chocolate cake." Or whatever, yeah, wherever you're at. Like, you know, if you're at a place where you're like, gosh, I need to really get a better job, you can do Ishta City for that. Yeah, definitely, I heard stories of people who had financial trouble who did Ishta City and then their financial troubles were gone. And then they go on to their physical problems, because they're like, well, yeah, my back hurts, but man, the place I'm really suffering is in my finances. So they did Ishtar City for money, they got their money, and then they went on, did Ishtar City for a health problem, but they also did other stuff for the health. But there were people who only did ishtasthiti for their health problems and they were cured. So, it would be good, you know, if you really, really want to learn this and be successful, that you practice, you take on a goal, and you practice it every day until you get the goal. Because that's when you see that it works. And it's kind of like, I don't know, in karate sometimes they say, oh, here's a board, I'll punch through it. And you're like, no, if I punch through it, it will hurt. It's impossible, it's something in my way. I'm not strong enough. And then eventually the teacher teaches you how to do it. You just go and punch and the board breaks and your hand's not broken and you say,

0:41:17
wow, how did that happen?

0:41:19
And then once you break that board, then you know something. All of a sudden, a power unlocks in your mind. And you become much, much more powerful because you did it. So if you do Ishti City, every day, you will get what you're seeking and then you will see in your mind that that is a possibility and that you're much more powerful than you were before. So Ishta Siddhi is good. at some point in the evening, and that you do a sankalpa, remember they place the intention, and then you do ishti-siddhi. Ishti-siddhi is the last thing that you do before you go to bed. Because he says that the actual powers happen while you're sleeping. Yeah, so it's something that goes on all night. The magic happens when you're sleeping. Why not? Why not have some magic when you're sleeping? You're working through these powerful dimensions all through the night. So he recommends that you don't lay in bed reading a book or watching something or listening to something, he says, just do Ishtasthiti, lay down, go to sleep.

0:42:56
And we'll get to how to go to sleep later.

0:43:01
So in the next class, we'll talk about some therapies, and one of the therapies is how to go to sleep, how to solve insomnia, high blood pressure, and diabetes. We'll get to that. So we talked about the disposition of the healer, a very important power, Ishti City, that you can practice. And there's another healing practice. And this heals many dimensions of one's being. And it is called shamadana. And it really is, probably means forgiveness. So a lot of times people hang on to past hurts and suffering, dealing with other people, and you can't heal unless you can let go of these things. So if someone wronged you at one time and still in your heart and in your mind you still are kind of mad about it, sad about it, unbalanced, then you have an attention going to a place where there's still hurt and harm. And so you need to bring your attention out of that, let go of that, and come into balance. Your energy becomes balanced in the present. So, Samadhana is asking for forgiveness and forgiving. So, you begin by forgiving. And in forgiving, you think about any place at all where somebody did something to you that hurt you and you felt sad or bad. And then you say, oh yeah, I remember when I was 12, somebody took my chocolate cake and I was mad, and I'm never gonna get chocolate cake again. So you're just like, you go and go, yeah, there's this drama, this problem from years ago with a person thousands of miles away or something. And then you just, in your mind, see them, and you say, I forgive you. And you let go of your problem. You let go of being upset with them. So, this is very important. As long as you're holding on to problems with people because they hurt you or wronged you or whatever, then you're leaving your mind in a place that's toxic, where you have bad energy, where you're wasting a lot of energy. Yeah, Buddha said, you know, if someone comes over and hits you, it'll hurt. Or if they say something nasty to you, maybe it'll hurt. But then, what we do is, we will hurt ourselves 10,000 more times. He said something mean to me, ouch, that hurt, and then he goes away, and then you'll just sit there, he said something mean to me, he said, repeating the same thing and feeling the same pain. So we tend to waste a lot of energy and attention there. And if what we did was we said, ow, that hurt, then you go, okay, well, I'm going to try not to get hurt again, I'll walk away from that, but in my heart, I forgive that person." Then you save yourself a whole bunch of mental pain, emotional pain. So forgive. Now I've given seminars on forgiveness, so it's a big subject, but just do it. Forgive. Let yourself forgive. Because it's not about the other person, it's about you. If you're not forgiving the other person, then you are holding onto pain and suffering, and you're holding yourself in a place where you just feel bad. So, heal yourself by forgiving. After you've forgiven everyone that bothers you, yeah, for some of you, you can have a phone book-sized list. So everybody, have to forgive everybody. But forgive one person at a time. Don't just say, oh yeah, my in-laws, the whole side of the family. You want to forgive one person at a time. And then when you've completed forgiving, then you'll focus on asking for forgiveness. So anyone who you think whether you did something or whether they perceived it, but if anyone is mad at you, then you ask them for forgiveness. In your mind, you bring them up and you just say, I'm sorry, please forgive me. And you imagine them forgiving you. And then you let go of that problem. And, it doesn't matter if it was a real thing that you did to bother them, or if it's just their side of the story made up in their own head, it doesn't matter. If you know that they're upset with you, for any reason, you ask for their forgiveness. So, this is a way of cutting off areas where you're spending energy in a fight, basically. Kshamadhana is asking for forgiveness, forgiving, and then being at peace. This is a very, very, very powerful thing. A lot of people waste so much energy being angry. Angry at the past, and when someone's mad at you, then you get mad at them. And you have to forgive. So, let's forgive together. We're going to spend just a couple minutes, but you're going to bring up in your mind the people who have hurt you, made you angry, sad, whatever, something that affected you to make you suffer, and you're going to forgive them. And then you're going to bring up in your mind people that perceived harm from you and you're going to ask for their forgiveness. So we'll just do this for a couple of minutes. But we do this with, we align ourself with the dimensions of healing and we have very, very clear intent to forgive and to be forgiven. The person might not even be alive anymore who you made mad, but this reaches beyond life and death and everything. So we're just going to sit for a couple minutes and bring to mind the people that you need to forgive. And then after that, just go right to people that you're going to ask forgiveness from. All right, now you can focus lightly on the third eye.

0:52:13
And let's begin. Okay. you Alright. Doesn't it feel good to forgive? If the world would only forgive, this would be a much nicer place. Yeah, forgiving is just laying down such a heavy thing. When you don't forgive, you're carrying this big, heavy burden. You're like, oh, this is so heavy, but I can't let go of it because I haven't forgiven. Then if you just go, eh, whatever. Yeah. Wonderful.

0:53:57
So that is Healing Lesson 2. So next time on the 18th, in the third lesson, it just gets better. The next one is really, really, really pivotal. But Ishta City is out of this world good. Once you pour the water of bad thoughts into the bucket, that is toxic water. So you're supposed to put it down the toilet, in the gutter, don't let your dog have it or your plants or anything like that. Don't drink it yourself. You've got to get rid of that stuff. So Guru Raghunath, I think he was 16 or something like that, and he was just sitting there and then Shirdi Sai Baba comes to him and is like, Hey, you're sick. So he had four illnesses. I don't remember what they were, but he was always sick all the time with four illnesses. And Shirdi Sai Baba said, hey, do these couple things and it'll heal you. And he didn't listen. So he was like, who's this old man? And eventually he did the things and he got healed. But they were simple things like ushapana, and go find this herb and eat it. So it's really interesting in the story where Shirdi Sai Baba says, don't drink cold water, drink warm water. Very simple thing, but they're powerful, because they're coming from some kind of very deep wisdom. So Shirdi Sai Baba, thank you for telling us the story of Shirdi Sai Baba. That was amazing. The presentations just keep getting better and better. It was really amazing. Shirdi Sai Baba, His energy, presence, consciousness came through. So we can have a very, you know, a deeper connection with one of the masters of this healing system. All right, everyone. Thank you so very much. Questions? You have questions? Okay. Yeah, questions. One is for the Sanculpa as well as the Stigma.

0:59:16
Can we do one anyway?

0:59:19
For Ishta City?

0:59:21
Yes.

0:59:22
So, with Ishta City, you should start with one. Like, the one for you. Sanculpa as well? No, Sanculpa, you can have multiple Sankalpas. Yeah, laundry list of Sankalpas.

0:59:41
Yeah, you could say, I want the pain in my back to be gone. That's a strong,

0:59:47
straightforward intent. Yes, go ahead. and where you want to feel something.

1:00:09
Then you drink a lot of water, and then you do Ishta Siddhi.

1:00:13
No, no.

1:00:15
So, if you do Ushapana, and then the Ishta Siddhi water, right after each other,

1:00:24
and then you go to bed. No, this is better than the outside. So you do Ushapana sometime after 6 p.m. But you're gonna do it at least two or three hours before you go to bed. Yeah, because then you can sleep without running to the bathroom back and forth. So see, Guru Raghunath says that you should do Guru Dhyana at 11 o'clock, and then the Sankalpa, and then the Ishta Siddhi, and then you should go to bed. That's what he recommends. But basically, that's the last thing you do in the evening. So even if you meditate, let's say it's midnight and you meditate for an hour. And then after meditation, then you would do the Guru Dhyana, the Sankalpa, and then the Ishta Siddhi.

1:01:45
But like when you drink the lemon water, like you're taking the lemon, you're doing the Guru Dhyana and the other things also, but again, it's kind of like you're doing that three times a day.

1:01:55
Yeah, if you would like. So you don't have to. You can just take the lemon water and drink it. But what I always do is I will put my lemon in the water and then I will say, Om Sri Guru Raghunatha Namaha, like once or twice or three or four times, just a little bit. And then I go, okay, mom, dad, Guru Raghunath, Shirdi Sai Baba, and then I choose Lakshmi. Lakshmi is cool. So I go, Mom, Dad, a couple of Gurus, and some God. And then I go, alright guys, help me out here, because I'm going to put my intent here. And I'm like, pain in the neck, go away. And then you go, all right, drink it. It's amazing.

1:02:55
Yes, over here.

1:02:56
Yes, yes, you can forgive yourself.

1:03:01
You can, yes, you can forgive yourself.

1:03:04
Yeah, a lot of people beat themselves up and you can say, oh, I don't have to worry about that. I forgive myself.

1:03:21
And is this something that you find that you even have to worry about?

1:03:27
No.

1:03:28
Once it becomes an attachment,

1:03:30
then you'll notice that it's not something that resonates with you.

1:03:39
Yeah. Over here.

1:03:41
Can your manifesting be a collective success?

1:03:45
Yes, it can be a collective. Like you can be like, okay, we're on Jiminy Crickets. We want to make this successful. This whole venture, it can be a venture, yes, a company. Yes? It's a step, but in this practice, there are supportive dimensions of healing. So when you do Samadhana, you're connecting with the ascended gurus and they have dimensions and powers to help you. So as long as you say, okay, as part of my healing practice, I know that it's hard for me to forgive this person because they took away my chocolate cake. And then you go, I'm going to do the practice. And as soon as you do the practice, the powers start to help you to forgive.

1:04:59
Yes, yes, yes. Uh-huh. Yes, do it for that, too. Yeah, you say, I stole your chocolate cake and you don't really know about it, but you would be mad.

1:05:20
So please forgive me, and then see them forgiving you. Yes. Yeah, you can do that. to take something a little closer to what's achievable so that you can see that it works. And then take another step and another step and eventually you could be making your own space company, right, rockets, and you could figure it out. You can go more advanced than Elon Musk and figure out the whole thing. So it's possible. It's possible. Everything's possible. But build yourself up.

1:06:32
Yes.

1:06:33
Yes. So, again, in this system, there's support. There's seven magical gurus in higher dimensions who actually want you to succeed and want to help you. So you actually sometimes will see them in a vision, or Shirdi Sai Baba in a vision. And they come and then they help you. So they have powers and methods and dimensions. So when you say, I want to heal and I want to get rid of my doubt or I want to stop being angry at someone, so let me do the practice, let me try. And when you try, then they help you. So it's like, you know, if you're outside of a judo dojo, and you go, well, somebody came over and grabbed me and I want to throw them but I can't, then yeah, you don't have a lot of support to do it. Even if someone says, yeah, throw them. But if you go into the dojo, then you're going to get all of this support, and then you find yourself throwing people that you never thought you could throw. So you're in a structure with a powerful group of senseis, and there's support for overcoming doubt. You just have to have the intention to overcome it, and then you're getting support and help. Because overcoming doubt is healing. Overcoming anger towards someone is healing, and this is a system of healing. Yes. Yes, good, thank you. That vessel for Ishtar City is only for Ishtar City. Never ever drink from that vessel or that bowl. Yeah, so, and the cup also is only for Ishtar City. So those three things are not for anything else. Yeah, I have them on my altar. So I'm like, okay, they're on my altar. They're only for that practice.

1:09:14
Go for it. Is there a recommended time of day to do a meditation on the fire?

1:09:20
No.

1:09:21
No, any time. So you. Just do it daily?

1:09:25
It's, yeah, it's good to do it daily. You can do it daily, you know, it's good to do it daily, especially if you see that you still have a problem. Like if you're like, oh wow, some people do it once and they say, wow, I just healed. Like I had a problem with these people, I did it, I've honestly forgiven and I don't have a problem anymore." So if that's the case, if you've forgiven and have been forgiven and you've let go,

1:10:09
then you say, okay, good, I'm healed. No. Yeah, so if you wanna do Ishta Siddhi

1:10:24
right after Ushapana at six o'clock, you can. It's just that Guru Raghunath says that Ishta Siddhi is best done right before you go to bed. The last thing you do, Ishta Siddhi, because a lot of the healing powers work while you're sleeping. During what practice? Oh, forgiveness. Let's see.

1:10:48
No, it's a separate practice.

1:10:52
The dimensions are different. I mean, they're similar, but just do the forgiveness and then another time do your bodhicitta. Yeah. Oh, yeah? Yeah, again, like Mars, I would build up to it. But, yeah, absolutely. Yeah, absolutely, it's true. There's Siddha powers that you can develop for leaving the body and Ishta Siddhi can get you those Siddha powers and Ishta Siddhi can also be practiced as a goal for enlightenment. But it's possible. It's like in Bedeviled or Bedazzled, right? She's all like, you get wishes, and he's all, I want a Big Mac or something like that. And then she takes him to Burger King and he gets it. And he goes, wow, it came true.

1:12:17
Just kidding.

1:12:18
But it's good to actually take something that resonates with you, that you think, oh, that would be really good. But not so way out there, because if you see that you can do something that takes you a step higher, check the cake, it's no big deal. But if you were like, no, I want to get this job, or I really need to get an apartment, or something like that and you focus and you see how it magically kind of happens, then you'll say, wow, it'll open your awareness. And then you can do the next thing and you see that it happens also and easier. And then you can build your way up. If you take something that's too big and too far out, it'll take a long time and you won't get those, you know, those boards broken. Yes?

1:13:19
And then at that point, I usually say,

1:13:21
okay, I want this healed.

1:13:23
So are you saying you want something healed and then not drinking lemon water and then doing Ishta Siddhi? Ushapana, the lemon water should happen at six o'clock. Yeah, that includes the yoga before. Okay, go ahead. Okay, and then when you're gonna go to bed, Guru Dhyana 21 times. And then do an intention, and then the Ishta Siddhi. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, don't do Ushapana right before you go to bed. Yeah. Yeah, you can if you want. So you can throw ushapana in any, yeah.

1:14:31
You could put ushapana right before Ishta city.

1:14:34
Might be good to have a bedpan. Yeah.

1:14:37
Yeah, it's good. All right.

1:14:42
Oh, yes.

1:14:46
So, according to Guru Raghunatha, I mean, Guru Raghunatha, yes, but according to me. Oh yeah, can you eat like dairy and egg yolks? Better not to. So we have different So the intentions can go with the water, or with or without the water. Correct, yeah. So you can do sankalpa, the intention, while you're driving to work, or at work. So it's just, you can bring it to mind during the day. It doesn't have to go with ushapana. But I like to put my intention into the water. Oh yeah? That would be fine, but it's not necessary. But that would be cool. Yeah, I got my Ushapana gear kit. It's good to have a mobile kit. You know, you got a lemon squeezer, you got a pocket knife, you got your special thing.

1:16:47
Yes? If you don't have any physical health, can you just do it, but do it only in five minutes and not go to Shambhala?

1:16:57
You can, yeah. If you do any of these once, it's powerful, and if there's something that you want to focus on, you can focus on it. It's all options and opportunities. If you do it all, then you will be strong and healing. Now, the other thing about Ushapana is it prevents disease. So they say, hey, if you never want to get a heart attack or cancer, then do this stuff. But it's up to you. Your question is, if you want to do it right, morning and evening. Yes. If you want to do it right, morning and evening.

1:17:38
Yes?

1:17:39
Yeah, it has to do with bringing moisture to your skin. But I have done wipes before. I was like, okay, I finished my Ushapon and then I touched something dirty and I was all, er.

1:18:12
I was all, er.

1:18:16
And then I had to go do things and I'm like, er, er. But I was like, I'm not gonna wipe my hands, but I used wipes, so I did. Do your best. Yes, yeah, go for it. Enjoy. Please enjoy. Oh, it's a wash. Oh, washing hands. Yeah, then Then maybe the wipes, or just be filthy. Yes?

1:18:52
What about hand sanitizer?

1:18:57
Yeah, hand sanitizer. Yeah, I mean, if you need to, you do what you've got to do. It's better not to. You can wash your hands with dirt.

1:19:12
That's what I learned in Boy Scouts.

1:19:15
Your hand's dirty, but if you wash your hands with dirt, then they're filthy. Just kidding. Any other questions? Oh, question? Okay. Okay, go ahead. Oh, question?

1:19:26
No, okay.

1:19:27
Okay, go ahead. Let's see. Is that a thing? Is that a thing? Is that a thing?

1:19:33
Is that a thing? Is that a thing? Is that a thing?

1:19:35
Is that a thing? Oh, it is?

1:19:37
Okay.

1:19:38
Wait, did Jing say yes?

1:19:38
Wait, did Jing say yes?

1:19:39
I was gonna say, this is like the time Jing told me

1:19:42
she's allergic to salmon. I was like, that's not even a thing. Okay, I can ask Guru Raghunath about that. Okay, I will. Yes. What is the time?

1:20:17
Wait, I think that's a two-step. You're asking too much, so I'll pass it to you.

1:20:29
I can ask about that.

1:20:30
He'll probably say that for the first 45 days to 60 days,

1:20:35
there could be a lot of weird problems. People can have diarrhea and all sorts of weird things. And then, I heard him talking to patients, and they were all like, whoa, I'm doing the Ushapana, but I feel like a chicken. And then, he would say, oh, keep doing it.

1:21:01
Yeah, yes, over here. Yeah. A straw.

1:21:04
Drink through a straw, yeah. Do you also recommend not brushing your teeth before, but brushing them right after? Oh, actually, no, yeah. My dentist said, don't brush your teeth after anything sour. It's bad for your gums or something.

1:21:33
But my dentist is always tricking me. So like, oh, you did that wrong. I'm like, what? Why don't you tell me what's right? Great dentist. Yes?

1:22:06
and I don't know if you can find it.

1:22:09
If you're just living in the mountains.

1:22:11
Yeah, yeah.

1:22:11
So if there's a symptom that you're having

1:22:16
from the Ushapana, definitely ask me and I could always find out what the guru has to say.

1:22:23
Yes.

1:22:24
This question,

1:22:25
if you can get close to a human being

1:22:28
Yeah, that's true. Okay. Okay, I can ask. So yeah, absolutely, there actually is, you know, for smaller people, he says, oh, this is based on body weight is how much you should drink. He says, in general, one and a half liters. But if you're small or big, it could be more or less. So I'll let you guys know the calculation. So anyone who's had some strange symptom after having the usha prana, email me and I will find out the answer. And if anyone has a question that I need to follow up on, like the apple vinegar, then email me and I'll follow up on it. If you don't email me, I will forget as soon as I get to my chocolate cake.

1:24:10
Question?

1:24:11
Was that required to do your

1:24:13
evaluation program?

1:24:15
I guess, but they just didn't provide it. We'll send the calculation out.

1:24:20
Good, you got it.

1:24:22
All right, everyone.

1:24:23
Yes?

1:24:24
Oh, actually, one thing. You said that we need to put a chart on the map. I don't know if you mentioned that you

1:24:32
had to come up with a map of the water and you put a map of the water.

1:24:37
Yeah.

1:24:38
There, that's good.

1:24:39
Thank you What's up, oh

1:24:53
Oh, okay. Well, yeah, so yeah, so if you if you drink something sour or citric afterwards water with some baking soda will Make it so that you can brush your teeth. Yeah, rinse your mouth. Okay, everyone. Thank you very, very much. It was wonderful meditating with you and talking about Amruth Chikite. you very, very much. It was wonderful meditating with you and talking about Amruth Chikite.

1:25:41
meditating with you and talking about Amruth Chikite.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
