0:00:00
Meditation makes your mind steady. When you meditate, you focus on a chakra, your mind eternity of spiritual illumination. That's steadiness. Yeah, it's good. That's what we do in meditation. Now, some people, they have a shaky mind. Shaky mind. Shaky mind focuses on a chakra and thinks about something Shaky mind then comes back and focuses on a chakra and then it goes somewhere else and back And then oh, what do I have to do tomorrow? And then some person shaky mind

0:00:59
Shaky mind is not steady

0:01:02
Steady mind is very satisfying

0:01:05
And

0:01:07
Steady mind gives you peace and power. But when you have shaky mind, it's not very happy. It's always like anxiety, stress. to practice steady mind, not shaky mind. We don't try, well, yeah, we try not to practice shaky mind. You guys might not have noticed.

0:01:47
Now this is important.

0:01:49
When we're with the Sangha, we need to recognize that in others and say, Oh, wow, that's steady mind. This is good. And then we should also recognize when there's shaky mind. Oh, I can learn from this. This is shaky mind. But I want steady mind. I'm making this up. You know, what I mean like it sounds like a Zen term shaky mind, Zen mind, I made that up too. I trademarked that. Just kidding. Okay, so when we're together, we're learning, right? We see when when someone does something well, and we say, oh, I want to reflect that. I want to be like that. And then when we see someone do something shaky mind, and we say, oh, we need to be careful. I can't do that. One of the senior students in school came over to me and said, I don't like the etiquette of so-and-so they should have respect for the senior student and I'm like not if you act like an idiot you don't you don't get you know just seniority like here for a while and then you're all I'm senior. Now I could be a jerk. So it's like, if you I told him, Hey, if you want respect, then you should be demonstrating the Dharma, powerful, steady mind of Dharma. And then people will see that and say, Wow, he's good. He's strong. I respect that I want to learn from that versus like just bitching about things he looks like a flake he's been here for a while and still he's flaky and yes it's true even the most senior students are still um yeah still intermediate students so they're still learning yeah not like you know not an expert not advanced not yet but they're still learning so with news with the new students when you see the senior students sometimes you'll see them struggling with something and that's because they're struggling with it. If you go to a karate dojo and take a purple belt or even a brown belt, and then you give them a challenge, they'll struggle with it. They won't be like an expert. They'll be like, oh, this is new. And in this school, whatever level, wherever you're at, I'm always pushing your ego. I'm always challenging you and when people get to the intermediate study it's even more challenging right so if you're in a dojo there's a bunch of white belts learning for the first time yeah okay let's go all right but when you're when you're working with someone to get their black belt then you have to push them really hard so so it's easy to look at the intermediate students sometimes and see flaws. It's like, huh, why would they have a flaw? They've been here for 10 years, 20 years, 100 years. They should be perfected saints. They're in the process of perfection. In the process of perfection. So, and we also the senior students we also look at the the new students and we and we see beginners mind open-mindedness and that's a very beautiful thing and that's very refreshing for us right so some of my intermediate students they get all jaded they're all like oh I sit around that's right every day and I sit there right and then they go and teach a meditation class and then they see a new student you know it's like all bright and happy and then they go okay wait and then they go oh yeah so it informs us that's why we do this because we help each other. And then we get out of shaky mind. This is the proper way to put it. But you got to have a positive attitude because if you have a bad attitude then that's shaky mind. Shaky mind, there's too much shaking going on right here lots of shaking meditation going over here that's going over there that's going way out there you know and like steady steady trap hold steady right we want to be we want to come from still place the self is always reacting judging coming up with like oh I don't think so. I think I know better. I'm all like, oh, great. Shaky mind. You think you know better? Shaky mind. If you really knew better, then you would be in a blissful peace instead of... Yes. So, even in practice, there's shaky mind. Yeah. We try to get steady in our practice. You know, because if you're practicing compassion, and if you have shaky mind, your compassion sadness. You're like, oh there's somebody, oh I have compassion for them. Now all I'm aware of is the sadness in the world. So my intermediate students practice compassion. Yoga of compassion. And I'm like, you have to be steady. Steadiness is very, very powerful Because you don't just look at something sad and go What you focus on you become Yeah, so we We really we really have this when we practice compassion. We have this powerful steadiness So that we don't become shaky and fall out of balance if you're experiencing spiritual bliss and happiness, if you're not steady, then that turns into desire. So you can be like, oh, I meditated and then I felt really good, and I'm really happy about that. I went into a good state of mind. Then the next day you're all, I want to go back into that state of mind. I desire to get back to a state. And that's shaky. And also, you fall into all sorts of weird desires. Once you start to fall into desire about spiritual stuff, then you start coming up with all these weird spiritual opinions that are based out of self mind. So when you have a steady mind, there's nothing. There's balance. There's power. There's peace. Too much shaky mind. We could be practicing mindfulness, like, I'm practicing my mindfulness, mindfulness, mindfulness. And that could become an attachment. Your mindfulness could just become a way of seeing life that is limited. You'd be clogging yourself up with, oh, but I'm supposed to do this, this, this, this, this. And then you've just stepped out of mindfulness into a limited framework of perceiving life. That's shaky mind. So even when you're doing your dharma practice, you have to have a steady mind. Always watching. Because there's what pleasure and pain loss and gain blame and praise there are things that happen in anyone's life it happened to Buddha it happened to the guy down the street everybody experiences these things and these are the winds of life because if you're not steady it will blow and you'll fly one way. You're like, oh, this is nice. I gained something. And then you're all happy. And then the winds blow the other way. And you're all, oh, I lost something. Unhappy. And then you just get blown around. And then it's no fun. And that's being what Don Juan called a leaf in the wind we want to be a skydog in the wind

0:12:11
that things come, things go. That's the way that life is.

0:12:18
That's just the way that life is. There was a monk in the monastery, and then this one monk comes in and says, there was a fire in the village and one of our one of the lay people his home burned down and then the it's the priest the master he says I expected that and then another monk comes in and says oh I just found out there's bad news. One of the lay people in another village came down with a very bad sickness. So they won't be able to come this week or whatever. And then he says, I expected that. And then they're like, oh, he expected that.

0:13:31
Oh, hmm.

0:13:32
And then they're like, oh, we're supposed to have a festival. But it's raining, so we can't have it. And he's like, I expected that. Wow, he knows the weather. And then finally they come over and they're all like, oh, one of our supporters passed away, died. And then he says, I expected that. And then they say, why do you expect all these things? How do you know? And he said, there's always gain and always loss. This is the way of life. So when something bad happens, I'm not surprised.

0:14:10
Right?

0:14:12
So he understood the essence of life. And so when something bad happened, he wasn't like, Oh my goodness, something's wrong. Hmm.

0:14:25
We're all gonna die.

0:14:28
And there's nothing wrong with death. We come to understand that through steady mind and meditation and spiritual insight. We come to see beyond life and death, beyond the winds of the world. And that's when our mind becomes steady. That's what Buddha was talking about. He said, when he learned that there's illness, old age and death. He didn't know about that. And he's like, Oh, I'm going to get sick, sick and die someday. He said, I have to solve this problem. And when he solved the problem in enlightenment, it wasn't that he did get sick later, and he, he did die. outside of the yins and the yangs of life. It's an eternal state of awareness beyond the opposites. You could be in the world and experience the transient world, yin-yang, good-bad, loss-gain, pain-pleasure. But even in that experience of those finite opposites, you are in a condition of eternal balance, eternal peace. So this is steady mind. Like I said, when I meditate, I focus on the chakra, and then there's eternity, spirit, spirit unity completion that's steady I don't focus and start thinking and go into some weird dimensions or even go into some state of Samadhi it is some state of Samadhi Samadhi being the enlightened consciousness of eternity, of reality. So there was a famous Buddhist teacher, I think his name was Pajang Swetho. He had a glass, like a crystal glass that someone gave him as a present. He was a monk. He's just all like, oh, I got a crystal glass. He's like, I really like it. It's my favorite. And people are like, oh, it's a monk who's got like a possession, you know, besides a bowl. He's got a glass. He's got a bowl and a glass. And then he says, I like this glass because I know it's already broken. Like I already know it's broken. That's how that and that's why I like it so much So when we when we can encompass in our awareness the good and the bad and Then we can we can have steady mind But if we're like, oh, I like this class they might break something of course it's gonna break something so he was able to use that glass as a teaching of steady mind there was a boy which was uncle's house his uncle's pretty wealthy his uncle had this like Ming base and the boy accidentally knocked it over, falls down, breaks, shatters, right? And his uncle's all, oh my God, he's like, you broke my face. He said, this is a, you know, this face is like 17th century vase. And then his nephew says, oh good, I'm glad it's not new. But his uncle was upset because he expected to have that base. He expected to have that base. Yeah, when you have a steady mind, it's very powerful. It makes your life better, stronger, more balanced. more balance. When you have a steady mind, then you're able to see in the Sangha, when people do good things, you're like, oh, I see that that's steady. You see when people do weird things, you're like, whoa, that's not very steady. And that helps you to be sometimes students will go through like some great hardship like you'll see like some student really kind of freak out lose it be really weird or really out of balance and so I would say I expected that I wouldn't I don't I don't judge them and say, they are bad, they are wrong. I expect that it happens. And if it happens, if you're pushed to the point where you kind of have a meltdown or really tough feelings that you're dealing with. That's a catalyst for transformation. So we learn by facing hardships. We don't learn by trying to stay comfortable. We don't learn by trying to stay away from hard work. We learn by facing the difficult things in our mind. And then we find greater peace. So when you see someone being selfless, you say, oh, I recognize that that is selflessness. I want to practice the same selflessness. And then you'll go beyond your self that's steady mind but if you see somebody being very selfish you don't say oh they are bad say I see that they're being selfish no judgment but I recognize that that doesn't work and you say I can learn from that. And then you have steady mind. Steady mind gives you peace in difficulty. It gives you strength to succeed in life. There was a time where Sariputra, Buddha's most senior student, he passed away. And Buddha was like, he said something to the sangha like, Without Sariputra, it's like an empty song. And it's like, but Buddha was there, all his students, but he was like, ah, it's like, at the same time, my mind is unshaken. He did not have shaky mind. So we can gain great support during difficult times, hard times, the worst times. you can face everything in life. You can face life, you can face death, you can face loss, gain, you can have balance in any situation. So the story with Buddha, it's very interesting because he was grieving the loss of a very good friend. And he was expressing that there was a loss. But he said, my mind, but still my mind is unshaken. I'm all unshaken. And I'm all, well, you just have to get going on all right so yeah I was uh I was talking to one of my students I was like hey can we have a late lunch today I'd like to talk to you about something. And then he said, oh, I can't because I have a doctor's appointment. And I said, oh, just call in six.

0:24:33
And he said, oh, I can't.

0:24:35
And I said, oh, just call in six.

0:24:40
Shaky mind.

0:24:41
Turn your shaky mind into a martini maker. And then be happy. So

0:24:47
we observe

0:24:49
when someone

0:24:51
is selfless, if they have compassion, if they have good attention, strong concentration helpful you know all these things when we observe these good things we want to reflect them and then we're strengthened because of it I always give this example of in the dojo right after the class you know you'll see these black belts will start cleaning them out and then the white belts the first they're like right and then after a while they're like hey I see these guys doing something first they're unconscious they don't see and then they say well these guys are helping the dojo and they say I'm inspired to help the dojo too so we can gain a greater community when we all are trying to reflect helping one another. But when you're making a mess on the mat, spill your coke on it and don't clean it up or something like that, right? Then then you are still working on it. But if you see somebody else do that, then you'll go and clean up their spilled coke. And that is something that makes the community better. So the problem is that we have expectations, judgments, and reactions to others. beneficial they're not beneficial to you when you when someone does something mean wrong sloppy bad whatever right they do something not to your liking you say I don't like this and then you go it should be this way or that way and I'm reacting like this I'm reacting like that you are create you have a problem they don't have a problem you have a problem whatever somebody does is their gesture it's up to their enlightenment and impeccability

0:27:26
but your enlightenment

0:27:28
and impeccability have to do with how you react to that so you say ah, someone did something that hurt me, that made difficult things for me. And then you say, OK, I'm going to be mindful, I'm going to be compassionate, I'm going to be constructive. I'm not going to sit there and go, I don't like this, I don't like that. I'm going to do this to them. I'm going to get revenge. When you do that, you are proliferating a problem in your mind. So in a Sangha, we don't want to do that. We don't want to sit there and say, that person's wrong, this person's wrong, I'm right. We want to forgive people, we want to be constructive, we want to be mindful. This is important. expectations and attachments to outcomes always will cause you trouble

0:28:33
so

0:28:36
there's this time in China where it was the war in states and there was a Zen master and he was walking by some soldiers and the soldiers were getting ready to go in battle and they had been fighting for some time and The Zen master just saw this one soldier And he said to the soldier He just saw it opening so he said to the soldier, you know He said you're going to To battle he said yes, I am I'm gonna kill my enemy and he said Put down the sword And kill the hatred in your heart and the soldier was like you know it's like spiritually like awakened from that so then he became a good idea so that's what we that way that's what we got to do you know we're always in a battle with somebody because they did something wrong. We hold on to attached views of what they did, attached views of how they harmed you, you know, all this stuff. And in so many petty little ways. And we spend so much energy fighting with those reactions. It's like, oh, that person hurt me. Oh, that person's mean to me. You know, you're like so many reactions and you're fighting against them. You're that soldier who's mad, going out to battle, trying to kill the enemy. You'll see that when someone does you wrong, that it's not really wrong. Wrong is over here. If they do you right, it's over here. That's shaky mind. If you're sitting there judging and blaming, you have shaky mind. And shaky mind is suffering. So you want to come to the heart. Turn inside. Find peace in your mind. We observe our mind. You see shaky mind over here, shaky mind over there. And we have to come to that still point inside. And then we can find peace. We do a little more meditation.

0:31:44
Okay. Okay. Okay, so we're just going to do one song focused on the heart.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
