0:04:37
Good evening. So we'll begin with meditation. We're going to sit for three songs. One song on the navel, one song on the heart, and the third song And let's begin. the

0:05:13
Very nice. So tonight I'd like to share the way of spiritual learning. The most important unlearning. It is unlearning the limited self that we cling to, limited definitions of self, clinging to fears, desires, concepts, our model of the world. We have a false sense of who we are. And we have to unlearn that awareness. And as you unlearn

0:20:36
the limitations of the self, then automatically your awareness opens to spirit, to your higher nature. Lao Tzu, a famous Taoist master, he said, in pursuing day after day. But in pursuing the Tao day after day, something is lost day after day. But I suppose you can say the same about someone who's overweight, pursuing a vegan diet. Lose little, day after day. But something is lost. Maybe little by little, your personal power grows, you see that you can do things that you never thought were possible before. Your awareness of life changes. So this is the path of spiritual It's not so much reading a book or getting some secret teaching that you can conceptualize. Spiritual learning is different than learning math or grammar. Those are aspects of the mind. But the spiritual learning is different. It's more essential to your nature. Not too long ago, I think in the 70s, from Japan to Oxford and was sitting with a group of physicists. There were professors and there were also many, many students. And the Zen master started to address the students on how to learn. So the way the Zen master told them to learn was to not read books, was to not listen to lectures, and especially don't listen to people who say they know what's going on. No authority. So he's going on and on about books won't help, lectures won't help. And eventually, one of the professors just can't stand it anymore. And he says, hold steady, old chap. Right? He's all, what you're telling my students is the opposite of education. Why do they need to come to Oxford if they should just not even read a book or hear a lecture? And then the Zen master says, exactly. But, you know, this professor is very bent out of shape. He's all, I brought over the Zen guy and he's supposed to say something positive, like, that's good. Go forward, think more. But no, no, no. He's breaking down the structures of the institution of Oxford and education, British education. So the Zen master says to the professor, the cognitive mind of intellect is only a small part of the mind, and to have true genius, you must go beyond it. I don't think the professor was satisfied, but the students definitely didn't do their homework that night. So this is very, very true. The intellect is a tricky thing in spiritual learning, because you might think you understand something and you might be missing the whole the big picture. You might think oh, yeah, okay, so I read it got a definition in my head. That's what it is. But you might not really see the bigger significance of a thing. So there's a joke I like that illustrates this. Sherlock Holmes and Watson go out camping and in Bournemouth. And they get out there, they set up their tent, they go to sleep, Then in the middle of the night, Sherlock Holmes wakes up Watson and he says, Watson, look up into the sky, what can you deduce? And Watson goes, oh, I'm pretty good at this. He says, well, over there I see the constellation of the Southern Cross. So that means if it's that close to the horizon, we're coming close to the summer solstice. And oh there I can see Mars on the horizon also and Betelgeuse which points over to Vega. And then oh I see some clouds you know over the city. Looks like they're going to be having rain. Yeah, so there's a lot. And then Sherlock Holmes says, no, you fool. Our tent has been stolen. There's so many wise fools in the world who know so many things. They've read every spiritual book. They've been to many lectures, many Dharma talks. They sat with many masters. And they have intellectual ideas, but they missed the big picture. In order to go beyond the intellect, you have to shift into power. You know, like Albert Einstein, he was not very apparently intellectual in high school. He quit high school. He didn't do so good. Then he later tried to go to the university and he didn't get in. So then he had to go back study some more. And then finally he made it into the university and then he became a very famous one of somebody who we think is one of the most intellectual people But he did something. He made a shift that went beyond his regular intellect. And then he found tremendous resources of power and awareness. Not just the mind and thought, but power and awareness. We have to shift, to do something deeper than what you think. What you think, your ideas and concepts, those are the realm of the limited self. Power, genius, and enlightenment are beyond that. You have to go beyond thought, beyond concept, beyond the self that you are accustomed to. And when you can go beyond that, then you see that there's a beautiful, bright, eternal universe and higher self, and a great unity and connection with all things. There's peace and balance. This is what we find when we go beyond the self. The self takes all of life, all of eternity, and scrunches it down into fears, desires, particular thoughts, and worries, and everything, a small view of eternity, which is your true being. When we can go past that self, as soon as you go beyond it, you open up and you experience enlightenment, eternity. So there was a famous Buddhist master. His name was Te Shan. And he was of the Theravada Buddhism, the original teachings of Buddha, that lineage. And he was in China. And Zen started to become very He was very bothered by Zen, because Zen was different. They called themselves Buddhist, but they were just very strange. So he had written thousands of notes and papers, commentaries on the sutras, so he was extremely well studied. And he was considered to be the foremost authority on Buddhist teachings. And then the Zen guys come in and say, oh, just get to the essence of it. You don't need to know any of those sutras. And he was very bothered by that. So he decided that he was going to travel down there and I'm going to show him. So he gets all of his commentaries, all these scrolls, puts them in a backpack, and he's ready to pull out any sutra and say, you're wrong because He knew everything. And then he travels down to the South, long day of travel, gets right outside of the monastery, and then he sees a tea house across the street, and he said, ah, I'm going to have some tea first, that'll be good. So he goes into the tea house, sits He sits down, relaxes. No one's around except for a guy wearing work clothes. He says, excuse me sir, can I have some tea? The man says, Oh, well, I'm Tashan, the famous Buddhist monk, and I'm here to debate the Zen master. And he goes, Oh, debate the Zen master. Oh, that's, I don't know, those Zen guys are pretty smart. I don't know if you're going to win." And he goes, of course I'm going to win. I've written thousands of commentaries on the sutras. I know all the sutras by heart. I know what Buddha said. I know the life of Buddha. I know everything. So he says, yeah, I'm like, okay, well, I tell you what, I'll give you the tea for free." And he's like, you, a tea house owner, ask me a spiritual question and debate me? Of course, I can completely, completely beat you. He's like, but pour me the tea now. He's like, I need to refresh my mind. And then the man says, refresh your mind. There's no mind to grasp. What mind will be refreshed? And the Buddhist master considers it, Teshan. He thinks about it. Somehow it's striking to him and he goes, hmm. And then he starts to consider all of his commentaries. And he's like, how can I answer this question? And he goes, oh, here's from the sutra. Oh, this sutra. And then they were never satisfied. So he kept on contemplating it. What mind is there to be refreshed? And he eventually had a moment of satori, enlightenment. He, from that query, looked beyond all limitation and finally came to see enlightenment. And so he sat there in a euphoric amazement. And And then a man from the back room comes out wearing an apron, and then he walks over to the man in the work clothes and says, Zen master, would you like some more tea? So you can know everything and know nothing. Most people get away with that somehow. That's how most people live their lives, right? Facts, ideas, concepts, and being even like the person who's the foremost expert, and know nothing in truth about their light. So there's a difference between knowledge and wisdom. Knowledge is stuff you can get from a book, ideas you can hear from other people. It's something that you can accumulate and use And it's knowledge is useful, but in spiritual learning, wisdom is foremost of importance. Wisdom is knowing the truth. That's wisdom. There's a great story of the Brahman and the beggar. Back in the time of the Buddha, there was a Brahman walking somewhere along the path. He had a pouch filled with gold, and he had a bunch of his scrolls that he had learned from. And he was walking down, he looked pretty unhappy. This is the beggar watching him. And then he wasn't very aware, he wasn't very hurried. And then these thieves come out, and they throw him down, they take his gold, his scrolls go flying everywhere, and then they beat him up. And there's a lot of people around, but they're scared, because oh, these thieves, they're bad. But then the beggar gets up, runs over, and says, hey, get away, pushes him away, and then they got the gold, they don't see anything else, the guy's bruised and hurt a little bit, and then he helps him gather his scrolls. And he says, okay, well, you're limping a little bit, let me help you walk. And he says, well, at this point, just take me over to the river. I'm going to jump in it and drown. And then the beggar goes, oh, okay. So he's helping him walk over. And then the beggar says, what's in these scrolls? And he says, oh, these are the Vedas, spiritual teachings. And he said, I was going to drop them off with my brother, but I don't have the gold anymore. And at this point, I'm so upset, I'm just going to leave them. And then the beggar says, hmm, can I see one? Opens up a scroll. He says, I can't read. And he said, but boy, I would really like to know what this says. And then the Brahmin says, well, this right here, he starts explaining scroll. And then they go into the next scroll. And then they sit down and they have some tea and they're talking about everything. And then finally the beggar says, you know, I would really, really love to be able to read this myself." And then the Brahmin goes, Oh, you seem like a nice guy and you help me out when I was getting beaten up. He goes, I'll teach you. So he teaches him for a year and the beggar learns about 10 words. He's bad at learning. Yeah, so he's like a miserable student. But the Brahmin continues to teach him, continues to teach him. And then one day he doesn't see him around anymore. The brahmin's like, hey, where did the beggar go? And then a few days later, he sees the beggar with a shaved head and a saffron robe. And he says, what's going on here? So he follows the beggar, and the beggar's walking, and the beggar goes over to a gathering where there's a Buddha. So then the brahmin checks it out, sees what's going on, and goes, oh, that's that Buddha guy. And then he walks over and he joins the assembly. And then Buddha says, you, what, you brahman, what are you doing here? And the brahman says, I'm here to be a monk. And then Buddha says, why? And he says, a year ago, I was very upset. I had been kicked out of my spiritual school because my teacher had a dispute with my father. And I was so sad about that, I was going to throw myself into the river. And so I decided to give my brother my money and my spiritual scrolls and then die. And then I got robbed on the way over and this beggar intervened and helped me. And then the beggar was interested in learning, so I taught the beggar how to read and I taught the Vedas to the beggar. And I realized after a while that the beggar was the way to life. You see, the beggar, maybe he was pretty bad at learning knowledge, but the beggar had wisdom. He intervened, changed his karma by getting him to focus on not himself, on helping the beggar had true wisdom. That's what we seek in spiritual learning. How do you get that wisdom? Where does it come from? It doesn't come from a book. It's not an idea. It comes from connecting innately to a quality of your eternal being that's already there. So you've got to unlearn the self, undo the ideas of self to find it. can get in the way. In the way of wisdom. In the way of enlightenment. Einstein, he said something interesting once. He said, the only thing that gets in the way of my learning is my education. It's interesting. And he's someone who, again, broke through an intellectual level to a very powerful level of attention. My Buddhist master used to make fun of Einstein. He said, how egotistical to think that you could bring the whole universe down into one equation. So if you have a definition of enlightenment, you say, okay, I read a definition of enlightenment and now I know what it is. Right? It's an intellectual understanding. And it's a very, very, very small understanding of what enlightenment is. So just the words that you hear, the ideas that you make up, they form your awareness, which ends up being limited. If you go beyond your habitual awareness, go beyond your concepts, your ideas, your thoughts, you go beyond the words, then there's This is spiritual learning. Tibet had a famous yogi a thousand years ago, Milarepa.

0:46:30
Milarepa was someone who never went to school and he just learned karma yoga, the yoga of action. And then he meditated, and he became fully enlightened. So he became a very popular Buddhist teacher, and people would come from near and far to hear his teachings. Now there was a contemporary of his, another Buddhist teacher, who got jealous of him. And he said, that Milarepa, he doesn't know anything, and everyone likes him. And I know everything. He's like, I'm going to go to his next gathering and I'm going to point out how little he knows. So, another Buddhist face-off. So he goes to the next gathering and Milarepa starts to teach the Dharma and he says, Milarepa, so since you brought that up about karma, so in Sutra number 1, 2, 3, 4, Buddha says blah blah blah blah blah and what do you think of that and what do you think of Buddha's conclusion? And Milarepa goes, I don't know what you're talking about." He's like, but since you brought up karma, then he starts to just give a Dharma talk about karma. And everybody there in the gathering is amazed and illumined because of the talk. And then the other Buddhist goes, oh, that didn't work. So he tries it again. He says, oh, wait, wait, wait, wait, in your talk you also mentioned you know you know, just some other Buddhist concept. And he goes, well, here's a sutra. Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And here's what I think about it. And then everyone's all, hmm. What he thought about it, you know, wasn't very bright. And then Buddha said, and then Milarepa said, well, let me tell you what I think about it. And he does another beautiful Dharma talk. And then finally, the Buddhist adversary realizes that he is enlightened, he's one with the Dharma and that all of the things written, everything that he had learned is something that is limited. It's limited to understanding and not open to the truth of the moment. You know, being stupid doesn't Being stupid means that you are clogged and numbed by useless information. There's so much stuff, intellectual stuff, mind stuff, that you've accumulated, that you can know everything and still know nothing. You could have lots of ideas, concepts that great thinkers came up with. And it just numbs your spirit, it numbs your awareness people could be wise fools. I would say knowledgeable fools. They know so many things and yet know nothing and suffer and create difficulties for themselves. Accumulating mind stuff, developing the intellect and thinking that that's all that there is. There was a great Zen master in China, Yun Man, and he would always try to get rid of all the concepts, even when he was answering questions, he would answer just in one word, just to get to the core essence of things. All the extraneous material, get away from it, try to get your mind right to the essence. So he would sit with his students, they would consider the teachings, they would meditate together, then his students would ask So what is Zen? Then he would say, experience. You know, like experience, like he's drawing their mind to right now, the experience. And then they would say, who am I? And he would say, all. So he just had these very, very core ways of drawing the attention. A lot of times if you say, what's the pathway to enlightenment? Some Swami will go, oh, let me tell you, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, right? And saying blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, it's fine. And you can just say blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, if it directs the mind to the truth. So spiritual learning is really from seeing the truth. It's an undoing. It is a way where we get to the essence, where we get rid of the extra. When you sit to meditate, you find a lot of extra. You sit to meditate, I want to steal my thoughts, but boy, why are they there? So you have to do the work Meditation is that that work Getting rid of the thoughts so that when they're gone Then they're spiritual learning It's kind of like Michelangelo sees in that rock a beautiful statue, and then just chisels away until that statue becomes a reality. So we chisel away the self, the dull, hard self that blocks us from that inner, beautiful expression. And then we're able to be ourselves when their extra stuff is gone, your thoughts, your desires, when you've worked them out through meditation, through mindfulness and compassion, then there's just an eternal, beautiful experience. This is a school of the moment. Right now. Enlightenment is within you right now. Right now, we're able to experience stillness and light and infinity. We don't want to make our spiritual practice into a doing. A doing is a long road of stuff to do, of accumulation awake to spirit now. That's what spiritual learning is. The Buddha had an attendant named Ananda. Ananda was with Buddha for over 20 years, and he went everywhere with him. He learned everything from him, and he had a really good memory. So one day, when they were in an area called Deer Park, a Brahmin came over, a young Brahmin. And the young Brahmin came and said, Buddha, I hear you're a great enlightened master, and I honestly seek enlightenment. If you can show me, I would be very grateful." So the Buddha looked at him, and then closed his eyes. And then the Brahmin became enlightened. Pretty good. And Buddha was very happy. But Ananda wasn't happy. Ananda was like, wait a second. This guy walks in on day one, comes enlightened, and I don't?

0:58:10
And Buddha said, you're striving for enlightenment. He stopped striving and accepted what was already there. That is spiritual learning. We are here to do something, learn, right? But not in an intellectual way. The intellectual way you can go on and on and stop striving in your self-thoughts, reactions, and open your awareness to the light and the eternality of this moment. That's spiritual learning. Okay, thank you. We're going to take a break, just for 15 minutes or so, and then we'll come back and I have a just a really wonderful short address and we'll meditate again. Thank you. All right, so we're going to meditate a little bit more and then If we have time, I'll answer some questions I've written down some of you have sent me questions. I think it's good to answer them I've written them down in my Disney princesses book And I will this is a magic book I'll tell you about it

0:59:54
But first, let's meditate. We're going to sit for three songs. Navel, heart, third song is the third eye. Let's begin. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it.

1:00:13
So I've been teaching Buddhism for almost 20 years, and I've been skillfully teaching my students to unlearn Buddhism. Buddhism is the worst. You ever see the mind of most Buddhists? If you ever go to a Buddhist, a monk, a lama, a priest, it could be Zen, it could be Tibetan, you go to the Buddhists and you say, oh, who's enlightened in Buddhism these days? And they'll possible. Buddha was enlightened. But now we just read books. Because there's thinking, intellectual knowing. If you read the Buddhist sutras, when Buddha was alive, he would teach something and in that teaching, people would become enlightened. He would teach, and then someone became enlightened. That's what the stories are about. And then there's tens of thousands or millions of Buddhists now reading the same sutra, and no enlightenment. That's why we're unlearning Buddhism. Buddhism is founded on enlightenment, but it has changed and grown. I was not too long ago in China, in a very, very sacred Buddhist area called Wu Tai Shen. And I found this beautiful little temple there. It's a little Kuan Yin temple. And you go to the temple, it's just very beautiful and a very sacred place. And then right next to it, there's another building. So this is like this ancient temple, a thousand years old. And next to it is a another building that was built in like the 60s, made out of concrete. It's just not beautiful. And then there's across the way, the monks library that was built in the 80s. Totally different look. And then where the monks live now is like very, very new. Beautiful dormitory with air conditioning. So you look at this beautiful, amazing, ancient temple, over the years, things change and grow. Things are added on to it. And this is what has happened in Buddhism. It's been changed over time. So what Buddha taught might look very different than how people see Buddhism now. It might be that the original essence is overlaid, built over, with too many other buildings, so you can hardly see now is considered to be a philosophy or a religion. When Buddha started his teachings, it wasn't a philosophy or a religion. So at the time, there was the Brahmins practicing they were religion, they were praying to gods, they were sacrificing goats, and they were doing all these rituals. So he came out of that place and he said, no, no religion. The Buddhists sat down with a simple life. Buddhism is a way of life, just a way of understanding life, reflecting on life, a way of being. It's not a religion. And it's also not a philosophy. So at the same time, there were the Vedic masters who liked to debate, and they had ideas and concepts of what life is like. And they would philosophize. But Buddhism is not a philosophy. Buddhism is an experience, an experience of your life in this moment, your more eternal nature, to see greater unity, to gain greater power in this moment. It's an experience now, to make your life better now. So in the time of the Buddha, Buddhism was not a philosophy or a religion. But now it's been diminished to that. So that's why we unlearn what it is now, and we go back to the essence of what Buddhism first grew out of. So now Buddhism is kind of like... if Buddhism was a plum, it was like, oh, there's a sweet plum on the tree. And then now what it is, is someone picked the plum, dried it, made it into a prune, preserved it, and it's just sitting around. That's what they've done. They've taken this living fruit and turned it into a prune. Prunes aren't so bad. There's an old Buddhist saying, the man who eats many prunes sits on the commode for many moons. Wait, that's not Buddhist, is it? So Buddhism is something that's really alive, but a lot of times when you read Buddhist texts or you talk to Buddhist monks, it's kind of like, oh my gosh, this is old and dead. So we go back to the life, right? We go back to the life force, the awakened mind of Buddhism, the essence of Buddhism. So that's why we have to unlearn Buddhism. Now, Buddhism over the years changed. If you walk into a Buddhist temple, you often see big statues of Buddha. They had very simple lives where they just tried to reflect the eternal nature of being. So we find in Buddhism now that it's been overlaid with societal ideas and concepts. Buddha said when he was on his deathbed, he said, don't make any images or statues of me. And now every Buddhist monastery has images and statues. So they say, hmm, we like your So Buddha said that his lineage is alive when there's an enlightened student, and his lineage no longer has enlightened students. And that was why Bodhidharma created Zen. From time to time, Buddhism has to change, because it becomes a prune. Then there's a new Zen fruit, grapes. Grapes are good. So from time to time, you know, things got to change and then it keeps it a lot. And you know, you go to China and it's Chinese Buddhism. There's like societal stuff built in. You go to Tibet, completely different. Thailand, very different. Societal extraneous material beads in and then it changes. And therefore, we're here in America. So we have a different format for Buddhism. And we try to keep the fruit living. Very important. Now, what we get from traditional Buddhism is very written in stone ideas and concepts. And these concepts keep us just really locked in a small view of looking at things. It's hard to unlearn when you have a fixed concept. A lot of spiritual people, they read a book, hear a teaching, and then they get a fixed concept. But we don't want to do that. We have to meditate, we have to see, we have to reflect the moment to be alive, to be that fresh fruit instead of an old prune. There's one sutra that's talking about Buddha, and this sutra talks about the 32 marks of a Buddha. So they talk about how big his ears have to be, and the lines on his hands, and they're just talking about all these physical aspects of what the Buddha should look like. His head is long. I was like, okay, wait, I can get there. I'm mostly there, except for the one where he can touch his earlobes with his tongue. And Now if you took that sutra and kind of went over to like a police sketch artist and you read it to him, I'm sure they would come out with like an alien or a cartoon character. They're like, wow, these are weird, strange. These things have been added on over time as they went from culture to culture, as people had new ideas of, oh, we should make Buddha seem really, really cool, so let's give him 32 interesting features." Of course, at the time, everyone said that Buddha looked just like any old normal person, and then all of a sudden, he's got 32 special marks. So that's additional information. You know, Buddha's teachings weren't written down until 400 years after his death. It was an oral tradition. So, you know, it kind of can change over that time. And that's just in India. It's not even before it jumped to China. But it's kind of like, things change, right? So you know that game Chinese telephone? Yeah, I think that's what's happened with a lot of the teachings. Somebody's told a teaching and then it's been passed on to another and changed a little bit, passed on to another and changed a little bit. I'm sure if we did that in this room right now, I would whisper a teaching and it would go through the room and it would come out where it would be different. I would say a spiritual teaching, someone would come back with a good Thanksgiving turkey recipe. So these things change over time. There's a really cool story. There were these yogis with their master, six yogis. And their master is sitting before them, gives them each, gives them all a mantra. And they learn the mantra and the master says, practice this mantra every day, all day, and in one year you will be enlightened." So they say, great. So the Master says, now I'm going to go to the South and I'll be back in one year, see how you're doing. And the Master tells them all to go into separate places. So they all go by themselves somewhere into a hermitage and they sit there for a year doing their mantra. They learned it, they did it every day, every day, every day. And then in a year, they're not enlightened. They come back to the ashram, the master returns, and then they say, yeah, we did it, we tried, it didn't work, don't know why. And then the master sits there and says the mantra. And each of these yogis had interpreted the mantra or changed the mantra to be different. And the master says, the original mantra. So yogi number one thought it was one way, or ended up one way. Yogi number two ended up another way. Three, four, five, just everyone was different. And then when they heard the original mantra from their master again, then they recognized it and they all became enlightened. So we want to come to a pure understanding of spiritual practice. And we don't want to overlay it. You overlay the teachings of truth with your judgments, you could be sitting in front of Buddha or Krishna or someone like that, and they could be telling you the truth of life. And you'll be like, I don't agree. Jesus could be telling you something and you're like, maybe. That's how we can take a pure teaching and then obscure it so it doesn't work. So we want to get to the truth of what works. Buddha always taught in paradoxes. And later on, people tried to structure it, so they said, hmm, this doesn't make any sense, so let's throw this stuff out and go with this one. But there still are paradoxes in his teachings. But he would say things like, he would tell all of these stories of his past lives, and then someone would ask him, is there such thing as reincarnation? And he would say no. So he's got different teachings that disagree with each other, and that's the way life is. His stepmother who raised him, she became a bhikkhuni, which is a nun, a Buddhist nun. He had been teaching for 15 years already and she started to study. And then she would ask different nuns and different monks, what are Buddha's teachings? And then they would tell different things. And then she came over to him and she said, look here, son. She said, I go around and one person thinks one thing, the other person thinks the opposite. Which one is true? And the Buddha says, the one that works. It's the one that works for you. Buddha always said to not even take a teaching on faith. You have to try it out and see if it works. See if it's real. See if it's positive for you. So real, see if it's positive for you. So the teachings sometimes don't make sense, and you have to find the truth. And then when you find the truth that works for you, then that's the teachings, that's spiritual learning. But when you say, oh, this is a paradox, and then you can get confused and lost. This is the experience of truth that we're looking for. It's beyond words and beyond concepts. The experience of truth is where we have a spiritual connection, lifts us into bright states of mind, and that is spiritual learning. We will do an esoteric experience. This is something beyond thought, beyond your conditioned awareness. It's something that shows you directly spiritual illumination. So I'd like you to sit up nice and straight bring a soft focus to the third eye We're gonna sit for one song and I'm going to transmit Spiritual learning don't think but don't don't strain yourself. Just relax. Just sit still still, with your eyes open looking towards me, and just observe. Let's begin. So,

1:33:45
Very nice. So I'd like to know from the audience what your experience was. This is an esoteric teaching, the teaching that has no words, but it is a direct experience

1:38:35
of a spiritual awareness. And it's important when you're new to esoteric teachings to recapitulate These are such subtle awarenesses that your conditioned mind might not even notice it too much. So you might say, hmm, I thought I saw something. Eh, whatever. I don't know. I saw this thing, but nothing. And it could be ten seconds after the seeing where you've forgotten about it, or you've brushed it off. But some people, maybe, have seen very clearly and it really got them. And then they'll say, yeah, so I saw this, or I experienced this. And then you'll say, so did I. Wow, that's why we'll do a couple or a few experiences. So who would like to share? Show of hands? Okay, if we could hand the mic to someone. Oh, keep your hands up. You can choose. Well that person over there.

1:40:08
I noticed that when I would focus on you my eyes would physically jump around and then there would be glimpses of you illuminating. And then I found when I just relaxed and stopped trying to focus, you were all illuminated and it stayed there in more steady gold light around you.

1:40:44
Show of hands again with some new ones. I saw that the stage turned liquid gold. It was a gold light, but it felt like an ocean

1:41:04
of gold light. And I saw that you became very thin, meaning you're kind of like a reflection

1:41:13
I also felt fear in the beginning because I felt like I was dissolving or part of me was dissolving and then everything was dissolving, but I kind of brushed it off and I was able to merge with that experience of gold light. In the back there. I saw that hand go up. It's to me it's like it felt like being instead of instead of like focusing like within oneself like being open to like being open open to

1:41:47
to you to being open to being open to you so I know you're like definitely like when I was like focusing on like my third eye and not like and not like trying to lock on to like an external like point of reference like you were definitely were bathed in like light like it was definitely illuminating but like putting myself in a position of surrender and just receiving and not in not having like the knee-jerk like Newtonian reaction like one action must be followed up by an equal but opposing force.

1:42:52
That's what it felt like to me. Alright, very nice. These are good scenes. Alright, let's do one more. Show of hands

1:43:14
Okay front row here This one no, no, no. Okay. Yes. Yes. Thank you

1:43:22
For me, it was everything going gold. I mean, it was like a screen of gold and I was like,

1:43:34
no, it's my eyes. I'm like having it open too much and it's getting blurry. I was like

1:43:41
closing and opening it. It was a gain. It was like a screen of light over everything. And that's all. Good. All right. Thank you very much. Very good job. So this is very important.

1:44:01
In this school, the most important lessons are these lessons that are beyond words. And I even am teaching these lessons while I'm talking. It's not the words that transmit spiritual awareness. It is these internal dimensions But from time to time, I will punctuate the lesson in the second attention, the unseen world. I will punctuate that so that you can have a greater awareness. But really in the whole meditation, the whole talk, I'm constantly teaching you inwardly with this inner light. life. So it's important from time to time to notice it and really be aware and voice what you're seeing, what your experience is, what your realizations were. Because if you write it down, you're kind of putting that state of mind into a structure as close to the moment as possible that you had that awareness. Tomorrow you might go off, do something, Monday be with your work, and then you could be in a very different state of mind. But if you go back to what you've written down, you could remember it again. So the beginning of the study is being lifted into high states of mind and experiencing really beautiful, pristine dimensions of illumination. And then integrating it, you'd go back and integrate it into your life. And eventually, you continually get higher and higher, you make your life a greater integration with those dimensions experience, not a school of intellectual ideas. This is a school for people who want to experience enlightenment, not just read about it. This school is a recodification of Buddhism. We practice meditation. We read Buddhist books. We practice mindfulness, compassion. But we also bring the teachings, the fundamental teachings of Western world that we live in. So we make our work, we make it our spiritual practice. And we do fun things like making martial arts spiritual practice, making scuba diving spiritual practice, any sport, making it into spiritual practice. We go on wonderful adventures to places of power and sacred spiritual places to practice Buddhist mysticism. We fundamentally seek to experience the light, our eternal being, about it, not to do a religious practice, but to increase our awareness of it. And that's why you're here, that's why you're drawn to the experience of light, not religious or spiritual concepts, but to an actual experience of spirit. So this is very good. not been open to taking these students for the past eight years. I tend to take a group of students and develop them to become very strong, and then maybe eight years later, another group. But right now the Dharma has opened, and there's an opportunity to learn about the pathway to enlightenment. It's an opportunity to grow spiritually. So to join my school, if you'd like. And that is, it's more than something outwardly, it's a big thing inwardly. Outwardly, you would continue to study with your meditation teacher to go through the Enlightenment workbook, to take their suggestions in developing your life in a strong way, your career in a strong way. These are all balanced, important considerations that they can mentor you on. Now, having me as a teacher is more of an inward practice or an inward connection. If I'm your teacher, then I start to give you the inner teachings. And these are invisible, but spiritual, very, very bright. These are teachings that support you in strengthening your meditation and having deeper, brighter meditations. These are teachings that help you in being more mindful, more successful in your mindfulness practice. These are teachings of compassion. These are teachings of spiritual empowerment. They're teachings that cannot be said in words, But when you're my student, I start to transmit these teachings to you. And it's a beautiful thing if you're interested in experiencing enlightenment. I remember when I became a was so happy. It opened up completely new dimensions of awareness for me. I was one way the day before and then the next day on the pathway to enlightenment with a smile on my face. So this is an opportunity if you'd like to. Otherwise, we would see each other once or twice a month in this theater or another nearby theater. These are very powerful teachings, very important that we do get together. And if you're a student, there would be additional special events. To be a student is not physically that different than what you're doing right now. You're going to meditation classes, the Enlightenment Workbook, and you're here. But the most powerful thing is that inner dialogue, that inner connection, those esoteric teachings. It's a continuous spiritual upliftment support. And with new students, I never accept tuition or donation. Rather, I'd like to have a card from you. I really like to receive cards. So if you want to be a new student, I'd like you to, every first meeting that we have of the month, I'd like you to bring a card. You can buy a card, you can make a card. A lot of my students make cards for me. And in the card, you can just say something. you and sign your name. Or if you'd like to tell me a joke, I'd like to hear a joke. Humor is important in Buddhism. Or if you have a little something to say, say it. This is how I develop a dialogue with you. Alright, so who out there wants to be part of the school? Let's see

1:54:44
Okay, oh whoa

1:54:46
Enlightenment, enlightenment Very good, very good So

1:54:51
if

1:54:52
You're interested

1:54:54
Then talk to your meditation teacher, let them know, and then they'll work with you on it.

1:55:18
Very, very, very good.

1:55:20
So it was wonderful

1:55:22
sitting with you tonight, meditating with you.

1:55:25
I think we're going to take another break. Give you guys another little break, and then we'll come back and We'll We'll work through the Disney princesses but I'm also going when we come back, I'm also going to do a Healing practice for you it comes from the Tibetan Nyingma medicine Buddha Medicine Buddha, yoga. Okay, so let's go ahead and take a break for 15 minutes. We'll come back and then we'll just do a little bit more.

1:56:04
Okay.

1:56:04
So my whole talk was talking you out of Buddhism. I was like, thank you for coming to learn about Buddhism and let me talk you out of it. But you know, I love Buddhism. It's great. You know, I like to also teach in a paradox. So I'm going to do a beautiful teaching on healing. And this I learned from a great Buddhist master, Yuan Niao. You know, Buddhism's not so bad. You'll see, it's going to be good. So I recently was in China, traveling all around China with Yuan Miao. And she's also Chinese, so she knows all sorts of magical people, Buddhists in China. So we were going around on a pilgrimage meeting amazing Buddhists. So they're great. Now, this teaching is a It's a teaching of how you can heal yourself. So I'd like you to think of something that you would like healing for. It could be something physical. It could be something emotional. It could also be mental disturbances. So I'm going to transmit this power to you. It's called Shaktipat. Taking a certain kind of energy, medicine then you're going to take it and use it for self-healing. Sound good? Nice and simple. All right, so I'd like you to just look up here towards me. And raise your palms. So I'm going to transmit right to the center of your palm. You're going

1:59:39
This is Medicine Buddha, healing energy.

1:59:46
Now bring your palms right to your heart. The energy is in your palms. to intend, focus on bringing healing to where you need healing. Very nice. Very good. So you can tell your meditation teacher your story of healing. Ah, before we go, I want to answer a few questions. Disney princesses, they didn't have it easy. They all had their suffering and difficulty, right? That's what their stories are about. But they overcame their adversity and then they became princesses. And that's what I want for all of you. So So this is my magical book. Every question that you have, I will answer in an email, and then those of you who are on the student email list, I'll send out the answers. Okay, what does the Ajan require from his students? That's a good question. So I require that you have an interest in enlightenment and spiritual empowerment and spiritual refinement. And I require that you work on being pleasant to be around. You don't have to be pleasant to be around, but you have to work on it. It's important etiquette in the Sangha and towards the teacher. So it's very simple. If you have an interest in spiritual advancement, then you're very welcome here. And as for your etiquette, you have to work on having mindfulness and compassion, positive state of mind. That's it. Simple. What is the Arjuna's intention on the pathway to enlightenment for my students is that my students become enlightened. Shanti Deva said, the master's plan is to make masters. In mindfulness, I want you to be mindfulness masters. I want you to be masters of compassion, and I want you to see your career as right livelihood, as karma yoga, as a pathway to enlightenment. And ultimately, I want all of you to be enlightened. That Why are we living? What's the purpose of life? This is such an easy answer. So we are living because of dependent origination, which is saying, you know, because of karma. That's so funny. The subject of dependent origination I could talk for hours about. It's very complex. And I said, it's just like karma. There. Done. So yeah, so no, like just honestly, we're living because we're living. Buddha didn't answer a lot of why questions. He answered what and how questions. He said, oh, this is the situation, this is what it is, here's how to deal with it If you start asking a lot of why questions You get very existential and and you get like unbalanced Why aren't there more unicorns? Because there aren't So really think about that, you know, because a lot of people have these existential questions

2:06:23
that just draw them into strange thoughts and dissatisfactions. Start to look at the

2:06:28
what and how of your lives. So that's why we're living. What's the purpose of life? The purpose of life is something that you choose. Life has no purpose. It just is. But a principle in yoga, karma yoga, is to choose a purpose. Because if you choose a purpose, you're choosing an experience. If you choose in life, if you make a certain purpose, you know, you go, okay, my purpose is to be a soldier. There's going to be hardship, pain, injuries, death, lots of scary stuff. And that will be your experience, because you chose that purpose. If you chose the pathway to enlightenment, experience light, self-knowledge, illumination, empowerment, and ultimately spiritual liberation. So there's no purpose to life. Life just is. But we choose a purpose. If your purpose is to fulfill your desires, play video games, chill out, you know, those kinds of things. The very, you know, California low bar, you know, just chill through life, make it easy as possible, then you'll experience that. It's not very elevating, but some people like that. So there's no specific purpose. We set a purpose. What's your view on destiny? And what are the things that are predetermined before we enter particularly marriage and children. What's my view on destiny? So

2:09:38
Karma creates destiny

2:09:40
And that means that you take an action and there will be a result So if you if you if you pick up something and then you let go of it, it's gonna drop Action and result Let go of it. It's gonna drop Action and result So that's destiny, but you can change things So you can pick up something and drop it and then catch it with your foot So For a karma yogi, for a Buddhist, there's no fate but what you make. No fate but what you make. So destiny is a pattern of karmas that will have results if you don't do anything. But if you use your personal power and your attention, you say, I want to make a positive change, then you start to change that destiny. Changing destiny is something that we do all the time. We change our lives to be more positive. Let's say you grew up in the South and you are always eating, you know, like fried foods and stuff, things are unhealthy for you. And then that's all you did. That was what everything was. You didn't know any better. And so then you became big and fat and unhealthy, right? And then you moved to California and say, oh wow, there's kale here. And then you say, oh I've learned things about exercise and diet. You can change your destiny. Your destiny was to probably just have a heart attack. And then you start, you say, I'm going to use my energy to exercise and to eat better and then you become healthy. So Buddhism and yoga are a way to have greater awareness of what's healthy in your mind and your spirit. And then you use your willpower to change, to do those better, healthier things. And then that way you change your destiny, you change your spiritual destiny.

2:12:20
What are predetermined before you enter this life?

2:12:24
Everything's predetermined before you enter this life. That's karma. But then that's why when you come onto the pathway to enlightenment, you can change karma. If you couldn't change karma, you would just always be stuck doing whatever you're doing. But you can change. This is the good news. Okay, so predetermination, particularly about marriage and children. So there's

2:12:51
definitely karma to have

2:12:54
marriage and children, but you don't have to. You can say, well, I was born into a certain society and people think that at a certain age I'm supposed to get married and have children. And you can follow that if you want to. That could be the way you go, and there's nothing wrong with that. But you can also say, wait a second, let me look at this. I only have so much energy. And if I really want to be strong in my career, or if I really, really want to practice meditation and yoga, maybe I would make a different decision. Maybe I'll change my karma in favor of those things. Because when you have marriage and children, it takes a lot of energy, takes a lot of tension, takes a lot of time. And it's very fine to do. I have students who've got families and they are doing great on the path. So it's not something that's impossible or bad or anything like that. But you could think about it and say, well, do I want to spend that energy on that? And if the answer is yes, then you can do it. It makes it harder, though. They'll all tell you. So they'll tell you, yeah, it's tough to manage a relationship. It's tough to manage a family. And a lot of energy that you have that could go into your spiritual practice or career would be going into the family. So then in that case, what I tell my students is, you got to be stronger. You've got to be stronger. But you got to be willing to be stronger. Because what happens for a lot of people is they don't push it and then they fall off the path. So it's possible. But it means that you have to move from your regular level of power and attention to a much higher level. So if you're willing to do that, then great, fantastic. You can be very successful in the spiritual path. A lot of people say, yeah, I'm willing to do that. And then they have the kids and then they all can't do anything. They get stuck in their karma. So it makes it harder, but it's possible. So again, yes, it's something that is predetermined in the sense that you might find more spiritually elevating. Okay, the rest of the questions I will answer in an email. All right, thank you all very much.

2:16:36
It was lovely meditating with you this evening. It was lovely meditating with you this evening.

2:16:40
The next meditation is going to be here on the 27th. So I hope to see you then. Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
