0:00:00
Welcome to a wonderful evening of meditation, magic, enlightenment, spiritual inspiration, and some other good stuff. All right, wonderful. I'm so glad that you can all come. And we will begin with meditation. So we'll sit for three songs, a focus on the navel for the first song, second song the heart, third song the third eye. And let's begin.

0:00:35
Tonight, I'd like to share with you overcoming fear. This is a very important subject because fear is the primary hindrance for them to get started, for them to establish themselves on the spiritual path.

0:15:00
What is fear? Fear is a misunderstanding. You look at life and you say, oh, this part could harm me. This part is going to do something that I don't like. And then that creates your misunderstanding. You don't see life correctly, and therefore you experience this thing we call fear. It's like you're at the circus with your ice cream cone and some balloons, and then a monkey comes over to you because it's a circus, right? And then you see the monkey, and you say, oh my god, a demented circus monkey! And you let go of your balloons, and you think it wants your ice cream, so then you hold your ice cream falls on the floor, and yet it was just a very positive, well-trained monkey. See, it's a misunderstanding. So you say, something's gonna be bad for me, and then you start to do weird things, and that's what we call fear. Fear is an illusion. It's actually not a thing Right we go. Oh my gosh, there's a fear out there in the woods. I'm gonna go get me one of them Nope If you go out into the woods, there's no fear you can't catch one Unless someone sneezes on you So Yeah fear is is actually completely an illusion. It's not a real thing. It's like when Dorothy, in The Wizard of Oz, she goes to see the wizard, right? And there's fire and loud noises and, First she was afraid. She was petrified. And then, thanks to her friendly dog, that looks a lot like a Scotty, she found out that there's just some loser pretending to be this powerful wizard and That and it's it's nothing to be afraid of and this is the way it is with your fears They are illusions, there's nothing to be afraid of What we call fear is Just a bad reaction So when you you know, your heart starts beating really fast, that's a reaction. That's you, right? You can relax and do some deep breathing and it'll stop. But if you started going, oh my gosh, my heart, you start sweating, you start getting tunnel vision, right? So these things that we attribute to fear are actually just us reacting poorly to life. There was a monk in a cave meditating. He went there for a meditation retreat. And he was deep in this dark cave. He had a little oil lamp which he set on one side of the cave, and then he sat down on the other side to meditate. So he's sitting there meditating, and then he hears a little sound. It's like some noise, and he says, he's meditating, but he goes,

0:19:14
what was that?

0:19:16
It's a little noise. He's like, something's crawling around, but it's a small thing, maybe it's just a mouse. So then he keeps meditating. And then a minute later, he hears a strange noise, like a flapping. And he's like, oh my gosh, what could that be? Could it be a bat? No, it was louder than a bat. It was something different. Then he started thinking, maybe it's a demon. Then he says, no, no, okay, I'm gonna meditate more. So then he continues meditating. And though his eyes are closed, all of a sudden he can feel this shadow overcome him. So the lamp was across from him, and all of a sudden this big shadow appears, and he's like, oh my goodness, it is a demon. And then all of a sudden, the flapping noise, but it's much louder. And then he shrieks, opens his eyes, jumps to feet and sees that there's a pigeon in front of the lamp. Oh, just a pigeon. But in his mind, sitting there, meditating, his considerations of what was going on were wrong. He was coming up with ideas in his mind that were illusions. And then once he realized, it's just a pigeon, then he chuckled and sat and meditated and became enlightened. Yeah, so this is what we do, you know For establishing yourself on a spiritual path we we start to observe our thoughts because Fear stops you. It's an obstacle You'll start with these innocuous thoughts like, maybe I can't. Yeah, maybe that's not for me. Yeah, maybe it's too hard. These are the thoughts that come from fear, not understanding. Fear comes from self-cherishing ignorance. And that ignorance gets you to start saying, nah, nah, uh-uh, maybe not. Why try so hard? It's so difficult. I don't have time to meditate in the morning. I don't even like meditation. I don't like good things anymore. You know stuff like that. So these thoughts come up and say, oh, yeah, you know, I can't do it. I shouldn't even try. I can't say no to people. I have to do this. I have to do that. These are all these subtle ways that fear leaks into our brain, leaks out of our brain, and then it stops you, it stops your spirit from growing, ascending, being illuminated. So we have to really observe where these subtle fears come into our thinking, and then we can just let them go. Now, where did this stuff come from? Well,

0:23:19
one big factor has been

0:23:22
social conditioning. So we grew up with fear. We grew up with society telling us what to be afraid of. Our parents telling us what to be afraid of. So, it's like, oh, don't play with that. You'll put an eye out, right? Or don't talk to strangers or you'll be kidnapped. Or brush your teeth or your teeth will rot and fall out. And, you know, they say these things and it kind of gets you freaked out. Don't go walk around the neighborhood or death. Put on your seatbelt or death. Don't eat too much pepperoni pizza or death. Right? So we have all of these messages from society and parents, people who actually care for us, they don't want us to come to harm, but they have impressed fear upon us. You know, even at a very, very, very young age. So then, this warps our awareness field. The way in which we perceive life gets changed from fear. And then when we look at things, we don't see it correctly. Kind of like one of those carnival mirrors, those warped mirrors. So people tell you these scary things and then you see life differently. You look in the mirror and then all of a sudden you're like, you know, taller, skinnier, or shorter and fatter or something like that. Tall and skinny is good, right? Yeah, that's a fear diet. So, but you really end up seeing life in a way that is not true because of fear. We want to do away with all of that. Now, people, when they sense fear, insecurity, they start to seek security. The problem is that they seek security in the finite world. They say, okay, if I can have enough money, then I'll be okay. Then I won't have to fear things. If I have the right relationship, I don't have to fear things If I have the right position, I don't have to fear things If I have the right flavor of ice cream, I Don't have to fear things, you know so

0:26:35
there's

0:26:37
The you know people seeking

0:26:40
security

0:26:41
Because they are afraid But the way that they seek security won't work because that's the transient world. You can't try to find something in the transient world that will take away your fear. It might for a little while give you some relief, but it won't solve your problem with fear and insecurity. That has to come from within. You have to be able to see the truth. Because when you're trying to find security in the transient world, the finite world, then you're always going from yin to yang. Good to bad, good to bad. It'll go one way or the other, but you won't find peace. There's a story of a man in India a long time ago. He was blind. And he really suffered because of his blindness. He would go out into the town and he would be robbed sometimes because he can't see. So he's walking around and some ruffians see him, they rob him. So he had a lot of fear because he's like, I'm blind, I can't see, and dangers can happen to me. One day, he was sitting down for his lunch in his home. There was a knock at the door, and there was a yogi who said, please, can you give me some food? This will sustain me so that I can attain Moksha, enlightenment. And then he says, Oh, okay. I was just going to eat lunch, but holy man, I will give my food to you. So the yogi eats and is happy. And then he says, Holy man, do you know of a way that I can be healed of my blindness? Because I have so much fear of being blind. And the yogi says, you know, you were such a good fella to give me your lunch. I can tell you how to be healed. My guru is a healer and he's healed blindness many times. So I can take you to him right now and then he'll heal you." And so the blind man says, this is great, this is my wish. So they walk and walk and walk and walk up to a hill, up to a hermitage, they get to the guru and the guru invites them in and And then the yogi says, this man is blind, can you give him sight? And the guru says, absolutely. The guru puts his hand on the guy's eyes, and then, boom, he can see. Magic. Why not? And so, with his new sight, he looks around, he stares at the guru, he looks at the yogi, he looks at the room, looks at the candle, and he's so happy. He says, now I have nothing to be afraid of. And then he thanks them, gives offerings, and then he walks back home. Now, at this point, it's late in the evening. And for him, walking in the middle of the night, not a problem. There was a little bit of moonlight, so he can see fine, and he's like, wow, trees and mountains and clouds and moon. He was having a wonderful time. By the time he got back to his village, it was the morning. The sun was rising, everything was becoming illuminated, and he was walking right in the market area. All of a sudden, the market opened. All of these people come in, horses, carts, different products, and the hustle and bustle of people took him by surprise. He was like, wow, there's so many people. He's like, well, the colors of those things. Oh, there's a, here comes a cart. Oh my gosh, there's a donkey, you know. So he started seeing like all of these different things happening and he's like, it's too much. So then he spins away because he doesn't want to look at it, but then he sees more people coming, more animals, more products, and everyone's running all around, and the colors, and the light, and everything. It shocked him so much, it brought greater fear than when he was blind and then he covers his eyes and he says I wish I didn't have vision So that's That's why that's why when we wish for something to take away our fear It might not take away our fear eventually if it's in the finite world It won't now if he said I'm afraid of something and I'm going to understand that fear and He solves it in his own being then he doesn't have to Worry, but you might as well see He did a good thing for that yogi Yeah, so When we are seeking liberation from fear, the way that we come to it is from within. A lot of people really stick to their fears. It's like they suffer because of their fears, but they don't want to let go of them. Because it's scary to let go of your fear. People get attached to their problems because that's their definition of who they are. Yeah, I'm afraid of snakes. You might have an idea or a definition of what you were afraid of, but you can let go of it. You can grow. Like there's this one yogi And he was staying in this cave, and one night a cobra just went, like, slithered all over him. And he's like, oh, no problem. It's just a cobra. And then it just goes by. And so there's no need to have fear You can let go all fears fear doesn't help But what are you gonna do if you get afraid of the Cobra? Just be afraid or you could be fearless and the Cobra will go away or bite you Those are the two options right but either way

0:34:20
Those are the two options, right?

0:34:24
But either way, it's going to happen. So there was this famous Swami whose name I don't remember, back in the 60s. He traveled to England and America and did a lot of teaching. He had this English student named Thomas. See, I remember the Englishman's name. So he was visiting London and Thomas's father was in the hospital and was very ill. And this swami had healing powers. So Thomas says, hey, can you come and see my father? I wanna visit him. And if you think it's right, it would be nice if you healed him." And then the Swami says, okay, sure. So they go to the hospital and as soon as the Swami walks in the room with Thomas, Thomas's father is like shocked. He's like, oh my gosh, what did you, this thing. Because he's wearing orange, and he's got his shoulder and arm out, and he's got ashes on his face, and matted hair, and he looks kind of scary to the father. He's like, ah! He's like, Thomas, what is this? Why did you bring this person here? And then, you know, he says, it's my guru, don't worry, he's okay. And then his father's all, okay, if he stands a little bit further away, it's all right. So the Swami's standing there, and then Thomas goes over and starts talking to his father. And, you know, his father's like, okay, so I got this pain here, and this other pain here, and oh, it's so terrible that I'm so weak, and my illness is so bad." So while he's talking, the Swami walks around behind the bed where his father is lying down. So he's behind him, so he can't see. And then the Swami puts his hands over his head and starts muttering mantras. And then after about five or ten minutes, and Thomas's father says, you know, actually, my pains are gone, and I actually feel really good, so yeah, it's not so bad. And then Thomas says, yes, that's because Swamiji is healing you. And then he goes, ah, and he goes, get away from me and he yells at him. And then so the Swami backs away and then within five minutes his pains are all back. And then he will not accept the help of the Swami, even though he saw that it helped him. He would rather stick with his pain because that was too weird. He was afraid of it. So we get, we have pain, we have dissatisfaction, we have fears, things that we get attached to, and we won't try something new. We're like, nope, I got this, this is the way it is. If you try to fix it, and it's too weird, I can't handle it. A lot of people are this way. We make in our mind heaven a situation and if we look at it in a bad way, it could be anything, it could be a mundane thing, it could be a good thing, it could be a bad thing, but we make in our minds heaven or hell. If you're driven by fear, it's hell, limitation, suffering. But if you're seeking wisdom, then any situation, even a bad, painful, difficult situation, can become heaven. We make our own fears. We build them up. We support them. We give them a foundation. We put a flag on top. You know, we just, with all these thoughts, we were like, oh, okay, so I don't like snakes, so anything that looks like a snake, I don't like a snake. It's like, go through these thoughts where you build up, you start thinking about it, you're like, oh, wow, if I was driving in traffic and then all of a sudden a snake came across my lap while I'm driving, that would scare me. You know, and you start building up all of these like scenarios and ideas and Then you end up Afraid and developing your fear hmm, there was a hermit in China and One and he lived in a cave and He started and he lived there for years, but then he saw some people walking by in the past and he said, hmm, those people could just come into my cave and take stuff from me. So he said, I know what I'll do. At the entrance of the cave, he decided to paint a tiger. He's like, I'm going to paint a scary tiger, a ferocious tiger, and this tiger is going to scare people away so they won't come into my cave. So he sits there and he's painting the tiger. He found that he was an excellent artist. And he's painting it and painting it and he's like, oh, this is really good, really scary. And then when he makes the very last stroke of the brush, he goes, ah, a tiger! And he runs away, never to return. He came back and he's all, no, still a tiger there.

0:40:52
But this is what we do.

0:40:54
This is what we do with our with our thoughts. We're painting tigers that scare us. Now, speaking of tigers, a lot of the reasons that we have fear are because of things that have happened in the past. Could be from social conditioning, could be from an experience that we had. So let's say there was a man walking in the jungle and then a tiger, a real one, jumps out at him and he's afraid. He goes, oh my gosh, this tiger's attacking me. And somehow, you know, he escapes. All right, so because he had fear, it conditioned his mind. He decided, oh, that's scary, right? So let's say 30 years later, he's walking in the jungle. 30 years later, he'll be looking for tigers and he'll be afraid because of that experience. So things that happened in the past, they inform us about what to be afraid of. Now, if he was walking and a tiger jumped out and if he wasn't afraid, it's just like, okay, I'm just gonna climb a tree, do something smart, but no fear. Then 30 years later, 10 years later, the next day when he's walking through the jungle, he won't have fear. You always wanna look around, be smart, but he wouldn't have a paralyzing fear. He wouldn't be walking through the jungle going, oh my god, oh my god, where's the tiger, where's the tiger? Thirty years later, still afraid. We carry fears from the past. But fear is not in the past. Fear does not exist in the past. Fear does not exist in the present, fear exists in the future. And the future isn't even here. But the fear exists in anticipating something in the future. You say, oh, well, if a tiger jumps out at then this would, this bad thing will happen. If a snake jumped on my lap while I'm driving, then this would happen. So it's never like, oh, well, yesterday, if something happened, but it didn't, you won't be, you don't have to be afraid of it. In this moment There's no fear in the moment. There's no fear if your Awareness is of right now in the present. There's no fear, but if you start thinking about the future, oh my gosh something could happen and Then that's that's where fear comes from Now there was a great Zen master who had a beautiful teaching about how to overcome this fear. This Zen master was named Winnie the Pooh. And Winnie the Pooh was walking with piglet in the forest, these rain clouds gathered and a big storm, thunderstorm, happened and there was rain and lightning and thunder and some branches started falling off the trees and then behind them this big tree gets knocked over by the wind and then Piglet's very scared and he's like, oh my goodness, Winnie the Pooh, what will happen if a tree falls on us? And then Winnie the Pooh says, what will happen if a tree doesn't fall on us? And then Piglet thinks about it and goes, oh, okay. So Piglet is thinking of the future. What would happen if something bad happens to us? And then Winnie the Pooh says, he kind of asks him a Zen koan. What will happen if it doesn't? And then Piglet, he gets it. He's like, yeah, I see. And he overcomes his fear. And then they went happily walking home until a tree fell down on them.

0:46:03
Just kidding. Yeah, so we have to see the future as not a bad thing.

0:46:13
I mean, the future's not even here. If we are present and aware and balanced in the moment, then we don't need to fear the future. We'll do a good job with whatever comes our way in any moment. But if you start becoming concerned and afraid of what might happen, then you start to get confused and you start to do a bad job. See, fear just magnifies things. Like, you start to say, oh, well, if that bad thing happened, then this, and if that happened, then that. The more you think about fear or dwell on fear, the more that you let yourself feel afraid. You go into those feelings and thoughts and those impossibilities. The more these fears grow. They can grow and fill your conscious completely. You're like, oh, everything's so scary, so scary. And then you find yourself completely paralyzed. So fear just magnifies problems. There was a general who, or there was an emperor who took four of his generals, and he says, all right, you're going to take an army to the north, you to the west, you to the east, you to the south, and I want you to wipe out our foes, or battle our foes, and come back with victory. So the generals go out with their armies, they do battle, and then they come back, and the emperor says, all right, to the general who went to the north, how many foes did you defeat? And he said, I defeated 1,000 foes. And the emperor was like, okay, good. Then he said to the one general who went to the south, how many foes did you defeat? And he said, 5,000 foes. And then the emperor was happy. And then to the east, general of the east, how many foes did you defeat? And he said, 10,000 foes. And then the emperor was happy. And then general who went to the west, how many foes did you defeat? And he said, I defeated one foe. And the emperor was like, huh? He said, yes, I defeated one foe, but fear defeated 100,000. So fear is the cause of problems. can take one small thing and make it into a giant, huge problem. Fear gets you to tense up. It makes you do a bad job of dealing with life. You know, if those hundred thousand then there would have been less of a problem. But one person, one foe being defeated, can spark great fear. So we want to be able to do a good job with our lives. We want to be able to take a circumstance that is scary to us, something that we've had fear about, and be able to face it, not magnifying the problem, seeing that it's something that's manageable. Everything in life is manageable, and everything in death is manageable. It's manageable. Once you see the truth, once you understand life in its deeper qualities, the essence of how things are, then you can see that everything is okay. Everything is... you can deal with everything if you're doing a good job But fear makes you do a bad job There was a Wu Dang monk

0:51:18
so Wu Dang

0:51:21
was a school of martial arts at the same time as Shaolin and This this Wu Dang monk, he was he was a young monk. He had been training for a number of years, and he was around, yeah, about 10 years, and he was getting to be 18, 19. And his master said, okay, it is time for you to meet your rite of passage. It's a practice. You have to discipline yourself. And the monk says, Okay, I'm ready. So the master pulls out a plank of wood, ten feet long, six inches wide, two inches thick. And he takes that plank, he throws it on the ground, and he says, In ten days, you will have to demonstrate for me that you can walk from one end of the plank to the other. So the monk says, okay, doesn't look so hard. And then the master goes away. And so the monk gets on the plank and he walks across. And then he goes, well, that wasn't so bad. He's like, why do I have 10 days to be able to practice this? And he says, well, I'm told to do that, that's all I'll do. So he's walking back and forth on the plank. And then he starts doing his Kung Fu practices on the plank, and jump kicks and flips and everything, right? So he's going back and forth on the plank for 10 days, doing all of his training on the plank, has no problem with it, doesn't fall off of the plank once, right? And then after 10 days, this master comes back to him and says, okay, now it is time for your rite of passage. And he's like, okay, no problem. So the master goes, he's getting ready to walk the plank, but then the master goes and picks the plank up and says, follow me. So they walk to this other side of the monastery to a building that the monk had never been to before. And then the master opens the door, they go in, and there's this pit, a pit of fire. So the pit has a down deep inside, like maybe 15 feet down, fire. They walk over to the edge of the pit, he looks down, he sees fire and coals, and in the middle, there's bones. They're like, oh my goodness. So then the master lays the plank to the other side. And he says, but be careful because if you fall, you'll fall so deep, it's 15 feet deep, and there's no way out, and you'll burn. Those bones down there are the bones of monk who failed the rite of passage. And so the monk, his heart starts beating. He's like, oh my goodness. He's like, okay. And then he goes, all right, I got to do it. I'll try. So he puts his first foot on the plank and he's like, okay. Then he says, I don't know maybe the planks gonna break so he starts pushing on the plank He doesn't know no seems steady. So he puts a second foot on and he's like, okay And then he takes the first step out over the fire pit and then he starts like sweating He's like, uh-huh. And then he takes another step and he's like, I've done this a million times. I can do this. And his heart's beating. And then he's like, but if I fall, there's fire down there. And then he's like, takes another step. And then he's getting dizzy with fear. And he lifts his foot and he says, okay, I'm going to go forward. And he's like, but wait, should I put my foot here or further? Should I make it shorter? And then he's falling. And then he's like, I gotta make a run for it. So he tries, he makes one step and then falls into the pit. And then he hits the bottom with a splash. And then he starts screaming because he's burning, or he thinks he's burning, he actually splashed into some water. So what happened was there was a fire on the right side and a fire on the left side. But right below was water, and the water from the top is reflecting the fire. And he's splashing in the water, going, ah, I'm burning, I'm burning. And then he hears, you know, this great laughter after like 20 minutes. He's like, why is someone laughing? And then his master says, OK, come over here. Look, there's a rope ladder over there. So he climbs up and he's like, oh I'm wet, I'm not burnt. The master says, fear threw you in. Fear made him do a bad job. It was something that he was completely capable of doing. He had ten days where he was practicing all sorts of things crossing that plank of wood, and he never had a problem with it. But as soon as he had the idea of this could be harmful, then he did a bad job. So we want to do a good job. Anytime that you have fear, you're doing a bad job. So you want to banish fears so that you can handle any difficulty in life in the best way. Now when people start to face fear, they start to exert control. And exerting control is not the way to solve dealing with fear. So exerting control actually gets you more in balance. When you exert control, you say, okay, I'm afraid of this, so I'm going to hold it here, and I'm going to fight with it. And you just have to let go. Let go. You can't control life. Didn't Buddha say something about that? Thus, all fear, all immeasurable suffering comes from the mind. You cannot control all external developments. So, if you can control your mind, there's no need to control other things. This is what Buddha taught. There was one time where Ananda and Buddha were out for an afternoon stroll, and they came across a monk sitting under a tree. And the monk was sitting up straight. He was in the full lotus position. His hands were in a proper meditation mudra. And he, to Ananda, appeared to be the perfect picture of a meditating monk. He's so diligent in his practice. And Buddha looked at the monk and said, I'm very worried about him.

1:00:09
And then they walked on,

1:00:11
and they came across this other monk. And this other monk was sitting under a tree going like this. He was clearly not focusing very well, falling asleep, waking up, his posture was bad, everything was wrong. And then Ananda looks at him and goes, oh boy, this monk, he's just doing a terrible job, what a shame. And then Buddha says, I'm not worried about him. And then Ananda says, Buddha, wait a second. Back there we saw this monk that was like the perfect meditating monk, and you said you're worried about him, and then we come to this monk who's a mess, and you say, I'm not worried about him. Shouldn't it be the other way around? And Buddha says, no, no, because the first monk was trying to control his meditation. Trying to control, self-control. And when he loses it, when his control breaks, because it must, then he will suffer greatly. He said, that's why I was worried about him. And he said, now this monk, he has more to learn, right? This monk is not at the end of his learning cycle, but he's learning. He's not trying to control, and he's doing his practice as honestly as he can. self-control, it doesn't work. There has to be a deeper insight and there has to be an openness when we face fears. So when we're facing the fears in our lives, we can't say, I'm gonna snuff it out, right? Because that won't last. That's the yin-yang, finite self-control. For all fears, you have to have awareness, see truth, and have an acceptance. You have to accept the things that Because if you don't, then the joke is on you. Why was six afraid of seven? Because seven ate nine. Fear is a bad joke. But there's a good one. So Yoda says to Luke, why is five afraid of six? Because six, seven, It's Yoda. Now you get it. Okay. Now fears can completely paralyze you. They can stop you cold. When you have a fear, it can become what seems to you as an impossible obstacle. You say, oh, can't do it, won't do it, something's in the way, that's it, it's over. But there is a way. There's always a way. When you take those great obstacles that you're afraid of, and you see the truth, then you'll always see possibilities. You'll see ways that you can be spiritually elevated, where you see success. So, when you look at your fears, look for the ways around them, the ways through them. Tempt your mind to see a deeper aspect of yourself where you can deal with them, where you don't have to be shut down, where those obstacles become a catalyst to your awakening. There was a story in Tibet. A monk named Tenzin, he was a very strong practitioner. One day, a famous enlightened teacher came to his ashram. And he goes over to Tenzin, and he says, I'm going to teach you the secret mantra. You're going to go to this cave. You do that mantra in the cave for three days, and you will become a living Buddha. And Tenzin says, oh, okay, great, thank you. And so the master whispers in his ear this secret mantra for enlightenment. And he says, you have to go to that cave, because that's the sacred spiritual cave. When you do it there, in that place of power, then you will become enlightened. So Tenzin says, thank you, master. And he sets off on this journey for the cave. Now, while he's going to the cave, he's ambushed by these thieves. They come out with clubs and with knives. And he's like, hmm. He says, I'm a monk, I don't have anything that you want. And he just brushes by them. And they're like, oh, should we? Well, he went, okay, guess not. No, he has a point, he is a monk, he doesn't have anything we want. And then he gets to the mountain where there's the cave on top and there's no pathway up, so he just starts climbing this really steep mountain and there's times where one, you know, he's crawling, climbing, and it's like one slip and he would fall down to his death. But he carries on, fearless, he gets to the top and then he sees the cave and he says, this is the cave of power. And here I will sit for three days, sing the mantra, and then I will become enlightened. So he happily walks into the cave, sits down and starts meditating. After a few minutes, he's chanting, after a few minutes he feels something on his arm. He looks down and he sees a big spider and he goes, ah, and he jumps up and runs out of the cave. Now, when he was a kid, he was bitten by a spider and the bite made him very sick and since then he was always afraid of spiders. Wasn't afraid of heights, wasn't afraid of robbers, afraid of spiders. And so he's outside of the cave and he's like, okay, I really got to go back in there because I got to do my three days of chanting to become enlightened. So he goes back in, sits down again, starts chanting. Then he feels something on his leg. He looks down. Two spiders! And then he gets scared and he runs out of the cave again. So he keeps doing this, going in, getting afraid, running out. Now three days later, the great enlightened master comes to the cave and he sees Tenzin outside of the cave looking in And he says

1:09:19
Why aren't you in there?

1:09:20
chanting, you know, you you should be in there chanting you become enlightened and Tenzin says well, there's spiders in there and they might bite me and then the the master laughs and says, I give you the secret to your enlightenment and you can't do it because you're afraid of some spiders? And then the master says, I'm going to go into the cave and I'm going to do the practice. Come in with me and practice and become enlightened. And so they walk in together and the master sits, they start chanting, and then three days later the master opens his eyes, and Tenzin is on the outside of the cave looking in. He couldn't get over a fear. It stopped him. It stopped him from enlightenment. And he was a very, very well-trained monk. He had the incentive, he wanted liberation, but he just wouldn't, couldn't overcome this fear. So, fear just stops you. You have to overcome your fears. In the Enlightenment workbook, there's a part where we face our fears, overcome our fears. Don't let fears stop you. Now some people say that there's good fears and then there's bad fears. Right? So they'll say, well a good fear is, you know, if you're afraid of losing your job, you'll work really hard and you won't lose your job. Or if you're afraid of getting hurt in a car accident, you'll always put your seatbelt on. So people say that's a good fear. But no, it's not. It's not a good fear. Any fear is not a good fear. You don't have to be afraid. You don't have to have fear to do a good job. You don't have to have fear to put your seatbelt on. So, if you see the opportunity at your work to do a good job, to be your best, if you're like, oh, I like my job, I want to do a good job, you know, this is fun and powerful for me. You don't need to have fear. You just respect the opportunity and then you do a good job. That's very fun versus, oh my gosh, I might get fired. You know, that's not very fun. And if you have an intelligent apprehension about your physical safety in life, you don't have to have fear. You just that you just say hey, I have to put my seatbelt on every time Because that's a smart thing to do. You don't have to have fear. So There is no there is no good fear When you're intelligent about life your work your safety Then everything works out in a very positive way Okay, everyone, we're going to take a break for 15 minutes and we'll come back and talk a little bit more and meditate a little bit more. Thank you. So how do you overcome fear? Fear. Now that you know what fear is, different attributes of fear, in order to overcome fear you have to face your fears. Face your fears, see the truth, and then there's no more fear. You overcome fear. You can't take on your fears by running away, because that's following the karma that creates the fear. You can't try to hide from them, you know, like an ostrich sticking its head in the ground. You have to face your fears. Now, Buddha said that there's two primary fears that people have. It's the fear of death. That's the ultimate fear. The fear of the self-ending. The second fear is the fear of the self-changing. The self-idea, the self-concept. concept. So when we are facing these two primary fears, that's when we get to a really, really deep awareness of our eternal self and life. So when you're facing fear, or when you're You have to say well first of all It is it is true There are no survivors on the planet Earth Right one day you will die it will happen again So When you look at the truth of life, it awakens you. You say, oh, I will die. Let me live today, because someday, we never know when, I will pass away. Now, you don't have to be afraid of death. You just have to understand this truth. There was a yogi who goes to his guru, and he says, Guru, I'm afraid someday I'm gonna die. And then his guru says, Oh, really? He's like, Well, how? And then the yogi says, I don't know, you know, maybe a tiger will eat me, a cave tiger. Maybe I'll fall off a cliff. Maybe I'll just die of old The guru says, Oh, any other ways you might die? And then the yogi goes, Well, this could happen, and that could happen. And he goes on and on, coming up with every way that he can think of that he could die. And then when he exhausts all the ideas of how he could die, then his guru says, Okay then. But then after he exhausted all the ideas, he said he was able to accept it. Oh, maybe it will be one of those ways. This is like in the book of the samurai, the Hagukuri. The samurai meditates on death. They see every different way that they could die. I could die in battle like this, I can die in battle like that, I can get a bad flu, you know. So they just really see every way that they could possibly die, and they overcome the fear of death. So don't be afraid of death. Look death in the face. Charlie Brown said, some wise words, no. Charlie Brown said, he's like, oh my god, someday I'm gonna die. And then Snoopy, in a thought bubble, said, most days, Don't be afraid of death. Look death in the face. Death is truth. It's part of life, because it's death. So face death, not with fear, but with wisdom. The second fear that Buddha talked about, this change of concept of self, it plays out for a lot of people in something like public speaking, right? So they say, some people say public speaking is even scarier than the idea of death, right? They're like, oh my gosh, death, I don't know, but public speaking, that's seriously scary. So if they were at a funeral, they would rather be in the casket than giving the eulogy. Completely irrational. So in Thailand, there was this one monk who was scared to death of speaking in front of people. He was the quietest monk, he always hung out in the corner. And then the master said, hmm, I need to teach him how to overcome his fear. So the master, there was a big ceremony and the master was supposed to get up and give a talk. And he says, you monk, come here. There's thousands of people, give them a Dharma talk. And the monk was so scared. He just sat there trembling in front of people. He couldn't say anything. And then, after an hour, the master said, okay. And then the monk says to the master, I can't talk in front of people. I'm too scared. And that was the worst, scariest experience in my life. And then the Okay. So the next day, the master took the monk to the town square and he said, hey everyone, there's a dharma talk, come here. And then a bunch of people gathered and he goes, okay monk. And the monks out there, again, couldn't say anything. And then finally, he was all, Buddha said, you know, meditation. And then he was quiet again, scared. And then the next day, again, the master brought him to a group of people and said, talk. This time he said a few more words. And then the next day, again and again and again, until the monk got over his fear. He experienced what's bad about it, he saw through it, he got over it. Facial fears. So in public speaking, or in your life, you sit there and say, what would they think if I said something wrong? What would they think if I showed them this? So, you know, and the thing is, when you're thinking that, you're like, what would they think? What would happen? What would they do? Who are they? Who is this they? They are not your friend. They are not your, you know, co-workers, they're not the audience. They are your fear. So when you're sitting there at work, what if, what would they think if I did this? Or with your friends, what would they do if I did this? Recognize that you are creating fear. It's not what they would do, you know, it's what you're creating. So if they, if you do something silly and they laugh at you, laugh with them. In fact, laughing is good. True story. Tammy immediately picks up the water, sips it, she howls like a wolf, and then she splashes it on Jim. And And he's like drying himself off and he's at first he's gonna be like, hey Tammy, why'd you do that? but when he you know dries his eyes, he sees that Tammy's crying and he's like Tammy what's wrong? And she says I I have a problem She says I can't stop myself Every time I go out to lunch or dinner, when I get water, I have to drink it, howl, and splash it on somebody. And she's all like, and it makes me feel horrible. And so she cries more. And then he says, you know what? There's a psychotherapist that I know of. I have his card right here. Because my brother used to be a smoker, and he went to this guy, and then, you know, two months later he was no longer a smoker. So I think this guy can help you. So she goes, thank you, I'm gonna do it. Now a couple months pass and then so happens at work. Jim says, hey, want to go out for lunch, and then he says, so have you seen the therapist? And she says, yes. Every, you know, like, as soon as you gave it to me, I called him, I go in three days a week, and he's helped me tremendously. And then Jim says, wow, that's really great, Tammy. And then the waitress comes, pours the water, Tammy drinks it, howls like a wolf, and splashes it on Jim. And then Jim is like, he wipes himself off and he's like, what? He goes, like, I guess the doctor's not very helpful for you. And she says, oh no, he's terribly helpful. And then he says, but you just drank the water, howled and splashed me again. And That's how you deal with they. What's Jim gonna think? I don't care. So have a sense of humor. Have a sense of humor about your fear. See, when you have humor, then fear just dissolves. I mean, you can't think something is hilarious and fear it at the same time. So, whatever your fears are, find a joke about that fear. Find a funny movie about that fear. Like, find the humor in the fear this dispels fear

1:25:16
Be courageous

1:25:18
So a Spiritual practitioner has to have courage Courage is not the absence of fear. We don't start off in a condition where oh I have here but courage is acting Even if you have fear So you're like, oh, I'm afraid of this. Well, it's the right thing. I'm going to do it anyway Then you see that you can Take a step forward. You can elevate yourself. You can empower yourself. You don't have to let that fear stop you. That's courage. Even if you have the greatest fear, you take a step forward. You act. That's courage. It's funny, like when you have fear, it's like you're in bed, you know, and you're like, your covers, you're under the covers, and you think that the boogeyman is under your bed. You're like, oh my gosh, there's something scary under my bed. And courage is taking the covers off, looking under, seeing that nothing is there. But if you just stay under the covers, you're always going to be afraid. But once you have that courage to take an action, then you're able to see through all of your fears. And there's a very powerful way of courage. I call it fearless kindness. Fearless kindness is having courage for another person. Sometimes, for ourselves, we will be limited by fear. But for another person, we will throw away any constraints and we will face fears, overcome them, because we're helping someone else. That's fearless kindness. And that would be like a loved one is in a burning building. Normally you'd be like, oh, I'm going to get away from this burning building. Right? It's scary. I don't want to be in it. I want to be out of it. Right? But then if you have fearless kindness, you go, ah, I have a loved one in there. I have to go save them. So you run in, save them, and you faced a fear that you would normally not overcome by yourself. So fearless kindness is a way for you to care about another and See that fears are illusions you can overcome all fears So this is a wonderful way now Buddha shared his fearless kindness with his monks once. There were four monks and he said to them, there's a nice forest right there. I want you to meditate in that forest. This is going to be the perfect place for you to meditate. So the monks went into the forest. They sat down to meditate. A couple minutes into their meditation, one looked over to the left and he saw a tiger prowling. Another monk looked out to the right and he saw robbers with knives walking around. Another monk opened his eyes and saw a snake. Another monk opened his eyes and saw a demon. And they all popped to their feet and ran out of the forest. They go over to Buddha and they say, Buddha, that forest is dangerous. There's tigers, there's snakes, there's robbers and demons. And then the Buddha said, Okay, come with me. Let's go back to that forest together. And Buddha took them back into this dangerous forest and he sat down with them and he gave them a beautiful Dharma talk about overcoming fear and they were filled with light and were fearless. Then they entered meditation. Eventually Buddha left, but at the end of their meditation retreat there, which was I think several months, all four of those monks became arhants, enlightened. So they faced their fears. And Buddha shared with them his fearless kindness by taking them, he went with them to the forest. So be fearless. You have to face your fears. So if you say, I'm afraid of this, then start going towards it. Going away from it will maintain that fear for you. But if you say, yeah, I have this fear, then face it. Go towards it. Start to engage in the thing that would make you afraid. Do it safely. So the Enlightenment workbook steps you through safe ways of approaching your fears. So if something is, you know, very dangerous for your health, then you start to approach it mentally. You visualize it, you go through it, but every fear, you face your fears, you take it on. And, you know, you'll come out from under the covers, look under the bed, and see that there's nothing to be afraid of. So this is the practice. Now, you have to set your intent. You have to say, I am going to overcome my fears. Forever. Because once you set your intent, then you become a warrior. You're like, I am facing it. I'm not running from it anymore. In ancient China, there was a group of warriors. They were called the White Eagle Clan. And what they would do is they all had the White Eagle Clan flag, and they would go into... I hear that joke. I got you. And then they would go into battle and they would just put their standard in the ground, their flag down, and then they would take out their weapons. And during the whole battle, they would not go away from their flag. So they would never retreat. And their adversaries found found that because they had that intent, they set that intent, they will not retreat, that they were in, you know, they were very powerful warriors. And then their adversaries stopped attacking them because they said, all right, we know what's happening here. These guys have set the flag in the ground and then they're not going to retreat. So then they said, then we're not going to attack, because these guys have set their mind on being right there. So this is what we do. We set our intent, not running from this fear, facing this fear, taking it on, and then you will face the fear. But eventually, that fear won't come anymore, because you set your intent. Now, this is what happened with Buddha. Buddha Buddha said I'm gonna sit under this tree the Bodhi tree Until I'm enlightened and he said I'm not gonna get up Not doing anything else with my life. I'm sitting under this tree until I'm enlightened. He said his intent and he sat down and While he was meditating Mara You know the embodiment of illusion came and threw everything at him, you know, desirous visions and horrific scenes of flames and weapons and armies, right? And all of these things came to Buddha's mind and were pure in his mind. None of the desirous visions attracted him and he was not averse to any of the horrific visions. So they say that the armies would throw spears, and then when it comes to Buddha, then the spears would come to him as rainbows. The arrows from the army would come to him as flower petals. So when he set his intent, then all these things that could be scary turned into beautiful things. Because the truth of life is that life is beautiful and there's nothing to fear. So now I'm going to do an esoteric teaching on fear. This is a teaching with no words. where I show you an essential truth of life, an essential truth of your being, the way to see truth through any fear. So for this esoteric teaching, I'd like you to sit up straight. We're going to play one song. Look up here towards me and just still your mind a little bit. Yeah, just don't think a lot. And just relax. Just have a soft focus up here towards me. And I teaching. Let's begin. So.

1:35:36
so So, So, So so So, Very nice. This is the mudra of fearlessness. So Buddha, before he was enlightened, he was sitting out in the forest and he himself became afraid. He's like, oh, there's noises. And then he would do this, he'd sit like this, and he

1:40:32
would just say, I'm going to sit here and wait until my fear passes. And guess what? It did. Wonderful. So, you just experienced an esoteric teaching. And it's important for us to share our experiences of this teaching. Because a lot of times, your thinking mind doesn't have a working model for understanding this spiritual information. So, some powerful spiritual awareness, and then the moment it's gone, you go, eh, I don't have anywhere to hold it. So we're going to share some experiences of this teaching. Awareness, seeing, realization, feeling, anything that was a spiritual inspiration or understanding, if you can share it, then what happens is you will say, yeah, you know, I experienced this. And then someone who just said, yeah, I didn't see anything. Yeah, everything's gone. I didn't get it. Then when you say, I saw this, I understood this, then they'll say, oh, yeah, you know what? I experienced that too. It's just a moment out of that spiritual light and you forget. So we do this because it helps you to make that connection with the thinking mind and this spiritual essence. So if you could share. How about a show of hands? Show of hands. How about down here? So when we just started looking and gazing at you... I guess you have to put it closer. a sense of happiness and just like a boundless joy.

1:42:58
And I felt like I didn't really have any fear.

1:43:03
I was free. And then I started noticing that the fear started creeping kind of into my heart. And then that was the moment when you raised your hands. And then I started looking at you deeper and I just saw so much light. I also noticed that life, it's seeing but it's mostly feeling that life become vast and kind of boundless and that my fear was just so small. And I connected with that vastness and I noticed that there was no difference between you and me.

1:44:12
We were just one with completeness.

1:44:15
Yeah.

1:44:16
Thank you. Anyone else?

1:44:21
No.

1:44:22
So, right now, I feel really good and I'm crying a little bit. But when the meditation started, I got the sense that you were levitating a little bit. And then I felt like I got sucked up into that and was also levitating with you. And then I felt like there was a lull. And then when you put your hands up, it was like the vibration of the whole room quickened even even more. And then when we finished, I realized that I felt like courageous or like, you know, Wonderful. It was, I was very, very beautiful.

1:45:46
And when it started, all of a sudden there was a lot of light. I saw that your face was changing into something which didn't make any sense to me. So it's hard to describe. Kind of like, it's hard to describe. It was very interesting. And then it was just very, very bright. And when I still had thoughts, and when you raised your hand, I felt my navel chakra, and then everything was a lot brighter. And after this, in the meditation, the whole meditation, there was this feeling of peace and kind of like a very safe feeling. hard to describe, but it was just safe being and like everything was okay. And yeah, I get inspiration to share it because I really don't like to do this. Wonderful. All right, that's good. We're able to See through fear That's what this teaching was at the essential spiritual level how to see through through any fear and If you saw nothing, don't worry Then you got it

1:46:55
Yeah, if you if you saw nothing and had no memorable experience That's okay It takes some time to have this this scene sometimes So it comes with meditation All right, so thank you all very much. It was wonderful meditating with you this evening You know, you guys do something that's very important for dealing with fear. You take chances. So when you have fear, you say, oh, I can't take a chance because something bad will happen. But you take chances? Because you're sitting in the room right now, taking a chance, looking for an opportunity, something to change, something to a way to grow. And just by sitting in this theater, meditating with me, is taking a chance. It's making a change. Now, most people won't take a chance. Something in them will close them off and they'll say, uh-uh, I'm not going to do this weird thing, right? And they'll have dissatisfactions, they'll have suffering, and they won't do something to change it. They'll just stay with their dissatisfaction and suffering. But by sitting in this room, you're saying, I want to change. I want to get over my fears. I want to be brighter and happier and enlightened. Everyone would say, yeah, enlightenment is a good thing. That would be a thing to do. limited desires in life They say oh, well, you know, I don't know enlightenment. It's too far away I don't get it, but I can see that this this biscuit looks tasty And I'll settle I'll settle for that biscuit as my happiness Then you'll get the biscuit and then eventually you'll eat it or it will become stale and you won't like it anymore And that's settling. Settling in life is fear. So when you settle for some petty desires, that's fear. So you guys are changing, taking chances, right? Because the ego wants to rebel. The ego wants to say, no, uh-uh. The ego wants to get up and run out of the room. Because the ego is acting in fear. It's self-defense, right? But you're sitting here opening up. So, you have courage. This is a good thing. You have to be courageous on the spiritual path, And then it opens you up to beautiful spiritual awarenesses. So, any guests who are here, you are welcome to become my student. Just tell your meditation teacher. You'll still meditate with them. They'll work with you on the enlightenment workbook and the other structures of the beginning study. study, but you'll also be my student and you'll be able to come to additional events. So if anybody would like to join this courageous school, you're very welcome. So we have a special event for my students coming up. We're going to Disneyland. Hooray. Now, we're going to Disneyland and that's going to be fun, but we're doing this as a spiritual teaching. And this is a teaching of manifesting your dreams. So many of you in your cards to me talk about the teachings that I give you in dreams. And I do I I'm very active on the dream plane in teaching and I'm going to give you your first Dreaming lesson, so I'm a very good dreamer, but I'm going to teach you to be a good dreamer so What you'll do is you will Write down on a piece of paper, not on a computer, your handwriting, you will write down a dream, something that you wish for. It could be a job, it could be a car, it could be, you know, getting over a fear, but something that you really want, right? You'll write that down. I really want you know, an ice cream sundae this ice cream going on here and Then you'll You'll put that by your bed before you go to bed. That's the last thing you see right you read that So don't fall asleep watching Netflix The last thing that you're going to do is read that and then and then close your eyes and fall asleep. You will dream of that wish. Now, in dreaming, you enter into this plane where things are possible, and it's a creative plane. So, you will dream about this thing that you wish, and you will see ways that it can be manifested in the world. Now, why are we going to Disneyland? Walt Disney was very powerful at creating these dreams in his mind, of going into his dream plane and creating the possibilities, and then of manifesting it. Disneyland is a manifestation of a powerful dream. So by practicing dreaming and by going to Disneyland, you will see how that dream and how your dream can be manifested. It's a very powerful teaching. Now when we're down there, you know, I don't know, maybe I'll bump into you in the park, but we're not going to all get together and like sit down and meditate or anything.

1:54:28
Just go there and

1:54:30
being there, doing the dreaming practice and being there is the lesson. Okay now, on the 21st of June or thereabouts

1:54:41
for my students,

1:54:43
we're going to the Anza Borrego desert for What we call a power trip And this is going to a place of power a sacred place of spiritual energy And we we go out and and meditate Now this is a very very powerful experience a life-changing event. So it's really wonderful. There's two power trips that are so important for your spirit. One is the Anza Borrego. You will never see life the same. You'll be transformed and empowered. So it's a very very important beautiful trip and you know, we'll do it We do it like once a year twice a year. It's very beautiful But then the second trip is India So with Ganga Nath and Tara Leela when we go with them to India Completely transformative trip. So these are the two power trips that someday we should do So Someday you should do So When we go to the ends of Rago We'll have deep profound beautiful meditations, but then also that's where I will do Buddhist magic and Buddhist magic is beautiful fun and magical and I'll talk more about the magic in the desert, but this is where It changes the way you look at life in a good way So preparing for this trip You want to make sure that your affairs are in order you want to have what we call a strong toenail. You want to make sure that your room is clean, your closets are clean, right? That you paid your bills, you said your goodbyes. No, really, you want to make sure your relationships are in order, your finances are in order, and your house, room, apartment, everything is clean. Because then you're prepared. Prepared for eternity. Because if you have some dirty clothes on your floor, you'll be out in the desert, and you'll be like, oh boy, I should have like... Yeah, I'm going to have to do the laundry when I get home. Like your attention is back in those affairs that are out of order. So clean up your life, tighten up your life. You have from now until we go to the desert. And then when you walk into the desert, when everything's straight and clean and clear in your life, you'll be powerful. This is the way that the samurai went into battle, right? It's like, I might not come back from this battle. So I'll say bye to my friends, make sure that everything's in order if I don't come back.

1:58:05
All right.

1:58:06
So the next time I see you will be in Anza, Puerto Rico.

1:58:10
And we'll have a wonderful time. So thank you all very much. We're gonna have a brief intermission and then we'll come back with Kali who's come up here from Los Angeles to share some time with us so Kali as I told you is a senior student in our school in our lineage and a profound spiritual teacher and she will come up here with me and we'll we'll talk about some of the activities that she's up to in her teaching. We'll talk about some of her experiences in the Anza-Borrego Desert and more. And you're all welcome to stay. So let's just have a short break, just 10 minutes, then we'll come back and we'll continue. then we'll come back and we'll continue. Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
