0:00:00
Hello. All right. So I'm glad you're all here. So glad you all came today. We will have a wonderful evening of meditation, we will sit for three songs as all of you are properly trained, right? Focus on the navel, second song the heart, third song the third eye. All right, let's begin.

0:00:41
Tonight I'd like to talk about conscious awareness. Buddhism is the study of consciousness.

0:13:07
It's a way of looking at life, becoming able to see life in deeper and deeper ways, and becoming more conscious. It is the path to Now, this is something that we experience in reflecting on life, reflecting on who we are. This is a beautiful and fulfilling practice. It's a practice that many people seek in spiritual ambition. They say, I want to have ultimate awareness of life. It's grandiose, but it's also very, very, very simple. It's very natural. That principle of eternal consciousness is already within you. So when we sometimes think of, I have to go find something out there that gets me to intergalactic oneness. We have to just come back to right here, or stay right here. This man goes over to a Zen master and he says, okay, let's begin with facing your fears and some of the difficulties that you've had with depression and facing your angers. And then the man says, oh, no, no, no. He's like, I don't want to deal with all that. I want you know, the right financial opportunities, and, you know, really good bars. So, when we come to the spiritual path, we often have an idea of what we want to become more aware of, right? But a lot of it is facing what is there. What is there? What's happening in your mind? It's dealing with your mind. You know, when I'm talking about conscious awareness, what it's very commonly called Mindfulness is being aware of what you're thinking about, aware of your mental activity, aware of this moment, aware of what's going on right now. So conscious awareness is mindfulness. However, mindfulness is something that has been, I guess, misunderstood in spirituality. being drawn into a spiritual awareness. It's very well known for helping people to get out of suffering and to have a higher level of attention, clarity, peace, balance, happiness. it's been kind of misunderstood, because when someone does mindfulness, it's actually a radical step towards liberation. And the way that it's being practiced, or the way people talk about it, is a very kind of mild practice, mild form. So in Tibetan Buddhism, they have a saying of what the mind is. It's called citta, and it means the heart-mind. What I would say for mindfulness is that people are getting too mental about the mind, and they have to open up to the heart more. So I call the practice of mindfulness heartfulness, you can really get to that essential, radical, liberating practice that what people say mindfulness is. It's like watching thoughts. And this is important, but if you start from the outside, you'll never get to the inside with this practice. It's kind of like, you know, they're kind of at the tip of the iceberg of understanding. They see the tip and they say, ah, that's the iceberg. But underneath there's something bigger in the heart. So in the heart, if you come from the heart, then the thoughts, being aware of the thoughts, is very automatic. If you come from just the thoughts, then you start entering into just an interesting thinking exercise, an observance exercise. But it's not as automatic or easy or natural as if you come from the heart. Let's say there's a man sitting there observing his thoughts. He's like, okay, this is happening, that's happening, I'm thinking this, I'm thinking that. And then he starts to think about a nice cheeseburger. And then he's off in la-la land. He's lost his focus. Okay. So that's how most people do mindfulness. They observe their mind for a while until they start thinking about some cheeseburger or something, and then they kind of forget. But let's come from the heart. Another example, a woman with her child, her baby, right? So, she loves her baby and she's going to sit there and observe what's going on with the baby. She's going to think thoughts, she'll be aware of her thoughts. She won't miss a thought because since she has love for her baby, she'll be aware. So, when we come, when we're practicing mindfulness, heartfulness, we come from a deeper place, a place in the heart, and then everything that we do is going to be observed by the mind. It's just a very natural reaction. Now, mindfulness as it's taught is just an observance of what is there. You're like, oh, I'm thinking this, I'm thinking this, I'm thinking this, I'm thinking this, right? And that's okay, but it's very... It's just, I guess, one dimension, because heartfulness is freeing. Mindfulness is just an observance of what's there. So you could be sitting in the gutter saying, garbage, rat, garbage. And if that's your mindfulness, then you're mindful. That hurts, this burns. You're like, oh. I'm very mindful about being in hell and nice reds. So heartfulness is that liberating factor. It's not just observing what's going on, it's getting out of it. So that's the big thing about heartfulness or the true practice of mindfulness. It should liberate you. You should be able to get out of a condition. I was recently talking to one of my students who owns a hair salon, and she's having trouble with her business. So she's like, oh, I changed to a new location, the location's not good, advertising isn't bringing in the customers. All these things are problems, problems. Some of her regulars aren't coming back. She has other hair stylists who work in the salon, and sometimes they don't show up for their shifts. All of these problems. She's like, it's impossible. I have all these problems, problems, problems. So she was very mindful of the problems. And then I said to her, why are you in this business again? What do you like about it? And then she thought about it and she said, I just really love it when I cut someone's hair and I give them a beautiful hairstyle and then look in the mirror and then they're happy. And I was like, oh, that's really good. Yeah. And she thought about it and she gave me examples and she was really bright, very, very, very happy about what she was doing in her work. And then I said, okay, now from there, from this feeling, look at your problems and what do you think?" And then she thought about it and still had a smile on her face. And she was like, okay, it's not so bad. And then she went one on, like, okay, I should change my advertising strategy to this because that wasn't working anyway. She thought through the things in a different place, and then she was happy and bright, and there were solutions. So, we don't just sit there and see the problems. Yes, there's things to work on, there's problems. But when we come from that place in the heart, There's always solutions. Mindfulness is very linear. It follows its own karma, just thinking, thinking, thinking, thinking of thinking. And heartfulness, there's always something that grows out of it. There's always a transformational quality to it. So if you're just mindful, you can just stay in the same states of mind and thinking. But when you come from the heart, there's always something that lifts you up. There was a potter in Japan. He was also a lay Buddhist, but he worked on his pottery with love, and he put everything into that. And one day, the Zen master and one of the monks was coming by, and he invited them to have lunch. And they came in, they sat down, he was making lunch, but he served it in these two bowls that he made. And they were the best bowls that he ever made. And he put his heart into the bowls. He tried to make them impeccably and artistically and everything, and so that they would also hold stuff. And then he gave it to the Zen master and the other monk, and they started eating. And the Zen master looked at the bowl and he said, Oh, it's a nice bowl. And then they ate. And the man was just sitting there, probably eating with them. And then he had Satori, this state of spiritual realization. It just happened. And the Zen monk was like, Hey, what happened to him? He was just sitting here with us, and all of a sudden he goes into this satori. And the Zen master said, He gave us, it was the greatest selfless giving. He worked on his pottery with his complete heart. And then in offering us food, he offered us the experience of his work, of his heart. And then because of that offering, a great selfless offering, sacrifice and work, instead of just being aware of our work, we have to love our work. And when we do that, our work takes on a new dimension. And something grows out of it. Something spiritually comes from it. Just to be aware of thoughts at work is just being aware of thoughts at work. So, heartfulness. Yeah, heartfulness is a deeper dimension of mindfulness. Heartfulness also a way to overcome difficulties, hardships, difficult people. If you're coming from the heart, then things turn out to be better. You know, even if someone's really, really mad at you, if you're coming from the heart, then you'll just be stuck in that condition. Buddha said, in this world, hate has never yet dispelled hate. This is the law, ancient and inexhaustible. So when we are dealing with difficulty and we bring love, heartfulness to it, then there's a way. There's a way through. There's always a way that works out. In ancient China, during the period of the warring states, there was two neighboring empires, Qi and Wei. They weren't warring and they weren't allies. And then he cuts off different communications and he starts putting his armies on the border. And then he also cuts off trade routes and things like that. And then the Emperor of Wei does the same thing. And then that kind of escalates it. And so then the Emperor of Qi brings more troops, his full army to the border. And then the Emperor of Wei hears of this and he says, he's with his advisors, and he's like, oh man, we're going to move our army there and if they want a war, we're going to have us a war. And then it just so happened that there was a Taoist master who the emperor knew, who was there, and the Taoist master was going, no, no, this is not the way to do it. And then the emperor said, well, what would I do? Because if they put their army, their full army on our border, they could overrun us. And then the Taoist master said, I have heard that the Emperor of Qi, his mother is deathly ill. And then the Emperor of Wei says, so? You know, this has nothing to do with me. And then the Taoist master says, you know, you have one of the best healers in the land. Everyone knows this guy. He's like a famous healer. Send that healer. And then the emperor said, okay, I guess I will. I'll give it a shot. And so this healer goes over to Qi and goes to the mother of the emperor and heals him. And then all of a sudden, the emperor of Qi is very happy. He pulls away his armies and then opens up the trade routes again, and then they eventually became very good allies. So this was a place where there could have been a war because that's what Anger, passion, desire, all these things that could bother us, bother our minds, that is When you reflect deeply, when you meditate, you uncover the heart. So we want to observe the luminous essence of our spirits. And when we observe that there's negative thinking, dark thoughts. We're letting negative feelings, disturbing emotions run through our body. We're not seeing our heart. We're not experiencing heartfulness. So we want to get to that eternal see life as it is, without anything covering it over. When we are coming from the heart, we're more aware of life and everything going on in our lives. We're not just rushing through, that life is much bigger, much more beautiful. I remember driving into Bodie Woods, there's this long driveway, private road. I've driven up and down the road and back down just to take a walk. And as I was walking, I noticed so many beautiful things out there in the Redwood Forest, different flowers and the creek, the sound of the creek. Just by going on the same route but taking my time, I noticed so many beautiful things that I didn't notice just driving by. So when we're coming from the heart, we're more observant, more aware of what's going on in life. It's a good way to be. One is being completely focused, and the other at the same time is being completely accepting. The first way is a way of control, and the second way is the way of allowing. So we want to be completely aware, grounded, focused, impeccable about every detail of our lives. We want to be organized orderly and balanced. This way you interface with life in a good way. You're not forgetting missing opportunities, you're street smart, looking both ways before you cross the street, not losing your car keys. So this is a focused mind. That's the mind of control, and that's very important. You have to have a completely engaged attention in life. This is part of heartfulness. There was a Zen monk named Tenno, and he went to study with a famous master, Hakuin. And Tenno already had some level of realization, and so he thought that he knew a lot. And he goes over, it was a rainy day when he goes to the temple, so he has an umbrella and he goes into the vestibule and puts his shoes down and then the umbrella. And then he goes in to see Hakuin. And Hakuin sees him and doesn't even greet him. He says, when you came in, did you put your umbrella on the left side of your shoes or the right side of your shoes?" And then Tano realizes that he was unaware. He was kind of just going through the motions without looking at what he was doing. So he was like, I don't know. And then he realizes Hakuin was showing him there's something missing in his attention, in his focus. Every moment Zen. Every moment Zen is what they call it. In every moment you're aware, aware of what's going on. Aware of even the simple things, like where did you, what side did you put the umbrella next to you. Every moment's that. So that's the engaged mind, the control mind. There is another time where Hakuin had a bar of soap and was washing his hands, and washing his hands, and washing his hands. And everything that you do, you do carefully and for a reason, even if it's washing the soap. a well-known composer, John Cage. John Cage wrote a piano piece, a one-hour long piece where the pianist would not even play one note. But the composer was very, very focused on it being done perfectly. He was very deliberate about it. So he worked with the pianist for a month on the piece so that the pianist can do it properly. But there's actually no playing any piano notes, but the pianist sits down and does it, performs. You might ask, how do you perform this piece if you're doing it, turning the page, counting the rhythm. Really there's a lot to it. So, yeah, being deliberate is important. And one must also If you're not aware, you can lose energy, lose attention. So this would be like, you know, like if something bothers you, you could go into anger, yell out at somebody. And going into anger, not being aware, not guarding your balance, you'll lose energy. So guarding the mind is very important. You know, when we come to the pathway to enlightenment, when we meditate, we start to gain light. A spiritual luminosity starts to build in us. And if we let our minds go into negativity, that light can go away. Just the energy goes out. Like we sit here, talk about the Dharma, meditate, and an inner light starts to come into our heart. And then if we go out into traffic, start getting angry, beeping, and yelling, then we go from this bright state of mind, in the dark. You're in karma. So, guarding your mind means being aware of negativity and staying away from it. Being aware of the light would go out, it could blow out because of all the conditions, the wind and everything. But there's that protection, the glass protection. We have to protect that light within us. The light is a very special thing. Not many people experience light in their lives. They're unaware of that spiritual luminosity that exists, that's the pure light, the pure light of reality. A lot of people don't see it, they're not aware of it. So when we can cultivate that in ourselves, when we experience it, it's very important to be heartful, to maintain There was a monk in Tibet. He was meditating and he kept getting these distractions. So he was in a cave, but the cave was kind of open and people would walk by and there would be noises and Mara, the embodiment of illusion, would come over and distract him. So he took these rocks and he covered himself up in the cave. And while he's kind of building up this wall, his master comes over and says, well, what are you doing? Why are you doing this? And he says, well, you know, Mara is coming by and he's distracting me. So I want to meditate in peace. I'm going to wall myself in. And then the master says, okay, sounds good. So he walls himself in, he's meditating for days, and then the master comes by and he sees that the wall fell over, and he walks over, and A monk is like all upset because Mara is sitting in his cave. And then the monk is like, Master, my wall just fell down and look, Mara just shows right up and he's sitting in my cave. And he's like, so what should we do? And then his master said, I think we should serve tea. So, this is to say that we try to protect ourselves, we try to guard our mind, we try to do everything perfectly, but sometimes other things happen, difficulties happen. When something uncontrollable happens, then there has to be a level of acceptance. Otherwise, you'll be very, very frustrated. So, if you find that Mara is sitting in your cave, and you tried to keep him out, then serve him tea. Yeah, this is the way. Yeah, you know, we can't really control life. We try to, but if you get focused on controlling life, then you'll be very upset when it doesn't work out. So that's why we have to have acceptance. We are open to whatever happens. And when we're open in our heart, then even when difficult things happen, really tough things, there's a spiritual transformation. There was a Taoist master and he was limping, kind of hopping on one leg, and one of his students says, where are you going? And he says, I'm going up, way up the mountain to my meditation place. And he says, yes. And then he says, well, what if you hurt your other leg? And then he says, well, then I'll crawl. And then he says, well, what if you hurt your arms? He's like, then I will be at my meditation place. Always away when you come from the heart. Always away. Okay, so we're gonna take a break for about 15, 20 minutes and we'll come back, meditate a little bit more, talk a little bit more, and I'll answer some of your questions. Thank you. All right. Alright, how about we meditate again. Thank you. We'll settle in, meditate, still our minds, and then talk a little bit more about heartfulness. Wait for it... Laughter Perfect! Alright, now we're ready.

0:50:02
Let's begin. Three songs.

0:50:06
the

0:50:13
the the the Yeah. you. Oh, So. So. you So you. So So so So So you Yeah. You. you you So. So. You So, So. So you Wonderful. So, heartfulness. Heartfulness is the awareness of life coming from your essential quality of consciousness. Mindfulness, you can always game yourself out of being mindful. You'll you'll be like, okay, I can be mindful, I can be in the moment,

1:04:12
not this moment, I don't like this moment, I want another moment, maybe one on the beach.

1:04:18
This moment, I'll be mindful later, right now I'll just eat a gallon of ice cream.

1:04:24
But when you're coming from the heart, then you're transcending the difficulties of the moment. When you're coming from the heart, then you're happy in the moment, not just aware of it. What kind of covers over our attention is unawareness. Kind of just going through routines of consciousness. You know, it's like, you know, you're driving to work. You get in your car and then all of a sudden you're at work and you don't really remember what happened in between. But if you're coming from the heart when you're in the moment, then you're aware of what's going on and you're in contact with the heart, but if you're not, you just kind of go into routines of action, routines of thought, routines of awareness. And that cuts you off from seeing the heart. So we want to change things up. You could start with something simple. So let's say that every morning you take a shower and then brush your teeth. Well you can live on the wild side, switch that up. Yeah, change the way you do things. Don't do things the same way. Change it up a little bit. And just little exercises of, well, I always just do this and then this and then this. And then you say, well, I can do it a little differently. It actually changes your awareness field. You know, there's a Zen saying, before enlightenment, chop wood, carry water. After enlightenment, chop wood, carry water. Right? And I don't know what that's supposed to mean. However, enlightenment is doing something that could look like a routine, but it isn't. You know, you're chopping wood, you're carrying water, but in your mind you're coming from a place of heartfulness where you're awakened to the light of reality. You're awakened to eternity in something that looks like a boring action. So breaking out of the routines of self is something that you do inwardly. And then you're able to access a higher truth. When you do things in a different way, you get creative. You see more opportunities. Yeah. There's a great story, a true story, happened in the 1900s in Japan. there was a merchant with cotton and he was traveling. He decided to take a rest in front of a temple and there was a Buddha statue, a big like six foot tall stone Buddha statue. So he sat, he pulled his cart up, he sat down under that statue and then he eventually fell asleep. When he woke up, his cotton was stolen. It was all gone. So he goes to the nearby town and complains, right? Complains to the authorities. And he's like, okay, so we don't have any witnesses. So, you know, did you see anybody? Did anyone see anything? No. Okay. So he's like, oh, there's something going on, some drama, so they're watching. And he says, the stone Buddha must have done it. There was no one else there. So he said, all right, to the police, he's like, go out and arrest that stone Buddha. And everyone's like, what? And then he goes, do it. So they go, they get the stone Buddha, pull him into the center of the town, and everybody in town is hanging out going, what is he gonna do? He's gonna sentence the stone Buddha for stealing cotton. And everyone thinks he's kind of crazy. But there's a lot of people interested. And then they start, he goes over to the Buddha and he says, I'm going to sentence you, you're going to go to jail. And then people start giggling because he's talking to a Buddha statue and telling him he stole something. And then all of a sudden he gets really mad at all the people and he says, how dare you laugh at me? This is a serious situation. You're all in contempt and I'm going to put you in jail. And then they're all like, oh my gosh. And they say, we're sorry, we didn't know it was so serious. We're confused. And then he said, all right, all right. He said, I'm either going to put you in jail or by the, you know, in an hour you have to come up with some cotton and then it will repay the guy who got us. If every one of you brings in some cotton then it will repay the merchant. Or I'll put you in jail. So within an hour everybody in the square comes with some cotton. And they're putting it into the cart of the merchant, and then one guy comes over, and the merchant recognizes that piece of cotton was his. And then he says, hey, this is mine. And then the authorities grab the guy who brought it over because he was the one who stole it. And then they were able to recover all of the cotton, and then everybody else got their personal cotton back. True story. Why did I tell you that story? I just think it's funny. Well, you know, it's very transformative. You're never going to be stuck. When you're just sitting there thinking, you might think some bad thoughts and just kind of sit there thinking them, right? But when you come from the heart, it really transforms things. There was a man who was really upset with his brother. He was a merchant. And his brother, out of negligence, burned down their storehouse of goods. And he had to spend a lot of money, otherwise they would go out of business. So he was really mad at his brother. So he goes to the Zen master, this is China. He goes to the Zen master for advice. He says, I have to punish my brother because he made such a bad mistake. And he's like, and I'm so angry at him. He's really upset with his brother. And then the Zen master says, Oh, come over here into the garden. And then he says, So we have a pond, and it had little fish in it, right? And he says, Okay, I need to clean this pond. And he says, So the first thing we have to do is get the fish out of the pond. And then we have some buckets to put the fish in. Then I can clean the pond, and then we put the fish back in. So he says, will you help me get the fish? And the man's like, I came here to get advice about how to punish my brother, but if I have to get the fish out first, okay. So he goes in and tries to grab the fish, but the fish swim away from him. And he's like getting frustrated and getting upset. And then the Zen master says, oh, just do it soft and gentle. So he's very quiet, very still, and gets the fish, puts it in the bucket. So he goes around and gets like 10 or 12 fish out. And in that process of just quieting down, He was able to be still and his negativity went away. And then he got back into his heart. And he was like, All right, I don't need to punish my brother anymore. And the Zen master goes, Great, what are you going to do?

1:15:34
And he's like,

1:15:35
I'm going to just rebuild. Do what we have to do to keep the business going. It's a very simple thing. We very often get so out of balance with negative thinking. But if we just are careful, like aware of what we're doing in the moment, then we come into balance. It's very simple. A very simple exercise. So, heartfulness gets us out of negativity, gets us out of fear, desire, hate, passion, all the things that draw people out of balance and into suffering. If you're just naturally coming from the heart. It's a very simple thing. You'll overcome all of these difficulties. There was a woman who had a sick relative, someone she loved very much, and she went to a healer, and the healer told her, there's an herb that you can get that will heal your relative. And the herb only grows up on these Chinese mountain peaks. Now this woman was scared to death of heights. And these rocky peaks were dangerous. You could fall. So she was like, I really want to help my relative. And so she overcame her fear by going up to the top. She was afraid of heights, very scary, but then she said, I'm doing this for an important reason. I love my relative. So she went and she got the herb. And in doing that, she overcame her fear of heights. She overcame her fear of everything. She realized that, you know, if you're motivated by love, then you can do things that you thought were before impossible. There's a story of the time of the Buddha. There was a monk who came from a wealthy family. He left his family and he was a monk for years, and he was happy as a monk. Now, when his father died, his father left him a great inheritance. And there was merchant business, there was lands and properties and all sorts of money. And so he's like, wow, my father left me this. I have a responsibility to do something positive with it. So he's like, okay, I'm going to do this. He starts planning what he has to do. And then he finds himself very, very, very unhappy. Because if I have all that money, I could do this, I could go here, I could be in this beautiful home or something. And then he starts looking at his life as a monk and he's like, this is not so nice anymore, this is hard, and I could have a lot more ease. And then he finds himself completely unhappy. And then he goes over to the Buddha and explains his situation. And then Buddha says, What if you didn't have the money? And then he said, Well, then I would wake up in the morning, go meditate with these guys, hear your teachings. And then when he's talking about what he would do without the money, he's happy again. And Buddha says, There you go. He's like, get rid of the money. And the guy's like, oh, okay, great. Getting rid of money, it's not that hard. But he felt, you know, this was a monk who was living in his heart until he started thinking about what to do with money and what money can do for him and what his responsibilities were with money and everything. So, you know, it's very simple. If you're just living in your heart, it gets you out of all sorts of trouble from the troubled mind. In mindfulness, of overthinking. Mindfulness is thinking about thinking, right? That's why when you're coming from the heart, it's radical. You don't have to think and you change and you're aware and your awareness leads you to a brighter place. But mindfulness is kind of like, you know, and the barista handed me my cappuccino and she made eye contact. And what did that mean? Does that mean, like, was I just being polite? And then she said, have a nice day. And then I said, oh, you too. And I really meant it. She knew where I was. And then, so I couldn't stop thinking about that. And that was four weeks ago. You know, with, I mean, mindfulness can be mindful about everything. Too mindful. Uselessly mindful. You could completely lose the plot. However, if you're just coming from a place of the heart, it's very simple, you don't have to think, overthink. You can overpractice mindfulness, but you can't overpractice heartfulness. There was an event, a Vipassana retreat at Spirit at Rock and Marin. And during the retreat, they needed to get some provisions at a nearby store. So, you know, they're sitting around like meditating and then laying around meditating and then laying around sleeping. Because this is a personal retreat. So they're doing that, you know, every day. And then one day, the Zen master or somebody says, hey, we need to get stuff at the store, so why don't you go to the store, he tells this guy, and make it a practice of mindfulness. So the guy goes, oh, okay, that'll be great. So he mindfully walks, mindfully gets into the car, mindfully drives, mindfully enters the store, mindfully picks out the perfect vegetables, you know, all the things you have to get at the store. Mindfully pays for it, mindfully walks back to the car, getting in the car, and then the clerk is all, hey, sir, you forgot your groceries. And he's all, oh. So you can be so mindful, really, you can be so mindful about the wrong things that you get out of touch with reality. So, this happens. So, but you know, if you're coming from the heart, then you will be aware of the right things. Like, if you're like, I'm getting vegetables for my spiritual teacher and my sangha, it's going to be great. And you're like really happy. Then you'll pick out great vegetables, right? And then you won't forget to bring them. Because that was the point, right? That was the heart of the matter, to get them. So, ikan tova, thank you. The thing that gets in the way of the heart is the self. And the self is where we start to get into all sorts of abstraction. So we just want to clear away the self. We want to get to the heart of the matter. You know, when you meditate, your mind becomes still, you start to gain this spiritual luminosity. And that's the place to come from. It's very simple. But if you start overthinking things, you get out of that place. There was an Indian yogi who practiced Advaita, Jnana Yoga, the yoga of discrimination, trying to see the truth of life. And he went around asking, who am I? Who am I? Am I the body? No, I'm not just the body. Am I my brain? Am I this thinking? Am I this? Am I that? And so he's just trying to get to the essence of who he is. So he's practicing this for years and years, and then he hears about this great enlightened master who lives in a cave in the Himalayas. And he travels up to the Himalayas, goes to the cave, and he sees the master. And he goes to the master and he says, Who am I? And the master says, It doesn't matter. And then he hears that and he has a spiritual realization. It doesn't matter. When the self matters, when the self is the form front of your attention, then there's all sorts of questions and there's all sorts of things blocking the truth and reality. But when there is no self, then there is realization, there is enlightenment. That is heartfulness. So, really in order to practice heartfulness, have just that deep, vast perspective of eternity. And also the transience of life and the beauty of every moment. When I was in India, I was at the Amrita Chakita ashram, where people were coming for healing. And there was a man, maybe in his early 60s, and he was coming from the hospital to the healing, to get spiritual healing. He had pancreatic cancer, and the doctors gave him like maybe two months to live. And so he said, well, instead of, you know, he had done chemotherapy and all sorts of stuff for several months and the doctors were like, you're not going to make it. So he said, well, I might as well try this spiritual healing thing. And so he was there with his granddaughter, and he said to her, he said, even if you have difficult days, difficult things happen, things are really hard, things are no fun, no matter what happens, every day you should be happy. Every day, you should be thankful. He had a good perspective, you know? And he was sharing that with his granddaughter. And he was like, you know, I want you to just know that this is a beautiful opportunity that we have to be alive. And it's true, you know. Every day you have a beautiful opportunity to be alive, to be happy, to see the light enlightened eternity in all things. And when you recognize, you know, someday, this is all going to end. Our lives will be over and will change into some other something. When you recognize that life is precious. Then you're automatically living in the heart.

1:29:18
Okay.

1:29:20
Thank you all so very, very much. Now I'm going to do an esoteric teaching, an inner teaching, about heartfulness. And this is a teaching where I will be heartful. And you will be able to see heartfulness, but it's a teaching because I'm also showing you the way to heartfulness. This teaching has no words. This teaching is a direct experience of heartfulness. It is where I demonstrate heartfulness, but it's also where you experience your heartfulness. To do this, you just sit up straight. We're going to listen to one song. You don't have to meditate very hard. You just relax, still your mind. You can focus on your heart, just a light focus on the heart. And then look up this way, and we'll just sit for one song.

1:30:44
Let's begin. So, thank you. the the the the the So the the the the the the you Whew! All right. Now, it is time for audience participation. If you had an experience, it would be nice if you could share it. This is an important thing. We do this every time. Because if someone's new to these esoteric teachings, these inner teachings, they might have spiritual experience that they don't recognize.

1:33:36
Because once you have that spiritual experience, you'll go right back into the routine mind of thinking and you could throw out your spiritual realization. So, the reason that we share experiences is because someone might recognize that experience after it's been validated by another person. Sometimes we sit, we experience light and spirit, something powerful, and then forget about it the next moment. But if someone else says, here's what I experienced, you'll say, hey, wait a second, that's what I actually experienced. This is a way of bringing the spiritual awareness to the forefront of your attention so that you could live in that spiritual awareness more deeply. So if you would, it would be nice to share with the audience. So if you would, raise your hand and we will bring a microphone to one of you.

1:37:03
I saw an orb of gold light in your heart,

1:37:06
and there were rays coming out of it, and I was just watching it. And then I felt it in my heart too. And I experienced a feeling of constant, a constant, and also an experience of limitlessness and endlessness.

1:37:41
And it was very strong and powerful.

1:37:42
Wonderful, thank you.

1:37:43
More?

1:37:44
I've been noticing all night that you have these dimensions of gold light around you.

1:37:45
And I've just kind of been looking at them.

1:37:48
But then during this meditation, you said to focus on the heart.

1:37:52
And I saw that there were even more dimensions of gold light. And I just focused on affection for you. And I saw that my heart merged with those dimensions of light.

1:38:36
Thank you.

1:38:40
A couple more.

1:38:50
So, usually I'm a person who is seeing visions, especially when we have open-eye meditation. And I always think about it, so I always like already analyze it during the meditation. because usually I'm also emotionally attached, like I have a touch that I feel it in my heart. And this time I felt nothing. And it's really special because I had no emotions, I had no thoughts, and I just saw the light and I felt a big lightness and ease. And I saw you almost like levitating. So like having really light and easy. And this was really special for me. Thank you.

1:39:56
Very good.

1:39:59
And one more.

1:40:04
Hey. Yeah, so I've seen you as an old man. Yeah, you didn't shrivel up or anything, but you just had like gray and white hair. And for me, that type of vision, it triggered something in the back of my mind, because I always had this fear of death, of like the unknown, dying and you know having no control over where I go. I might reincarnate to a sheep or something. Be a terrified sheep. But yeah, watching you turn old, it made me accept that, you know, we don't have control over what goes on externally, but we do have control over our attitude towards life and a focus on the now, even though you were old and stuff.

1:40:55
But, um,

1:40:55
you just look really happy and you were enjoying the moment and you didn't have any fear of, you know, the unknown.

1:41:04
Yeah.

1:41:05
Thank you. Thank you very much. All right, good. Okay, very nice. So, I just came back from teaching in Europe. And in Europe, we have now 80 new students in Vienna, Munich, and Paris. cities and it was really, really, really wonderful. So before I meet someone in person, I meet them inwardly. And so it was very beautiful as I was taking the train to Vienna. I could just feel all these very beautiful people who I was going to meet there. And they had such good hearts. And it was a very, very beautiful experience. It was also interesting because I would do teaching for them, esoteric teaching, and I went completely by myself. And so I didn't bring, you know, an entourage of students or anything. I just showed up and taught and these people had no idea what was going to happen. And I was like, okay. So I would give an esoteric teaching and I would say, what did you guys experience? And their experiences were very, very similar to what we heard tonight. So that was kind of fun. You know, because otherwise, we might be making up stuff, right? We might be like having mass hysteria. You turned into an old man and had gold light all around you. But when they say that in Paris, no, when they say that in Munich, then you have to start believing it. There was this gold light. And it was all around you, sparkling. Yeah, so, it was nice. Now, the people who came to the classes, they had a very beautiful heart. You have a very beautiful heart. This is what it takes to be on the spiritual path, an open heart, an open heart surgery. Just kidding. So, most people guard their heart. They're afraid to go there. They are in their certain patterns, their karmas, their routines, and it's very difficult to see the light of the heart. And it makes you vulnerable. You have to start facing the darkness of the self and looking at your negative thoughts and trying to be in this place of light to get out of it. So most people, they don't want to be heartful. But when you are coming from this place of the heart, when you have the courage to be in your heart, then you're on the spiritual path. So this is a lovely thing and a wonderful thing. And you're all very wonderful people. If there's any new guests here, you are very welcome to join the school. It is a school of heartfulness, and it's a school where you can develop this eternal, luminous nature,

1:45:15
which is who you truly are.

1:45:18
So if you would like, you can tell your meditation teacher, you'll still work with your meditation teacher, work on the Enlightenment workbook, but you'll start to be able to have these inner teachings more. The connection with the teacher is an inner connection. It's a connection of the heart and it's a constant support, a constant connection with light. So it's easy to refer back to the luminosity of these moments and it's easier to reside in heartfulness. So thank you all very much. It was really wonderful meditating with you. Now I was going to pull out my Disney Princess diary and answer some questions, but we have kind of a lot of things to do tonight, so I will answer questions next time. Now we have the second part of the presentation of the India pilgrimage. So, everyone's welcome to stay for that. It should be really, really, really wonderful. Ganga Nath and Tarleela came up just to give this presentation to you guys. So, it's really wonderful. And then after, we'll have the Amrit Chakritse healing lesson number five. This is where it gets good. Yeah, now these are, this is where there's the Siddha powers of healing.

1:46:57
Okay. So, lovely, lovely, lovely to meditate with you all. So, lovely, lovely, lovely to meditate with you all.

1:47:02
Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
