0:00:00
We're going to sit in meditation for 15 minutes or so and just focus. So make sure that you hear. And I'm trying to speak without making a sound. It's wonderful. Such a beautiful place. So our trip is, so the focus of energy is really, really opening. This is a very, very, very nice time.

0:01:01
Special.

0:01:02
Today I'd like to talk about getting what you need. I'm assuming that his like, his song or his campaign, I think it was. That cracked him. No, that's a, that's kind of an inauguration. I like the inauguration. The track is a bit stuffy. But it's not that bad. It's trash. I only have the semi-track. But it's actually really good. It's a good track. It's not a snow-mountain track. It's a bit of a glitch. There's a green. Water is green. It's a bit of a glitch. We need to be more modern in our society. We need to be alive. So, that's all that I'm going to say. But then you need other things. Like, I don't know if you guys know, but we have relationships with people, we have a cultural society. Like, let's say your house is burning down and there was no such thing as a fire department. You'd be like, huh. And in our French translation of the Bible, we have a lot of different stories. First of all, the first story on the Jewish people is that there was a murder in the back of a building. What did they find in the back of the building? They found a dead woman. They were in the middle of a hill. There was a number of peaks and hills. And there was a lot of water. And there was one little village in the area where you could get to the lake. And you had to walk a long way to get there. And you had to walk a long way to get to the lake. And the name of the village was Lake Mare. And then Jan was sitting there and she hears some tide.

0:04:07
I'm Thomas.

0:04:08
I'm here.

0:04:09
I'm here.

0:04:10
I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here.

0:04:15
I'm here.

0:04:16
I'm here. I'm here.

0:04:18
I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm going to show you how to do it. And then I kept doing that. And then I'm sad that I was the only one. And then he goes over and we're like just bleeding, he's kind of bled out and dying, but he goes over and puts a tourniquet on us. It's a good thing. And then the rescue crews get there. And there's like a whole team of people like taking care of everyone. I mean, the rest of us are like, hospital, you know, professional, like all this work. Like, that's good. It's important. That's the, it's the reason we do it. And, you know, I have that energy. Like, this is amazing. I just love these people. I love that they're so kind. I love that they're so amazing. I love them more. So, sometimes we need stuff. Sometimes you need AAA. Because, I remember when Sunny told me this, And we're driving from Shasta over the mountains of China. And then I'm driving, and then there's this like, uh, big fog in the middle of the road, and I'm like, I think this is my sign. And then, and check out our translation. And then our translation, right when we got to the top of this mountain, And it was in the middle of nowhere. Right? And, uh, it was in the middle of nowhere. And there was no cell phone reception. But the car drifted right to this one river in the middle of nowhere that had a phone. And, uh, the driver was, uh, the guy was, uh, the driver was, uh, bringing out a rescue car I'm going to show you how to do it. So, you know, you're scuba diving. You need to do is discover. Sometimes, physical things can be the most useful. But, at some point in your life, you need to release your spirit and to be free. At some point in your incarnation, this becomes a must. You need it. I think I have to do it myself. I sit down, go to the hills, and when it's day, I'm watching my home. Yeah. We already know. In New York, we're watching my... I'm getting angry. In Chicago, they go... I don't even know what you're doing. Universal Studios. Universal beauty. Yeah, so there's stuff that you need. And it's important to get this stuff. You can get this stuff online. You can get this stuff in society, in the language, in the culture. I'm not the first person to have a heart attack right now. I've been told that I will die one day. I'm going to get the stuff that I need. Our community needed enlightenment to do everything. I needed enlightenment to meditate and be mindful, I don't know. I don't know. I'm not leaving. I'm not leaving. I'm not leaving. I'm not leaving. I'm not leaving. I'm not leaving. I'm independent. And the blind square, we have the inner resources to speak a bigger connection with life. And that even though we all have a little bit of a problem with our lives, we are all in connection with life. I'm getting out of here. Universe, is that not fine? More blankets? universe, and I'm not blind or blanket. It's a beautiful place. It's a beautiful place. It's a beautiful place. It's a beautiful place. It rains down and it nurtures the trees. And thus, the trees are exhaling oxygen. And that's a good thing. It's not a weakness. Like, look at Wahad Nassim. He's this really out there guy. I'm not going to say that. He is this really out there guy, standing on the steps, and he's all like, and he's all pants, and he's all shaved, and he says, I need a tempo. Right? And he's eating it. He's eating it. It's funny, the characters come, and all these people come to visit, and they have to come to this shop all around town. Yeah, and it's a really neat thing to see with him, because he was the only one guy who needed like, oh I get it, he was the guy that needed the power. I think it's a good thing. But you'll need to must be pure, because needing is not desire. So this is the very important point. If you go, oh great, I need this, I need that, I need this, I need that, I need this, then you're going to find yourself in a lot of trouble. Needing is powerful. Desire is a passion and it makes you feel powerful. Even if you're like, you want to be there, you think, I am, I desire, I want to rule, I need to defend, to foster, and social justice. Right? So, you're like, I must have these things, I need them, I need them. Why don't you guys understand? You should do this, we should do this. Everything should be good. Then your ego becomes your desire. You're attached to a concept. And again, it's a good one. But you spoil your spirit. You're unhappy. You're unbalanced. Even though you want to be good, because there's a self-image. And you have to say, you know what? I'm going to do something good, but I'm not going to cash it. You need it. You need it. Not knowing it. You need it. You don't want it. You're a bitch. I'm talking about you. You got to get what you need. Not what you want. Not what you want. So my peak is at the bottom. And that's a cool way to look at it. Maybe... Yeah, so this is a... You know, that's why the traditional things that spiritual people do, you know, monks or yogis, they just go into an ashram and they go, Okay, I don't need anything here. Great, I don't need anything. I'm happy now. Because they don't exercise what most people do, which is, I need this stuff, I need that stuff, I need this person, I need that person,

0:17:53
I need this position.

0:17:55
They just get to experience a life where life is simple. When you live a life of simplicity, you don't need to have a bigger house, or a newer car, or whatever you want. Some vacation to some place, you know, whatever. Whatever you want. If you're running around in the world, going after things that you want, so the monks say, I'm going to build a temple in the mountains. And then they start to recognize the need. What they need is to know the truth of life, to be free. But when you're running around, you know, like, you're on a tree, you see a banana. You go, I need that banana. And you get that banana, and you eat it, and you go, oh, there's a mango. When you're chasing stuff in life, you're always out of balance. So that's why the monk way is the way that works. The yogi sits in a cave. But guess what? Monks can stuff. They need stuff. They do. Like, uh, they can't eat. They can't eat. They can't eat.

0:19:21
They can't eat.

0:19:22
They can't eat. They can't eat. They can't eat.

0:19:25
They can't eat.

0:19:26
They can't eat. They can't eat. They can't eat. They can't eat.

0:19:30
They can't eat.

0:19:31
They can't eat. They can't eat. They can't eat.

0:19:34
They need stuff.

0:19:36
They don't. Like, um, they don't go out and make money, and then they go make a living by selling houses or things. They don't. They don't go out and make money, and then they go make a living by selling houses or things. They don't. So, monks get shelter, the whole community, which is in money, monks get shelter, and And they get it from them. So once you get to that, you know, you go to Thailand, you go to Japan, and you see one of the most beautiful indigenous people. So beautiful. You know, there is a beautiful, I think, And that was the reason. They live in a luxurious place and all they have to do is come here. So, try to have...yeah, whatever it is. You have to get to the heart of what you need. Or, like that. And, anything. Even your greatest capacity. Whatever. So, remember to take the things that are important to you. Whatever. You know, those things that are hard on you, if you want or desire something, I need a methane, whatever, I need a helicopter, I don't like traffic anymore. Then, you're going to be chained down to a cell, and you're going to get to a certain and what comes to you in life will give you balance. That's how it happens.

0:21:49
Well, and if it gives you balance, it's because you're facing the creeps of life. So, there is a main thing to understand You've got to transform yourself from desire to getting what you need. And this is when you are getting something from someone, you need to understand that it is good for them. So if you're just going like, oh, I have to get something myself from that person, then you're... What do you say? I need to get this, right? And I know that I can get that from that person. So yes Buddha's hierarchy of giving give to yourself Give yourself everything you need in your life to be happy balanced and strong Then give to your family then give to your friends then give to your community and then give to spiritual people So he put himself and his Sangha at the bottom of giving. But he said, don't not give to spiritual people. It's very important that you make yourself happy, your family, your friends, your community, everything that you need in life. But also give to the people who follow the Dharma. And that's why it's a very, very special opportunity to talk about getting what you need. You're helping someone, a practitioner of the high Buddhist Dharma, you're helping them to get what they need. They need to have food, water, shelter, stuff that they need. And by giving to them is powerful. It's a very powerful, accelerating experience of Dharma, then the reciprocity in the universe is very, very elevating. It takes you higher and higher and higher. And it does magical things. So there was this one time when Milarepa, this great yogi of Tibet, he was sitting in his cave meditating meditating and he's like, I'm too busy meditating. I'm going for my enlightenment. I don't have time to go outside of my cave and start looking for food. He's in the mountains in Tibet, so the village is very far away. He's like, I have to focus on my meditation. He's not eating. His sister comes and visits him after many weeks and she finds him very very skinny and she gives him a meal, like a really nice good meal. And then he says, because he's enlightened, he's like, you got such good karma from that, such good karma that you're going to be going to heaven Just from one meal So you give a meal to you know your friend or your dog those are good things to do, right? But if you gave food to an enlightened person in need It would it would be so powerful so powerful When you when you give to a person of the Dharma Then there's a tremendous karmic influence and for you it changes you in an amazing and magical way. It's completely magical. So giving to the Dharma is just a clarification but it's a clarification that your spirit will understand. So you do something nice and wonderful and your awareness starts to clear up. But what I'm going to clarify for your spirit is what you're doing which is giving to a Dharma teachers and that gives you insight gives your spirit insight and really what it is I like to call it a karma present because Because in this lifetime at some point or maybe in your next lifetime at some point because of what you guys have done something amazing is going to happen. Something amazing, something great is going to happen to you and you'll be like wow I just got super lucky. That was just really nice. I don't know. Yeah, I just boom that was luck, but it's not luck It's because you've given to teachers of the Dharma, so it's a very beautiful thing You know there's another thing giving to your Sangha. So when you're doing things in the Sangha, helping somebody in the Sangha, that's a very powerful thing too. Helping another spiritual brother and sister, a beautiful thing. That's very very powerful as well. So I'm creating a new thing. And the giving thing is a spreadsheet, but there's been so many people who have been giving in extra ways in the Sangha that I'm now going to start giving back to them. So we've had this thing in Bodhi Woods called the Gratitude Points and Gratitude Adventures. If you did a lot of things to help Bodie Woods, then you got a point and then we would go on some wonderful adventure, but you would have to pay your point to go there. It's a new cryptocurrency. So now that most of us are out of Bodhi Woods for a long time, the gratitude system, we're not going to use it anymore. If you have points, those points are still usable for the new thing, the giving thing. So there's people who do registration, there's people who do setup, there's people who do security, there's people who do extra this, extra that, right? Someone helps somebody get a job, someone is sick and you go and help them with health care. There's so many things that people do in the Sangha that is above and beyond, right? Some people just sit there, meditate, practice mindfulness, read a book, do their computer programming, no problem, right? That's good, but there's people who do more. And for the people who do more, there's going to be this giving thing point. And then we'll have adventures. We'll have giving thing adventures. So giving to the Dharma, giving to your Sangha, very powerful. And giving to enlightened ones. Very powerful. So, to do this job, you're going to have to come up to me one at a time, and I'm going to put my thumb on your third eye, and I'm So this is something that spiritually clears your awareness to see. See what you are giving to, see what you are doing. When you are giving to a Dharma teacher, you are doing something really beautiful and I am like, let me just show you. And it clears it to show your spirit so that you see the beauty of giving. And then somewhere in life, you know, something happens. You're like, oh wow, I won the lottery! Or something. But really, this is, by doing this, this is a gift. Reciprocity, breathing on trees and all that. So in order to do this, one at a time you guys are going to come to me and I'm just going to put my thumb on your third eye for a few seconds, and then you're going to walk down over there and just watch the sunset. And then we'll all together gather and walk back. Now, I'm going to stand up here, because if I'm doing it like this, I'm going to fall over. No, I have a better idea. I'll do it down there. I can clog the path. So, let's see. This part needs not to be recorded. This part needs not to be recorded.

0:33:09
Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
