0:00:00
We're going to begin with meditation. We will sit for three songs. First song on the navel chakra, second song on the heart chakra, third song on the third eye. So let's sit up nice and straight and let's begin.

0:00:21
We have a rock band downstairs. You might hear it from time to time. Do not be distracted. But if you see me playing air guitar, then you'll know what's going on. Yeah. So next month we're going to be moving over one building to the Cowell Theater. It's a larger theater. So we've kind

0:12:54
of outgrown this theater already. And maybe there won't be a rock band there. The Buddhist Way. The Buddhist Way is a way that lifts you up. It brings you above kind of the heavy aspects of life and self. It brings you beyond dissatisfactions and beyond suffering. It's a way of conducting yourself, your mind. You know, life isn't hard if you're doing it right. If you're doing things wrong, things that go against the truth, the Dharma, the way of life, then everything could seem impossible and difficult. But the Buddhist way is a way of proceeding in thought, in It corresponds with life. It's something that enhances your experience of truth, understanding, and peace and balance of being. So, the Buddhist way is the way of life. It's a way of selflessness. It's a beautiful way of being in life. Now, most people have a different operating system. Their operating system is based on desire and aversion. They are looking at certain things that they like and they're drawn to them, so they're trying to go to them. And they're looking at things that they don't like and they're trying to run away from them. So constantly being pulled and pushed by these two aspects, desire and fear, aversion, things to get away from. And in doing that, there's always sorrow, there's always difficulty, there's always in a magazine about a very sad story, but it illustrates this very clearly. There was a flood somewhere in China, and there was this older brother, he was around 18, and he was with his younger sister when the flood hit. And he was pretty strong, so he was able to hold on to something and also hold her hand and keep her safe. But they were like in floodwaters up to the waist, it was very, in strong floodwaters. And they're sitting there in distress, trying to figure out what to do, they weren't in a safe place. And the village was just a little ways away when they got caught in this flood. So things started floating down from the village. They see little things. But at one point, they see a rowboat coming down, floating down from the village. And they're like, oh, this is great, but it starts to float a little bit farther away. And the boy, he was too afraid to go for the rowboat. He thought about it, and his sister was like, we gotta get that boat. But he was like, I'm too afraid to move. Even though he probably could have gotten it, he just had fear, so he couldn't move. And then they're sitting there still in distress and then a bag filled with money from the village comes down and the bag full of money comes right towards him and so he grabs it with one hand and then it starts to get away a little bit, so he lets go of his sister and he grabs it with his other hand and pulls it over and tries to catch her again, but in those few seconds, she got swept away. So, the place where he could have had the boat, the safety, he was afraid. And the place where he had desire, it ended up creating a horrible tragedy. This is the way that people live their lives. Desire and fear, desire and aversion, always lead you away from truth. dissatisfaction and ultimately suffering in the end. So the Buddhist way is a way that is developmental. It's something that's very constructive. It's a methodology of how to move forward and build your life, make your life stronger and ultimately more enlightened. Now, the Buddhist way, although it's very positive and constructive, it doesn't mean that we're going to start it and do it perfectly. In the Buddhist way, we make mistakes. We make mistakes in the beginning because that's how we learn. So mistakes are not considered to Mistakes are actually really wonderful opportunities. Opportunities to look into life and learn more. So, when we make mistakes, the most important thing is to own up to your mistakes, take responsibility. Don't blame others for your mistakes, for your failings. In any situation where things are dysfunctional or where things aren't working out, we always want to look for what could we do or have done to make it better. We want to own up to our mistakes, take responsibility. Most people, when they make a mistake, they're looking for everyone else to blame, and then there's no way that they can learn and grow from that. So we want to be very self-honest when we make mistakes, because then that's how we can learn from the mistake. Learning from the mistake, that's the Buddhist way. Because you don't do everything perfectly right in the beginning. You have to learn through trial and error. And it's very important to try, to do new things, to take risks. Because if you don't, then you get back up. So, there's a lot of this practice of trial and error, where you try something, it doesn't work so well, then you adjust, then you learn, you fall on your face again, you get back up, dust yourself off, keep going. And then you eventually learn a lot. So making mistakes, don't be afraid to make them. Mistakes are good, but learn from them. So if the first time you make a mistake, you say, oh wow, okay, I messed up, I didn't know that. But then, you shouldn't have a second time. That would be excellent practice. You'd say, I learned my lesson, I won't mess up again. Because the second time that you make a mistake, you're allowing the mistake. First time, you didn't know, but then you have more awareness. So the second time you should be able to mitigate the circumstances, you should be able to learn. The wise have made many, many, many mistakes and that's how they have become wise. So we seek to learn something. If you just sat there and made no mistakes, you won't learn. But if you fall on your face and you say, oh, hmm, what happened there? Oh, I should have put my foot here. Then you'll say, oh, okay, yeah, all right. Buddha's stories, he talks about many, many, many of his past lives, and they're filled with mistakes. So he wouldn't have become this enlightened master without learning, and we learn through mistakes. So mistakes are not a problem. Consider them a present. And it's how we deal with mistakes that brings us along in the Buddhist way. Now, the Buddhist way is a practice of being positive, a discipline of being positive during difficult times. So, when we have to really practice the discipline of positivity. And we see that when we bring a positive mind to our difficult situations, a greater liberation. We know things are always going to be hard. There will always be challenges. There will always be difficulties. But when you bring a positive mind, then you see that there's a lot of beauty. You see a greater perspective. And then there's peace and there's truth and there's enlightenment, even in facing difficulties. and that user interface of positivity. So even if you're having a very, very hard time, you want to be poised and smile, and you'll say, alright, I'll get through this. This too shall pass. And being able to go through difficulties and keeping your mind positive, having a smile on your face. That is the Buddhist way. There was a monk in Thailand long, long time ago who was a great teacher and there was an assembly, a large assembly of people who came to hear his dharma talk. And when he was walking, just right before getting up in front of people, just a couple minutes away from meeting the assembly, he was bitten by a snake on his leg. And he saw, he got bitten, and he was like, I'm either going to die or I'm not going to die, right? And he said, well, there's this assembly, I'm going to give them a Dharma talk. So he came up and he sat down, and he gave this beautiful, very happy, joyful Dharma talk. And all the people, their hearts were uplifted and there was great joy. After the Dharma talk, he got up and walked away and very soon after, he just collapsed because of the snake's venom. And he eventually was fine, he just had to rest for a while. But during his talk, he was experiencing great suffering from the snake bite, but at the same time, he was bringing great joy to people. So we want to be able to deal with the hardships in our lives with such an attitude, because that's the Buddhist way. I mean, you could be angry, you could be sad, you could be afraid, or you can express truth and the higher ideals of being. And that's the side of life that the Buddhist way takes us to. It takes us to the brighter side, the brighter way. And it's a much more positive experience. So, in life, you can live a life in so many ways, in diminished ways, in ways where you're just sitting there fulfilling personal desire, just getting by, not really discovering yourself, not going to, putting your energy into the higher, brighter things, letting the hardships hold you back, not being positive. But the Buddhist way is a way of doing things that are very bright, taking actions that are very positive, and facing difficulties and hardships with great positivity. One way of facing hardships is by employing humor. So enlightened people They've seen it all. They have a little bit of an ironic sense of humor. And, you know, they're just joyful. They deal with hardships as well, of course. But they end up laughing at it. So there's this Buddha, he's called the Laughing Buddha. He's a Chinese Buddha, Pu Tai. And he's always depicted laughing. Ha ha ha ha. And he was a real person a long time ago. And what he did was he would teach the Dharma by just laughing. So people would come to see him, they would bow before him, and he would sit there, everyone's waiting for meditation or a Dharma talk or something, and then he would just go, ha ha ha ha, and he would just start laughing, and just keep laughing and laughing and laughing, and then that is how he transmitted the Dharma, that he would enlighten people through his laughter. So that everyone would just sit there and watch him laugh, and then their hearts would open. And that was the way that he expressed enlightenment. So you know, humor is spiritual. It absolutely is. You know, when you're being all heavy and, you know, looking at life in dark ways, and all you see is trouble, that's when you need to laugh. you know, they become light and fluffy. There was once a Zen monk who was reading through these ancient texts of yoga, that he read about it and it seemed tremendously profound to him. It was a meditation where you would look at a candle flame. You would just sit there and look at it. And so he was practicing that and he thought it was so amazing. And so he went to his Zen master and he was like, Zen Master, Zen Master, I found the ultimate meditation. This is the meditation that is going to make me enlightened. And the Zen Master said, Oh, tell me about it. So, he had the scroll and he was telling him about it and going through all the details and he's like, this is it, this is it, it's so amazing. And the Zen Master listened, Oh, yeah, you know, at every point, listen to everything. And then when he was finished, he's like, so what do you think Zen Master? And the Zen Master looked at him and then burst out laughing. Just, full belly laughter. And then, and then he's, and the Zen Master's like, you got it, you know, that's it. He said, so now's the time, show me that, show me your meditation. Do it. You're going to be, this is the meditation, you're going to be enlightened. And he said, that's right, I don't know why you just laughed at me.

0:34:15
Okay.

0:34:16
So he lights the candle and he's sitting there, meditating hard, looking at the candle, you know, and the Zen master sits there with him. Candles burning down, sun sets, candles still burning down, and he's like, you know, sitting there trying, trying, trying, and it's like the most important thing. And then at one point, the monk has satori, it's an instant enlightenment. And this is because his ideas and his concepts, they were blown out with the candle. He thought that the candle meditation is the thing. And when that was extinguished and disappears, then that's when he is free from all concept. So, humor is good, humor is important, but it has to be the right kind of humor. We might have toilet humor, but not negative humor, and not too toilet. We're talking like Japanese toilets. They have really good technology. I mean, for those who don't know, if you're not in the know about Japanese toilet seats, well, let me tell you. They have the duvet function built in, and you don't really need toilet paper with them.

0:36:22
See?

0:36:23
Toilet humor. And, you know, they have different functions. Like, you can get the, you know, they have more bells and whistles than a Mercedes Benz. They can have heated toilet seats and blow dryer. Perfume. Yeah, so, we're talking. Good stuff. So, yeah. So humor is good, but it has to be positive humor. Making fun of other people is negative humor. So the Zen Master is never having bad humor. The Zen Master is never sitting there going, Yo mama is so ugly. You know, it's, the Zen master's always like laughing at like, laughing at the student. The student comes up with some idea, the Zen master's just like, Ha! You were thinking, ha!

0:37:30
You know.

0:37:32
And I'm really the same way. I just get a kick out of teaching, to see the things that people come up with. It's really funny. It's true. People come up with all sorts of things. Like, you know, we're sitting here right now, and some people are like, to hear a proper Buddhist talk. And all I'm getting is this chap who's speaking in a funny accent and cracking jokes. You know? So it's... You know... Judgments are fun. Or, you know, I disagree with what he's saying. Humor is not spiritual, otherwise Eddie Murphy would have become the Dalai Lama in 1987. Right? I don't know. So I always get a kick out of everybody's But it is the way, the Buddhist way, to be funny, but also to get beyond the heaviness of self. Yeah, the heaviness of self. I remember one time, I was outside of a dojo, where there was a very good sensei. And I was just looking in through the window, looking at him. Now he was really small, he was like 4'11", and like 125 pounds. He was this little guy. But, you know, he was a very, very powerful sensei. And I remember these two, like, like, I don't know, maybe they're high school kids, 18 or 19 or 20 or something like that. They were also looking in the window and they're saying to each other, they're like football guys, right? And then they're all like, I don't know, I think I could take him. He doesn't look like, you know, he's not so strong. And I was like, wow, that's funny. You know, it's just a complete lack of awareness that in the inner arts, something like martial arts, there's a greater power than the physical. In the spiritual arts, there's more to it than the mental processes. So, you know, this is the Buddhist way. And also, the Buddhist way and humor, you'll be doing spiritual practice and you'll be like that monk, the candle is the way, you know, too serious, too focused. I remember there was this one meditation teacher and the way that he taught meditation is he would have everyone lay down on their backs and they would just lay there for like 45 minutes. And that was his meditation. And I was like, hmm, I do that at night, that meditation. But he taught this meditation class at 6.30pm. So a lot of people came from work and then he was like, okay, this is important, we're going to lay down, and you have to meditate. So then everyone lays down, and then this teacher was so frustrated, because there was snoring breaking out here and there, and he's running around waking people up saying, don't snore! He's just so mad at everybody. Then after the class he's just like, you Americans! And I was like, well, at least now they know how to meditate. Yeah, so, the spiritual path can get very heavy or very mental and humor really gets you to break out of that. So it's good. Tell some jokes, and positive jokes, because that just snaps you out of looking at things in a very, very heavy way. A lot of things in spiritual study could be very, very mental, but when you laugh, when you honestly just find something funny and laugh, that is an experience that just draws you into a more positive way of being. So we have to balance discipline and really engaged practice and study with humor and levity, and that's a much more positive way. I remember another funny experience. I had a friend who used to study a different type of Buddhism called Sokugakai, Japanese Buddhism. He studied it for many years, and he was a good friend of mine. He said, hey, we were in a new city. He hadn't been to the Soka Gakkai center there. And he said, hey, let's go check it out. I said, okay. So we go into the center. There's about 100 people sitting there. And the first thing that they do is they start doing some chanting. So they do the Buddhist chanting. And he had it all memorized. And I was just kind of watching and going okay this is nice and then after the chanting they had someone get up and do a Dharma talk and they're like okay so we're gonna give a Dharma talk about the Heart Sutra but it's very important for you to understand that the Heart It's a big, like, giant, weighty sutra." And I was like, okay. And then they said, okay, so, here's how immense it is. If you were to take this entire universe and smash it to dust and then go over to the next universe and drop one piece of dust and then go over to the next universe and skip that one and go to the next one and put the dust, and the next one in skip, and the next one in dust. By the time you put all the dust from this universe across these many universes, that's how immense the Heart Sutra is. So, I'm sitting there, you know, like, following it. You know, I'm like, okay. And, you know, they're like making this big deal about it. I'm like, alright, so this is a big-ass sutra. And I was like, uh-huh, uh-huh. So I'm just, you know, open-minded and just trying to follow it. And then my friend, who has been doing the Soka Gakkai Buddhism for many, many years. And he's heard all the Dharma teachings and everything. He's sitting there with me, and then he just starts laughing. Just starts cracking up and loud. Like he's got like a loud laugh. So they're sitting there talking about the importance and the intensity and grandeur of the Heart Sutra and then all of a sudden he's all, ha ha ha ha ha, he's just cracking up and cracking up. And my first reaction is, yes, this is extremely funny. You know, it's like we're in this ridiculous situation. And then he starts laughing, and it's really funny, so I want to laugh too. But then I notice that everybody is so mad at him. Everybody in the audience looks at him. And I'm sitting right next to him, so, and I was like, oh my gosh. So I was in little difficult situation because he could not stop laughing. I mean really, like a minute goes by of him just cracking up. That's a long, painful minute. Because I really, really, it was contagious. I wanted to laugh. It was so funny. The whole situation. Their dharmatar, how big that sutra is. That's a big sutra!" I'm like, that's funny. And I'm just like, I'm just like, and he's laughing and I, so I wanted, I wanted to laugh so much. I almost couldn't help it, but what I ended up doing was making a horrible, angry frown at him. So I, and then I crossed my arms and looked at him. Everybody was looking at him. So I'm sitting there going...... So then I was like... And I think eventually he excused himself. And shortly after I ran out. And then we sat just outside of the meditation hall, just laughing as loud as we could. It was so horrible. So, you know, respect. You have to respect all different spiritual ways. But it's good to have humor. Otherwise, life is heavy and boring. What do you want to be in? A romantic comedy movie? Probably, right? At least there's some comedy there. Or a horrible drama, a war movie, I don't know, a horror film. I like comedies. You know, there's some levity. So look for humor in your life. You know, sometimes you could look back on a difficult time that you had, after you've had some space away from it, you can look back on it and say, I was foolish. So this happens. You can see that you've done really silly things, and at the time you were suffering, it was terrible, but after some time you can look back and say, gosh, I was so silly. You can laugh at it. I remember one of my students came over and had a band-aid on her finger and I said, oh what happened? And she said, I've had such a difficult day. And I said, oh tell me about it. All right, well I got up and I was like, I want to get some roses. I'm just gonna go down to the flower store, it's only a five-minute drive, I'm gonna get some roses, put them on my meditation altar, and then I'm going to meditate." And so she's like, okay. So I got out of bed, I was getting dressed, I was putting my socks on, and she was standing up putting the socks on, and then she tripped, you know, lost her balance, and fell, and then hurt her neck. And then she's all, ow, my arm! And then, and then she goes, okay, and gets in her car and is driving just a few minutes away to go get the roses. And then she pulls up in front of the florist. She's like, okay, finally I'm here. And then she she happens to have a blueberry smoothie and white pants. And she's like, oh, spilled it all over her pants. And then she goes, oh great, walks into the floor, it's a big purple swatch everywhere. And then she buys the roses and when she gets the rose, she pricks her finger with the rose thorn. And she's like, great. So, now while she's telling me the story, she's like, oh God, I had such a horrible day. It was terrible. And then as it kept going with the flat tire and the broken fingernail, and then especially when it got to the blueberry smoothie, she just starts laughing, laughing, laughing, laughing. You know? It's a comedy of errors. And we can all do that. We can look at our are difficult times, bad days, horrible things that happen. And instead of just being like, oh, I'm so mad and unhappy, you can laugh at it, you can see some humor in it, yeah. So we want to do that, we wanna find the brevity, the levity, the brightness and the humor in our experience. You know, life isn't always just, you know, giving you lemonade. You've got to make the stuff.

0:53:00
You know?

0:53:02
And that's the Buddhist way. see that there's goodness and brightness and happiness in life. That we can laugh at things and we can have a big picture perspective. We can say, all right, all of this is the pathway to enlightenment, our whole life, our whole experience. So when things are tough and everything seems bad and it's hard, somehow I'm going to find my way into greater truth. Somehow I'm going to find my way into a greater experience of light. Somehow I'm going to have more insight. situation and looking for a spiritual intuition, insight, wisdom, so that I can grow and learn. So this is the Buddhist way. It's a way of facing challenges, but always having a more enlightened perspective. All right, how about we take a break, give you guys a break, and just 15 minutes or so, and then we'll come back and do a little bit more meditation. some more and talk about the Dharma because that is the Buddhist way. So again, we'll do a three-song meditation. Let's begin. the

0:55:28
the the the the the So so so so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so so You So so so I'm not a fool I'm not a fool I'm not a fool I'm not a fool the So Oh, so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, you You The Buddhist way gets you through the tough times. It gets you through great hardships. When we face the darkness of our mind, our emotional disturbances, difficulties with other people, stress, the Buddhist way is the way to rise above it. to experience great suffering when dealing with these difficulties, limitations. But if you follow the Buddhist way, it brings you above them to a higher condition of awareness. Angers, sadnesses, stress can be foregone.

0:59:15
You can extricate yourself from the way you see things, the way you think of things. So a man walks into a barber shop and he sits down. It's his regular barber and the barber says to him, whoa, you know, your hair is really thinning out. You know, last time you were here, you had a lot more hair. And the guy says, yeah, my hair, you know, I'm losing hair because I'm stressed out. And then the barber says, what are you stressed out about? And he says, losing hair. So a lot of what we do is we dwell in negative thinking Well that we we will experience Something in life and we will have a negative thought about it and then we dwell in that we can have sadnesses and depressions angers conflicts all of these things bring about different stresses in our consciousness. And if we dwell in higher thinking, higher awareness, we direct our minds to think of beautiful, powerful, successful ways in life and then we don't sit there kind of looking at the lowest, heaviest experiences. That way we are changing the way that we look at things from the self way to the Buddhist way, a higher way. So the stresses that we experience, stress comes in the form of all sorts of negative affects you and you're sensitive and you hurt from it or you have great emotional disturbances or dark mental conditions because you're dealing with people and situations and you're dealing with them, let's say, unskillfully. affected to lower thinking. And that is a reaction. Stress is a reaction from dealing with things in a self way. You're like taking a selfie. In Buddhism, taking a selfie would always be like, oh, sad faces, angry faces, right? We wanna get rid of that. So, the Buddhist way is a higher state of mind. There's the self state of mind, in which there's anger, enmity, depression, stress, and then there's the Buddhist state of mind, which which is the freedom from those conditions. When you're in the Buddhist state of mind, in the Buddhist way, then you're not drawn into the patterns of self-thought dwelling on negativity and we seek to say, all right, I'm going to be positive. I'm going to figure out a good way. I'm going to learn something. These are the ways that you switch into the Buddhist state of mind, the Buddhist way. So two people could go through the same situation and have a completely different experience. Let's say a big stress for a lot of people is at work. One person could be at work in a self state of mind, dealing with a mean boss and crazy co-workers and a chaotic workload or something, and that person from that self state of mind can be completely stressed out, just very unhappy, having a very difficult time of life. Alternatively, let's say there's another person who's following the Buddhist way, they are letting go of the self and they're experiencing the same conditions, the same mean boss, crazy co-workers, and chaotic workload, but they're experiencing it in a way where it doesn't bring any existential duress. It doesn't bring any emotional suffering. They just are working. They're working the solution, they're doing the best they can with the situation that they have, and they're always looking for the way to be enriched and enlightened in the experience. So, it depends on state of mind. Self-state of mind is always going to have limitation and suffering, but the Buddhist way is to go to a higher state of mind. This is what the Buddhist way is. It's seeking enlightenment in everything, all the time. No matter what situation you're in, you are looking to get higher, especially if there's hardship, especially if there's some suffering. And you say, okay, I don't want to just dwell in my karma. I don't want to just dwell in my self state of mind, because I know what that's like. I've been through it over and over. It's unhappy. There's unhappiness and suffering. So, I want to try a new way. I want to try the Buddhist way of selflessness, to see how to get higher, how to have a more bright experience, how to learn from the situation to become stronger. And that is the Buddhist way. No matter what situation, situation at work, situation with friends, situation in traffic, you always want to say, oh okay, now it's time to be mindful, to direct my thoughts. If you don't do anything, then you'll stay in the self state of mind. But if you try, if you put forth the effort to direct your mind, to direct your thoughts, then you will move from the self to the selfless, to the Buddhist way, higher state of mind, outside of self. We follow this noble path. We control our anger. We direct our minds away from negativity. We bring greater impeccability and selflessness into our lives. And we find from that experience that we feel better and that we go into a higher state of mind. This is the Buddhist way. And from this perspective, you can see the perfection of life. From the perspective of the self state of mind, there's just dissatisfaction. Everything is so bad and there's no success. Everything is blocked out. You're in a pattern. And you might be in a pattern where you get a little bit of satisfaction or desire fulfillment, and that keeps you going. But eventually you say, this just isn't, it's not happening, it's not working for me. It's not enough. You've got to go higher. So we can see this higher perspective when we're in this higher state of mind. And it's not that hard. This is not an impossible thing to do. This is a natural outcome of following the Buddhist way of selflessness and directing your thoughts, mindfulness, bringing your thoughts to higher, more productive thinking. So this is what we aim to do. Well, a lot of times we can see life in limited ways. We say, oh, I don't have this much opportunity. I only have these things before me, this decision or that opportunity. practicing the Buddhist way, you come to understand that at any moment you can do anything. At any moment you can bring yourself into a brighter condition and see life completely different. There's no lack of opportunities. It's just the self-state of mind that cuts you off from seeing that the universe is filled with all opportunities. Anything can happen at any time. Anything good can happen at any time. And, you know, for every situation that you're in, there is an enlightened way. And so we seek to bring ourselves into the higher states of mind, following the Buddhist way, being optimistic, to be able to see these opportunities. When you can get outside of the self, then it's very clear, wow, I thought this was impossible, but now I see there's many opportunities to accomplish this. So at any moment, in any situation that you are in, you're able to see the enlightened way and you can handle it like a Buddha. A Buddha would be able to deal with great difficulty, great hardship, in an enlightened way. So this is what we seek to find in our lives with all difficulties. Even if it seems like, oh, this is horrible, it's never going to work out, there's always an enlightened way. And that is a way that empowers you, that frees you. And it's a way of compassion and elevating others as well. Long ago in China, during the spring and autumn period, there was a state called Han, and their neighbor to the north was Wei. And Wei had an army twice as big as Han, and they decided, we're going to attack Han and take over this country. So as the army of Wei was marching on the border of the Han, the emperor of the Han state had an advisor that he loved dearly, a Taoist master. And he said, Taoist master, he says, you have to advise me. How do I win? We're looking at losing our kingdom." And the Taoist master says, Okay, I will advise you. Come with me. So they trek up to this beautiful mountain and there's a little hermitage up there. And the Taoist master sits down in the hermitage and the Emperor sits down in their hermitage. And the Emperor is just filled with concerns and worries. And he says, I don't see a way, it's never going to work out. And the Taoist master says, calm down, calm down, let's meditate. And he says, well, I would love to meditate, but my country is about to get demolished. So the Taoist master says, no, no, no, trust me, we meditate. So he goes, okay, okay. So he's meditating, but he's sitting there worrying. And he's meditating and worrying. And the whole day goes by. And he says, okay, I don't have an answer. He says, so I gotta go back down and talk to my generals and figure something out. And then the Taoist Master says, no, no, no, no, you have to stay. We're gonna stay overnight, gonna keep meditating. The Emperor's worrying, worrying, worrying, and then he gets tired. And then he falls asleep, but the Taoist Master is still meditating. And the next morning he wakes up, the Taoist Master says, You're close. Keep meditating. So he keeps meditating. And now he's kind of tired and forgotten all of his worries. He's just up in this beautiful mountain. He already fell asleep. He remembered his worries in the morning, but now he's meditating and the worries go away. And his mind is still. And then the Taoist master says, Now, just look. And so they're looking out of the hermitage and there's just a beautiful view and the Emperor's mind is peaceful. Now, they're up in the mountain and there's a nest, a bird's nest, and there's little birds. And this hawk comes flying down and lands next to the nest. And the hawk is looking at, you know, taking one of the eggs. And this little bird comes out of the nest, like mom, right? Mom bird comes over and she puffs up her feathers and puts out her wings to look like she's much bigger. And then the hawk is dissuade. It's like, oh, this doesn't look like it'll be easy. So the hawk flies away. And then, you know, so they're just sitting there looking out, they see that happen. And then the emperor says, aha, I have the answer. So he goes, thank you, Taoist master. And Taoist master says, okay, yeah.

1:26:27
So long.

1:26:28
So he goes back down and now to the south of Han is the state of Chu. And Chu and Han, they don't have any problem with each other, but they don't have an alliance either. But the state of Chu is huge. Their army is probably 10 times bigger than the Han army, which is much bigger than the Wei army. So the emperor positions his army on a ridge above as the Wei army's coming in. And he has 80% of his army lined up in a long line, and 80% of them are holding the flags, fake flags of the state of Chu. So the Wei army sees, you know, like 20% of the Han army and 80% of the Chu army, and they're just slowly marching over the ridge, and they're just imagining this massive army on the other side of the ridge coming down, you know, it's about to come down on them, and they say, oh no, they've made an alliance with Chu, and therefore, no battle. And the peace lasted for a long time, because Wei didn't want to have trouble with Chu. So this is a way that we learn from the art of war, where you can see great difficulties, even in wars and battles, and compassionate ways, higher ways where you can solve problems without trouble. So this is what we seek to do. We seek to face the great difficulties of our lives and we seek to move beyond them in higher ways. There's always opportunity. When you move out of the way of the self and you find higher wisdom, higher compassion, you find enlightened solutions and this breaks you free from the karmas of the self and it brings you into the Buddhist way. Now, the Buddhist way also helps you in dealing with difficult people. A lot of the suffering that we have relationship with others. Someone might be angry at you, you might have to work with someone in a difficult situation where they're very reactive. There could be all sorts of things that can unbalance you with other people. But if you get unbalanced, like you want to have a nice happy picnic, right, and then someone comes over and is angry, and they start taking your food or something like that, giving you a hard time during your picnic. Yeah, it's unpleasant, but if it riles you up and you start engaging with them in a negative way, then you're caught in enmity, and you're stuck in a situation where you're creating more suffering for yourself. So you want to be able to find enlightened ways of dealing with people and negativity. Because if someone comes to you with negativity of any type and you get caught in it, then you end up participating participating and co-creating that negativity for your own experience. So it's like, you know, somebody at work is mean to you, so then you're mad at them, you decide that they're evil forever, right? You're like, ah. And then you start spying on them, so you can find their password, and then when they're away, you go to their computer and change their password, and then you're all satisfied, right? But, you know, you've just entered into a low way. It's not the Buddhist way. So we want to seek the higher way. Buddhism is in the face of hate, you find a way of love. This is the Buddhist way. So Buddha, he said that, you know, hate is never going to be dispelled Only love dispels hate. And this is the way, ancient and inexhaustible. So we have to see in our lives and our experiences how to get out of our reactions of negativity. People are going to do whatever they're going to do, but it's our reaction, how we return their kindnesses, their negativities or whatever. How we react towards it is what creates our spiritual freedom or our suffering. So, long ago in China, there was a merchant and he had this one fellow in the community who just seemed to really not like him. Maybe he was jealous because the merchant was more wealthy, but he would often go into the merchant's shop and steal small things. And if the merchant said, hey, are you going to pay for that? He would yell at him and run out. How dare you say I stole something! Excuse me, I have to go. And this man would go around and say terrible things about the merchant and spread lies about him in the community. And he's just a really foul person to the merchant. So the merchant one day was visiting with his Buddhist master, and he said, Master, how can I handle this situation? This guy is stealing from me, he's arguing with me, he's saying all these bad things with me, I think he vandalized my store. So how do I fix this guy?" And the master quotes what the Buddha said, In this world, hate has never yet dispelled hate. Only love dispels hate. This is the law, ancient and inexhaustible. you have to find a way to his heart. So practice that. So he goes back and he's dealing with this guy who's always looking at him mean every day. And you know, there's like, how do I find a way to his heart? This guy's just mean and nasty. And so the merchant keeps on looking every time, so he starts trying to practice things like smiling at him. And he does some nice things, like he gives him some stuff from the store for free, and the guy takes it. And he takes a little more. So he's trying these things, but it doesn't work. And then one day the merchant is walking home in the village and he sees in front of the healer's storefront that man and the man is holding in his arms his mother and she's old and she's sick and she's like not in good condition and he walks over to the merchant to hear what's going on, and the healers all know, I'm not going to heal her unless you give me an ounce of gold. He's like, so if you don't have the money, I'm not going to heal her. And so the merchant goes, you know, pulls out a gold coin, a gold ingot, and he goes over to the man and says, oh, excuse me, sir, I think you dropped this. And then the man turns around, sees him, and he's very grateful. He's like, whoa, he knows it's a gift. He knows he didn't drop the gold, right? So he takes the gold, and then he pays the healer, and then the healer heals his mother and she's great. And then this angry man is no longer angry. He's transformed from this experience. That kindness got him to let go of his jealousy or anger or whatever his problem was, whatever the chip on his shoulder was, that act of kindness, that was something that spoke to his heart. And this is the Buddhist way. This is the way where we don't fight negativity with negativity. That's not the Buddhist way. So you have to observe when someone's being mean to you, your reaction is mean back, then you will be trapped in suffering. But if you find the way of love and light and compassion, then you will elevate yourself and you can transform the other person who is dealing with you. It's very, very powerful, the Buddhist way. You have to look at your relationships where you have trouble. Sometimes it's with your parents, sometimes it's with your boyfriend, your girlfriend, your wife, your kids. It could be family, it could be close friends, it could be people at work. But you have to see the places where there's problems, where there's difficulties, where there's suffering. And you have to see, what's my part in here? Maybe they did this to me, they did that to me, but I had this reaction back. Was that a reaction of brightness, of compassion and love? Because according to Buddha, that's the way out. That's the Buddhist way. Or did I react poorly to it, and do I still have anger or frustration?" So you can review these places in your lives where you have trouble or dysfunction with and see what you're bringing to it, what your reaction is. If your reaction is negative, if your reaction is, I'm hurt and mad, then you're not bringing compassion and love. And you are trapping yourself. You are participating in the fight, and you're not elevating yourself. The first thing is, once you follow the Buddhist way, whatever argument with the person, whatever blame you have for them, you let it go and you bring yourself to a higher place. Then you feel better. You feel great. They might still do things that hurt you, but if you constantly return love, rightness, compassion, these noble qualities instead of reaction and anger and negativity, then you feel better. And then you're giving them the pathway to a higher condition. You're giving them an opportunity to let go of whatever they're doing that makes you dissatisfied. So observe this in your life. Observe these places and what you are bringing to it. Because even if you blame them 180%, right? You're in the ring. And you're fighting. So this is something to really observe, because it's a place where people lose a tremendous amount of energy, and where people suffer greatly. But if you follow the Buddhist way, then you don't suffer. And this is like a hard thing. It's very hard for people to let go of enmity and to really start looking for higher, brighter ways of reacting towards people who apparently you blame for hurting you. That's why the Buddhist way makes you very strong. Because when you practice this, then nobody can hurt you. Nobody can make you sad because you're so bright. You always bring brightness to every situation. It makes you very strong. Otherwise, you live your life always, you know, angry and reactive towards people, and then, you know, that's just not the Buddhist way. That's the way of self. So this is a very, very important thing to observe and practice, and it brings to your life great joy. Now, when we come across someone who gives us a hard time, it's not so bad. You know, that happens. It happened to Buddha many times. Many people tried to come and give him a hard time in all sorts of ways. And Buddha would always deal with it in a very bright, beautiful way. people tried to kill Buddha. So this one guy was very jealous of Buddha, so he got this elephant intoxicated. And Buddha was walking down the path, and he hit the elephant in the back, and the elephant was all angry and crazy, running down the path, and he just opened his heart and just projected love and compassion. And then the elephant, all of a sudden, all the negativity, all the confusion, all the intoxication went away, and the elephant stopped and was just like, oh, I love this Buddha fellow.

1:43:12
Yeah.

1:43:13
Yeah, so that's a lot of love and compassion. The power of love and compassion can do miracles like that. So Buddha dealt with all sorts of hardships, always in a very enlightened way. So be like Buddha. your coffee or whatever, I don't know, whatever gets your goat, right? When someone looks at you wrong or doesn't do what you expect or whatever, then try to have a higher reaction. Observe your reactions because there's always higher ways. When you have a difficult person in your life, they actually are promoting you. Enemies promote you. Difficult people make you stronger and happier. You're like, what? Stronger and happier? Yeah, because they get you to push in the Dharma more. In Mahayana Buddhism, they say, anyone who gives you a hard time, anyone who gives you difficulty or stress or is mean to you, they are Buddhas to you. They are teachers to you. They are showing you a place where you have a problem. Like my example of the self state of mind and the Buddhist state of mind, two people can be in the same situation, right? One person, you know, you you look at them wrong, and they get so angry. The other person, you look at them wrong, and they just are like, I'm pretty happy. One person, you know, we go over and hit them on the head, and they want to fight. The other person blocks. No, just kidding. The other person just is like, you know, turn the other cheek. You know, that's a very enlightened teaching from Jesus. Turn the other cheek. So, when someone gives you a hard time, you can learn from it. You can grow from it. It gives you a reason to bring more truth and more dharma, to look at yourself and say, wow, do I need to return anger? Do I need to get caught into this? Or is there a way that I can bring more love and more compassion and a higher state of mind so that this doesn't bother me? I can focus on good things. And then you become stronger. Stronger in truth. Stronger in Dharma. So when someone gives you a hard time, it's not the end of the world. It's a reason to practice more. In Tibet there was a new monk. He comes to the monastery. He's all excited. He's like, oh boy, I'm going to the monastery and I'm gonna become enlightened, it's great. And then the monastery has limited size, so they put him in a room with a more senior monk. This guy's been there a long time. And the young monk's all happy and the senior monk is all, grr, he's all, I had this room all to myself and then this young monk who all smiles comes in. So the older monk, he's all jaded, he decides to like, you know, he's like, I'm going to give this young monk a hard time so that he kind of quits and goes away. I'm going to help make room to myself. So, the first thing he does is he steals the young monk's begging bowl. So, for a few days, the young monk doesn't get any food. He's all, hmm, I don't know. And then he finds, you know, out in the back by the trash, oh, there's my begging bowl. Okay, so he cleans it off. And then the next thing he does is he steals his slippers. And then the young monk is walking around outside, ouch, ouch, you know, and just making it difficult for him. And then in the middle of the night, like the old jaded monk, he takes a bucket of water and splashes him and he wakes up and he's like, what's going on? Oh my gosh. And he has like a broom and he's like, I'm doing mop. He's just like, I'm just cleaning the room in the middle of the night. Sorry, did I get some over on you? You know, so he's just giving him a hard time. And he's telling all the other monks everything bad about this young monk. So everyone's like, ooh, that dirty monk. I mean, he seems like a nice guy, he's smiling, but what he told me about, oh, that's terrible. So, you know, the young monk is having a really hard time. And whenever he sits to meditate, then the older monk gives him a hard time. He starts throwing pebbles at him. You know, he's just messing with him, giving him a hard time, interrupting him, singing, yelling, doing whatever, so that it's hard for him to actually meditate and concentrate. And then the young monk, he started off all smiles, and the older monk was like, Oh my gosh, I can't believe you're yelling. I'm telling everybody what you said. He yelled at me. He said I was bad, but everyone knows I'm good. So he's just making this monk, this young monk's life miserable, and the young monk, he resolves to forgive. He's like, I'm going to just do my practice, because I want enlightenment. And anything that this guy does to me, I'm not going to blame him. I'm going to immediately forgive him. And just gonna accept what's going on. So he sits down to meditate and then while he's meditating, he's getting nudged or poked or water spilling on him, he's meditating and this older monk, the pebbles didn't bother him this time, so he sweeps around and sweeps all this dirt on him and then he actually hits him with the broom. He's trying all this stuff. And the young monk is like, I accept this, I have no problem with it. And then he has satori, samadhi, an enlightened experience. And he goes into a very, very high illuminated state of mind. And then he experiences great wisdom. When he comes out of this state, the old monk is sitting there in a meditative pose just looking at him. And the old monk recognized at one moment while he was bothering him that this young monk went into an enlightened state of mind. And then he sat down and he saw the light. He had been a jaded monk for years, but once he saw the light, he recognized some very enlightened spirit. So he sat down and he learned from that. And his jaded attitude went away. And then they became very good friends. And the older monk became a very positive supporter of the younger monk, and he learned from him. And then they had, all of a sudden, just a very beautiful relationship. So, when things are hard, when someone's giving you a hard time, you can become stronger because of it. And again, this is a story where it influences the person who's giving you a hard time. That's what we want. We want to bring the people who give us a hard time into enlightenment. We want them to get so bright and so happy that they don't, if they keep on doing it, whatever they're doing, don't blame them. It's your work to become enlightened yourself. And then if it inspires them to become enlightened too, then That's nice. That's the Buddhist way. So, we really got to make sure that we're acting in a positive way to people. We want to treat people perfectly. We don't want to have negative reactions to people. We want to be positive with people all the time. Because even if you're a little bit negative, it might strike somebody in a bad way and they might have a bad reaction. So we always want to be very positive with people. And then if someone strikes us in a way that we see that it hurts or something like that, we want to let go of any negative reaction. So then, that way we can be free and happy. Now, in the time of the Buddha, there were a group of monks in the West that were traveling to see Buddha over in the east at Deer Park. And they were walking, you know, they had several weeks to get there, but at the beginning of their journey, one of the monks kind of made a joke about the Brahmins. Now, the Brahmins were the spiritual priest caste, and all throughout India they were like, oh yeah, the Brahmins are the spiritual ones. And then the Buddhists came, and they had different philosophies or different practices. And so, sometimes Buddhists would debate Brahmins. And so, there was a little bit of... There could be a contention. One could find a contention. But this one Buddhist monk made some joke about the Brahmins, like, yeah, they're so smart, you know, or something like that. Or something like, so this Brahmin walks into a store and the Brahmin sees a thermos, and he's never seen one before. So he asks the store owner, what's that for? And the store owner says, it's for keeping hot drinks hot, cold drinks cold. And so he said, wow, okay, cool, I'll buy it. So he buys it. Then later on, he's like walking around happily with his thermos, and then his friend says, hey, what's in the group was born a Brahmin. And even though he had become a Buddhist monk and in the Buddhist monk groups, or the Sangha, there's no caste. You could be the lowest caste or the highest caste, no difference. But since he was born a Brahmin and he still had some personal history, he was like, I can't believe he said that about my caste, even though we don't have any castes now, but I'm still mad about it. So he was upset about it the whole time. For weeks he's just sitting there, I'm mad. So he gets all the way, after weeks, to the Buddha and he's just so frustrated. Just so frustrated. So he goes over to Buddha and he points at him and goes, You know what he said? And it made me so mad. It's his fault he's bad. And then Buddha says to him, Let go of anger. Let go of pride. When you're bound by nothing, you go beyond sorrow. So, people do all sorts of things to give you a hard time. It's going to happen. If you're always seeing trouble with people, you'll continue to see it. Unless you immediately let go of your reaction, and then you go beyond sorrow. This is the Buddhist way. We have a saying, it's, the past is dust. So if you're hanging on to angers or contentions with people, difficulties with people, that happened yesterday, or whatever. If you're hanging on to angers from the past, you're really hanging out in very, very limited states of mind. You're using a lot of energy that you don't need to. So, whenever something happens, we immediately say, okay, I'm forgiving, and the past is past, it's gone. In this moment, that doesn't exist. It only exists if I hang on to it and it takes so much energy. So, the past is dust and whenever anyone gives you a hard time, whenever anyone's mean or hurts you in any way, don't blame. that, oh, this person has pointed out something in me where I am lacking, where I am seeing darkness. I must find light. This is a lesson for me. This is the Buddhist way. enlightenment in all things. It's making even the kind of mundane difficulties an exciting spiritual practice. So I remember I used to live in New York and driving in on I-95 to get into Manhattan, you know, during rush hour, it was terrible. There was so much traffic. You think 101 is that? It's worse than that. It's worse than the 405 in LA. Oh my goodness. Or it's worse than the interstate in Hawaii. I never got that. They have h1 and h2 on Oahu and I'm like okay so yeah you just take the interstate to get to you know Honolulu I'm like the interstate it's like it's only on one island too. So stuck in this traffic I was like oh boy so bummed out. People, when they get stuck in traffic, they tend to go immediately into low states of mind. They're speeding along, going where I'm going to go, oh, now I'm slow. And there's this long line of cars of people who are like, oh. So a few of us were with my teacher and we were complaining about traffic. And then he gave us a mantra. He said, oh, when you're in traffic, here's a special, magical mantra. And then I was like, oh, hmm, hmm, okay. And then I was like, wow, this is cool. I have a mantra that's going to make all the traffic, and I started saying the mantra, and I was just really happy. I was just very happy. I said, wow, my teacher gave me a mantra for traffic, and I'm doing the mantra, and, you know, traffic is still there, but I was excited. I was doing spiritual practice in a kind of unhappy, boring, you know, painful situation. And it was very, very happy and bright. So you guys want me to tell you what the mantra is? The special spiritual mantra? Next time you get this transforms your traffic experiences. It really does. It brings magic into your, it brings a spiritual practice into traffic. The yoga of traffic. So it is Om Shri Ganesh. And you just say it over and over, Om Shree Ganesh, Om Shree Ganesh. And then you start going, this is great. Om Shree Ganesh.

2:02:09
Yeah.

2:02:11
It's magical. Try it. You can see for yourself. So, you know, Ganesha is the elephant head god who removes obstacles. So, if you're in traffic, eventually that traffic will be removed and you will get to where you're going. Works every time. But as long as you're saying Om Shri Ganesh, it's very happy. There's great brightness there. So then, you know, I'd be in the city, maybe meeting with some people and then you know I'd be like oh you guys I got to get going I got to drive home otherwise I'm gonna miss traffic. Om Sri Ganesh. Yeah so you know you got to look at things in in very happy ways Happy bright ways. Okay, we shall take another break and then we'll come back and I'll just speak a little bit longer and then I'll answer some questions that some students have sent to me. Okay, so 15 minute break or so. All right. Still awake? It is a discipline to stay awake during a Dharma talk. I try I try to keep it entertaining for you. I know how it is. Yeah, these moments of satsang, where we're sitting together, they're very powerful. where there's a lot of attention, a lot of energy, a lot of power, a lot of different dimensions. And if your subtle physical body is not strong, then you get kind of tired. If your attention and focus is not strong, then your mind wanders. So these are very powerful workouts. So even if you're suffering from these things, from doing exercise and meditation, your aura will be strong and your concentration will get better. And then you'll get to see a lot more depth in these experiences. A lot of people start off, you know, psychically blocked and, you know, weak concentration, weak minds. So, it's normal.

2:05:26
Don't worry.

2:05:27
There's nothing wrong with you. It's like a white belt going into a karate dojo and saying, oh, I can't do the jumping, spinning hook hit.

2:05:37
There's something wrong with me!"

2:05:38
No, you're fine. So the Buddhist way is an inner way. My teacher used to say, life doesn't change, you change. So when we look out and say, oh, I've got this problem in life or I'm going to achieve this goal, we might be saying, I want that problem to go away, move somewhere else. I want that problem to go to Alaska. And I want this thing just to come to me. And most people are looking at the world in this way. Things in the outside world they want to change. They want to change people, they want to change situations. But the Buddhist way is to look at changing yourself. want to achieve a goal, then what we do is we learn to make our minds strong. We learn to see higher opportunities, higher ways of achieving goals. Because if you're looking at achieving a goal from a low state of mind, you won't see the easiest way to achieve it. So we say, oh, I want to get into a high state of mind so I can achieve the goal. And once you're in a high state of mind, it's easy. And if you're in a self state of mind and you're dealing with some hardship, then you're always going to be in this difficulty, a fight or something. And instead of getting the other person to change, we change. And then we're in a happy When you can change yourself, then you'll notice that life automatically changes. Life is automatically better. But if you're looking out and saying, Hey life, you change, you're a problem, then you're at odds with life. And you're just going to be in a struggle. So we always look inwardly to change in any endeavor. There was a yogi in India and his master, his Swami master said, I want you to go to the South and I want you to teach there. So he said, okay, yeah, good. I've studied with my master for so long, I know so many teachings and I'm going to go to the South and everyone's going to love me." So he goes down to the South and he stands out on the street and he starts lecturing. And people are walking by and he goes, He's all, oh, you should comb your hair. Oh, you should be more spiritual. He's just like lecturing and he's saying all the great things that he's learned and he's just lecturing and nobody is responding to him. Everybody kind of looks at him. They might listen to what he says, so then they walk away. And he just gets very frustrated, so then he lectures more. And he's all, hey, come here, and then he yells at somebody. And then they walk away. So he's like, I don't know what's going on. So he goes all the way back to his Swami master, and he says, there's something wrong with them. I'm sitting here telling the most amazing Dharma and they don't get it. They don't see it, they don't understand it, they don't even like sit and listen, they just walk away. And then this master says to him, you're telling them what you think they should know, but you have to look into their heart and address what they need in their heart. Not what you think they should know, but what they need. So he goes, oh, okay. So he goes back down to the South and then he just starts looking at people and really, really seeing where they're coming from and seeing what they need to know in their heart. So then he sits down and he starts to chant, just Aum. And he was really moved. He came to some seeing of where they were, what they needed in their heart. And he was answering that just with a simple mantra, Aum. And little by little, people responded. They started to look at him, listen to him, sit down with him, and he would say Aum for a while, and there would be a great mass of people, and then he would speak to them. And then many people benefited from his teachings. So, he had the idea that it was their problem. He was doing it right, and it was their problem not to come and sit with him. But he changed inside. He saw a deeper way to connect with them, to see how to bring them to the Dharma. And then he was able to change his mind, change his way, change his approach, and he was able to bring people to the Dharma. So this is what we seek to do. We change through two practices, mindfulness and meditation. Now when I talk about the Buddhist way, it's really a way of mindfulness. It's a way of always saying, well gosh, things are hard but I am going to succeed here. That's mindfulness. So when we're studying the Enlightenment workbook, we're developing a very, very precise practice of mindfulness. You'll be able to direct your mind from any negativity to positive, constructive, bright thoughts and feelings by following the the instructions in the Enlightenment workbook. So it's a very powerful way, the Buddhist way, to direct your mind from negativity into the truth. We also practice the Buddhist way through meditation. Meditation is the ultimate aspect of the Buddhist way. It is the foundation of all of the practice. It is where we still our minds, we let go of thought completely, and then we experience spirit, we experience something beyond words, but it is the Buddhist way. It is light, it is wisdom, it is bliss. And in those spiritual experiences, where we slow thought down, we experience illumination, where we stop thought, and we experience wisdom. In those experiences, we are in the essence of the Buddhist way. Now we are going to have one final meditation. It'll just be one song. And this is an esoteric teaching of the Buddhist way. It is a way beyond words, but it is a direct experience of the Buddhist way. So I'd like you to have a gentle focus on your third eye and I'd like you to look up this way towards me

2:14:30
and in

2:14:33
Seeing me that I I go into the Buddhist way I become the Buddhist way and I become a doorway to the Buddhist way and your spirit By just looking at me follows me And then you enter the Buddhist way. That's a way of speaking, but this is an experience beyond words, a teaching beyond words. So just a soft focus on the third eye, look up this way. We're going to sit for just one song, nice and easy. Let's begin.

2:15:11
Very nice. Now, I would like to ask if anyone in the audience would like to share their experience. If you would, please raise your hand. Raise it high. So there's a few of you. experience in spirit, it's very helpful for people to share. Because sometimes you have had a spiritual perception or awareness, but you kind of doubt what you just experienced,

2:19:02
so you could dismiss it. But soon after this experience, if someone says, well, I saw this or I felt this, and you say, wow, actually, I did too, then it opens up your awareness to more spiritual perception, makes it more solid. So we will have just a few people share experiences. Okay, do we have a microphone out there. Okay, and let's see, hands again.

2:20:53
Okay.

2:20:54
How about right here in the front? It was like everything was being gold

2:20:59
and you were like,

2:21:00
kind of like heart, how it's beating. It was just like the gold was beating around you and then eventually everything went gold. And it was like, I can't say it was 3D or 2D, it was like a weird dimension.

2:21:28
Very good.

2:21:29
Yeah.

2:21:30
Two rows behind you, everything around you started to get really hazy and gold like it disappeared and you were just surrounded by it. And then as I stared at you more, you were like, everything it was like kind of slowly moving around. So I was just Yeah, just kind of like, yeah. Exactly, and then as I kept staring, it just got more and more bright and just all gold just around you, it's amazing. Very good.

2:22:13
All right, who else?

2:22:14
A couple more. Well, firstly, I was definitely transfixed, which is not an experience that I commonly

2:22:32
have.

2:22:33
So I was definitely very focused on you, which was odd for me. I definitely saw the haziness that the lady before me spoke of. So things got hazy in my sort of peripheral vision. And I thought I also definitely distinctly saw some kind of gold outline around the body.

2:23:04
I exist in that all the time. It's trippy for me too. How about up here in the front row.

2:23:43
So I saw your body was doing the wavy thing, but if you can think about like a TV, but like when you're looking at a figure on it, you turn it off and kind of like, it's hard to explain exactly. You know what I mean though? You were doing a lot of that. And a lot of liquid gold looking was just falling behind you. And then I noticed physically my palms were vibrating a lot.

2:24:23
I also noticed everything you were saying, the gold light, was awesome. I know. Was it? No. No, it wasn't. Okay. Oh, there it is.

2:24:39
So yes, all the gold and fuzziness around you.

2:24:40
I also felt like you were levitating a bit, like up and down. So there was the pulsing, but also it felt like a bit of hovering also. Yeah. Very good. All right. Thank you for sharing your experiences.

2:25:02
It's very helpful for the whole group. So, the Buddhist way is a higher way of life. And you have very good karma to be able to come across it. It is a very rare thing in this world. You know, I've had my school closed for new students for eight years. So there's different cycles of teaching that I'll go through. And this is an opportunity that is rare. They address students as, Oh, nobly born. Oh, nobly born. This is the Dharma. Oh, nobly born. Have some compassion. Oh, nobly born. Eat your Cheerios. You know? So, nobly born means that if you hear the Dharma, that you are a spiritual soul, a very refined spiritual soul. Even if Buddha and Krishna are sitting here talking about the Dharma, if you're not nobly born, you'll be sitting there thinking your thoughts. They'll be talking and saying amazingly beautiful things, and you'll just be all like, I don't know, that guy looks weird. I don't know if I agree with him. No, I disagree. So, you actually won't hear the Dharma, because you'll be hearing your own thoughts. You'll be hearing your own mind. is a very high incarnate spiritual being. The Buddhist way is to work together in a Sangha. One who goes it alone is kind of missing the support of the Sangha. Sangha is a very powerful support system spiritually. We inspire each other, we have an interconnection that is in a spiritual sense very uplifting. We keep each other balanced, we take care of each other when we're having hard times. So we draw on this group strength. So the Buddhist way is the way of working together in the Sangha. Now, after the last seminar, many of you became students, and it was very exciting, because you had very positive states of mind, very positive enthusiasm, and you've taken a great step forward towards spiritual empowerment and self-liberation. So, for all of you new students, welcome. It's very, very exciting. It's really a very beautiful thing. And for any of you guests who would like to become students, you're very welcome to. And you should just tell your meditation teacher and they will sign you up and get you wiki access.

2:29:08
That's what you need.

2:29:09
Then you'll be in the know. That's where all the secret teachings are, on our wiki. And you'll continue to work with your meditation teacher, weekly meditations, the enlightenment workbook, tech classes, yoga, whatever you're working on with them. But you'll also start to work with me through the esoteric teachings, the inner teachings. These are powerful transmissions, a connection to enlightenment that keeps you in higher states of mind so that you can follow the Buddhist way. Now with new students, I don't accept tuition or donations. What I like is I like to start a dialogue. The dialogue I like to start is a card every month. So when you come to the meditation seminar, get a card or make a card. A lot of my students make cards. kooz, just a funny card or just a joke or something, sometimes questions. And this is a way that we begin a dialogue. And it was lovely meditating a way that we begin a dialogue. And it was lovely meditating with you tonight.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
