0:00:00
Welcome to Healing Lesson Number 3. I think I'll begin with the disposition of a healer. So, Guru Raghunath says that you should say no 90% of the time, and it'll solve 90% of your problems. Yeah, so a healer, if they say yes to too many things, they won't actually be able to focus on healing. Their energy will be depleted so When you are doing anything spiritual anything That is healing related. These are things that bring your personal power up And he says anything outside of that Are things that will probably take power away from you. So he says, say no. And this means that spiritual stuff, healing stuff, that's what you want to focus on. And other stuff in the world, like your cousin says, hey, can you help me move on Sunday? You say, no. It's my spiritual practice to say no. Yeah. But this is a place where people can lose a lot of energy, is when they say yes to too many things out in the world. So a healer's disposition is to say no. Okay, that's good. Now, an important part of Amrit is understanding where it comes from. And it comes from the gurus. So Guru Raghunath never had a teacher in a physical body. He never read a book about any of this stuff. He learned it all from And the seven gurus, they exist in higher dimensions. So, we have to be open to connection with the seven gurus. When we do Guru Dhyana, that is invoking the seven gurus. So knowing, you know, knowing who the sensei is, you know, it's kind of important. Having an appreciation or openness to working with the seven gurus is very important. If you're not open to it, then the healing powers that they provide will not come through you. So whenever you say Guru Dhyana, you have that intention to not just say the words, but to have a connection to the seven gurus. So the seven gurus are cool. They live in some other dimensions, but they have made a structure of this healing. They work together and they've created all of these different healing techniques. And it's really kind of like they've gotten together, they've made a, they've put together a car, a really fancy, beautiful car that gets you from sick to healthy, right? And then what we learn to do is simply drive the car. So our job is easy, but they are healing masters that have created structures for us to access. But one of the most important things is to have recognition of them. Okay, the seven gurus. And then what happens is they start to show up. While you're doing Guru Dhyana, they appear. And a lot of us, even the first time we went to see Guru Raghunath, a lot of people saw his gurus. Also, Shirdi Sai Baba comes a lot, often. So, we are dealing with ascended masters, and they're very positive, beneficial, and just by having the intention to be open to them, that's when their powers are able to come through you. That's one way that you can utilize their powers.

0:05:05
is to stay away from chemicals.

0:05:08
So, chemicals create a lot of illness. And we're even talking about pharmaceuticals. So, Guru Raghunath says, Oh yeah, you know, do this practice and you will never have to take any pills or tablets or anything from Big Pharma. We don't have to support Big Pharma. And he says that taking, you know, the doctor says, take these pills, he says, don't take it. Just practice this healing technique and you'll be fine. Because what happens is it kind of throws you off. You kind of think you're better, but you're not. And your healing energy doesn't work if you're taking medications. He said it's kind of like you're driving your car and the engine light comes on and something's busted, you know. And then you go to a mechanic and the mechanic looks at it and goes, I don't know, I'll just unplug the check engine light. And he says, on your way. He says that's what medication does. It doesn't really heal the problem. And then you're not addressing the problem. And you're driving in your car and eventually that engine is gonna break. So he says, stay away from any kind of chemicals and stay away from medications. Now, having said that, you can take this advice or leave it. This is not my advice, this is his advice. And you can talk to your doctor before, before following this advice. This is just something that he taught me, so I'm sharing it with you. All right Healing So there's the salt and oil So he says that it's good to take a salt bath every day So this is very purifying for the aura. And the way that he says to do it is, you have a bucket in your shower or bathtub. You fill it up with water, handful of sea salt or Himalayan salt, throw it in the bucket. You do a sankalpa. And then you can just take a regular shower or bath. Okay, so he says to do this every day, it purifies the aura and heals you. If you have a specific place of illness, digestive, knee pain, whatever, he says that just make sure, you know, that you get the water on the area that is hurt. He says that it is, it seems like a silly little thing, like just salt water, but it is a powerful method of healing. And then oil. So after your shower, you'll have oil that you're going to put on yourself. And especially put it on any place where there's illness. So you go, oh, I have a pain, I'm going to put it on the area of pain. But he says it's good to put it all over your body. So he's like, just put oil on. Okay, so salt water and oil. These are two ways that your subtle physical body can be healed, which then creates healing for the physical body. So ushapana is from the inside out, but then the salt water and the oil are from the outside. And these two things come together and they make healing. Very simple things to do, but they're very, very powerful. When we were there the first time with Guru Raghunath, he's like, you know, someone's all like, oh, I've had like, you know, two knee surgeries and, you know, my knees are bad and then he's like, oh, yeah, he's like salt water and Oil, no problem. It's healed Okay, so But if you do usha pana and you do salt water and oil it really should be very very powerful again This is accessing the dimensions of healing from the gurus. So it is actually a very powerful thing. All right. Now, we will talk about developing the power to control the world. Yes. So, a healer develops their mind so that they can do things, they can change the outside world. They actually change, you know, when they're healing someone else or healing yourself, you're changing your karma, and you're using your mind to change an illness into healing. So, there's a practice to do it. We take one of these, and one of these. So, this is a divining pendulum. And the practice to do this is to just look at it. So when you look, you hold your arm out, and right now it's just still. But as I look at this, I'm going to follow around, like I'm using my head, this is what my eyes are doing. I'm looking around at the petals in the circle and when I do is I go horizontal along the horizontal line. So I'm just looking back and forth, and then I go to the vertical line. Pendulum. You're just doing the right thing. So, this is a simple exercise. You exercise, you just are going to hold your arm out and forget about it, and then you just follow with your eyes the circles around the petals, or horizontal line, or vertical line. And then when you do that, the pendulum will start to move in the physical. And by practicing this, you gain that power. This should be practiced for four minutes. Otherwise, your arm gets tired. But yeah, it's just a few minutes of practice, and then you start to develop this power of affecting things outside of the self. So I will put this up on the wiki so you can print one out, and then you can go to some New Age store and find your own little magical pendulum. Yes. Well, look at this one go! Yeah, and then you can experience it and see how it goes. Oh, another thing I learned with the pendulum? If someone's pregnant and you want to know if it's a boy or a girl, you go like this, but the pendulum touches you. Okay, then, if it swings back and forth, it's a boy. If it swings to the side, it's a girl. This is something that Guru Raghunath said, so I'm like, okay. So I'll pass it on to you. There's a healing practice that is very, very powerful. I gave most of you a picture of Guru Raghunath. If you don't have one, take a picture of a picture. So what you would do is you would have his picture on your left knee and your left palm down on his picture, on his face. Your right palm up. So when your right palm is up, this is connecting to the seven gurus and it brings down healing energy. Now, you will take whatever illness is within you, and you will direct that illness, it might be anything, you know, high blood pressure, it might be broken back or whatever. You take that illness, and you push that illness into your left hand and to the feet of Guru Raghunath. So that is your intention. To one, connect with the gurus to bring in the healing energy. Two, identify your illness or pain at his feet, then he's able to accept it, just take it from you. So this is a healing practice. So, the next healing practice is a very, very, very powerful practice. This is, to me, the most strongest one. It's called the Green Fire. So the healing gurus have constructed a green fire. is a place that destroys illness. So, we can open the green fire where we have a place of illness. And the way that it works is, let's say you have, yeah, let's go to the knee, a bad knee, knee injury. You would, in your mind, open the green fire. And the green fire would consume the pain of your knee. And then you'd close the green fire. So, you don't need to touch a cancer or anything like that. Nothing like that. All you do is see your illness, open up the green fire, the illness goes into the green fire or the pain goes into the green fire, and that's where it's destroyed or that's where it belongs, and then you close the green fire. So this is a very, very powerful tool. You can also, like if you have a pain or a sickness, you can put your hand on the place where there is the pain or the sickness, and you can open the green fire. So putting your hand, sorry, the left hand, hopefully that goes there, the right hand up connects to the gurus, the hand goes on to a place that hurts, and then you can bring the green fire to that. So this green fire is tremendous. noticed that sometimes there's subtle physical problems, like if someone's angry and you feel pain from it. They're angry at you and you feel, ow, this hurts. And the green fire is really excellent for this too. It's like immediate. You're in bad traffic and everyone everyone is beeping and all mad, you just open the green fire and it's all better. If someone's mad at you and they're throwing bad energy at you, open the green fire. That's where the stuff belongs. And then you're like, huh, no problem. So for those of you who are things are very hard on your aura and your psyche, then practice the Green Fire a lot. It's a great tool to take those things away. Now, the last teaching is called Healing the Healer. So, Guru Raghunath says that most healers, like hands-on healers, Reiki healers, acupuncturists, he says that they get sick because when they're working with someone, healing someone, they're actually going into their aura and getting some of the toxicity from that person's illness into their aura, and they're looking worse and worse. So he says, you know, why heal someone if it makes you sick? And in Amrita Chakita, there's a simple way to not be sick. It's another use of the So what you do is, if you're going to do a practice to heal yourself, let's say the green fire practice, first you go to a picture of Guru Raghunath or a picture of Shirdi Sai Baba, and you touch the picture with both of your hands. Then, let's say you heal yourself. You go, green fire, I'm going to put my stomach cake in a green fire. And then when you're done with your healing, you go back and touch the picture and you offer whatever toxicity to the green fire through the picture. So Guru Raghunath has people who are doing healing all day in the ashram, and that's how they start their day. They go over, and they touch a picture, and they'll heal all day long, and then at the end, they go and touch it and offer it to the green fire. So, if you were to heal other people, it would be very, very, very important to use this method, starting and ending with the picture and the green fire. All right, that is it. Now, so this is what I've learned so far, and tomorrow I'm flying back to India to learn more. And so there will, so at the next class I'll be able to teach you more I don't know. I might be at the end of the self healing lessons. That would be great But we'll see Okay, thank you all very much I Will be putting I'll send an email email to all of you in the healing about the things that we've talked about tonight. Just as a recapitulation. Yes. Okay. Yeah, this is a fun thing. You know, after you do it like a kind of like a magical sense It really like develops Something in your psyche You're like, oh I can control this with my eyes. I can control Something else with something else. I don't know All righty Alrighty. Yeah, so, I'm happy to be going back to the Temple of Success ashram because it's just

0:24:21
so fun.

0:24:22
Like, being there is just like really fun and happy. So I'm like, yay! And I'll learn more. And you know, hopefully, Kameshwari or Harimi or somebody from the Temple of Success will come out here and be able to teach more than I know and also to do healings. So, it will happen one of these days. We'll see. than I know and also to do healings. So, it will happen one of these days. We'll see. Alright, thank you all very much. It was indeed a pleasure.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
