0:00:00
Alright, so, Amruth Chikitse. Amruth Chikitse. Amruth Chikitse. That is the name of this healing system, and this healing system is a very ancient system. Did I tell you guys all the story about it? The origin of it? No? Yeah? I'll just repeat it. So, this healing system is from ancient ages, before, you know, like thousands and And this system was revealed to Guru Raghunath, the picture that you got, right? It was revealed to him by an enlightened master who has moved on, ascended, who named Shirdi Sai Baba, a very famous enlightened master of India. So this picture that you have of Guru Raghunath is a powerful picture. He is the healing guru and he has a lot of healing Siddha powers. So this is a good thing that you'll use when you're going to be doing any of the healing practices. You can take his picture out and go, Hey, he's a nice guy. He is a really nice guy. He's extremely friendly, he's just completely selfless, and just very, very positive. And he has many healing Siddha powers. So, he personally signed each one of these pictures. pictures and he's given it to you guys because it's a way for you to have a connection to him and through that connection to him healing powers come through. Isn't that great? It's fantastic. So I just got back from India and I was with him training in this healing system and it was just extremely happy, fun and positive. And today you guys are going to learn the foundation of the healing system. There are three practices that we do every day. And they're simple practices, they don't take a lot of time, and so it's very good. All right, so what we begin with is what we call Guru Dhyana. And that means Maybe, maybe more. So Guru Raghunath, as a young man, was very sick. He said he had like four bad illnesses and he just was plagued by them his whole life. And then, inwardly, in his mind, Shirdi Sai Baba came and started to tell him how to heal himself. Eventually, he listened and he was like, oh, I have to do some things, get some herbs or do these things, and then he healed himself. After that, Shirdi Sai Baba taught him more and also introduced him to seven ascended masters in different dimensions. And these masters had specific areas of knowledge for healing, so he learned from all of them. So now he has a mastery in healing and he has these gurus who are ascended masters. It's invoking them. And we invoke them through Guru Dhyana. So on your little picture at the top, there's a mantra. And the mantra says, Om Sri Guru Raghunatha Namaha. That is the mantra, the only one that you need to know. Yay! And that is a practice. spiritual practice. Very powerful. Now, Guru Raghunath, his name was given to him by all the collective masters and a little bit of their names are in his name. So it's not that we're just calling to this guru. When we're doing this mantra, it is accessing the guru in this picture, but also all of the seven ascended masters. And it's kind of fun because I've only been practicing it for a little while, but you can see these Ascended Masters. They come to you, you start to create this connection with them, and then they heal through that connection. So, it's quite nice. by repeating the mantra 21 times.

0:06:20
That's it.

0:06:21
Not so bad, right? Yeah. But it's important to do this mantra at least once a day. Now, everybody in India, all the students, they all do it at 11 p.m. at night, India standard time. So it is recommended, if you can, to do it exactly at the time that they're doing it, which is our time, 930 a.m. So if you can do it at 930 a.m. then you will be connecting with the collective. So there's a little bit of in that. But he definitely recommends doing this practice late at night, like the last thing that you do before you go to bed. So you can do both or either. Doesn't take too long. All right, so what we're going to do is we're going to practice Guru Dhyana together. Now, for the first five mantras, we place our right hand on top of our head, which is our accessing our crown chakra. And you want actually your palm right on the top of the head. All right, so this is connecting to the crown chakra. And then the left hand is going to go to the dantian, the navel chakra. And then we say the mantra. And this is a way of connecting your power to your enlightened spirit. I know it looks funny looking at all you.

0:08:31
That's cute.

0:08:34
All right, so we're going to say it 21 times, and I'll instruct you when to put your hands down. Raghunathaya Namaha. Yeah? Om Sri Guru Raghunathaya Namaha. Om Sri Guru Raghunathaya Namaha. Om Sri Guru Raghunathaya Namaha. continue ohm shri Guru Raghunathaya Namaha ohm shri

0:09:37
Guru Raghunathaya

0:09:39
Namaha ohm shri Guru Raghunathaya Namaha ohm shri Guru Raghunathaya Namaha ohm shri Om Sri Guru Raghunathaya Namaha. Om Sri Guru Raghunathaya Namaha. Om Sri Guru Raghunathaya Namaha. Om Sri Guru Raghunathaya Namaha. Om Sri Guru Raghunathaya Namaha. Om Sri Guru Raghunathaya Namaha. Om Sri Guru Raghunathaya Namaha. Om Sri Guru Raghunathaya Namaha. Om Sri Guru Raghunathaya Namaha. Om Sri Guru Raghunathaya Namaha. Okay. Very good. So that is a session of Guru Dhyana. We end the session of Guru Dhyana by saying, Loka Samastha Sukhino Avantu. Loka Samastha Sukhino Avantu. Loka Samastha Sukhino Bantu. Three times. And that means, may everyone in the loka be happy. Something like that. So, whenever we have a meditation or a practice, we always end it with Loka Samastha Sukhino Bantu. I will send everybody an email with all of this. But Guru Dhyan is a simple practice. Five times, and then palms facing up until you reach 21. And then you end, Loka Samastha Sukhino Bhante. And that's called Guru Dhyana. This is considered to be the most important practice because it is the way that you have the connection with the eight healing gurus. Guru Raghunath, which is the person in the physical and then the seven other high teachers and then also Shirdi Sai Baba. Isn't that great? So you have all learned Guru Dhyana and Guru Dhyana should be practiced late at night, like before you go to bed. It's a simple practice but it's powerful. And then additionally, if you practice it at 9.30, then you'll probably have a really strong experience because you'll be connecting with everybody, the whole Sangha in India doing it. Isn't it great? Yeah. Now, I really love this. I've seen lots of awesome spiritual masters and all sorts of cool stuff, and I look at it and I appreciate it, and I like to meditate with them, and I'm all, hmm, hmm, hmm, hmm, hmm. But I really haven't come across something that I really, really wanted to learn and practice until I came across Guru Raghunath. Well, I also, from yon-yow, I've learned the Medicine Buddha Yoga. So that's something also that I like very much. So I guess it's just like healing. It's time to get healed. So this is a very profound healing system. And the Guru Dhyana, even though it's a very simple thing, it's a very powerful thing. It is connecting to other dimensions and healing masters. This stuff works because it's magical. It's simple, but it's magical. It's profoundly magical. is intention, intent. So it's important once you've connected to the dimensions of the Ascended Masters

0:14:51
to direct your intent.

0:14:55
Your intent is where you take those masters and their dimensions and they have structures and powers of healing that you are able to start wielding with your mind, with your intent. So, there is a practice for directing your intent. The practice is first calling upon your mother and your father. Yeah, I know. Mom and dad, then you can call upon the divine feminine or some god or something like that. But if you're like, it'll mess up your intention. And this intention is sankalpa. So this sankalpa practice is very different than the sankalpa practice that we did at the Grand Canyon. So this one is the healing sankalpa. So this is a practice specifically for healing. Ours was mystical. So there's different types. This is the healing intention, healing sankalpa. Okay, so you bring to mind your mother. You could even call her name. And if you don't want to use your mother or father, then just say divine feminine or God or something like that. Woman God, man God. Okay, so first you bring to mind your guru. And then you can bring to mind your other guru. So you can bring me to mind, but you should also bring Guru Raghunath to mind. Then you can bring to mind any God that you like. Any God. Yeah. And you're like, oh, God. Cool. And then if you know of any local deities, then you can bring them to mind. So there's a whole bunch of gurus and gods and mom and dad. So you bring them to mind and then you say, help guide, you ask them to help guide your intention. So then you have the blessings of your parents, and some gurus, and some gods. So it's very important to go through this sequence. Mom, Dad, Guru Raghunath, throw me in there because I'm like, any local God, any ancestral God. Voila! And then you ask them to guide your intent. And then they will say, sure. And this is a way of really empowering your intention. And then you make an intention. You say, okay, you can just make an intention by itself and say, well, let's see, you know, I have a back problem. My back hurts. I intend for my back to be healed. Just a definite statement of what your intent is. It also could help with emotional problems or mental problems. You can say, I'm really angry because someone blew out the candles on my birthday cake. You know, whatever. And then you could say, I intend for my anger to be So, just a simple statement, but it's a statement of focused intention. That's it. That is the amrut cikitsa sankalpa. with... No, we don't have to end it with Loka Samastha. Okay. Okay, good. So you have very, very, very important the Sankalpa. And Sankalpa you can use for any healing technique, any meditation. But there's another daily practice It's called Ushapana and Ushapana is drinking a lot of lemon water. It sounds silly but it's very, very important. a one and a half liter container of lemon water. And it could be room temperature, could be cold if you like it cold. And you... You don't eat or shower one hour before taking it. You don't eat or shower one hour after taking it. And it's just this one period where you drink a lot of water. It's 1 and 1 1⁄2 liters. And then you take, like, if you have a big lemon, a whole lemon. If you have little golf ball-sized limes, two limes.

0:23:05
So one big lemon.

0:23:08
If they're small, then two golf ball-sized limes. And you squeeze them in and that's it. And you drink it. You can take up to 40 minutes to drink it if you want, so it doesn't have to be like you drink it really, really fast. But I drink it fast. Yeah, so it's good to do right when you wake up in the morning and then anytime after 6 p.m. Now, this is a very important practice because, one, it's very healthy. It heals you of many things. So, yeah, like a lemon has 112 curative qualities. So, that's a good thing about a lemon. And then water is very good at holding energy. So, what we do is we do Guru Dhyana, We do sankalpa intention, when we make the water. And then we drink it. So you'll pour the water, pour the lemon in, and then you'll say, Guru Dhyana and intent to cure me. I intend that this thing is going to give me great health and that my anger for someone blowing out the candles, my birthday cake goes away. So you do the intention into the water and then you drink the water. And what happens is your vibration changes. Because you're like, you're at least 30% water. I've read somewhere that you're at least 13% water. Yeah, our bodies are made up of mostly water. And when you start to put your intention for healing, Guru Dhyana, connecting with those dimensions of these powerful, powerful healers, and then intent for healing in the water, then you drinking magical healing juice. And that water flushes through your system and it changes your vibration, it changes your aura, it makes it very, very healthy. And that is the basis of the practice. You can't heal, you can, because it will purify your aura and it will align your aura with those healing dimensions. Those healing dimensions from the gurus will be within you and then you'll get these really good healing effects. So this is like Amruth Jyotse, seems like simple stuff, which it is, but it is aligning very powerful dimensions and that's why it works. So these are the practices. Now some of you might have a little bit of a difficulty saying, when am I... oh yeah, so you can't eat before or after for an hour and you can't take a shower before or after for an hour. So the morning one is kind of tricky for scheduling, right? Yeah, so you say, okay, let's see, I woke up and I took let's say half an hour to drink my water, then I have to wait an hour before I can take a shower. Then I take a shower and then I meditate and then the day's over.

0:27:20
Yeah.

0:27:27
Yeah, so, that's tricky. So, you can also incense yourself. So water is very good at getting toxicity out, but you can also just burn a stick of incense and incense yourself. hour. Yeah, in incense it's got a purification through the smoke. It purifies aura. So it's fine to wake up, yawn, have your water, and then incense yourself and meditate. That's the alternative. Or you could wake up an hour early, drink your water, fall back asleep. Wake up and meditate. Or just wake up really early. Yeah, so you'll have to play with what works for you. And some of you are really addicted to your morning coffee before meditation. And yeah, that gets in the way, right? So I would recommend, you know, if you're used to caffeine, switching over to caffeine pills. If you need your caffeine fixed before meditation, and otherwise your meditation is by call. No, no. Then do a caffeine pill. But you're gonna have to do some adjustment. Usually we wake up, take a shower, have some coffee if you have to, and then meditate. So this changes your morning routine. Ushapana. It's great. So I started doing And it takes about 45 days for you to get the aura purification. And then after that you just keep it going, you keep that purity. And it's been known to cure all sorts of problems, just this practice. Like many, many, many problems. Guru Raghunath, when he gave this to us, he said, it's the gift of health. Yeah. So, this alone cures so much and it prevents so many illnesses. So, this is the basis of all of the healing practices. It is that you start with Guru Jnana, and then you make the intention, mom, dad, gurus, gods, and then your intent for your healing, and you put that intention into your Ushapana. One and a half liters of water, one big lemon or two small limes, and then in about 20 to 40 minutes you drink it. This is the way. This is the foundation. intention into the water, changing your aura, connecting, purifying. Your aura ends up being pure and healthy and connected to the Guru. So this is a very, very powerful thing. It's a simple thing, but a powerful thing. Good. Any questions? Dharma.

0:31:40
Is that once a day or twice a day?

0:31:43
Ushapana twice a day.

0:31:45
So you do the whole practice, like all three things twice a day?

0:31:50
That would be the best. Some people just drink the lemon water, but I would at least do a sankalpa, because that's just like, mom, dad, gurus and gods, bing, I don't want a headache anymore. But any time that you do Guru Dhyana, even if you say the mantra once, it invokes the dimensions of the gods. So I would do all three.

0:32:18
So if you miss, and if you happen to miss something in a day, it's not like you screwed

0:32:24
up the whole 45 days.

0:32:25
No, yeah. Yeah, like if you find yourself traveling and you can't find a lemon, then just come back and yeah, just keep going. It'll get there, maybe it takes 46 days or something. Sorry, you actually can't find the lemon,

0:32:40
then you still wanna say the mantra, still say the mantra and invoke the intention

0:32:45
to be solvable without the lemon. Yeah, if you don't have a lemon, then, you know, drinking water is always good for you. So, you can still drink the water, but the lemon is important. Yes, over here. Could we do wake up, shower, meditate on the water?

0:33:24
Yes. Oh, innovator.

0:33:26
He's an engineer.

0:33:27
Question?

0:33:28
You can have multiple intentions. I intend for my mother-in-law to move out, and for

0:33:48
I don't know.

0:33:49
Yes? You can live issues with yourself, but also, can you intend healing for others? No, you cannot intend healing for others.

0:33:59
Yeah.

0:34:00
What about your dog?

0:34:01
You cannot intend healing for others, even your dog.

0:34:04
I know, it's sad.

0:34:06
Yeah, so this is strictly self-healing. Yeah, this is very important. So, the dimensions of healing others are not something that we're going to learn. We're just going to learn self-healing. And we're not going to have the practices, not yet, but someday. Question over here, Danny?

0:34:36
I have a question about the lemons.

0:34:37
So what if you can't get lemons?

0:34:38
Can you use lemon juice or essential oil?

0:34:39
So it's got to be a real lemon that you cut in half and you squeeze?

0:34:40
Yes.

0:34:41
Yeah. So...

0:34:43
And then you can bowl squeeze lemons on a Sunday.

0:34:44
No. Yeah.

0:34:46
Good point. So the lemons have some sort of curative qualities that are very important.

0:34:48
So the lemons have some sort of curative qualities that are very important.

0:34:49
So the lemons have some sort of curative qualities that are very important.

0:34:50
So the lemons have some sort of curative qualities that are very important.

0:34:51
So the lemons have some sort of curative qualities that are very important.

0:34:52
So the lemons have some sort of curative qualities that are very important.

0:34:53
So the lemons have some sort of curative qualities that are very important. So the lemons have some sort of curative qualities that are very important.

0:34:55
So the lemons have some sort of curative qualities that are very important.

0:34:56
So the lemons have some sort of curative qualities that are very important.

0:34:57
So the lemons have some sort of curative qualities that are very important. So the lemons have some sort of curative qualities that are very important.

0:34:59
So the lemons have some sort of curative qualities that are very important.

0:35:00
So the lemons have some sort of curative qualities that are very important.

0:35:01
So the lemons have some sort of curative qualities that are very important.

0:35:02
So the lemons have some sort of curative qualities that are very important.

0:35:03
So the lemons have some sort of curative qualities that are very important.

0:35:04
So the lemons have some sort of curative qualities that are very important, and that's why you have to drink it within 40 minutes. Yes, right here?

0:35:26
It has to be one liter and a half?

0:35:32
No, it has to be a liter and a half. It has got to be a liter and a half. It can't be a liter. If it's only a liter, you're wasting your time. It has to be a liter and a half. Yes, question over here?

0:35:48
Should we be careful which miscellaneous gods we invoke?

0:35:52
Um.

0:35:52
Yes.

0:35:56
Good question. Go for, like, the good gods.

0:35:59
Yeah. Like, if you want to be helped, try to focus on a god that you know is good, or

0:36:06
think that is good. You're a Loki! Why not? Thor! Thor and Iron Man. Yeah. Positive gods, please. Amy? Oh, well, what? Okay. Yes?

0:36:48
Can you do lemon water and gym after, like for an hour?

0:36:53
And what? Like workout or hour? Oh, yes, so you can do lemon water, and then you have to wait for an hour, and then you can exercise. Hour before and after, or hour before and after? Hour before, hour after, yes. Yes. Yes, question here. Yes.

0:37:15
Can you take the medication?

0:37:19
Yes. And soon he won't have to take any medication again. Ha ha ha. Yeah, it was just amazing. Like, when I was there, I would see him diagnosing people every day. And the way he diagnoses people is he closes his eyes and goes like this. and he could see things in their aura and he goes, oh, your spleen looks very ugly. I'll heal it.

0:37:41
Yeah, so anyway.

0:37:42
So hearing all of the diagnoses and the pathology and the way to healing was very interesting and meeting so many patients who came in in certain condition and were halfway through or almost done, they're all healing. And so many people I met who came in in a wheelchair or came in with cancer, and then all of a sudden, they're complete, never, they're like, yep, never had a problem with that for 10 years again. Just, it's amazing. Question?

0:38:17
There's two questions.

0:38:18
One, do you have to say the mantra out loud?

0:38:21
No, you do not have to say the mantra out loud. You can say it in your head. And then, what, can you like rinse your face or wash your hands or your feet or something? No. Yeah. Yeah. Touching water messes it up. I don't know why. Yeah, don't even wash your hands or face. Yeah. Or feet. Yeah. Oh, teeth! Yes, you can brush your feet. Well, I don't know, yeah. Never brush your teeth.

0:39:00
Just kidding.

0:39:01
There's a new way. It'll heal and clean your teeth. Yeah, it's fine to brush your teeth. Yes.

0:39:10
So the reason for no water on the hands or the face is it draws energy from internal to external.

0:39:16
So your own natural healing rhythms go external to the extremities and you lose that.

0:39:24
Yeah, that's exactly it. It's like there's... This healing is supposed to heal from the inside. And if you get... if you wash yourself, then it draws energy out, and it doesn't heal you. So be dirty! Just for an hour. Yes? Yeah, five here, and then the rest here. Okay. Yes?

0:40:02
You can share this with others even if they don't like it.

0:40:05
What's that?

0:40:06
You can share this with others.

0:40:08
Oh yeah, you can. Even if they do not like it. Yeah, you can. It's just that... It's... In this structure that we have here, this is a structure that is very empowered and it's like really within a strong connection with Guru Raghunath. And he's like put his attention into it, he's bringing his energy into it and he's like, He's very particular about how it's shared. So learning it here and doing it this way, it will work very strong. If you just go over to your friend and go, oh hey, just drink some lemon water and all this stuff, they're not going to get the connection to the dimensions I just gave you guys. So it's good to drink lemon water. And they'll have some help, but they would need to go through a structured course. Yeah, so Guru Raghunath has given me stuff to give to you. And that's what we're doing here. But you can definitely share it with friends. So that's good.

0:41:38
Yes?

0:41:40
So, to be creative, the mantra is pronounced Raga-Natha, not Raga-Nathaya.

0:41:46
Hmm.

0:41:47
Raga-Nathaya.

0:41:48
Not Raga-Nathaya. It says Raga-Nathaya? Yes. Yours says Raga-Natha? Well, pencil in! Raga-Nathaya. Raga-Nathaya Namaha. Okay? Okay. Yes? Yeah, you.

0:42:11
I assume for the water that we need to take has to be like still water, normal pH?

0:42:18
Because sometimes, someone drinks alkaline water and it's higher pH.

0:42:24
I mean, they're drinking water out of the Ganga, so.

0:42:29
Just kidding.

0:42:31
Yeah, he just said water, drinking water. He hasn't heard of all our different American brands. So I assume any kind of water is fine in America. Just, yeah, probably not carbonated water. You're all, I'm having my Perrier. Yeah, probably not that.

0:43:08
What's that?

0:43:17
Om means like, oh, and then Sri Guru Raghunath. And then Aya is just so it's cooler. Actually I don't know what it is. And then Namaha means I invoke you. We'll cast a circle and invoke the gurus. Okay, question?

0:43:57
Do you have an empty stomach?

0:43:59
You said you were going to make a presentation for the neurologist, and you're going to have to eat two hours before that.

0:44:03
in like six minutes.

0:44:04
And so I think they don't know American-sized meals. So it might be like five hours. Don't eat five hours before. Yeah, so it really should be that you don't feel full. Your stomach should be empty in the evening.

0:44:20
Yes.

0:44:20
Yeah, can I use the washer that's at five inches high? It's me, I'm going to do it, and come to that. Huh. Yes. I guess. Well, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Why not? Yes. Uh-huh, Danny.

0:45:10
Oh, and then, can I use, like, a contribute to help me remember whatever is imminent.

0:45:17
Yes, you can japa, right japa? Yeah, so you can get beads that are 21, or you mark it off at 21, so that you know how many to do. That's fine, yes?

0:45:32
Are you involved in painting?

0:45:34
Ha ha ha, yes.

0:45:36
Yeah, so that's why it's good to start around six and have a bathroom around.

0:45:49
Yeah.

0:45:50
So you can do it at six and then eat an hour after you can still have a meal before you

0:45:57
go to bed?

0:45:58
Mm-hmm. Yeah. When you drink this stuff about 45 minutes to an hour later, a lot's gonna come out. So it's like, if you drink it at 11 o'clock and you go to bed afterwards, then you're gonna have to wake up and go to the bathroom a lot. So make sure you have a couple hours, you drink it at least a couple hours before you go to sleep.

0:46:21
Yes.

0:46:22
Just to put it, I drink it very fast, otherwise if I'm taking long time to drink it, during the validation I need to go out. Yeah. So drink it as fast as you can, and then you have time for validation, and just after the validation.

0:46:39
Yeah, I tend to drink it really fast, like I drink it in like six minutes, and then I'm sitting there, oh my god, I gotta go to the bathroom. I run to the bathroom, and I'm like, ah, whew. But it does, you know, if I took 40 minutes to do it, I'll be like going to the bathroom many times. You'll have great adventures figuring out what works for you.

0:47:05
Question?

0:47:06
If you don't eat an hour before and an hour after,

0:47:09
can you drink other things after, or wait an hour? You have to wait an hour, yeah. So you can't have a smearing off.

0:47:17
Yes? Would you repeat the same set-couple multiple times?

0:47:24
Yes, yeah.

0:47:25
So let's say you have a back pain, and you're like, I really, it's my intent that I'm going to cure, my back pain's gonna go away. So until the back pain's gone, you keep on using the same Suncalpa.

0:47:43
Yes? If you're getting home late,

0:47:45
fall asleep, do you recommend still doing,

0:47:49
like, trying to do it?

0:47:50
Because I mean, I think I get home at 11,

0:47:53
Tuesday through Thursday.

0:47:54
And where are you?

0:47:55
Partial or sub-meditation class.

0:47:56
Okay, so bring, martial arts and then run to the bathroom. Oh wait, sorry, yeah, after martial arts. Do it before meditation class. You're like, so you focus on the chakra, you guys are meditating and then you're running to the bathroom.

0:48:41
Yeah.

0:48:42
What time is your martial arts class?

0:48:45
7.45.

0:48:46
Okay, do it before martial arts. Yeah, so you can bring lemons and a squeezer with you, and Swiss Army knife, mobile ushapana, yes.

0:48:56
Oh yeah, in the back.

0:48:58
I don't have a question, but I want to kind of thank you, because usually I practice

0:49:03
a lot of the squeezing techniques of my own, I have a question. What is the meaning of that? Excellent, yes. Yes, yes, yes.

0:49:27
I think it is on YouTube, only in a language we don't speak. Very good, thank you. Yes? It doesn't matter. Yeah. Lemons, limes, yeah. It's just, like in Bangalore, they have these things they call lemons that look like limes to me, and they're the size of golf balls. It says put two in, but then a lemon here is kind of like big, so I just use one big lemon.

0:50:05
Okay.

0:50:07
Oh, okay, good. Very nice. All right, so, Guru Dhyana at least once a day. And it's good to do at least one Guru Dhyana, just even one mantra, and then a sankalpa drink for your ushapana. So yeah, even if you just you know do the you know Guru or Om Sri Guru Rathnaya Namaha once and then you go my sankalpa, mom, dad, this guru, that guru, this god, that god. Shirdi said, Baba, yay. And then you go, my intent is to get the pain out of my elbow. And you go, gul, gul, gul. So this is a very, very, very important practice. Guru Dhyana, Sankalpa, Ushapana. This is the foundation for everything. If you don't do these three things, then none of the next teachings are going to work. So we're going to work on it this week. We're going to work on doing this this week, where we try to do it every day as best we can. Getting started for some people is hard. Looking at the lemon and the water. But for everyone who's doing this, it feels really great. It feels really great. So, we're going to transform our auras in 45 days and we're going to be purified and connected with the dimensions of the gurus. And then, magic starts to come in to us. Alright, now, let's see. I think I have an announcement. Yeah, I have an announcement. So there's a woman there, they call the ashram the Temple of Success. And there is a woman there who is a fully trained seventh level healer. That means she's got all the training that there is and she's good at it, and she's there every day as a volunteer, just healing people, healing people, healing people. Her name is Kamishwari. Now on my first day there, she says, hey, so my daughter works for Intel or something like that, Cisco, and she lives in Mountain View. I'm gonna at some point move out there, and I'd like to talk to you about doing something together. And I said, yeah. Heck yeah. I was like, that would be great. And so I said, yeah, you know, there's definitely possibilities. We can work something out. But she talked to me when I first got there where I didn't know anything. So I was like, let me learn what's involved and then we can make some plan. She's like, okay, great. All right, so then, towards the end, we were talking more and Guru Raghunath was like, Khemashwari, you're going to America! Like, two weeks. And she was like, oh! And he said, you are going to be the temple of success, San Francisco. And I said, oh, that would be great. So, you know how we have SF1 Center? There's a big chunk during the day where no one's there, right? Yeah, so I would suggest that she opens up shop there during the day, and then even at night, we can close off the back section and we can go and get healings from her at night. Don't you think? We can discuss this. Just say yes. So the great thing is that she's fully trained and she's going to be here." And her guru said, "'You're going." And she was like, "'I'll go sometime, I don't know, four months, six months, eight months, I'm in no rush." And he's all, "'Two weeks.'"

0:55:24
And he's all, "'Two weeks.'" And he's all, "'Two weeks.'"

0:55:26
Which is really great. And so she'll be able to start healing people. And she's the full-blown healer. It's great. Are they allowed to take money or is it like a stop?

0:55:39
Mm-hmm.

0:55:40
Okay, so she can charge.

0:55:41
Yeah, yeah, yeah.

0:55:43
They're allowed to take money.

0:55:44
Yes.

0:55:45
So I think that's really cool and exciting because we'll be able to not only do the self-healing, but she'll be able to do the advanced techniques to heal people, which is really great. Yes? Is she gonna live somewhere? Yes, just say yes. Yeah, Ajna's got a guest room. That's so funny. Yes, so... It's all thanks to her. Yeah, so, we'll put her up somewhere. And, let's see. So, maybe 10% of the people who go to a healing session might have a significant amount of healing immediately. So, some people might go in with a back pain that's hurt them for years and years and years and years, and then one healing session and it's gone or it's half and then you know they heal really really quickly. But 90% of people take a long time to heal. A long time. Like six months or eight months. Well yeah it's funny. Well you know because like he's all like yeah I can cure this cure that but it takes it takes it takes doing it every day, getting treated every day. And the treatments take at least two hours. Yeah, so you're going to spend two, two and a half hours, six days a week.

0:57:56
Yeah.

0:57:57
You can have a day off. You'll spend six days a week going through treatment if you want to heal it. And he says, if you just follow the program, do the treatments, do everything that you're supposed to do, that it'll be cured, whatever it is. If it's AIDS, if it's cancer, if it's problem. And even this is really good because even if you've had a bad back in an operation, like some healers are all, oh, you shouldn't have had the operation because now I can't really heal you, right? But this heals it anyway. So even if you had an operation, this will heal it. The good news is that it can heal everything. I don't know if it's bad news, but it takes a while. 90% of the time, it takes... It's a serious commitment to your health. They cure from the inside out. The mind, the spirit, and the body. And it cures retardation. Yeah. Yeah, I met a severely retarded kid. His mother was bringing him for treatment and I was like, whoa, he's got some trouble, but they were there for six months already, and for autism or retardation, it takes two and a half years. So it takes a much longer time. But they said already in six months, he's 30% better. The things that are wrong with him got 30% better. So they see significant changes. Yes?

1:00:02
I asked you to please change your language. I was...

1:00:07
Am I politically incorrect? I was very offended by...

1:00:11
I'm sorry, I'm very triggered right now.

1:00:13
What word?

1:00:14
Mentally disabled. Really?

1:00:17
Talking about that autism is an illness that needs to be treated is not correct.

1:00:18
I am autistic and I don't need to be healed.

1:00:19
It's just the way that I function.

1:00:20
I just feel a lot of things.

1:00:21
And that's okay.

1:00:22
A lot of stimuli affects me very much.

1:00:23
Emotionally too, like right now.

1:00:24
And I don't need to be healed.

1:00:25
I don't need to be treated.

1:00:26
I don't need to be healed. I don't need to be treated.

1:00:28
I don't need to be healed.

1:00:29
I don't need to be healed. I don't need to be healed. I don't need to be healed. I don't need to be healed. I don't need to be healed. I don't need to be healed. I don't need to be healed. I don't need to be healed. I don't need to be healed. I don't need to be healed. I don't need to be healed. I don't need to be healed.

1:00:41
I don't need to be healed.

1:00:42
I don't need to be healed. I don't need to be healed. I don't need to be healed. Emotionally too, like right now. And I don't need to be healed. I need to be respected. Thank you.

1:00:57
You're welcome.

1:00:59
Some people really struggle with autism. And they would like to have some support to make them feel better around people. Do you know that? Yes. So some people struggle with it. Some people have a bad tennis elbow and they don't care. They don't need to get healed. They're like, I'm fine, I don't care. Like, yeah, it hurts a little bit, but who cares?

1:01:31
And also in terms of where the organization is.

1:01:38
Is that politically incorrect?

1:01:40
There are organizations that actually use that word, like the Association for Retarded Citizens. My mom worked with that for about 40 years. I think there are more modern ways to look at it, but it's not necessarily a bad word if you look at it very united.

1:02:00
If you ask the person who is in that category, that's the person you should ask. The person who responds to that. If you want to be a good person. And that's our own concept of what is healthy functioning and what is not.

1:02:26
Okay, that sounds great. Yeah, yeah, absolutely. Yeah, so I am totally not PC sometimes. You know, a lot of people get sensitive about a lot of things, right? And they say, oh, I don't like the way you use your P's and Q's, young man. And I'm like, oh, I'm sorry, I just, I just, I mean no offense. So, don't be offended. Be open-minded.

1:03:16
What about healing from being bullied?

1:03:23
Ah, well you know what? That can be healed. Trauma from being bullied? That's a good thing to heal. Yeah, so there's mental things that can be healed, emotional things that can be healed, and physical things that can be healed. Yeah. Very good. So anyway, Kameshwari, we're working on a plan to bring her out here. She's really great and she's fully trained, so if you have a problem that you'd like her to help you with, she'll be available for that. Tom?

1:04:18
Being psychically blocked.

1:04:23
Yes, the sankalpa can be for spiritual development as well. Yes. Can we just say like general? Can I ask for like healing in all levels, like mentally, emotionally, physically?

1:04:38
It's best to be specific, yeah.

1:04:41
Yes.

1:04:43
Is it worth mentioning the lemons and the ice drops?

1:04:49
Yeah.

1:04:50
So, yeah, so Chandi's bringing up one specific healing technique. And this is, if you have any condition with your eyes will be cured. So, it's true. What's So, yeah, so I did it once and yeah, it burns. But they say that the pain goes away if you do it every day. Yeah, but lots of people who had eye problems and glasses, they did it and they don't wear glasses anymore. So it has a track record of working, like everything else. But you have to do your Ushapana, otherwise it won't work. What's that?

1:06:14
The straight lemon juice?

1:06:15
Yeah, straight, take a lemon, two drops each.

1:06:19
Yes?

1:06:20
Is it important to not have the pulp in the water? No, it's fine to have the pulp, yeah.

1:06:27
During this learning experience, how do you transition from Western medicine to this new methodology?

1:06:36
Because in this process, it's going to take some time.

1:06:39
Yeah.

1:06:40
How do you follow the process?

1:06:43
Stay on your Western medicine 100% until this stuff heals you 100%. Yeah, so Western medicine is one modality. It might offer some help, so that's great. And if it's helping, continue with it. This will heal you holistically to the point where you don't need the Western medicine anymore. But yeah, do both. Yes?

1:07:19
Does it apply for depression as well?

1:07:21
Yes. So any kind of mental illness, it can cure as well.

1:07:29
Yes?

1:07:30
How would you know you're ill if you're taking medication for certain pain and then you won't stop. How would you explain that?

1:07:42
So the healer would say, you're healed, you don't need to take pain anymore, the pain medicine anymore, and then you'll stop taking the pain medicine and say, wow, yeah, I am healed.

1:07:51
So then, what is it, only for 45 days, when do you begin?

1:07:59
give you the purification, but then you keep doing it forever.

1:08:04
And you'll be hydrated properly.

1:08:06
Yeah. Okay, so that's exciting.

1:08:10
Oh, one other thing.

1:08:11
So after Kameshwari comes here and sets things up. Then Guru Raghunath will come over for a couple weeks or a month and you guys will be able to meet him. And he's a wonderful, super bright, happy fellow. Completely jolly and positive and selfless. All right, that's the plan. So we are going to Dhyana, Guru Dhyana, Sankalpa, Ushapana for a week. We'll meet back here on the third. And we will talk about the next aspects of Amrutjikite. All right, wait, another question. new students to come at this time, or next time, or the day, or is that just gonna pick up today? No, I'll make some structure for new students.

1:09:14
Yeah, good, but since we all got the first teaching,

1:09:18
then we can go to the second. You did say you need to send an email out. Yes, I'll send an email out. Let's see. We're going to need to have the healing class email list. So, Well, they are not here. So, yes? I'm not late, I know. What is the reason that, who would say, Sven has a higher vibrational frequency than, say, like, an Audi or a Beemer with, like, better performance, or a Lexus with, like, a few fluttery? I'm wondering.

1:10:09
It's a matter of tonal. Do you know what tonal is? It's a big subject. Well, that's a big subject.

1:10:20
Let's see. Just to put it very simply, it is the way that the energy is that pushes off toxic or, let's say, difficult vibrations on the road, more insulated for your aura when you're inside. Now, I'll just put it in a simple way because it's a big subject. Yes?

1:11:15
If you want to have a giving class email list, everyone can check out with me on their way

1:11:19
off.

1:11:20
Ah, let's do that.

1:11:21
Or send your email, or send it to me.

1:11:22
I'll just look at my store.

1:11:23
Yeah, so then she can just check off. Alright, everybody. Thank you all very much. Thank you all very much.

1:11:40
Alright everybody, thank you all very much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
