0:00:00
Hello. Good afternoon. Welcome. I'm so glad that you're here as we enter into the Ides of August. A powerful time. Okay. So, let's begin with meditation. We're going to sit for three songs. The first song will focus on the navel chakra. The second song will focus on the heart. Third song, the third eye.

0:00:31
so so So so Oh you so you So, the the the the the the the so the the the So So You So so So, so you so you So, tonight I'd like to talk about seeing truth.

0:13:20
To see truth is to know life. It's to know the finite world and the eternal world. To see truth in the eternal reality. We're able to see divinity. We're able to apprehend the truth of being. When you can see truth, you can take advantage of opportunities. If you can't see the opportunities, you can't take advantage of them. So both in the physical world and in the spiritual world, by seeing truth, you're able to really gain, you're able to enhance yourself, empower yourself. In seeing truth, you're able to extricate yourself from places where you're stuck, places where you have suffering. You see the way out. So seeing truth is very powerful. When you don't see truth, then you're prone to making mistakes. You not only miss opportunities, but you're really setting yourself up for great suffering. There's a story from my old Kung Fu lineage. A tragic story. There was our grandmaster, this is over 100 years ago. Our grandmaster had some enemies. And they came in the middle of the night and they set his house on fire and he had a big mansion and the fire starts and then the grandmaster you know he he goes running out to fight off the bad guys and go chase them down but then the the mother she's concerned for her two children. So she runs over to the daughter's room and there's smoke filling up the house. And the daughter's not in her room. So she's running around looking for the daughter first. And then she sees the daughter running down the stairs going for the door. And then she goes to look for her younger son. And she runs into his room. The room is filled with smoke at this point. And then she goes to his bed, you know, touches the bed. He's not in it at all. So then she assumes that he also ran down. So then she runs down the stairs, barely makes it out of the house, and then the house goes up in flames. Then she's at the bottom with the daughter, and she says, looks around, she's like, where's the son? And then the daughter said, I saw him in his room, he was crouching down in the corner under the smoke. And then she says, well, why didn't you help him? And she said, I yelled for him, but I was too afraid, so I ran out. So then at this point, the flames are totally, you know, filling, or yeah, consuming this house. So then, the mother is like, you know, crying and crying and crying. And she just says, wow, you know, I was in the same room as he was at the same time. He was, you know, not in his bed, he had gotten alarmed and gotten up and for some reason went over and was crouching in the corner. And so she was very, very, very sad. And then while she was, you know, kind of out of her mind crying, then the little boy comes up behind her and then holds her hand and says, don't cry mommy, we can rebuild. So what had happened was when the flames eventually came and he was up on like a third floor or something, when the flames eventually came, he jumped out the window to a tree adjacent to his room and he climbed down the tree. So this was a point where she had an inability to see, right? It was smoky and she couldn't see that he was in the same room with her and that if she had just turned around and walked a few feet over, she would have been able to save him and save herself from so much worry. Yeah, so he became a great grandmaster in our system. Lao Bun was his name. And he, his father had a thousand students. And then he became very popular and had a million students. So I guess the tragedy of the story is their house burned down. They didn't have insurance. Yeah. So, we live in a time where there is great illusion. It's a very difficult time. We call it Maya. Maya means illusion. It's where you see things that are very, very transient, that don't have a substantial reality. And you think that they are real. And then the self connects with those transient things. And then the spirit feels unsatisfied, not at peace, unbalanced. which is eternal, is trying to find peace and happiness in things that are constantly changing. So, we seek to see things more deeply, but it's very hard in this age, in this time of illusion. Let me tell you a little Buddhist cosmology. In Buddhism, Buddha said, and this is also in the Hindu philosophy, that a universe has four seasons, you could say. They call them yugas. And the first age, the first yuga, is the golden age, where people live close to the gods and everything is very, you know, not so physical. And it's pretty happy, it's very happy living conditions. And then in the next age, second age, then things get a little bit more physical. That's still pretty nice. Then in the third age, things become a little bit more heavy, a little bit more physical. And then we get to the fourth age. It's called the Kali Yuga. And the Kali Yuga is, as Buddha pointed out, the age that we are living in now. And it is also known as the Iron Age, a very dense, heavy time. It's a time where physicality is more prominent than spirituality. It is a time where there's great Maya, great illusion, where it's hard to see spirit, it's hard to see truth. So this is the age that we live in. So in the Kali Yuga, it is the time where it's very difficult to see. People get caught up in lots of physical attention, physical awareness, and it's hard to have spiritual awareness. It's even hard for like a very advanced spiritual person. If you had many past lives meditating, practicing the spiritual arts, being born into the Kali Yuga, it's very difficult to be able to see. So it's not like if you were spiritual once, you should be automatically again. It's a condition where it's difficult. You have to really, really be open, practice or get lucky or something. So, this is a time that's not easy. You know, I had that story about Indra, the god, the king of heaven, he at one point thought, oh, it would be interesting to take incarnation as a pig. So he took incarnation as a pig. He had fun playing in the mud. He got a pig wife, some piglets. And you know, and then the gods come over to him and say, hey Indra, come on, you've been here a while, let's go back up to heaven. And Indra completely forgot he was Indra. He just thought he was a happy pig. And the guys are all come and he's like, no. And then finally the gods, the way that they got him out was they killed the pig. And then Indra emerges, his magnificent divine spirit. And then he goes, oh, hmm, yeah. So, we forget who we are. You have Buddha nature. You are enlightenment. You are a multi-incarnational being. You are eternity, but you forget who you are. So a man goes to his doctor and says, I keep thinking that I'm a bell. And his doctor says, I keep thinking I'm a small bucket. And then his doctor says, you do look a little pale. a bucket joke. But the way my teacher would describe it is he had a simile of a lion sheep. So there's a lion who's hanging around with a bunch of sheep. So he thinks he's a sheep. So then the lion is like doing sheep things. You know, eating grass, you know, going bah. And the lion's, you know, a little bit weak because he's eating grass when he should be eating sheep. And, but at some point, a wild lion who knows he's a lion comes into the picture. Comes walking by and all the sheep go running away and this lion sees that other lion. And then he goes running over to that lion, you know, grabs him and the sheep lion thinks that, oh no, I'm gonna get eaten by this ferocious monster. And then the lion says, oh no, no, I'm here to tell you you're a lion and then the sheep lion goes, I'm not a lion. He says, no you're a lion, now come with me, I'm taking you away from these sheep. So then he takes him away and shows him the way of being a lion and then he grows strong and becomes a strong, powerful lion, which is his birthright. Enlightenment is your birthright. So we forget who we are, but then it's time to wake up. to enlightenment was like crossing a flood. At first you look at it and you might figure, well, you know, I'll get in my little canoe and I'll go that way and I'll just cross it. And then that's what you know from outside the flood, but then once you get in to the flood water, in the canoe, then you find that there's many different conditions. There's, first of all, flood water that you couldn't go straight across because it starts pushing you downstream. There's rapids, there's different currents, there's whirlpools. And these are all these things that throw you off until you understand them. And then once you understand the way that it is, then you can flow down the flood water and cross it because you understand it. The way that it is. So the spiritual path is getting off of the bank and actually getting into the water. And when you get into the water, you start to learn what's what. You start to see the truth and understand it. And then you cross over to the other side. But the other side is enlightenment. So you have an idea when you're on the side, on the bank. But then, when you get into it, then you go beyond your ideas. This is the way to see through Maya. It is to activate. It is to do something. It is to walk the path. And then you experience a truer reality, and you become strong and capable of dealing with the difficulties of life. Meditation is the way through. Meditation is the way to see truth. When you stop thought, you stop the world. You stop the finite world. You stop your description of the world. You stop your self-ideas of the world, and you enter into a condition of stillness, of eternal awareness. See, as I'm describing this, it's a teaching that is in between the words. This is the esoteric teaching. This is a spiritual teaching that is beyond words, but it has a profound truth. This is what we seek in spiritual practice, to go beyond ideas, to go beyond thoughts. Ideas and thoughts can condition our attention to see, you know, to have an outlook, to see life in a certain way, but we have to have a greater connection to eternal awareness, to true spirit that transcends the physical, that transcends the ego. And then we have, then we gain wisdom and spiritual illumination. There was once a monk who came to his Zen master, and he said, Zen master, I've been meditating, I've been pondering my koans and reading the sutras, and truth seems so elusive, it seems so far away. And the Zen master said, truth is what you see. Truth is what you hear. Truth is what you touch. Truth is what you smell. Truth is what you taste. And in saying that, the monk realized that he was saying, truth is not elusive. Truth is right here, right now. And then the monk had satori, spiritual realization. I had a spiritual realization when I learned about this as well. I said, truth is a fajita platter at Gilberto's Taqueria. It sizzles. And it's true. Truth is a fajita platter. Truth is in all things. In all things. So we try to see beyond the truth. Oh yeah, there's a mudra for that. This is a powerful mudra. Seeing beyond words. Reading between the lines. It's a powerful mudra. Brings great realization.

0:32:50
So

0:32:51
There's this monk. This monk goes over to his master and says, Master, I've been studying in the monastery for over 10 years. I've learned a lot, but I need to see truth. I need to see something more. I need true awakening. And the master says, okay, sit down, I will give you the teaching of truth. So he sits down with his master, and his master says, okay, there's four noble truths. And he teaches them about the four noble truths. The four noble truths were the first teachings of the Buddha, that life is suffering, that there's a cause, that there's an end, and that, you know, the Buddhist path is the way to the end of suffering. So he talks for about an hour, telling him this teaching. And then the monk politely bows and says, but Master, I learned that the first week I was here, and I've been here for 10 years, I wanted to learn something like truly earth-shaking. And then the master says, okay, then come tomorrow. So then they get back together the next day, and he's like, okay, I'm ready to learn something super magical. Give me the secret teachings to enlightenment. Then the master says, okay, four noble truths. And he gives the same talk. And then the monk bows and says, but Master, actually I already knew this the first week I got here, and then you just told me this yesterday. And I want to learn how to be enlightened. Then the Master says, okay, then come tomorrow. So they get together, and the Master teaches Four Noble Truths, and then the monk starts getting frustrated. He's like, I already know all of this. And then the master says, okay, then come tomorrow. And then he comes back and then Four Noble Truths, and then the monk stops caring about the words. He stops caring that he already knows the teaching. And then he starts wondering why his master is teaching it to him. And then he starts looking at his master, who's happily talking about the Four Noble Truths every day. And then his thoughts of, I know this, his thoughts of, I understand these concepts and it's not enough, these thoughts of, this is frustrating, the thoughts of, you know, is there more? It all goes away. And then he had Satori. So, the less you know. If you think you know what enlightenment is, then you don't know enlightenment. And it's bad if you think you know what it is, because you'll have some idea, some concept. You'll come up with some definition. You might add a couple connections to different experiences or teachers or things like that, and then you'll have this idea and you'll say, that's enlightenment. And that is not enlightenment. That cuts you off from seeing enlightenment. It's like if you the Grand Canyon, right? The tourists are all hanging out at this one platform, hundreds of them, looking at this beautiful view of the canyon, and then, you know, they're all like, okay, there it is, got it, saw it. I also saw a picture of it earlier. It's the same, Okay, so that's a very normal way to look. That's a very normal way that the tourists view the canyon. They come, they look at it a little bit, and then they're all, hmm, okay, got it. Seen one, seen them all, Grand Canyons. And then they don't get a lot out of it, really. Now, when I go there with my students, we go a few miles away from where the tourists are, to a place where we can sit alone. And we have profound experiences. There's so much dimensionality in that place of power. That's a sacred place. It has amazing amazing energy, many, many, many different dimensions of awareness. So when we go there, we have amazing experiences. We gaze off into the Grand Canyon and we see infinity. We see powers. We see angels. We see so many magical things that exist there. We open our minds so that we can see truth. So definitions, you have to let go of definitions. You have to let go of ideas because definitions and ideas block you. They cut you off from truly seeing. And and then you're unaware, not capable of understanding what is there, what is true. So it's very important. Now, the Maya, it conditions the mind. it brings you into a fog and then you're unable to see the truth that exists. Like, there was a time where I took some students up to Mount Tamalpais, you know, across the Golden Gate Bridge, and when we got there, it was a very, very foggy day. We couldn't see maybe more than 20 feet in front of us. And so we got there, we sat down, still beautiful, we sat down and then we meditated. And then after meditation, something happened. After meditation, when we opened our eyes, the wind had come and it blew all of the fog away. So, all of a sudden, you open your eyes and there's the ocean right out in front of you. And you look to the left and you see the city of San Francisco. So, we went from a condition where we couldn't see very much to a condition where we can see all. We can see everything. And that's what it's like to see. If you can let go of thought, this is what meditation is. If you can let go of thought, then you see eternity. you stop thoughts, you're able to see enlightenment, you're able to see your true luminous Buddha nature, your eternal being. And it has no thought, it has no judgment, it's just the truth. That's what the truth is. So we seek to see the truth. So I'd like to give an esoteric teaching on seeing the truth. This is a teaching where, if you just are open-minded, try to still your thoughts, be comfortable, then the fog can lift. It's like the mists of Avalon. Can't see anything? Lift the mists and wow, there's Avalon. spirit. You can see a truth that is deep and profound. So this esoteric teaching has no words you know, bias. Words have limitation. But this teaching is a teaching of eternality, of true enlightened spirit. And I'd like you to just look up here towards me, and we'll sit for one song, and we'll just be nice and relaxed. Don't try too hard. Try harder. Just kidding. Don't try too hard, because trying gets you into too much self. Just be open. And we'll sit for just one song. Look up here towards me, and I will give you this esoteric teaching on seeing the truth.

0:43:58
So, So So So So so you Wonderful. The truth. Brought to you by... Sambara. When you see the truth, you begin by breaking out of your mental model.

0:45:25
So, you've got this way of looking at life, and I see something completely different. And what is that that you see? It's some kind of spirit, some kind of eternity, some kind of enlightenment. So this is an important thing, a very important consideration for every esoteric teaching, is that the audience shares their experiences. Because sometimes you can have an experience of seeing truth and then it can be really amazing. And then the moment that you finish that esoteric seeing, then all of a sudden you go right back into your mental model. And then you forget what happened in truth. And then you end up just back in the way that you see the world. It happens like that. So it's very helpful for people who remember their experiences to share because here's what happens. Someone will say, okay, here's what I saw, here's what I felt, this is what I understood. And then a person who said, I didn't see anything will say I saw that, that happened and this is a this is an important way for you to change your awareness field of just your mental model, your fixed awareness to incorporate a greater awareness of truth. So this is an important part. So, if you have had an experience, spiritual experience in this teaching, an understanding, a seeing, a feeling, it would be very nice and helpful if you would share. And then that way, it will help others. So, if we can get a mic, we'll bring you a mic. But if I could see a show of hands, who would like to share an experience?

0:51:21
Yay. I can't see you guys. Oh, okay.

0:51:24
There's someone with a mic.

0:51:25
Okay, you're going to have to raise your hands.

0:51:26
Yeah, so that person there can see it. Okay, you're going to have to raise your hands. Yeah, so that person there can see it.

0:51:33
I just saw all these waves of gold light coming out and everything became crystal clear.

0:51:40
And then it was like you and everything just red around you was like inside of my mind

0:51:45
and then there was light, gold light coming out.

0:52:04
Thank you.

0:52:08
Hands.

0:52:11
So, I saw that you were surrounded by very large statues that were as tall as the ceiling and they were all armored. And then when you did the mudra, I felt very safe as if I was protected. And I felt like these beings, these titans, these creatures, they were just standing there. And then the moment you moved your hands, they just kind of left you alone. or something, like just protecting you and protecting this area or something like that.

0:52:54
What I saw when you raised up your hands, just then it jumped and you became two of

0:53:13
you. You became double.

0:53:15
I kept adjusting my eyes, but there was two of you. And then you start merging, it became like three ends, like there are ends right there, and there was one in the middle. That was very interesting.

0:53:53
Yeah, it's really, that's a good scene. Yeah, because actually it's just me up here, but I know also that guy.

0:53:59
So, the entire process, my heart beats really fast and my palms got really hot and I started sweating. I saw so many creatures. You became, your bottom was like a horse and the top was a human being. And then you changed to a unicorn and I also saw a whale in the background. So I saw all of these interesting creatures. And when you raise your hand, your left hand was really bright, and there was like a really intense light coming out of it. Yeah, it was really powerful. Thank you. Wow.

0:54:42
Okay, good, good, good, good. Thank you very, very much. So, something happened. Yeah. So,

0:54:44
when we have different seeings and different awarenesses. And we work on developing greater discrimination and discernment as we experience these teachings more and more. When you sit with me in these teachings, part of your spirit just goes right into eternity. And as we sit more and more, you go deeper and have a greater, more pure and complete experience, and then it brings you to complete liberation. So it's very beautiful. But then, you know, in the beginning, what you notice is that it brings brings you out of your mental model of the world. So we all create our world through mental models. We interface with the world through these ideas, idea constructs that we put together. And these are useful things because it helps us to get around, to do things right, and to be balanced in the physical world. But it also locks us into that view, and it holds us away from being able to perceive eternity. So it's important for us to be able to see the truth, see what is. So it's kind of like a map, right? So the map is not the land, right? The map helps you to understand the land, the layout of the land, and how to get around, but it's not the land. So we want to see the land, right? Like if you were all like, you know, Mauna Loa, hmm, hmm, hmm, Kilauea, and then you go, I just went on a vacation. I was in Hawaii. But it's not a very fun vacation. It's kind of like a very limited vacation. So, the way that we view life is like viewing life through a map. So we're like, okay, you know, certain things are functional through a map, but the experience of life is very limited through a map. You know, maps are good for telling you things like, maybe you have a map of the subway system, useful for getting around. You might have a map of where the restaurants are, useful for when you're hungry. You might have a map of Loch Ness monster sightings in New York, you know, or I don't know, right? And then that's useful if you're interested in finding that information. So maps are useful, but we need to get past it. We need to have a more direct connection with life. And then we see more and we gain more out of it. It's like a real vacation to Hawaii where you can feel the wind, feel the ocean, see the view, feel the energy of the place. The map can't give you that. And then, in our mental models, we always judge things as, this is good, this is bad. So then, it's kind of like, you're kind of like, it's like Yelp, right? I'll give that five stars, that one one star. And then you're like yelping your way through life. You're just all like walking around looking at your map. Don't like this, like this. You're just walking down the street looking at your map, you know, and you miss the beauty of life, you miss the power. So this is a practice, this esoteric teaching, it helps you to see through that map, through that mental model, to have a true experience of spirit, a direct experience of Spirit. But, it's okay if you didn't see anything or feel anything. You're just sitting there going, I don't see anything. Just some guy sitting there wearing pajamas and sunglasses. And I don't like pajamas and sunglasses. You know? And, you know, that's totally fine. So as I said, this is a time of great, great Maya. The physicalness of this world is so heavy, so intense, that even if you are a very spiritually advanced being, it's hard to see. So don't worry if you didn't see. Give yourself a break. Relax. Give me a break.

1:00:33
And...

1:00:34
You're all, I came here to see you. It's your fault. I don't see. Don't worry. We'll get there. Sometimes it takes a lot of meditation to clear away a lot of things that build up. See, if you're spiritually, you know, advanced, you might just have picked up a lot of toxicity because you're sensitive. And then it's actually harder for you to be able to see. So you have to clean your aura through mindfulness and meditation and these teachings. And then after a while, you'll see very, very, very deeply and profoundly. So, it's okay if you can't see. Be open, be open-minded. Buddha even said this in his time. He was talking about, this is the Kali Yuga, it is hard to recognize enlightenment about himself. And that's way back then. And, yeah, there was a time where two Brahmin brothers went to see Buddha. They sat down, Buddha gave a talk, and then one brother said, I kind of disagree with what he said from my Brahmin teachings. Also, he just talked in such simple terms. He just said nothing useful, right? It wasn't profound, I didn't see any amazing things about it. It was just like, just stuff. And then he's like, I don't see any value in it. And then he got up and said, I'm leaving. His brother, on the other hand, saw spirit. He saw truth. He gained insight and wisdom from Buddha's teaching. Not the physical words, maybe a little bit of the physical words, but really the esoteric teaching of enlightenment from a Buddha. And when he saw that, he's like, I am going to become a monk. He became a monk and he became enlightened. So his brother, who had the same upbringing and training, he just couldn't see past the physical world. It's hard to be able to see the truth, which is valuable, the light, which is valuable, when the world is so heavy. So if you have trouble seeing, there's something valuable to see. There's something worthwhile. And then I would say, be open, practice, and then you will see. Yeah. So, there was a time where someone came over to my teacher, student, and said, so, I'm going to quit the school. I was here for a while, and I learned some things, but now I'm choosing to go on another path. My teacher was all, this is not your choice, this is your failure. And then the student was like, what do you mean? My teacher said, I was teaching you to see truth, I was teaching you to follow the Dharma that would enlighten you, that would take away your suffering. But you spent your time here getting into all of these dramas with people, being so concerned and confused and weirded out by other people, and by really cherishing your self-importance. And he said, I was teaching you to do the opposite, to be selfless, to see the truth, to follow the Dharma that brings you to great satisfaction and happiness and balance. But you, you know, look at what you did. You are following your self-importance, your reactions, you're bothered by all these different people for different reasons. That is not my teaching. So your choice is your failure. If you don't make the right choices, then your personal power decreases. And when your personal power decreases, you cannot see truth. So it's important to make good choices. And when you can make good choices, your personal power increases. And then you have stronger willpower, stronger awareness, and then you have the ability to see greater truth. Buddha said, sit in the light, it's your choice. So when we are looking at our lives, it's very important to recognize that we have a choice, a choice in what we do in every moment, and that it's very important to choose things, activities, thoughts, directions of attention that bring you to a greater personal power, a greater awareness of truth. Okay, we're going to take a break for about 20 minutes or so, then we'll come back and talk a little bit more, have another meditation, and then that will be it. So thank you very much. It's very nice meditating with you, sharing the Dharma with you. And I really love this theater. We're over the water, right? And it has good energy. So let's meditate together again. We'll sit again for three songs first song on the navel second on the heart third song on the third eye and Let's begin

1:06:59
So, the the the So So So So Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, So Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, you you the the the the the the the the So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, So so Thank you. you Thank you. so the the the so the the the so you Very nice. Live your lives from this experience. Live your lives in the experience of meditation. This is an authentic experience of truth. Observe when you're interacting with someone where your self is riled up, where you're getting angry, bothered, you have desire, you want something out of

1:21:19
it, you have some attachment. When you start to observe the self reacting, then try to come back to this place of a greater truth. And then you'll be practicing, you'll be bringing truth into your life. So start being mindful of the difference between self-reaction and Start observing what you say. A lot of times people say useless things, powerless things, distracting things, things that will actually cause trouble. Start to observe that when you speak, you're speaking from a place of truth. Bring truth into your words.

1:22:26
Buddha said,

1:22:27
better than a thousand useless words is one word that brings peace. Start to observe, are you bringing peace through your words? Are you bringing balance through your words? Because that's bringing a greater truth into your life through your words. A lot of people, when they're talking to each other, they start sharing personal history. It's kind of like vomiting on the other person. We call it sharing. Let me tell you about my past. So, start to observe that you're not so caught up in your own story, in your personal history. Try to bring into your conversations things that are positive, constructive, that direct the mind to unity and to truth. You'll be bringing a greater truth into your life. There's a story of the time of the Buddha. There was a student named Potila, and Potila lived far in the west, and there was a community of Buddhists there, but Buddha wouldn't make it out there very often. So Potila would travel all the way over to the east, Bodhgaya, where Buddha was, and he would listen to the Buddha, and then he would go back, and then he would tell everybody what he heard. And he was so proud of it. In Zen, they call that six-inch Dharma. You hear it, and it goes to your mouth. Six inches. So, he would go back, and then he'd be like, here's the teachings of the Dharma. And everyone's like, wow. And what he started doing, he took the Dharma, but then he started, you know, creating a self-importance out of it. And instead of conveying truth through these teachings of truth that the Buddha gave, he starts giving himself a higher position. And there were even some arhants in his community, but everybody was listening to him. So then one day Buddha shows up and and Putila is sitting there going, I am so important, listen to me, here's the proclamation of the Dharma that I heard from the Buddha. And then the community is all listening to him and Buddha shows up in the back and then Putila finishes his talk, and then he's like, Buddha, you're going to be very proud of me. You're going to say I did a very good job. And then, Buddha comes over to him, and he's ready for all the praise. And then, Buddha says, useless Patila. Then Patila's like, oh no, what's going on? And Buddha says, your words have no truth. And then Putila says, but they're your words. And he says, your words have no truth. You should study with one of the Arhants. Then Buddha leaves. And Putila is crushed. His teacher, he was trying his best to do everything that he thought in his mind was good. But his teacher pointed out where he had egotism. So then he goes to the senior, the eldest of the three Arhants in the community. He says, okay, let me study with you. So the Arhant starts teaching him, and then he takes the words, and then he goes to the community and does the same thing. And then the Arhant goes, I'm not even going to waste my time with you. So then he goes to the next Arhant, And he says, okay, teach me. The guy starts teaching him, and he does the same thing. Goes to the community, repeats the words. And the second arhant goes, I'm not even gonna deal with you. And then there's only one arhant left. Arhant is a perfected saint. And this arhant is only like 20 years old. He's a very young arhant. His name is Samaro. And no relation. And he sits down with him and he says, okay, you're the only one left, I'm going to have to really listen. So then he really, really, really listens and he's able to see through his egotism. And then he goes to do his Dharma talk and a lot of people come because they always like listening to what he has to say, because he's really articulate. And then he sits there in silence, and then he says just a few words of what speaks to his heart, what truth that he knows, not what he heard someone say. And then the audience gets really bored, because he's not entertaining them. Entertaining! Entertainment! And then they sit there in silence and he speaks a few more words, and they're wondering what's going on. And then they sit there in silence and he speaks a few more words. And then, during his talk, where he is speaking only the truth, then he realizes the truth, and he becomes an Arhant himself. And then in that moment, Buddha appears in his mind, and Buddha says, Now you are speaking the truth. Now you are the truth. So, we wish, we seek, we put effort into speaking the truth together. And by speaking the truth, that which is the Dharma, then what arises is truth. So observe that in the Sangha. This is a very important consideration, a very important practice. Of course you can't expect everybody else to do it, you know, so we'll walk out of here and then the first person you'll bump into will be all like, hey, you know, blah blah blah blah blah, garbage garbage garbage garbage. You know, that happens, right? It's the funniest thing about the teachings. It takes people a while to really, for the teachings to sink in. If you have a lot of personal power, I can tell you something and you can get it right away and it advances you and you're like, wow, I just learned something amazing and transformed. But for a lot of the teachings, I can say them and then the next moment, you heard them, went into your head, but what comes out of your actions doesn't reflect the Dharma. So you can't expect everybody to hear these teachings and be perfect right away. It takes a little while. It takes effort, it takes practice, it takes meditation, and eventually all of these magical enlightening teachings they sink in and the truth emerges. But for some time, people are here because they're working on getting out of suffering. They're working on liberation from the limited ego. And it takes some time. So you can't expect people to be perfect right away. When you create an expectation, then you're creating your own suffering. You're saying, OK, this is what I expect, ain't going to happen, guaranteed. And even if it does happen, it's not going to be satisfying, and then you'll be bothered. So, anytime you find yourself with an expectation, let it go. With expectations this high, what can go wrong? You know, like, I'm going to come to this class and become enlightened. So if you expect that right away, then you'll suffer from it. But if you just let go and experience, then you will experience a greater truth. There was a Buddhist monk who goes to his master and says, "'Show me where the ocean is.' And his master says, "'Oh, go that way. "'It's over there. "'If you walk that way, you'll get to the ocean.'" Okay, guy goes, walks that way, comes to the mountains. And he's like, "'There's just mountains here.' So he goes back to his master. Where's the ocean? I went out there and there were just mountains. And then the master says, yes, there's mountains before the ocean. He's like, you gotta keep going further.

1:31:50
And then the monk goes, okay.

1:31:52
Because I have to meditate at the ocean. I read in a book. I expect to go there and become enlightened. And then the monk goes, climbs over the mountains, gets to the bottom of the mountains, then he hits a jungle. And he's like, there's no ocean, there's a jungle. So he goes all the way back. So, Master, there was no ocean, there was a jungle. It's beyond the jungle. This can go on and on. The Master's all, figure if you walk long enough you'll find an ocean. So then he says, he says, it's okay that there's mountains. It's okay that there's jungle. Don't expect the ocean right away. And then the monk says, okay. He goes over the mountains, goes through the jungle, goes, oh, then there's a desert, hits the desert. Then after the desert, there's a forest, goes through the forest, sees a ghost behind a tree. Then he gets to an ocean. That's an inside joke. Then he gets to the ocean, and then he sits to meditate, to become enlightened, because it's written in the book that meditating by the ocean will make you enlightened. And then he sits there and it doesn't happen. But then he learns, wait, I was heading to the ocean and I came to the mountain. I was heading to enlightenment, but I came to not enlightenment. And he said he realized that he had had even expectation of enlightenment at the beach, at the ocean. And then he let go of that expectation, and that's when he attained enlightenment. So, expectations confuse you. They give you... They give you maya. They give you illusions that you believe in that throw you off. So we try to let go of all expectations. See life as it is. Don't hold on to an idea of what it should be like and how it is when you see that it's different. Sometimes we have an idea, like, life is this way and then you see evidence that it's not that way and you say something's wrong it should be the way I think it is but it's not so now something's wrong with life then you thought then you you you suffer from that a lot of people in their mental models of the world have conflicts with what actually is happening and so they they suffer instead of changing their awareness to see the truth of what they actually see, of what is actually happening. So instead of saying, you know, the world should be this way according to my mind, and then crashing into the world and seeing that it's different. And instead of suffering that, you could say, now I see that the world is different, so let me accept the way the world actually is. Let me accept the truth of the world. Even though it's not what I want, what I desire, even if I have a little aversion, I have to accept the truth what's happening. And then you can be at peace, then you can have balance. But if you can't accept the truth of the world because of your desires, your aversions, your mental view of life, then you suffer. So, if you're going out at the Audubon Society to look at birds. You know, that's a bird watching bird sanctuary. And you get the field guide and you're looking for the white speckled crackling sparrow. You're like, gotta find that sparrow. And then you're like, okay, so they should be over here and they nest in the trees for the white spotted crackling sparrow, and then you see a little pond, and you see the sparrow in a nest on the pond. And you're like, it says in the book it nests in the tree, but I see it nesting in the pond. Then you'll say, that can't be the sparrow, because the book says they got to be in the tree So this is important Trust the bird over the book Yeah, it's important like look at life see what's going on in life Even if it's something really ridiculous like a weird bird Nesting in a pond. I don't even know how that can happen. But if it happens, you see the truth. And you say, that is true. And you can throw the book away. Yeah, so there's a deeper way to see truth. There's a deeper knowledge. It is only with the heart that one can see rightly. What is essential is invisible to the eyes. This is a quote from the Little Prince. And this is very true. In this exercise, this esoteric teaching, you were looking with your eyes, and some of you saw spiritual phenomena. And some of you felt. So there's different ways to see. There's seeing with your eyes, and then there's seeing with your heart. And actually feeling that the awareness of the heart is much more profound. So I have a student, or two, of a student who's been with me for over 10 years. And he's been to many of these esoteric teachings and many spiritual retreats where I do Buddhist mysticism. And he says, I don't see anything ever with his eyes but he actually sees very profoundly deeply with his heart and That is what is most essential So If you would like to see more to Explore the pathway to enlightenment the pathway to truth, the path of the heart, and also the path of the third eye, that practice of seeing, then you may, if you're a guest, you may join the school, Bring about a greater truth in your mindfulness. See more deeply. Be more open. So, one of the wonderful things about having an enlightened teacher is that there's a powerful connection, a magical connection, you might say, a connection of truth that is there all of the time. So once you say, okay, I would like to study with you, and I get your application and your picture, then I make this very, very sacred connection, and I teach through this connection. I teach truth. And you're always learning truth. So it's a very, very beautiful thing. But it takes some work. You have to meditate, practice mindfulness, and then this teaching of truth through this connection creates a radical transformation in your life. It's quite a beautiful thing. So I'd like to thank you all. It's been very beautiful meditating with you today. And we're gonna take a short break for my older students and we'll come back. But for the new students and guests, thank you so much. Now, Ganga Nath and Tara Leela, they have brought their first book that they're offering to new students, because all the old students already got it. Chinese Medicine for Spiritual Development. It's a great book. So on your way out, make sure that you go buy them. And they're free. Yeah. Yeah. And they're free. Yeah. Yeah.

1:42:02
Thank you so much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
