0:00:00
Alright, so welcome to the fifth lesson in Amrut Cikicica. So this is where it gets really fun, I think. It's been pretty fun. We begin with awareness. And the first part is called talking to your body. So there's a lot of exercises where we start to draw our attention and awareness to what's going on in our body, like the last exercise, breathing in and feeling like you're inside your body breathing out. So this is another exercise of talking to your body, becoming aware of your body. So a lot of people get ill and they can't heal themselves because they don't have awareness of their body. Now here, boom. Here you would like start talking to a place that hurts. So if you have tennis elbow or something, something hurting in your elbow, you would start to say to your body, what's wrong? What's the matter with you? And then your body is going to inform you of something. It'll talk back, it'll say, oh, um, er, er, just kidding. But you'll start to get awareness, a sense of what's going on. So let's say that you have, you know, like a stomachache. You'll start to say, you'll say to your stomach, what's wrong? And then you'll start to get awareness of what's wrong. And then you will also say, how can this go away? How can this pain subside? So you start talking to yourself, but not just to yourself, to specific areas of your body. You've got a pain in your neck, you say, why? Why do I have this pain in my neck? Hey, neck, why do I have this pain here? So, talking to your body starts to give you awareness. And by asking what's wrong and how can I get better, you start to get information. You start a conversation of health with your body. And you also tell your body that this can go away, this pain can go away, this stomachache can go away. This is more body consciousness. the second part, which is the conscious and the subconscious, or what we would call the first attention and the second attention. So, Guru Raghunath says that the subconscious, the unconscious is grand, is great, it's the biggest, it's big. So he says it's like an iceberg. So we would consider this first attention and second attention. The second attention, our spiritual side, is much more vast than our physical body and our mental intellect. So, Guru Raghunath says that 90% or more, 90% of all illnesses come from the mind and then as a result come out into the body. And so therefore, one must start directing the mind towards health to prevent illness. So, Guru Raghunath says that you start to introduce positive thinking to the second attention. He says that the subconscious accepts any information you give it, so it doesn't have any critical thinking. If you say the sky is pink, it will say, okay, let's go with that. If you say, I'm going to be sick, it'll say, okay. If you say I'm going to be healthy, it'll say, okay. It accepts whatever you tell it. So we start to tell it positive messages. We internalize positive messages of healing. And then the second attention, the subconscious, starts working on it. So through being positive and introducing these positive ideas to yourself, just like talking to your body, then you start using the greatest resources of your being to heal yourself. And you have all the power necessary to heal yourself in the subconscious, in the second attention. Now, people can, if they are negative towards you, or if you perceive negativity, they can introduce, you could say, people can make you sick. So, my teacher, who was a healing master, whenever he would talk to someone about their back pain or whatever they had, he would say, oh, there's a relationship between your illness and another person. And every single time I saw him talk to someone about healing, he was like, oh, this person's mad at you, and that's one of the reasons why you have this sickness. Now, Guru Raghunath says that you have to transform that information and give it to your second attention, otherwise people So if someone's angry at you, he says, recognize that anger transforms when it gets to you into good energy. But they're throwing bad energy at me. And then you say, then you tell yourself it's good energy. Otherwise, you're going to get sick. So this is a very, very important and powerful exercise because We very often, you know, we'll get some you know information or some energy from people and then we just Subconsciously say oh, this is bad and then you're telling your second attention I'm getting bad energy and then you can get sick as a result. So it's very very very important that you change this attitude, because even if it's bad energy, if you tell yourself, you tell your second attention, you internalize that this is good energy, then you won't be sick. It's transforming it. So this is a really amazing thing, I think. deal with negativity from other people and it's a way to stay healthy. So whenever you think that someone's being mean or nasty or negative or something you just say, I'm transforming it into good energy. And then your second intention agrees with that and then you stay and then you stay healthy. So this is important teaching. Now we go on to something truly amazing. It is a transformative, powerful exercise. So Guru Raghunath says that only four other people know this exercise in the whole world, even though it's on the internet. Just kidding, I didn't Google it. I wouldn't be surprised if it's on the internet. But it's something that is a very profound practice. Now, this is a practice that you would do for 21 days in a row. And in doing that, it transforms your subtle physical body. And Guru Raghunath says that you gain control of your physical body and your energy body. And this is a very powerful practice. By doing this for 21 days, it transforms you into a healer. So this is a very magical, important exercise. To do the exercise, you will go from the first chakra and Guru Raghunath recommends that you touch the chakra for a while so that you get your physical attention to the area of the chakra. So you will touch your first chakra which is over there. So you'll touch your first chakra and then you'll say the first mantra. Om Bhuhu. Then you come to the second chakra. Om Bhuvaha. Come to the navel chakra. Om Suvaha. Om Mahaha. Om Janaha. Om Tapaha. And then when you get to the crown chakra, you say the same ending as the Gayatri Mantra. Diyo yo naha prachodayat. Then you bring the focus to the third eye and you say om. To the throat, you say ham. heart, yum, rum, and then, and coke. So the navel chakra is rum, and the second chakra is vum, and then the first chakra is lum. So these are the seed mantras coming down the front. We go up the back with the mantras and down the front with the seed mantras. Om buhu, om bhuvaha, om suvaha, om, you're going into the back of the heart chakra, om mahaha, om janaha, om tapaha. Okay, then Diyo Yonaha, Prachodayat, and then again seed mantras. Om, Ham, Yam, Ram, Vam, Lam. So I will write, I've written this all out for you so you can start memorizing it, practicing it. So you go up the back, and then you go down the front, and then back up the back, down the front. 21 circulations in one sitting. Do this for 21 days and it transforms you, and then you become a healer, an Amrit Jyotisa healer. I mean, all the practices do this, but this one is supposed to be the most special and significant. Yes. Now, you have to clear your chakras before doing this exercise. So, remember the last exercise of purifying the chakras. That has to have been done. You know, not every day, but like, it has to have been done at least once before you do this exercise. Chakra Vidya is what this is called. So, this exercise of the mantras up the back, the seed mantras down the front, 21 times for 21 days, is kind of the step into kind of really being an Amrit Jyotisha healer. Okay. Then we go into the final lesson, final part of lesson five. And Guru Raghunath says that this is the secret teaching of Amrit Chakitsa. And that by doing this, you become a ringtone. Just kidding. You become a magical healer. Alright, so it's a very simple exercise, but you have to practice it. So you will bring your attention to your thumbs, to the tips of your thumbs, and you'll hold your attention there. You'll be aware of it. Hey! Then you bring the attention to your fingertips, on the pointer fingers.

0:15:21
You bring your awareness completely into the finger.

0:15:25
You should feel energy going into these places. Then, the middle fingers, energy there. Ring fingers. Pinky fingers. And then you And then you go to your big toes. We don't have pointer toes, do we?

0:16:22
And then the next toes.

0:16:23
So you have to feel the toe.

0:16:25
And the middle toes. And the ring toes.

0:16:28
And then the pinky toes.

0:16:50
You bring your focus to the ankles, the ankle joints,

0:16:55
and then the focus to the knee joints.

0:17:13
You bring the focus to the wrists, to the elbows, to the shoulders. This is the exercise.

0:17:22
And you can hold the attention on the joints longer or the areas longer. So, sometimes Guru Raghunath had me focusing on it for about a minute.

0:17:36
So, every spot for about a minute.

0:17:40
And he said that that's very strong.

0:17:44
But he said you could do it short as well. And you can do it with Guru Dhyana.

0:17:48
So, you can be like, Om Sri Guru Raghunathaya Namaha. And that's the duration where you can hold it longer. He says holding it longer is stronger. So after doing the chakra bija and doing this exercise, Guru Raghunath says that by touching someone or yourself, you can heal. So let's say you have the tennis elbow or something. He says that you'll just put your finger on the place that has illness, and within three minutes, the illness or pain will go away. This works for many things. So, he says that this is a powerful, secret teaching. And now you know it. So, the Chakra Bija transforms you into a healer, and then this exercise is a way that you get to learn to heal just by touching. And that's it. So, thank you very much. So that is everything I've learned so far, and I've practiced all of this. It's important to practice, of course, Ushapana every day, Guru Dhyana every day. And then the other, and then yeah, Chakra Bija for 21 days, because you want to get that transformation. But then, some things can be practiced ongoing, like weekly, or even monthly. Like, you can do chakra cleansing once a month, and that would be great. So, you don't have to be doing everything all the time, every day. Yeah. So, you can kind of like work out a schedule. But if you want, you know, if you want to know this stuff, you have to practice it. It's good. So this is everything I know so far. I'm going to be going back on Tuesday to India, and I'll be there for about a month. So Guru Raghunath says that I can complete, I'll probably be able to complete the training in that time, which is cool. Yeah. But you guys got to practice what you've learned so far. And then that's good. Practice the five Ps of Ramarita Chakriti. You have a question?

0:21:19
Yes.

0:21:20
Mm-hmm. Can we start here after we practice 21 days?

0:21:25
You can start even before that.

0:21:29
Okay.

0:21:30
Yeah. It's just that there will be a big, there's supposed to be a very big transition transition when doing 20, after the, in the 21 days at the end. But this, this finger thing, practice that as well. It will be, at the end of the 21 days, it will be the strongest. But you can practice it all the time. Yeah, so the scope of this teaching is personal healing, so it's not to heal others. When you're talking about healing other people, it gets a little bit... There's some different things about it. In Amrit Chakita, they're very good at dealing with the toxicity of people. They're very good at dealing with different things, but I don't know enough yet to recommend healing other people. So, when you heal someone else, you might not be doing them a favor. So, you would have to be able to see completely what their karma is, why they have the illness, before you heal them. Because, like, let's say that someone's got a cancer because in a previous life they've killed somebody. And then in this lifetime, it's better for them to die of that cancer so that they can get out of that karma. But if you heal them and take away their cancer, then they don't have, they're not paying for it, they're not paying it off. And then, what if in this lifetime they say, oh, I'm gonna kill someone else? So it might be better for them to learn the lesson and be able to move on. So, I mean, that's just a really intense way of looking at it, but there's a lot of subtle things about illness. And so, you know, I would, I will learn more when I go this time. And if I see that everything works out good, like, maybe the seven gurus will, you know, tell you, no, don't heal someone, if they can see the karma. Then that would be cool. Then you can do it. cool, then you can do it. But for now, if you have a student with depression or something, you can start telling them about self-healing. Talk to yourself, talk to your brain, say, Yeah, so, yeah, so I went from Europe here just for a couple days to give you guys the last teachings and I go back to India for a month and I'm really looking forward to learning. I think it's going to be really, really fun and exciting. I love learning Amrit Shikita and I love practicing it. It's very, very, very, very fun. So please enjoy and practice. There was a really fun thing that happened in the Rishikesh trip. It was really great. We went into the inner cave, right? And, um... Mauni Baba's cave?

0:25:46
Right, yeah.

0:25:47
Mauni Baba's cave, yeah. So, we went into the inner cave, and it's so amazing in there. It's like such a beautiful place of power. And then we went down, there's another cave, in that cave, it's a cave within a cave within a cave, went down into that cave and I was only down there for like a minute and just going down there I got this amazing amazing like energy. I cannot describe how amazing it is. That's the magical, magical, magical cave there. Yeah, that trip was just amazing, like all of the trips are. Anyway, oh, I also am jet-lagged. I'm like, by the way, I'm really jet lagged. Because I just got here, but I'm like, you know, kind of going on to India so I can go and be jet lagged there for a while. The green fire works for the jet lag. Like every time I do the green fire for the jet lag, I'm like, oh yeah, that feels a little better. Then I get jet lagged again. Anyway, it was a pleasure, an absolute pleasure teaching you guys lesson number five. And I look forward to lesson number six. And I look forward to lesson number six. So, practice, do well, and I'll see you in about a month.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
