0:00:00
Hello, everyone. Take it easy. It's the Equinox. So glad that you are able to make it. It's a very special time to be able to sit together. So, let's begin with meditation. We will sit First song on the navel chakra. Second song will focus on the heart. For the third song, the third eye. Let's begin.

0:00:33
So So. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, So, So So Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, You. So, the the the So, the the the so So so Thank you. the the the the So, thank you. Oh, the the the So, so so you Wonderful. So tonight I'd like to share with you Buddhist mysticism.

0:14:27
So, you won't just get a lecture about it. You will also experience it. Buddhist mysticism is Buddhist magic. It is an enlightened magic. Magic that brings you to a deeper awareness of truth. It is a magic that brings you beyond limitation and beyond suffering into a greater awareness.

0:15:05
So,

0:15:06
Buddhist mysticism is a... It's called the left-hand path often. It's a magical means of walking the pathway to enlightenment. There's many different pathways to enlightenment, and this one just has a lot of magic in it. The magic comes from awareness, awareness of subtle energies, natural forces, and different dimensions. changes that are unusual, unusual in the physical and unusual in spirit. And so, through these means, you can do things that look magical and creating beautiful results through these practices. Now, Buddhist magic is not like, you know, a magician. It's not like, hey Rocky, I'm going to pull a Bodhisattva out of a hat. You know, with a card trick or sawing a lady in half in a box or, you know, breaking out of a, you know, chains or something like that. Those are tricks, right? Those are just things in the physical world that appear to be magical, but they're just tricks, they're not magic. It's like Houdini. Houdini, he would be in a box in chains or something, but then he would use a stage door to pull off his tricks. Yeah, so that was just a stage he was going through. So, Buddhist magic is real magic. It's something not in the physical. It's awareness of other forces and dimensions that create very powerful, transformative, spiritual and physical effects. So when we think of real magic, we might think of, let's say, the Tibetan Bon religion. It's very powerful magic, where someone is at an altar, you know, and incantations and mudras, and they're doing all these magical things. And then they, through that means, they're able to access different dimensions of mind, different dimensions of reality and create changes. You might think of some sorceress with a cauldron, throwing in the eye of newt and cat's claw, trading some kind of potion. That's some kind of magic. You might think of a wizard on a broom with a wand. Expellionus or something, right? So these things are a lot of the ways that we you know, real magic. In Buddhist mysticism, we don't have any tools, no cauldrons, I know, it's bad, no altars, you know, no candles, no incense, I mean, you can have that stuff, the full power of the mind to perform these powerful acts. So, there's no, you know, there's no tools, there's no craft. It's just using awareness, awareness of the mind. Long ago in China, there was an emperor and his boy was very ill. And this was his only son. And he was around 10 years old. And so he called all the great doctors and healers in the land. And they were trying to heal him every way that they knew how, but he kept getting sicker and sicker, more sick and more sick. And he was very close to death. Now, they tried putting needles in him, burning herbs on his skin, putting talisman on him, just all of these things. And yet, it wasn't working. He was getting more ill. So he was very close to death. His mother was standing over him or sitting next to him, crying, just wishing him to be better. The doctors and healers chanting over him and everything were just ineffective. Finally, the emperor called upon a Taoist priest and he said, please come prepare the funeral rites for my son. So the priest comes over and he comes to the son and looks at him. And the priest, this Taoist priest had power. He knew the magic. So he was able to see what was wrong and he knew how to heal it in subtle dimensions. So he just put his hand on the boy's forehead. And then a few minutes later, the boy sits up in bed and he's completely healed. And then the Taoist master starts pulling out these needles and knocking these herbs off of him. He looks like a big mess, right? And he says, you know, you will not need funeral rites for your son for many, many, many years to come. So he had the awareness and the power. That's what we call direct magic, not going through certain processes, certain structures of needles, herbs, all sorts of wards and things. It's direct awareness and direct ability to shift energy and power to create a positive outcome. Buddhist mysticism, Buddhist magic, is always positive magic. It's like happy magic. It's magic that brings greater peace, greater freedom, greater happiness, greater strength and power to your life, greater enlightenment. A lot of times when we hear about magic, it's like, oh no, someone cast an evil spell on me, right? Like a lot of things in magic we hear about wizards and witches doing something bad to someone. In Buddhist magic, there's no harming another person. It's only positive magic. If you're harming another person, then it's not Buddhist When you do Buddhist magic, it is only completely positive. To harm someone with Buddhist magic would be ridiculous. It would be like taking a big giant ball of cotton candy and trying to hit someone on the head and say, I'm going to hurt you. Completely different dimensions, right? So, in Buddhism, we always say, this is something that brings only good. And if you start to recognize something bad, then you have to refocus. You have to come into the dimensions of Buddhist mysticism is kind of like an artist's palette, right? So, we are like artists, painting our life. We paint our lives in every moment with our thoughts, with our feelings, with our awareness. So we're like painting something. Now, the world gives us some pretty bad colors for our palette. So what are we given in the beginning? We're crime, we're given traffic, we're given inequality, all sorts of difficulties in our world. Our world is a world of physicality, social conditioning, and a lot of negativity. There's a lot of fear and uncertainty and anxiety and distrust in our country. And these are the colors that are prevalent on our palette of painting our lives because this is what we see in our lives. These are the things that imprint our awareness field. So it's like if we have our palette and we look at it, we're like, oh, so, let's see, war, that's like black. And then like, oh, you know, terrorism, oh, that's like dark brown. So we have like all these like dark browns and all these grays and all these really dark colors. So then when we're painting our experience, it's like, uh, uh. Your painting looks like something from, I don't know, the Twilight Zone or something. to bring brighter colors to our life. Brighter, oh there we go, brighter colors to our life. And in Buddhist mysticism, we can gain different awarenesses of different energies, of different dimensions. And that's like adding bright, beautiful, wonderful colors to your palette. And then when you're selecting the colors to use for your life, you select beautiful colors, happy colors, and then you make something wonderful. So, Buddhist mysticism is making wonderful things, wonderful things. You paint a beautiful life. Now, to reach these colors, to learn these colors, it's not a normal means. To reach these colors, you have to find them in books. These colors are states of mind. They are awarenesses of powers, of forces that are outside of the world. That's why they the secret teachings because when you look at it with worldly eyes, you don't see anything. It's just useless. It's not deep. But if you can understand the origination of the energy of the dimensions, then it is a tremendous transformation. So like you can have an awareness of a word in just the definition of it, but if you can feel where it's coming from, you have to kind of listen very, very deeply to be able to understand it. I call it like listening with your third ear. Your regular ears don't pick it up. But if you listen from the depth of your being, then you can start to see deeper, to listen deeper. And then you start to stretch your consciousness to be more aware of what there is to be aware of. a man, he was a layman, and he had been going to the monastery, to the temple, from time to time to learn Buddhism from the Zen master. And one day he was just so upset with his life, he was so troubled, he said, OK, I'm ready to commit to practice more. And he said, I want to learn the secret teachings so that I can get out of my suffering. And then the Zen master said, OK, so you're going to come once a day, or once a day, one hour a day, sit with me and I'll teach you the secret teachings." And so the man said, okay, wonderful. So the next day he comes and he's ready and the Master brings him into the meditation hall. They sit down and he's ready to hear the teachings. The Master doesn't say anything. He just sits there. So the man sits there with the master. After about an hour, the master bows and says, Okay, I'll see you tomorrow. And then the man says, But what about the secret teachings? And then the master says, I'll teach you tomorrow. So the man says, Okay. Comes back the next day. This time the master just walks with him through the garden. And they walk around for about an hour, and then the master bows and says, I'll see you tomorrow. And again, the man's like, what? What about the secret teachings? I'll teach you tomorrow. So this goes on and on. The man gets very frustrated because he's not getting his secret teachings. And then after a while, he just says, well, I guess I'm not going to get the secret teachings, but I'll just keep showing up. So he keeps showing up. And then one day later, he's sitting with the master by a pond. And he's just sitting there, smiling, and all of his troubles are gone. And the Master says, You have learned the teachings well. No words. No words are necessary. Sometimes words are good. Words are good for holding your attention. Words are good for giving you some information, but for the secret teachings, to see where these dimensions come from, these colors for your palate, it's beyond words. It requires a spiritual awareness, an awakening. And it's much more beautiful. In Buddhist mysticism, you have to have a positive mind. You have to think positive thoughts. You have to have a really good outlook and see all the good things that are out there. When something bad happens, you have to start thinking about the good things. You know? You've got to look at all the great things in your life and realize that even if you have a hard life, you have a wonderful life. That's the Buddhist, mystic way. If you have negative thoughts, if you dwell in angers, sadness, enmity, doubt, then you cannot see those inner dimensions. The inner dimensions of Buddhist mysticism are bright and high, and those thoughts are heavy and dark. It's like a sinking ship. This man goes onto a catamaran for the first time, and he says to the captain, do these ships sink often? And then the captain says, no, usually just once. And you can't just rely on the intellectual mind in understanding mystical dimensions and understanding magic, because the intellect can only see so much. The intellect is only one dimension of the mind, and there's so many other dimensions. If you're just trusting what you think, what you can miss a lot. You can miss the big picture. So there was a magician on a cruise ship. True story. A magician on a cruise ship. And he would do his tricks over and over. And there was this, the captain's parrot was in the room where he was doing the tricks, showing the audience. And the parrot was watching, and this parrot was kind of a smart parrot, and a smart aleck. So he said, he started like yelling out, he's hiding the card in his sleeve, the rabbit is under the table. So he started like, you know, putting those things out there and, you know, the magician got really frustrated because he could see all the tricks. And then, you know, he was just frustrated but he couldn't do anything because it was a captain's parrot. And the magician luckily found a plank of wood and he was floating around on the plank of wood. And then after a while the parrot flies, lands on the plank of wood and the parrot says, all right, I don't get it. What did you do with the ship?

0:37:46
So, this is a mood.

0:37:51
There's a very important thing about Buddhist mysticism. It's a mood. It's an outlook. It's a positive state of looking at the world. You have to be really positive. I remember we used to say, you know, when we were going to take on a new challenge, we used to say, all right, are we going to do this like Buddhists or what? Yeah, we would. We had this, you know, this was like facing like really difficult challenges. And it's always a positive outlook. up to these palettes of bright dimensions. So you have to be positive. You have to be like, you have to like make yourself happy and motivated, right? You've got to be like, yeah, I'm going to choose like to look at this in a really great way. You've got to You gotta be, you know, just clear, focused, decisive. I used to consider myself very indecisive, but then now I'm not so sure. You know, you gotta have humor. No, like, really, like have humor,

0:39:27
and humor about yourself.

0:39:29
And then you gotta look at things in like super, like really a positive way. It's very important in Buddhist mysticism because Buddhist mysticism is happy like that. It's a great, jolly thing. And then in that mood, in that awareness, the light and the power of these dimensions of magic. And this is where you also start to, you know, shed the dross of self. A very important practice in Buddhist mysticism is forgetting who you are. So, when you remember who you are, then it cuts you off from the Buddhist magic. So we do this thing we call erasing personal history. Personal history is looking at the tail of the tape of your life and saying, well, I did this and then I did this, this happened and then this happened, so this is who I am now. And then this is a history that we believe. It's a very, you know, it's something that's very ingrained in us. You know, like, oh, you know, I tried to play football once but then I got knocked down, so I can't play football.

0:41:25
You know, stuff like that.

0:41:26
And then you end up in the moment thinking I can't play football. So then you don't even try if there's an opportunity. And you could be maybe good at it. Maybe you were, you know, 12 years old when you got knocked down, but because that gave you an impact, then you say, now that I'm 21 and bigger and stronger, I still know that's not my thing. I can't do it. So, these definitions limit us. And if we can just let go of that personal history, then we're free to see higher, brighter options. Then we can look at life and see that these beautiful dimensions of mysticism are possible for us. Otherwise we say, no, it's not possible. It definitely wasn't there in fourth grade when I was getting bullied. So now it's not there. Yeah, we make these ideas, like ideas of self. I'm an Italian immigrant. I live in a small dingy apartment. I work as a dishwasher. All I can do in life is that. The only good thing in life is spaghetti. So we create these different definitions of what we want. Now someone can come over to you and say, hey, wow, you know what? You're really smart. I bet you could learn computer programming, get a great job, get out of that apartment

0:43:19
and get some really good spaghetti.

0:43:20
And then you'll say, based on that definition, you'll say, no, I can't. You'll say, oh, thank you very much, but no, I'm just a humble dishwasher. And then the person says, no, you definitely can do it. I know you can. And then you say, no, no, no, no, it's not possible. And they say, yeah, sure. Here's a laptop, I already paid your tuition, class starts at this time. And then you go, no, I can't do it. You know, you're like, you fight against opportunity. You say, it's out of my definition, I'm gonna fight against it. So then we have to let go of all these ideas of who we are and what we can do. We have to take the book, the history book of self, and lose it.

0:44:14
Where did I put it?

0:44:15
Did I leave it in the taxi? You can leave it for somebody else. They'll pick it up and go, oh. Oh!

0:44:27
You might be a step up for them.

0:44:30
We've got to lose personal history. Personal history is an illusion. It doesn't exist in this moment. We're carrying around ideas from when we were very, very young. And these ideas are false. So, let it go. Be aware of life now. Awareness now. It's a much brighter way to be. We have to be able to change our character. If we were in, as if we were in a film, right? We have a character and the character, you know, goes through certain things, you know, maybe it's fun, maybe it's a horror, a romantic horror. And when we are experiencing it, we have to realize that we can be the director of our life. And so we're going through whatever movie we are in, but we can change it, right? You can say, no, no, no, my character, even though they're in this situation, I'm going to bring out something better. So let's see. If you were Cinderella, a true Cinderella story, but you're at that part where you're getting oppressed by your evil stepmother, I'll have the floors mopped, the fireplace cleaned, your dress hemmed by the time you get back from the market. You know, so she's like, oh. But then you could be like the director and say, hmm, I don't like the way you're delivering the line. Let's do it a little bit differently. Instead of like your Cinderella, more like your Wonder Woman. How would Wonder Woman deliver that line? She might be like, yes, stepmother. The floor will be cleaned. The floor will be cleaned. The fireplace will be cleaned. And your dress hemmed. By the time you get back. I don't know. Something like more powerful, right? Dramatic.

0:47:32
Like all.

0:47:33
Kind of like a. We have to bring a, you know. We have to bring power into our situations. We have to look at things in a different way. And we can always do that. We can bring a greater outlook instead of the kind of like regular path. I'm like, oh, this is what it is today. This is what it's going to be tomorrow. we can bring a much stronger and a much more powerful experience to our attention, to our minds. Evil stepmothers. Yeah, they happen. A lot of, the place where we get a lot of our personal history is from our families. Our families, you know, they were basically there for the whole personal history thing, right? Especially mom and dad. So, yeah, these things really have a very big impact on us. Like you might say, well, I kind of wanted to be a doctor, but I can't be a doctor. No one in my family ever went to college. A lot of people do that. It stops them. Or it could be another way. You might say, I really want to be an artist, but I can't be because everybody in my family is a doctor and that's what's expected of me. So, these are things that really create a lot of limitation in our lives. and Buddhism about the limited conditioning and expectations from family. There was a woman in China a long time ago who was the daughter of a wealthy merchant. One day, this Buddhist master, he was coming by, just somehow bumped into her, and he said, I can see that you have very, very good karma, and that you can learn a very, very, very special spiritual power. So come with me. My temple is two weeks' travel from here and I will teach you this and it will change your life." And she was like, wow, that sounds interesting. And then she said, oh no, I can't go with you, you know, like I'm the daughter of a merchant, you know, I got to go home, you know, and do whatever I got to do. And so she doesn't go with the master and he leaves and he says, yeah, well come any time and I'll teach you. So she's at home and then she's thinking about it. She's like, hmm, maybe I should. And then she starts to get like really excited about it and interested and she's like, oh, I think I will. I think I will go see that master and learn that. And then her father, hearing that she wants to go far off to some temple and learn some magical thing, he starts getting concerned that she might decide to be a Buddhist nun. So he says, it's time for you to get married. And she's like, no, I want to learn this. And he's like, no, you've got to get married. That's what you've got to do. And so he impresses it upon her, finally she agrees, and she ends up marrying a man who lives in another state far off to the north. So she's too far away to go learn the spiritual power, and she gets busy with having a family, she raises two sons, and then she helps raise three grandchildren. And eventually, you know, all the kids move out and then her husband passes away. And then she's just there by herself. And then she remembers that spiritual master and that feeling that she got of wanting to learn more about that spiritual power. So she travels home and then she travels on to find that temple. At the temple, the spiritual master passed away many years ago. this scroll to the abbot and he said, hey, if this woman comes by someday, have her read this scroll. And the abbot says, yeah, so he left this for you, but I tell you, all of the monks here have read it, it's impossible to understand. And she says, okay, well, I'll just read it. And she opens the scroll, she reads it, and she gets it. It unlocks this awareness in her mind. And then she gains this spiritual power of healing. And she just knows it completely.

0:53:25
Bam.

0:53:27
So there was one of the monks in the temple. This is a remote temple. One of the monks had a bad stomach ache. So she comes over and touches his stomach, and it's healed. And he's like, wow. Now when she does it, all this power and spiritual light come through her and she experiences ecstasy. And she says, wow, this is my spiritual path. This is what I want to do. There was another, one of the monks who had sprained his ankle. So she goes over to him, heals his ankle. And again, she has this amazing spiritual epiphany. And then she says, okay. She says, tomorrow I'm gonna travel back to my birthplace and I'm going to heal people every day. And this is my spiritual path and I think it's amazing that I can do this amazing thing. So then, that night, she passes away peacefully of old age in her sleep.

0:54:43
Yeah, isn't that a beautiful ending?

0:54:50
So as I said, a cautionary tale.

0:54:57
Not to let anything stop you, right?

0:55:00
Don't let anything stop you. You might not be able to follow the path that would be the highest and brightest and most beautiful path in your life.

0:55:20
in Theravada Buddhism, they have a beautiful tradition of erasing personal history.

0:55:30
Buddha said that when you join the Sangha, that you are joining a spiritual family. And that means that all of that personal history goes away. All of those pressures from family go away. And then you join a family that supports you in spirit instead of all the conditions of karma, of society, of those expectations. So when you become a Buddhist monk, whether you come in as a beggar with matted hair or you come in as a prince with you get your hair shaven off. You can come in in tattered robes or noble silk gowns or whatever, and then you get one saffron-colored robe. So this is erasing personal history. This is how the Buddha practiced it. It's very beautiful. Now, in order to erase personal history, you have to lose self-importance. So, we always come to this point where we think we're really important. Like, really deep down inside, we're like, I'm important.

0:57:39
This is important because of me.

0:57:41
You know, my pain is important. My ideas are important. I'm important. And when we do that, we're not happy. And our sense of importance, our important angers, our important desires, our important sadnesses, they come from somewhere. They come from our personal history. So, let's say once when you were 10 years old, your brother took one of your slices of pizza and then you felt slighted. I didn't get... you took my pizza. You know. And then, now that you're an adult,

0:58:27
every time that you go out with your friends and have pizza,

0:58:30
you always go, I'm getting that last piece.

0:58:33
Right? Why do you do that? Because of your personal history. Yeah, or like, let's say one time someone yelled at you or said something mean to you and you didn't say anything back, and then you sat there and brooded about it. I should have said this. I can't believe you said that, so I should have said this. And then now, in your life, whenever you get into any disagreement, you always have to have the last word. Someone says, okay, all right, fine, I agree. I apologize. And then you go, that's right, you better.

0:59:18
Jerk.

0:59:21
I said I apologize. That's right, you better apologize. Okay, just, that's enough. Yeah, so, in Buddhist mysticism, we have to start to observe our egoic reactions. And we have to say, this is an expression of my self-importance. And we have to drop it. We have to let it go. Because as long as you are hanging on to these very important upsets, very important angers, or very important reactions, then you can't erase your personal history. So, a good thing to do is to laugh at yourself. You go, there I go, getting angry again.

1:00:14
Ha ha ha ha.

1:00:15
No, eventually you get there, you gotta do that. You gotta see the ridiculousness in it. You go, am I doing that again? You know, boy. So a long time ago in Japan, there was a Zen monk who had some very serious problems. He was really angry at the other monks because they were pissing him off, because that's what monks do. And he also was like really seriously trying to become enlightened and he really needed to know how to do it right, you know. So he's and he had all these other problems, you know, he had everything going on. So he goes over to, there were two Zen masters at this particular temple. And they would usually sit around having tea together. So he would come to them, and they're sitting there drinking tea together. And then he says, Zen Master, I have this real big problem with that other monk, and you better tell him. And then the Zen Masters just start laughing. Right? And then, so they laugh, they're roaring with laughter. And then he goes, okay. Then he bows and walks away, confused. And then he comes back, and he's like, another day, and he's like, I really need to understand enlightenment. Like, how do I get it? And then the Zen masters start laughing, a glorious laughter. And then he just walks away. Then he comes back to them the other day, I'm really sad because, and they're laughing. And then he comes back to them again because he's mad at some monk, and he's like, and then they start laughing. And then he goes, he's looking at them, and he goes, okay, this is kind of funny. He's just laughing at them because they're laughing. He's like, you guys are funny. So he laughs with them. This happens again and again, where anytime he comes up with his problems, they're laughing, and then he starts laughing, and then eventually he's by himself. And he's like, that's so funny. But that's the way it is. Yeah, really. That's the way it is. You have to have like a good attitude to see the way out, to see some dharma. You say, well, I'm looking at things in a bad way. I'm suffering from it. Let me look at it in a good way. And then, after a while, you start to notice, oh wait, let me not suffer this bad way, let me have a good way. You know, self-importance cuts you off from seeing the world. When you're looking at the world through self-importance, you're looking at a mirror of self-thought. And you're just like, oh, everything looks ugly. Everything looks bald with sunglasses. So, this is the way that people see the world. They're just constantly looking at a reflection of the self, and you really don't see the world. So in Buddhist mysticism, we start to really look beyond the self, looking past the self. We start to see a greater reality. One of the ways that we do this is is through agreements and omens. So, we look at the world to see a deeper truth. And sometimes we see something called an agreement. An agreement is something that tells you, yes, you are seeing properly. Yes, you're on the right path, yes, this is the right way. And it's very like refreshing and bright and happy. An agreement has a lot of energy. It's a recognition of truth. And you go, aha, that's an agreement. Yeah. Now, an agreement, it can be anything. An agreement could be a foghorn. An agreement could be the wind blowing. An agreement could be a baby crying. An agreement can be a flower growing. An agreement can be anything, but in order to recognize if it's an agreement, you have to be able to see outside of the self. And when you see the agreements, then it fills you with energy. You see a greater truth to life in that recognition. Boom! It's great. Now, omens. Omens are something else. Omens are very profound signs of power. An omen tells you to make a change. So there's always some transformation with an omen. An omen tells you which way to go. An omen can give you a seeing of the dharma, of the path forward. You could be like, oh, I'm stuck, or I'm headed this way, and then an omen comes and says, okay, here's, do this, here's how you get unstuck, here's the change to make. And then you say, oh, okay, I see. So while agreements are beautiful, happy recognitions of truth, omens are those very, very profound awarenesses of transformation. So, yesterday I saw an omen and when I saw this omen, it showed me what to teach you today. It showed me the thing that would be the most powerful, the omen that I saw, I was in San Pedro Valley Park, and the omen that I saw was a bunny rabbit. It was the bunny of power. Power bunny. And it was standing on the trail in front of me, and I was just walking, and then I saw the bunny and I was like, hmm. I said, this is going to get interesting. Now usually the bunnies, like when you get near them, they run away. But this one wasn't running and I recognized that this was an omen, so I stopped. And then the bunny ran up to me and stopped in front of me. And I was like, ah. So I was able to recognize the omen. So then I saw the bunny power. It's something that you cannot actually say in words. Because when you start to explain the power of the bunny, then it doesn't sound right. But when you can get beyond the self-view and you can see truth, there are these moments with sometimes animals, sometimes just places in nature, sometimes with the wind or a wave. You can see an omen. And this was a powerful omen and I was like hmm got it so there was this this guy named Peter Gabriel you might know him from shock the monkey it's true it's one of his songs. He had an omen that he wrote a song about. And this was a very profound experience in his life. He was the lead singer of a very popular band Then he saw an omen, he saw this omen, and what he saw there is that he needed to make a transformation. And that transformation was him going on his solo career, which was the more profound thing for him to do in his life. And we're going to listen to that song, if we have it. So, if you have it, just listen. Because it really shares the feeling of what an omen is, more than my description of a bunny rabbit. Thank you. 🎵

1:10:59
Climbing up on Salisbury Hill I could see the city light Wind was blowing, time stood still Eagle flew out of the night He was nothing to do but serve Came in close, I heard a voice voice standing stretching every nerve I had to listen, had no choice I did not believe the information just had to trust imagination my heart going boom boom boom son, he said grab your things, I'm gonna take you home Yeah, don't fool you After keeping silence I resigned My friends would think I was a nut Turning water into wine Open doors were soon to be shut I was feeling part of the scenery I walked right out of the machinery My heart is going boom, boom, boom He said, grab your things I'm gonna take you home Hey, back home When illusions internet I'm never where I want to be And liberty she threw away When I think that I am free Close their eyes, look and see No one's talking and he can't I will show another me Today I don't need a replacement I tell them put the smile on my face, man My heart going boom, boom, boom Hey, I said, you can keep my dream lake on the table Excellent. So this is a cool song. because he saw an omen, an omen that transformed his life, an omen that was a higher dharma for him. And he made a song about it, where you can feel the power of that omen. So, in Buddhist mysticism, we try to look past just what we think, the reflection of self. Start seeing the agreements of life and the omens of life,

1:15:16
because it opens your mind to the brighter dimensions of Buddhist mysticism. Higher, brighter, more beautiful colors for your palette. Alright, so we're going to take a break for about 20 minutes or so. We'll come back and meditate a little more together. And we'll, yeah, we have the moment of the equinox coming as well, so this should be very nice. Thank you. Now I'd like to speak with you about the crux of Buddhist mysticism. It is a subject called personal power. The Buddhist mystic focuses their lives on developing personal power. When you can get personal history out of the way, then you're able to accumulate personal power. But if you're filled with history and importance, then you can't gain personal power. You have to be selfless to gain personal power in this way, to develop it, because it takes doing actions that are outside of self-description. Personal power is a spiritual energy. It's an energy that you develop, that you can apply to your life to make very positive, constructive results. Personal power can be used to do many, many wonderful things. You can use personal power to get a job, for example. You can use personal power to be safe from physical harm. You can use personal power to get the perfect apartment. It's something that Buddhist mystics use in order to make their lives better, to make their lives stronger, to create a positive environment for spiritual development. And it is with personal power that we utilize the dimensions, the powerful dimensions of Buddhist mysticism to fashion our lives. I remember when I was learning Kung Fu as a teenager. Before learning a weapon, you had to do certain physical exercises first to develop yourself so that you can wield the weapon. So I remember for learning spear, I had to do these weird exercises to strengthen the wrists. And then I was able to use the spear properly. In order to use the broadsword, I had to do these exercises to strengthen the joints of the elbows. So personal power is like that. It's strengthening yourself so that anything you apply yourself to do, you can be successful at. For a warrior, you must have the strength to wield your weapon. And then any weapon you pick up, you can use successfully. I remember in my Kung Fu, I was learning a weapon called the Tiger Fork. It's like a giant trident. And my Sifu had a very heavy one. So he was teaching me with his Tiger Fork. And I remember whenever I would like, there was this move where I had to swing the tiger fork up, turn it down, and come straight down. But every time I swung it up, I would fall over backwards. Because it was so heavy, I couldn't handle it. So, my sifu would just always laugh at me. And then in front of the class, he'd be like, Anytime there was a visiting teacher, demonstrate the tiger fork. That was very beautiful. In the Indian classic, the Ramayana, there's a story of Rama being challenged by Parasuram. Parasuram thought that Rama had broken some rule or dissed his guru or something like that. So he challenged him to a fight to the death. And then Parasuram had this famous magical bow. And it was unstringed and it was said that only Vishnu could string the bow, had the power, the strength to string the bow. So Parasuram said, Hey, in our fight to the death, how about you use this weapon? It's the most powerful bow in the world. And then Rama says, okay, sounds good. So he gets it and then Parasurama says, yeah, all you have to do is string it and then you have a great weapon. And Parasurama's thinking, hey, he's not gonna be able to string the bow, so I'm gonna just be able to beat him really easily. But then, because Rama was the incarnation of Vishnu, he had that great strength and he strung the bow. And then Parasurama went, uh-oh. And then he recognized him as Vishnu and then he bowed to him. And then Rama didn't kill him. So fortunate for him. So we develop great personal power so that we can apply it to any place in our lives. And when we can apply it to some... We can apply personal power to some very, very powerful things sometimes. Because not only does personal power help you with very, you know, important things in the structure of your life, but personal power also teaches you very, very, very magical things. But you have to be very strong in personal power to be able to do the powerful Buddhist magic. A long time ago in India, there was a yogi who comes across a master on the Ganga and he says, Master, teach me the mantra for enlightenment. And the master says, I will teach you when you can cross the Ganga and meet me in that cave. So across the Ganga was a cliff and there was a cave right across the way. Now, there were rapids and sharp rocks right in front of the cave and the master gets up and he walks across the water and sits in the cave. And the yogi goes, wow, let me try that. So he jumps in the water and gets swept away. Then he comes back up and he's like figuring out how to get to the cave. He's thinking about getting a boat, coming down river, but then the rock's right in front of the cave.

1:24:55
It's impossible.

1:24:56
So he's like, hmm. And there's no beach in front of the cave. You can't approach it anyway. The cliff's too high. You would fall down and kill yourself. So he's like, that's impossible. So he's just sitting there looking. and says, just sit in meditation, stop thought completely, and when you have no thoughts, then you can walk across. So then the yogi says, okay. So he sits there, quiets his mind, thinks that he's kind of still enough, so he starts walking, swept away, comes back up, sits longer and longer. Finally, he reaches a profound state of silence, a very powerful state of silence. He doesn't even think to get up. He just gets up and walks straight across the water into the cave. And then the master gives him the mantra and he becomes liberated. It takes tremendous personal power to stop thought. Stop thought completely, to act with no thought. But when you can act with no thought, then it's very, very, very powerful. You can do amazing things. Personal power is your relationship with truth. It's your relationship with ultimate truth of life. When you have a clean, clear connection with truth, then things are obvious and easy. When you don't have a good relationship with truth, then everything's hard and everything's difficult and everything seems out of balance and messed up. It's kind of like if you were in a dark room. If you're in the dark room, you don't see the truth. And you might bumble around, you might break things, you might hurt yourself, you might not know where the light switch is or where the exit is. It could be something useful for you, but you'll walk right past it. And then, you don't, you can't get, you can't get the good things, and everything's a challenge. There's a lot of suffering. But if you know, if you're aware, if the lights are on in that room, then you can obviously see where everything is. You can avoid things that are problematic and you can go right for the things that are useful. Like, you know, you might find cupcakes. Those are useful sometimes. And you know where the exit is. You can go right to the door and go out. So when you have personal power, with that awareness of truth, then things are not so hard. And that's why in Buddhist mysticism we work on developing personal power. Personal power is not willpower. Willpower is a kind of attention, focus, and power, but it's very self-related. And personal power is a selfless power. So with willpower, you're very, like, focused on what can I muster in my concentration? And there will be limitation around willpower. Personal power is a deeper connection with the energy and the flow, the movement of the universe. When you can be connected with personal power, then there is not a self power, there is a selfless power. In the Shaolin Temple, there was a monk who had previously been a warrior for many years, a soldier. And he joined the Shaolin Temple early on when Bodhidharma first founded it. Bodhidharma in the beginning, he taught qigong, like breathing exercises. So that was the first thing that he taught the monks to develop their personal power, to develop their martial ability. And so he was like, this is going to make you guys strong and tough. And they're all like, okay. They're like sitting there breathing. Right? So they're doing that. And this ex-soldier monk, I like that, ex-soldier monk, he goes over to Bodhidharma and he says, Hey, Bodhidharma, this stuff doesn't make you really strong. You know, my training as a soldier made me a lot tougher. So, he's like, we should do some of the things that I had learned. I could teach the monks. And Bodhidharma says, Oh, no, no, no. And then he says, Come on, though. This doesn't make you powerful, all this soft stuff, raising your arms and breathing. You know, like, what is this? And then Bodhidharma finally says, OK, look, we can have a little exercise to see who's stronger, then you can teach the monks how to be conditioned to be strong from your experience. So then this ex-soldier monk says, okay. So the way that they decided to see who's stronger is Bodhidharma said, okay, we're going to stand in horse stance. It's like this horse riding stance. You bend your knees and you just kind of stand there. It's painful even after a couple minutes. Then, on top of it, they each picked up a big rock and held that rock out. So they're sitting there in horse stance, holding a big rock. And Bodhidharma says, whoever can do this the longest will win. So they're standing there looking ridiculous, in horse riding stance, with this big rock. And it's, you know, holding the rock straight out also, that's hard work. So, the ex-warrior monk, he manages to do it for just over two hours, which is really

1:32:25
incredible.

1:32:25
But then Bodhidharma keeps standing. And Bodhidharma ends up doing it 24 hours. Then afterwards he says, look I got other things I gotta do.

1:32:36
Yeah.

1:32:36
So this is a demonstration that not just self-strength, self-conditioning and self-power. There's something bigger. If you can have the power to like flow with eternity, then there's unlimited power. And that's what we find in personal power. It's much stronger. So, the way that we, one way that Buddhist mystics develop personal power is we go to places of power. Places of power are places that have a very strong vibration. It's like their auras are very, very strong. You could say that the aura of the place moves very, very, it moves very quickly. It has like a frequency so that when we go there, and our aura might be going slower, that place gets us to move faster. Our energy speeds up. It gets higher. So just by being in a place of power for an hour or so, it's something that empowers your energy body. And the empowerment of the energy body is something that helps your mind be clear. It helps you to go into higher states of mind. So when we go to places of power where the energy is very, very fast, very, very strong, very, very good, just to sit there and still the mind, we gain personal power. Recently, I took a group of students to the Anza-Borrego Desert, and there's a very strong place of power there. And in the Anza Borrego, these are students who have gone kind of above and beyond in their practice. They're good students, and they do extra. They help other people in the Sangha. They help with running the Sangha management, the administration, in all sorts of ways. They've been very selfless. So, this is something that raises their personal power. So, when we went to this place of power, they were able to really go a step further. So we were working on a lesson called Storing Power. And as part of this lesson, they told stories of their high spiritual experiences. And it was very, very, very strong. It's something that lifted them into a higher state of attention. So not only in a place of power do you just sit and feel the place and go higher, but then there's the ability to use the place for certain lessons, for certain experiences experiences that give you greater personal power. So places of power, very, very strong way for Buddhist mystics. It's often that on solstices and equinoxes, we go to places of power. There are different times that feel different ways, even in a day. In a day, if you feel the sunset, there's a beautiful feeling to the sunset. But if you wanted to check at 2 p.m. and say, do I feel it's magical? No, it's different. The late hours or the early hours of the morning also very powerful. 3 a.m. is a very powerful time. If you look at how you feel at 3 p.m. and then you observe how you feel at 3 a.m., you will observe that at 3 a.m. it's much more still. So there's different times of power, and there's different times of power during the year. So there are, you know, like, you could feel the seasons. You know, spring feels a certain way. Winter feels a certain way. So there's always changing feelings. But there's certain times of power. It's the solstices and the equinoxes. It is these times where there's a transition, but it's a natural transition, right? So we're moving from summer to fall, this is the equinox, the autumn equinox, where there's a moment, a time where we transition, where there's the change in the season. And during that energy of transition, we can follow that energy to have change in us. Summer solstices are very powerful times of activity, action, right? So when you're feeling the energy of the summer solstice, you can put a lot of focus, energy into meditation and you can push higher, push your energy. But then the winter solstice is different. It's like a time of stillness, of emptiness. So when you're meditating during the winter solstice, you can be completely empty. So we can use these times. The spring equinox is a time where we can introduce new ideas, new awarenesses, things to add to our lives that make us stronger and happier. And then the autumn equinox is a time where things can go away. We can let go of things, bad habits. We can let go of things that limit us. There's a special energy available in this transition. And if we're just still, just still our minds, we can experience that. And it happens in a very natural way. You don't have to stress out. Everything's balanced. The equinoxes are times of balance. So, we are heading into... This is the equinox, but we're going to be heading into the actual moment of the equinox fairly soon. So I always like to meditate during the equinox, the exact moment of the equinoxes and solstices. So I would like to meditate with you. We will sit for three songs. One song on the navel, second focus on the heart, third is the focus on the third eye. And just be still, have a light focus on the chakra, but try to feel the equinox, try to feel the energy of this time, the energy of this moment. So we will sit for three songs, and during this time, you will experience the equinox. All right, let's begin.

1:41:48
the the So So So so you so You you the the the the the the the the the the So, Oh, the the the the the the the Thank you. So so the the the So so the the the the the Wonderful. Meditating at the time of solstice, the equinox.

1:55:38
These are powerful times where you can feel the power of nature, natural times of transition. These are congruent with self-discovery and transformation. We gain personal power from meditating, having a special regard for these times. It is a Buddhist mystic holiday. Buddhist mystics take stock of their lives. They evaluate everything in their lives. Everything either gives you personal power or it takes personal power away. Most people don't evaluate their lives. They just live and lose a lot of energy. And they don't do the things that would be most empowering for them. But we take stock of our lives. The Enlightenment Workbook is a book that walks you through the steps of looking at everything in your life, everything that you do, your relationships, and shows you what is powerful and what is not powerful, you know, developing your personal power. Developing your personal power is not just following your desires or your whims. You might be like, oh, you know what? Going to work is draining and it's hard, so that doesn't make me feel good. It takes away my personal power. So I'm not going to work. And then you would realize that you're homeless and you're hungry. And then you get shanked in the back because you're cutting the soup kitchen line. And you go, well, maybe that wasn't such a good idea. Right? So, when the self comes up with things it doesn't like,

1:58:07
it's hard, difficult.

1:58:10
That's the self pulling away from power. I don't like this. Pulling away from power. It's more powerful to face the truth and live up to it. You might not like it, it might not be comfortable, but it is powerful. And if you face that, and you say, well, I don't like my job, it's draining, let me get a more powerful job. And then you'll say, well, I still don't like my job, it's draining, but now, you know, I own a house and I have a Porsche. Yeah, that's pretty good. So, we gotta look at our power and don't follow the whims of the self. Buddhist mystics hunt power. We don't care if we like it or not like it. We say, that's powerful, I'm going to do that, because I'll gain greater personal power. And even if it's a great challenge, even if we have a lot of personal opposition, if we can recognize that there's greater personal power, we'll do it. Buddhist mystics take on challenges. You don't just do what's easy. You do stuff that's more difficult, and then more difficult, and then more difficult. Because then that way you grow. You become very, very powerful by taking on challenges. You can't take on a challenge that is too big. You'll say, my challenge is to become a movie star next week. And then you'll run around and do crazy things and then you'll end up realizing that you spent energy and didn't get a reward. And then you'll say, oh, I lost personal power. So we look for this thing that we call the worthy opponent. There's a challenge that is hard, difficult, but not too difficult. It makes you generate more power to try harder, and then you can face it, and by doing that, you gain personal power. For some people, the worthy opponent is getting a job, working and living in the world, and yet having a spiritual practice. That's a worthy opponent for many people. For some people, the worthy opponent is getting to the next level in your meditation practice. You just realize, my meditation is not strong, I've got to get to a place of greater inner peace. So then you take that on as your worthy opponent, and then you really, really work on it. Then you'll attain it. So we take on these great challenges, and by doing so, we grow, strengthen our cultivation of personal power. The most important thing to do is to cut off places where you lose personal power. So once you recognize you've taken stock of your life and you say, well, I lose power here and I lose power there. If you cut off those places of losing power, then you automatically put energy into constructive places of power. So, I knew a guy. He studied with my teacher. So, I knew him when he was a new student and he was struggling with things. He's like, yeah, it's kind of hard to do stuff. I want to learn to meditate. I like this stuff, but I'm not doing such a good job. I meditate like once in a while and yeah, I should get a better job, but I don't know. He was just kind of living a mediocre life. But after his meditation teacher taught him about personal power and cutting off the things that don't work, then he said, okay, I'll work on it, I'll try it. So he identified these places where he was losing the greatest personal power. One was he was hanging out with his old high school friends. And he even said, yeah, they're all a bunch of losers. And he's like, yeah, when I hang out with them, afterwards I don't feel so good. And another place was his girlfriend. He's like, you know, I love my girlfriend, but when we're together, we just argue and it's just terrible. And then another place was smoking marijuana. He's like, yeah, I feel like I'm going to read this spiritual book and maybe learn some technology. Then I smoke some weed and then, eh, I don't need to do all that. And the other one was watching television. That was back when it was like watching television, where you had to like watch an episode of something and then wait a week. Nowadays it would be like, I binge watched everything on Netflix. Yeah, so he ended up cutting those things out of his life. And then all of a sudden, just by having attention to not doing those things, he started meditating every day. And then he started practicing technology, and then he got a computer programming job. And then he was happy. Before he was doing all this stuff that was easy, but he lost power from doing those things, and he wasn't happy. So, when you just observe the things that you lose energy in and stop doing them, then automatically your energy developing greater personal power. Yeah. It's kind of difficult for people because people become very attached to those things. You're like, I'm really attached to a person or an activity. It's like comfortable for me. But once you recognize that you lose personal power, cut it off or modify it so that you don't lose personal power. It will work much better for you. So, personal power, then everything that we do in our lives is enhanced. We're able to be stronger. It is through personal power that a Buddhist mystic changes their karma. Karma keeps us in a certain pattern of experience. It keeps us in a kind of limitation. But in Buddhist mysticism, we use personal power to break karmas, to change karmas, and thereby changing our world, changing our experience. With personal power, you can take a karma that would be very limiting and you can just change it. Now, if you didn't have personal power. They change their actual karma. So, it could be that it was your karma to be born, to get married, to have an ugly child, you know, to be middle class or something, right? But if you had developed personal power, then you'd say, wait a minute, I don't like this middle class thing. I like the ugly child, but I'm going to use my personal power to change this middle class thing. Now I'm going to be, you know, a billionaire because it's so easy. If you have great personal power, it's obvious. But you can change the conditions of your life with personal power. Long ago in China, there was a merchant who would often go to an oracle to ask her about advice for his business. And, you know, he was on his monthly meeting with the Oracle, and he says, alright, so, you know, tell me what to do for my business to thrive. And she, like, you know, throws her leaves or whatever she does, and mixes the thing up. And then she gasps, and she says, I see something terrible. I see that your business is going to go very, very bad, because you're going to die." And then he's like, Oh my God, now she's always been right. So he's like, Is there any way I can get around this? And she says, No, this is your karma. And he's, he's, oh, so unhappy. He's stricken with grief over his own death. So he's considering his death and he goes to a Buddhist temple. And at the temple, he starts praying to Buddha fervently. And he's like crying while he's praying. He's like, Oh Buddha, woe is me. And then after his prayer, the abbot comes over to him and says, Why are you so upset? And he tells him the story. And then he says to the abbot, is there any way that I can change my karma? And then the abbot says, oh sure, definitely. He says, okay, I'm going to teach you a special, magical mantra. And you have to practice this mantra so that you can say it perfectly. He whispers the mantra in his ear, and he says, now, at the time before you're killed, you have to say the mantra perfectly. He's like, I don't know, you know, like, just recognize that at the moment, right before you're going to get killed, he'd say it perfectly. And then you'll magically be safe. So he says, okay, I'll do it because it's my only option. So he practices and practices and practices. He completely wants to do the perfect mantra so that right before he dies, he can do it and be safe. So, about 20 or 30 days later, he's travelling, bringing his products from one town to the next town, and he's ambushed by thieves. And the thieves kill his guards, and he recognizes this is the moment. So he sits in his carriage and he starts doing the mantra. Doing the mantra. Doing the mantra. Then he does it perfectly. And then at some point, you know, the thieves are going around looking at stuff. They open the carriage and they see him. And then they pull him out. You know, out of the carriage onto the ground, but he's so completely focused on the mantra that he doesn't break his concentration. And then the thieves yell at him, doesn't break his concentration. One pulls a sword up and is about to hit him with it, then he has overcome his karma through the practice of Dharma. So we can always follow Dharma, the pathway to truth, to better our condition of life, but even save our lives. There is for every suffering, there is a dharma that leads out of that suffering. So, through Buddhist mysticism, personal power is the way to change karma, it is the way to attain liberation. Now, one of the great secrets of Buddhist mysticism That song is sitting with an enlightened teacher. So when we sit with an enlightened teacher, we gain tremendous personal power. We gain power from the words of the teacher, but we gain power from the presence of the teacher. Their enlightened consciousness shows us a higher way in our own being, to greater personal power and to that light. In satsang, your karmas change. It's like you were going along, following your little path, and then you go satsang with an enlightened teacher, and then you start going along this way. It just changes. It is the crux of Buddhist mysticism. There doesn't have to be any words. It is a direct experience of enlightenment. So, in Buddhist mysticism, it's very necessary to have an esoteric teacher, a teacher who could transmit the enlightened teachings directly. So, tonight, I'm going to perform an empowerment. And empowerment is a spiritual teaching, an esoteric teaching, but it's also a transference of a construct of power, a construct of kundalini, a very refined spiritual energy. So, esoteric teachers can transfer power. This gives you more personal power. They can transfer power. Like, it's not just a willpower. It's a very refined spiritual power. It's a power that you can use. It's a power that you can use to better your life. So, with these different... There's many different types of empowerments, many different constructs of power. And when you receive these empowerments, you can use the power in your meditation to come to a greater place of stillness. You can use the power from these empowerments to better your physical life. So in the beginning, students often need to make their physical lives powerful, make their job powerful, the place that they live powerful and harmonious, because without that power, your life is too unbalanced. You can't have a strong spiritual life when the environment and the work that you do is draining. So a lot of times, beginning students will use this power to just make a stronger foundation for their spiritual practice. The power of these empowerments can be used for all sorts of things. It could be used for athletic accomplishment. It could be used for betting on horses. Not the best way though. It could be used for anything, it enhances everything. But if you use it on lottery numbers, you might find that it's not very constructive. So we use the power in the most constructive ways that we can to develop a balanced, powerful

2:17:33
life.

2:17:35
So, in an empowerment, all you do is sit still. This is an energy of the navel chakra. And you'll just bring your focus to the navel chakra, a soft focus. For this, since I'm doing an esoteric teaching, I'd like you to look up here towards me and we'll just sit for one song and during that time just relax, don't worry about thinking, just try to be balanced. There's a beautiful balanced energy of the equinox now. And this will be a transference, an empowerment. So we will begin.

2:18:34
So, thank you. So. So so you Wonderful. So now, I'd like to ask the audience for their experiences. This is an important thing to do in mystic Buddhism all the time. a direct experience of a dimension of light and power. Sometimes that is not in your description of the world. You've never experienced it before. So, you'll experience it. You'll actually go through the experience of awareness and perception.

2:20:04
But then the moment you finish, you can go right back to your karmic view of life. So it's important and helpful for everyone when a few people share their experiences because some people see things more clearly and then they'll say, oh yeah, I saw this or I felt this, the empowerment did this to me. And when they say that, it informs you. You say, oh wait, I felt that too. I saw that too. That's right. It starts to open up your awareness and make a connection between those dimensions of power and Buddhist mysticism and your conscious awareness. So, if you would be so kind, if you had an experience, an awareness, a seeing, if you would share it with all of us, that would be helpful. So if you have, please raise your hand and we'll bring a microphone to you.

2:25:13
I saw you grow and I saw you shrink and I saw your face change and you looked Indian.

2:25:22
I saw the background shimmer like it was liquid and I felt like there was a tiger there and

2:25:30
the tiger represented power.

2:25:33
So, um, I saw your aura grow and it looked like there was a fire behind you and that your head was on fire. Well, not literally, but like it just looked like there were flames around you and that, um, it was a very warm, it was a, it was a good fire. It wasn't like house is on fire, oh my God. And I mean, it's hard to say, it's like, there's not much I can say but that. All right, thank you. Well, the intensity of the light was really overwhelming for me.

2:26:11
I couldn't even look away if I wanted to.

2:26:13
And I noticed at one point, your face is changing the whole time. And then I noticed at one point I saw others that were like, I don't know if they were other monks or something, I just saw others appear behind you that were also holding the space and sending the light. And that was really powerful. And then I noticed, I couldn't take my eyes off of you, but in my peripheral, I noticed that other people were lighting up. Like I could see, I don't know, I could see other people around me lighting up.

2:27:05
Very good, thank you.

2:27:06
Thanks.

2:27:07
Yes, and I also saw the cat figure behind. I saw it as a lion, but had a very deep sense of ancient power and waves of light coming out here. It's very beautiful.

2:27:21
All right, that's good.

2:27:42
I see some other people with their hands up, but we got it. All right, very good. My teacher used to say, mystics are not made, mystics are born. This is to say that, if you're mystical, it's just the nature of your being. And for you, being a mystic, it's the nature of your being. A lot of people in the world, in our world, are not mystical. They cannot perceive or comprehend these dimensions. It's just not a part of their being. They're muggles. And they just can't use magic, right? That's basically it. So then, if you're a mystic and you start sharing these dimensions with them, they don't get it, and they just think it's silly. And they're right. But all of you are mystics. That's why this is an invitation-only event. So it's like you have to be able to sit with your meditation teacher so that they can evaluate you. And if you are a mystic, then you're invited. Because I teach mysticism. Buddhist mysticism. distance decision. So, it was really wonderful to meditate with you on the equinox, a very beautiful time. There's a couple of announcements. So, one is, if you've done the Amrit Shakita chikitsa class, we will have outside on the table some pictures of the healing guru, Guru Raghunath. And if you don't have one of those pictures, then please pick one up. And let's see, we have a cricket announcement, right? The crickets. I think we have a crickets announcement. Go on once. No, we don't.

2:30:33
All right. Who has played our new game?

2:30:36
All right, that's a game about how to save the world. Just a small little thing. So there's all these seeming problems in the world. There's like global warming, overpopulation, droughts, all these things appear as insurmountable challenges. And there's been this kind of study, and it seems like for the first time, more people think that the world will be worse than better, which can only lead, you know, downwards. So what we kind of saw was that actually these aren't problems that are not solvable, they're only limitations in our mind. In fact, there's people actually creating, I just learned this, there's somebody creating a car that can fly based on the Earth's magnetic field. Like it's like actually being created. So if we can create these things, certainly we can solve these problems. It's only overcoming limitations in our mind. So we created a game called Funnovation because it's fun and it's innovative and it's a blast and you guys helped us create this and it's been amazing and we're just about to launch this on a Kickstarter to do crowdfunding to launch this off. So that's what we wanted to announce and Surya Swani and Surya have a little bit more.

2:32:23
So I would like to say a big shout out, thank you, to everyone. We got tremendous help from the Sangha, starting from legal advice to playing it, to telling us how it sucks and let's play it. And then coming and shooting the video. So we have two Kickstarter videos now, and we have a Kickstarter page and a website, and actually the game itself. And so now on gaming meetups, when we take it, people say it's fun, they are ready to play again, and they are happy to recommend it to friends. And really, it could not have happened without all of your selfless help and effort and maybe Yogiram Suratkumar also.

2:33:12
Thank you.

2:33:14
How many of you here would like to make this world a better place? Hands up.

2:33:20
This is your chance.

2:33:23
We created this game and it looks like a silly card game, and it is a silly card game. So if you want to have a good time with your friends, come around. And if you want to use the elevated consciousness and energy from your great time of your friends and inspiration comes from the game, then you have an opportunity to share this inspiration and that makes it into an opportunity for connection. Like on social media you can connect with the people of your future. And that's never been done before, and it's incredibly exciting. And you guys have us crazy, and we are crazy, and we believe that dream, these dreams can be realized. And only thing that we ask from you is to stay with us. We can't do this, like, this is a little team. So we want to grow it into a movement, which means that we need everybody and their friends and their families to come and play, share your ideas, and that's where it's going to take us. We're going to go on Kickstarter in a couple of weeks, and we're going to get you into the loop of that. Thank you very much for everything you've done so far.

2:34:45
All right, so are you guys saying that we can play a game today? Yeah. Yeah? Are you saying that like right after this, we can go right outside and play a game? Is that what you're saying?

2:35:05
You haven't said that it is possible.

2:35:10
Oh, it is a possibility.

2:35:13
It is possible.

2:35:14
All right. Wow. That sounds awesome. Yeah, let's empower this game. I like it. So, yeah, so new students and guests, your meditation teachers will be working with you how to direct your mind in your lives to utilize the empowerment. And these three are seasoned yogis, so they are focused on developing this game, this vision as a project of enlightenment. And they put their power, they put the empowerment into that. So, we have to look for those wonderful ways in our lives to put this spiritual power into something that's going to grow into something strong and beautiful. Okay. So, thank you into something that's going to grow into something strong and beautiful. Okay. So, thank you all so much. Happy Equinox.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
