0:00:00
Let's begin with meditation. We'll sit for three songs. The first song, we'll meditate on the navel chakra. The second song, we'll move to the heart chakra. Third song, the third eye. Thank you.

0:03:41
Tonight, I would like to share with you the teacher-student relationship. Teachers are pursuit of wisdom, of knowledge. I mean, simple things like, let's say you wanted to learn to read and write Chinese. If you have a great teacher, you can learn very quickly. If you're learning swimming, a good teacher can teach you how to swim fast and be safe.

0:14:10
If you're learning on your own, you might panic, drown, have all sorts of trouble. Or, you know, if your pursuit is the perfection of tiddlywinks, winks. A teacher can help you do whatever you can do with that. So teachers are useful for helping in the pursuit of knowledge. In the inner arts, a teacher is really kind of important. So, if we're talking about the arts of healing, if we're talking about martial arts, if we're talking about meditation and spiritual study, these are very, very, you know, subtle. You can't maybe read a book and then just have that wisdom. It takes a teacher to show you the inner ways of these magical paths. There was a woman in India, her mother fell ill. She had cancer. And the woman started, she got an Ayurvedic healing book and she started to apply different healing techniques to her mother, especially there was a certain herb that was supposed to help. So she gave that that herb to her mother and her mother got progressively worse and worse. And finally, the doctors said, oh, she might only have a couple months to live. And in this, realizing that this wasn't working, she was very, very sad. So she just would like, you know, just to a saint who had passed away.

0:16:28
His name is Shirdi Sai Baba. And she would just have a picture of this saint and just cry to him every night. And then one night, he magically appeared in front of her. And he said, go to South India. There you will find a teacher who can teach you how to heal your mother. So she went to South India and just somehow saw a flyer for this teacher. And then she went and saw the teacher. He taught her. He said, Oh, you want to heal your mother, you're going to have to use this herb.

0:17:12
And she says, I've been doing it, but he taught her how to do it, not just physically, but an approach in her attention to applying the herb. And so she learned this subtlety from him, and within six months, her mother was completely healed. So she had been, you know, she read something in a book, something that was probably pretty good, and she was trying to do it, but she didn't have that, you know, that extra awareness that the master healer had. And he was able to show her that and she was successful. So in the inner arts, the subtlety of the arts, the dimensions of the world, they won't see it. They won't get it. They'll completely miss what is essential, and then they won't gain the power of the art. I remember a time these two brothers came into my dojo, and they were young and strong, and they watched a lot of martial arts movies growing up as kids. And then they practiced everything that they saw in the movies. And they were very, you know, they were able to do multiple strikes, rolls, jumps, flips, splits, kicks, everything. They looked like any martial artist in the movies. They were jumping around. So, at the dojo, they came in and they were showing off these amazing techniques, techniques Jumping spinning kicks and all this beautiful stuff and then it came time for sparring and An orange belt from my dojo faced one of them and The orange part was like, oh this guy looks so amazing. It's like I don't know what's gonna happen but when they when they started the Sparring practice the orange belt easily beat him.

0:20:05
And then the other brother goes in against a green belt and easily the green belt won. So these guys were very talented, but they missed the inner power. There's much more to martial arts than the physical aspect. You know, a good dancer could learn martial arts very quickly. It's just a choreography, unless you learn the power of the art. And that comes from a teacher.

0:20:43
A sensei is able to convey the deeper dimensions of the art, so that you can gain power. And that's an experience of transformation. In the inner arts, whenever you learn the powers of the arts, whether it's healing or meditation, you transform, you change. And you become the greater, more aware being from the transformation. So, this is the use of a teacher in the inner arts, otherwise you won't get it. in spirituality, they read a book, they hear some Zen Dharma talk, they go to a Vipassana retreat, and then they go, oh yeah, I get it, I know lots of things, all right, I get it. But they are unaware of the deeper dimensions of spirituality, and they just have ideas, and they think that those ideas are spirituality. They go, yep, I have a definition of enlightenment, good enough for me, right? So they miss the way. There was a time in the New York Meditation Center where there a rinpoche who he was going to go to dharmasala for a three-month retreat and he had a senior student named Christopher and he said, okay Christopher while I'm gone you're going to be giving the weekly dharma talks and so he went away and Christopher got up for the weekly dharma talk, the first one, and he started giving his talk and he's telling people, well, you know, I've come to understand this, this and this, and he was, you know, expressing his ideas and his insights. And while he was talking, the Rinpoche came back, and he came in a door behind Christopher.

0:23:14
And everyone's all, oh, wow, okay. And the Rinpoche just stopped and listened to Christopher. And Christopher was talking and talking, and the Rinpoche was like, oh, God. He's like, what is he doing? He's shaking his head. And everybody in the audience is kind of like laughing. They're all giggling, because Christopher says, and then this happened. And then the Rinpoche is like, oh goodness, right?

0:23:40
And then they're giggling and Christopher thinks that they like what he's saying. So he goes on and finally the Rinpoche comes over to him and taps him on the shoulder. And then he says, all of these years you've studied with me and still you're an idiot. So he said, and he said, so now, you know, I can't go on my retreat because then the Dharma will, Buddhism would not be taught here, it would be Christopher-ism. So, but this is what people do with spirituality. you know, grasp, grasping, and then they say, oh, I know everything.

0:24:27
Oh, I know it all. And yet, they don't have a deep spiritual awareness. They don't have insight into the truth, the Dharma, enlightenment. So that's something where, through working with a teacher, you're able to create an opening. Through that humility, you're able to see more, more than just the physical. intellectual grasping of Buddhism is important. So it's not like you should not read any books and not have any ideas and just, I don't know, trust that the universe is teaching you something. There's a lot of wonderful things about books and ideas, but it's not enough. There's many more dimensions to understand.

0:25:45
So, my words are good, but between my words, there's a teaching. There are two types of teachers. Exoteric teachers and esoteric teachers. Exoteric teachers, they can teach you about observances, considerations, books, you know. These are what we call the outer teachings. These are things that you can, you know, you can gain knowledge about different subjects through the exoteric teachings. But the esoteric teacher is the inner teacher. They teach you things that cannot be said in words.

0:26:56
They transmit awareness. They transmit energy, kundalini energy, spiritual energy. And they shift your state of mind to higher planes. planes, they open up different dimensions of spirituality. None of these things can be done in words. You can't read a book and have these experiences. And esoteric teachers are spiritual teachers who bring you to a direct experience of spirit and light. So, I'm an esoteric teacher, and when you sit with me, I'll talk about things that are constructive and insightful, the words, there's a spiritual experience. Experience is the most important aspect of the study. In experiencing light and spirit, you gain wisdom. So an exoteric teacher teaches knowledge, and there's a difference between knowledge and wisdom. Knowledge is of the world of intellect, but wisdom is of the world of your eternal Wisdom is gained through the inner teachings and direct experience of light.

0:28:57
So I also teach structures of exoteric teachings. There are some esoteric teachers that you go and see in a cave, right? Or on top of a mountain, and they just sit there, and you go and see them, and you go, wow, I had some experience. Cool. But I have a balance of the inner teachings and the outer teachings, because they work together to help in the West, you have to be very, very practical about your physical life. So a complete esoteric teaching or focus on esoteric teachings might bring you to very interesting spiritual realizations, but then your physical life could become out of balance, and then you can't go further in your spiritual realizations. There must be a balance. So, you can have bright spiritual experiences, but then you have to make your physical life stronger, and then you can have brighter spiritual experiences, This is a balance.

0:30:23
This is what Buddha did as soon as he became enlightened under the Bodhi tree. He was in these really high states of mind, and he said, this is so good. I don't even know if this is real. And then he touched the ground, and he said, aha, from that mudra that they call test, he was able to see that the highest dimensions of mind and most enlightened awarenesses are also in balance with the physical world. So this is achieved through a focus on your physical life and also the inner teachings. And it's great. Now, a teacher is a guide. You're on the pathway to enlightenment, and you want to get there, but where is it? You don't know. And whatever occurs to you, maybe I'll go and follow the path this way or that way, you might get lost. So a teacher has been there, and the teacher has come back to bring you to the destination. So they just know the way. It's like if you were suddenly on your sailboat in the middle of the ocean and you want to go to Hawaii, unless you know, unless you're a sailor, if you don't know how to navigate there, there's everywhere to go and you might, you very well may miss it. But then the teacher appears on a jet ski and says, oh, you want to go to Hawaii? Come on, let's go. And you follow the teacher and you get to Hawaii just in time for my tiki party. Yeah, so a teacher A teacher is simply a guide.

0:32:55
They know the way. And it's safer and easier to work to get to the destination with a teacher. Teachers also help you to get over obstacles in life. So on the path to liberation, we have physical obstacles. Like you might find that you have a lot of stress and anxiety about your career. You might find that your physical body is in pain or out of shape, you know, and a teacher will help you to address those things. You have to make your career strong. You have to make your body strong. These are good things that create greater balance in your life. But a spiritual teacher will also help you to address the inner obstacles. These are obstacles like fear.

0:34:21
The teacher will teach you to overcome fear. Or if you have sadness and depression. This could be crippling to someone's life and their spirit, but a teacher can show you the way through. Or anger. A teacher can show you the way out of anger. There's a story of a monk. He was going around, walking through the village one day, and a Brahmin, this was a Buddhist monk, and a Brahmin saw him and he was angry at the Buddhists. So, the Brahmin picked up a big rock and he threw it and hit the Buddhist monk in the face and really hurt him. And he fell down unconscious, and then he had to heal for weeks.

0:35:21
And then after healing, he was really upset, he was angry. And he went over to his teacher, and he said, I'm just gonna be self-honest here. I'm angry at that Brahmin." And then he's like, I want to kill him. Buddhist monk, right? Yeah, but he was honest. He was very angry and he wanted to kill the Brahmin. And then the teacher is like, why? And he says, obviously he threw that rock at me. And then the Buddhist master says, but the rock is what hurt you, so kill the rock. And then the monk was like, no, that doesn't make any sense. He's like, the rock didn't do it. I mean, like, he picked up the rock. The rock had no say in it. The rock was helplessly thrown, right?

0:36:31
It was the guy who did it. And then the Master said, Oh, then you should kill the pain and suffering of the guy. because that's what drove him to helplessly pick up a rock and throw it at you. And then the monk was like, oh, that's interesting, because if that guy didn't have his pain and suffering, he would have been happy. But that pain and suffering drove him to this terrible action.

0:37:12
And then the master said, you have to love him. And then the monk said, I see, you know. And he was able to completely forgive and all of his anger was gone. He was able to see a way out of his anger by seeing truth. So this is the teachings. They show you a way beyond what we normally think. And they show you a higher way that frees you from obstacles.

0:37:49
Now, a teacher teaches with structures. There's a certain way we do things. There's a certain process. You might not understand the process, but it's a way of being developmental. It's a spiritual methodology that is very, very strong for teaching you the inner awareness, the spiritual teachings of liberation. And there are things on the outside that we work through. Just like if you went to a karate class, there's a structure there, right? If you're a white belt, they wouldn't put you in a sparring match with a black belt, because, you know, in the beginning, that would be very, very difficult for you. But as you develop, as you learn, as you grow, when you start to get to your intermediate belts, then sparring with a black belt is very, very helpful for you.

0:39:31
It's something where you can, you learn more, right? Scuba diving has a structure When they're teaching you to scuba dive if they teach you in the right structure, then it's very very Helpful and then you learn how to do something really cool. Go underwater and breathe And I love that about scuba diving it's like the point of scuba diving is breathe That's nice or maybe it's don't die. And yeah, and if you learned it wrong, then you know, it'd be like, okay, here's your equipment, and then jump. Ooh.

0:40:12
It could not work out so well. Yeah, so teachers teach in structures. And in the West, we often think that the teacher has to give us the knowledge. The teacher has to make us learn. But in the East, we have a recognition that the student is responsible for learning. The teacher has to provide the right information, you know, be competent and, you know, follow the structures, but it's the responsibility of the student to actually learn. Now, I remember seeing something so amazing once. There was this, it was a martial artist. He had 10 people holding boards, and he goes running at it, and he kicks in one jump, all these 10 kicks, and he breaks all the boards.

0:41:30
And it's like, wow, how did he do that. He, at one point, started off as a white belt, but then he found himself doing amazing things. And that's what we gain. We start off in a condition of the beginner, but through the teachings, when we really say, I am going to learn this, then you find yourself doing amazing things that you never thought you would be able to do before. So teachers are able to advance you beyond any idea that you have of yourself. You find yourself doing great things, amazing things. Like, teach you to be faster than a calculator. Step one, have legs. Okay? But it's incredible. You'll be able to push yourself beyond any concept that you have to take responsibility. You have to say, I'm going to learn this. I'm going to do my best. And it's learning something that you have to almost feel. This is where your eyes and open your heart. Because what a teacher teaches, an esoteric teacher, is not just words and ideas. There was a layman who would go to this Zen Do every week, and the Dharma talk and he enjoyed it and you know, he got he learned things and everything and he was there for years, maybe 10 15 years and One day he was after the Dharma talk he was standing by the garden and then the Zen master approached him And the Zen master said Do you want to learn something of Zen?" And he says, Yeah, sure, I mean, I'm always learning stuff from you about Zen.

0:44:02
And then the Zen master says, No, you've never learned anything about Zen. And then he's like, But I always go to your Dharma talks, I'm always here. How am I not learning? And then he says, Okay. So then the Zen master kind of squats down, and then he goes, Come here.

0:44:27
So then the man squats down and the Zen master looks at him in the eyes and he says, we need to make a pact. He's like, very important spiritual agreement. Okay? And then the man says, okay. And then he said, I teach, you learn, okay? And then the man says, okay. And then they stand up. And then the man has a spiritual insight.

0:45:07
Where did that come from? He just had some, oh wow, I have insight. he started to Learn the these inner realizations From the Zen master when he's doing Dharma talks or when the Zen master is walking in the garden He started to see the deeper dimensions But at first he was there for years and he didn't He wasn't taking responsibility. He was just accepting the words. But you'll totally miss the plot if you don't open your heart. You have to, you know, you have to feel into the teachings. So you don't want to miss it. Missing it would be bad.

0:46:04
All right, so there was this Buddhist teacher with two students. And he opened up a book and he read a very cryptic passage. And then he said, All right, what Tibetan master wrote those words and One of the students said oh man, I don't know and he's like Yoda and Then the sec and then the teacher laughs That's cute, right? But then the second student goes Yoda's Tibetan It was like missing the plot.

0:46:50
Your guru does not Google. If If that was it, just Google everything and then you're enlightened. Google your way to enlightenment. So a teacher has a lot of information, but it's not just information that they provide. Yeah, and it's funny. When I first started teaching years ago, I would have these Chinese ladies come to my class and they were like, when's my daughter going to get married? They would ask me all these funny questions like I'm a fortune teller and I'm like, oh I am a fortune teller. So I said, oh I see you will come into money.

0:47:49
You know, things like, what lottery number, what numbers for the lottery should I choose? I'm like, you give numbers out. Oh man, I should have kept them. Anyway, so a teacher has information, yes, but they also are providing inner guidance, like profound ways ways of seeing They show you the way to truth Okay, a Zen monk was with his teacher and he and he says master what is the way to enlightenment and the master says There's no way to enlightenment. And then he said but you're enlightened. What was the way? And he goes, oh, there's no way. And then he says, but you teach us to meditate. Isn't that the way? And he says, there is no way.

0:48:59
Then he said, but you you always are giving us these long Dharma talks. Isn't that the way to enlightenment? And the teacher says, that's not the way to enlightenment. And then he says, well, oh, and he has this realization. There's no way to enlightenment because enlightenment is here. How could there be a way to here? We're just here. Teachers show you these amazing things. It's like, but it comes from a realization. You can't just Google, what's the way to enlightenment? You'll get an answer.

0:49:45
That's the bad part. You might get a Google Maps or something like that. And then you follow it and go, ah, enlightenment was always with you. Yeah, so it's good to listen to the teachings because they bring you outside of your conceptual view of life and yourself. But you don't have to follow like a teacher's every word unless it makes sense to you. So it's not like when you have a guru, you want to learn and test. This is what Buddha said. He said, do not take what I say on faith. Not at all. He said, listen to my teachings, test them out, if they work, then you got it. So, when a teacher teaches, you try it, you practice it, and you see if it works for you. This is very important. All of the spiritual teachings are things that should bring you to understanding and should bring you to a greater sense of a higher self and should give you more truth. So these are things that you have to put into practice, test out, see how they work, see what your experience is. This is how you learn on the path. One more story. There was a Zen monk with his master, and he said, Master, I want to experience Zen in every moment. How do I do it? And the master says, Oh yeah, okay, yeah, I'll teach you over tea, so make me some tea." And then the Zen monk starts the fire, puts the pot on, puts the tea in, serves the tea.

0:52:39
They have the tea, was being mindful in the moment, in Zen. So the teacher brought him into a process of realization of Zen in every moment. So, teachers are people insight and wisdom, they are guides, but they bring you into the experience of spirit. And that's what's good. All right. We're going to take a break, 15 minutes or so. Then we'll come back and talk a little bit more, meditate a little bit more. Thank you. All right, how about we meditate together again? Let's sit up straight, and we'll sit for three songs. the the the Thank you.

0:54:41
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. the the the the so So You Thank you.

0:55:54
the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the Thank you.

0:57:53
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the the the the Thank you. the the Thank you. the the the the the the the So so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, So So, a teacher doesn't tell you what you want to hear. A lot of people go to a teacher and say, oh, guru, tell me how wonderful I am, you know, tell me all of my good spiritual qualities a teacher Will really point out problems?

1:08:34
If you have a good spiritual quality great you got it But if there's if there's a problem, that's what the teacher is there to point out So you might be like Oh teacher. Welcome to my home. Now, what I want you to do is help me to make a nice fire in my fireplace Because I'm cold and then the teacher says well, the problem is that it's snowing and you don't have a roof So I'm gonna help you with that part and then you say oh well That's interesting. But teacher I would rather you would help me with the fireplace because that's what I'm interested in A teacher is a spiritual friend. They are a friend to your spirit. Not a conventional friend. A conventional friend sometimes is an accomplice to your limitations. But a spiritual friend is someone who really sees the truth of your potential. And then they show you ways to grow. Now, spiritual teachers are often kind of hard. They're not easy, not just like, oh no, everything's cool. They'll push you. They'll push you to doing something that maybe you didn't want to do, but then But then you you try it out. Remember you go on I'll take that teaching I'll work on it a little bit see if it works and then you say wow, that was really good You know some some of the most amazing transformations and Spiritual insights come from doing what you would normally not want to do So a teacher will say You know, it's it's really funny people just plan out their lives. They come up with all these ideas and plans Okay This is my life and how everything's gonna go to make me happy and then the teacher will look at that say wow That is a path to misery right from from From where you're looking at it. It looks good right? But if you were elevated into a higher state, you would say, wow, that would lead me into difficulty, hardship, and suffering. So a teacher, you know, is able to see a more profound way and to help you take steps toward it. Now, with a spiritual teacher, you don't have to, like, have faith, right?

1:11:21
So don't take the teachings on faith. Try them, work on them. You don't even need to love the teacher. I mean, if you have faith and you love the teacher, then, yeah, kudos for you. That's nice. But what's most important is that you have respect for the teacher. Without respect, the spiritual transference doesn't work. If you have doubts and distractions, then it won't work. with a teacher, one must recognize the conditions, the situation, the environment, the opportunity, and then have the proper level of respect. So you don't have to be like all bowing and touching the feet of the guru and all that stuff. If that's in your heart, then that's great, but there must be proper respect.

1:12:32
And that's how you learn the way. Now, one of my students is a black belt in Iaido, and that's the art of drawing the samurai sword. And he studies with this teacher. And this teacher, when you first see him practicing, he's tremendously powerful. He's racist, and he talks about garbage all the time. He's just this poor excuse for a human being. But, if he's in the dojo and you're facing him with his sword, you have respect for him. You have tremendous respect for him. That's where he's no longer the way of the sword master. And so when you have that level of respect, then you can learn the way of the sword master. And then when you're out, you know, grabbing a bite to eat with him just to plug your ears.

1:14:19
Yeah. Yeah, so respect is necessary. That's it. Teachers, often, spiritual teachers, often teach in ways that you don't understand. You don't get why they would teach in this way or that way. You might have your own ideas. You would say, you know what would be better than what you're saying? Is what I'm saying. So people have all sorts of ideas. They're like, the teacher will teach something, and then the student will be like, well, I read in a book something different.

1:14:58
And then, you know, then the teacher walks away. But you might not understand what the lesson is or why a teacher's showing you a certain way. Because this is a path of undoing the mind. The mind has a level of understanding, ideas and concepts. And the spiritual teacher teacher is trying to get through and past those concepts and ideas. So they'll have you do something that's very powerful and truth and Dharma, but you won't know why you're doing it for a while. Like the story of Milarepa, Tibet's great yogi, thousand years ago he went to this teacher, Marpa, and he said, I would like to learn the way to enlightenment.

1:16:08
And Marpa said, okay, great. He said, first, take those rocks over there and build me a stone tower, seven story stone tower. And so Milarepa said, oh, okay, so I guess he wants me to do some work for him before he gives me the teachings. So he goes over and he starts building the tower, and then Marpa would like sabotage him all the time. He'd come over and say, oh, I didn't, you shouldn't have built it there. I wanted you to build it here.

1:16:42
And then he does that a few times, and then finally he's all, you know what, actually I don't even need the stone tower. I want you to build like a meditation hall over there for me. And so Milarepa is just going, well, yeah, he wants me to do this and this. I don't know what's going on. And he was really stressed. I was really terrible for him. But then Marpa eventually said, okay, now you've burned off karma through your work and now I can teach you to meditate perfectly." So, by having him do some karma yoga, he was teaching him, teaching him how to overcome the obstacles in his mind so that he could meditate.

1:17:33
I remember not too long ago, I had a student from Hungary come over to visit. And he comes over, this is his two week vacation, and he's like, all right, I'm coming to America, and I'm gonna do all these really fun things, and I'll meditate with my teachers, it's gonna be wonderful. And then he got here, and I said, oh, come here, here's a computer, oh, work on this, and do this, and do this, so he sat there for his whole vacation like working. And you know, and this is before he got the teachings of karma yoga and enlightenment through work.

1:18:12
But he was like, why am I doing this? And then after a little while, he was like, aha. There's there's something that you learn by going through these processes There's actually these teaching so, you know you come you want to come out and have a vacation and then you end up working and it was like 12 hours a day work and Then finally, aha some kind of spiritual realization By doing something that you wouldn't have thought to do That's really really excellent and Sometimes people will you know judge a teacher they'll say oh that teacher Did something wrong That's bad, right and you should never do that, because you never know.

1:19:17
Like there was this great teacher in Tibet named Padmasambhava, and this mother and father bring their son, who's about 12 years old, over to him, and then they say, oh, we have this wonderful boy, and please, Padmasambhava, give him a blessing." So Padmasambhava says, Oh, okay. And Padmasambhava breaks his nose and breaks it really bad and leaves a big scar. And they say, Oh my God, why did you do that? And Padmasambhava says, Well, I can see the boy's karma.

1:20:00
And he would have grown up and been full of pride, but now that his nose is crooked and he has that scar, he won't have that pride, and he'll be able to be enlightened. And so the parents are all, thank you for punching our son in the physical limited way of looking at things, it might look bad. But they might have a bigger picture. Or maybe Padmasambhava was just mad at the kid. And then he makes up that, oh yeah, I helped him out. Oh sure. So No, Padmasambhava was completely, you know, enlightened master. He knew the inner ways.

1:20:59
So teachers can see things that the students can't. And even if it's something that looks difficult or hard, you know, it might be great. Once Buddha was yelling at one of his students. There was a monk there and Buddha was like, rah rah rah rah rah rah rah rah rah rah. He's all, you're ugly, you stink, you know. He said mean things to the student. And then the student's all, yes master.

1:21:30
And he goes away. And then there's some random Brahmin hanging out, and he goes, you're a mean teacher. You know, you did something to this guy that like hurts him. And then Buddha said, if you had like something stuck in your teeth, right, in your gums, right, and it hurt every time you were chewing, then if you, if I came and pulled it out, and pulling it out hurt like a lot for a short period, but then it frees you of that continuous pain, wouldn't that be worth it?" And the brahmin said, well, I guess so. So sometimes a teacher might be sharp with you, or scare you, or something like and they're doing it to free you. So obviously, when he yelled at his monk, it was to correct his attention.

1:22:31
My great teacher, he was very stern most of the time. He was stern, but he was hilarious. He would take the whole group of us and be like, you guys are making all of these mistakes, you guys are doing these things wrong, but while he was doing it, he was extremely funny. So I'm laughing and going, oh God, I have to change my life. So, yeah. Yeah. Teachers, teachers are funny. Yeah, teachers are truly funny. Like there was this one Zen master, and a monk comes to him and says, Zen master, can you help me with something? And the Zen master says, no, I'm busy.

1:23:24
And the monk's just sitting there, the Zen master's not doing anything. So he's like, well, what are you busy doing? And he says, nothing. And then he's like, okay. So he goes away because he's a little confused, and he comes back the next day. And he says, Zen Master, can you help me with something? The Zen Master says, no, I'm busy. And he goes, busy doing what? And he said, nothing. And the monk says, well, you were busy doing nothing yesterday. And then the Zen master says, I am still busy doing nothing. It's so funny. I'm not done yet doing nothing. It's just so cute how spiritual teachers are masters of distraction. All my stories and my jokes are a distraction. So they'll do something like, oh look, here's some shiny coins. You like the shiny coins and you say yeah Shiny coins nickels and dimes and quarters Wow, you know and they're like, yeah, that's what I want And then they're like, here you go. There's one. Oh, here's another one and you're like, wow, this is what it's all about I'm making money here. This is good but while you're getting the coins in your hands the spiritual teachers pulling out like you know hundred dollar bills and putting them in your back pocket and you're like, I'm getting the coins.

1:25:18
Distraction. There's a story about, there was a very wealthy young woman and she hurt her eye somehow and it was like festering and she kept on scratching it and it didn't get better. And she gets a doctor. The doctor gives her some medicine for her eye, but when she put the medicine on her eye, it hurt more, so she didn't want the medicine. And she kept on itching it and itching it, and then she goes to her Buddhist teacher and says, I've got this problem with my eye. And then he says, Oh, I can fix that very easily. No problem. He said but there's something worse going on She says what? He's like, well, I don't know if I should tell you because it's really bad and she's like, oh no What is it? And then he says?

1:26:16
You're going to grow a tail and It's gonna be a nine foot long tail and that tail is gonna grow any day now." And she's like, I'm going to grow a tail, oh no! So she stops worrying about her eye, and she starts always looking for a tail. She's like focusing on her tail. Distraction. It's proper distractions. They're good. So there were these two Zen masters telling each other jokes, and I was walking by. I only caught the punchline of one of the jokes, and the punchline was, so then she says, you only live once.

1:27:18
It's a reincarnation joke. Yeah, so. But teachers are like laughing the most. They're just having a great time. You know, there's a saying that there's always a tear in the eye of the Buddha, and that is a tear of compassion, but it's also the Buddha just laughing a lot. True story, there was this this Lama, Tibetan Lama, and his students would come to him with lots of problems, business problems, relationship problems, practice problems, and they would come over and they loved their teacher because whenever they came to him with a problem, he would just like listen and just, he would start to just weep. And he's like, just crying, listening, and they're all like, he has so much compassion for us. And then, you know, then later on he admitted to them, yeah, that's how I laugh. Like, when I'm really, when something's really funny, I just make this grimace and tears come. So he's just all like, all the time. So he was just laughing. They're all like, oh, I have this problem with my meditation. It's horrible. And then he would just Cry listening to them Just having a great time That's what it's all about And and teachers They they work with you where you're at and they also see the best in you So, you know, you might be like well And they also see the best in you.

1:29:13
So you might be like, well, wow, if a teacher is so great, I'm a mess, right? That would be a humble thought, rather than, I'm so fantastic. So the teacher, they see where you're at, and they'll work with you. So there was a bunch of monks in Tibet, and one monk, he was kind of a new monk, and he was so bothered by the other monks, so he was dealing with his anger issues. And they were in a class learning to make thangkas, these spiritual paintings of Buddhas and Bodhisattvas. And he was in the class and he was drawing this big Heruka, some scary, monstrous Dharma protector, right? And he was drawing it, and then he started putting his classmates in the picture, being by this Heruka. And the students, the other monks, they look at it and they're horrified. They're all, that's me! It's me, I have the little dimple or whatever. And then they're all like, yeah, it's you. This is what I want for you. So he's like having fun. And then the teacher comes over and looks at it. And the teacher smiles and says, my, you're a great artist.

1:30:54
We can work with this. There's places we can go, right? There's something to work on. Wishing for your fellow monks to be eaten by a Dharma protector? That's also a step in a good direction. At least it's a Dharma protector. It will be eating away their defilements. There we go. See always look at things in a good way So a teacher is someone who affords you Spiritual energy as well. There's a transmission a transference of Kundalini and It helps you to move along in the spiritual path.

1:31:32
Like, if you sit down to meditate without a teacher, then when you meditate, it's like really heavy and it's hard, because you can bring up a little bit of Kundalini, as a beginner. But what a teacher can do is, a teacher can bring a whole bunch of Kundalini, and bring it up in you. They can transfer energy and they can affect your energy. And it's very, very helpful. And you say, wow, my meditation is out of this world. It's magical. Versus if you're sitting in your room by yourself just trying. And a teacher does this not only but even when we're apart, it's an internal connection. So, you know, it's a way to lift you up.

1:32:31
It's like, you know, training wheels on a bicycle. It's something that boosts you. And then eventually you have the power and you have the ability and you can take the training wheels off and you have the balance. So, the relationship is not a devotee relationship. It's not a relationship where you say, oh, guru, I'm going to grovel at your feet and feel weird about myself. It's a relationship where you're an apprentice to a master. So the master is very good at what they do, and the apprentice learns.

1:33:22
They learn how to do what the master does. So it's not that, you know, you will never be where the guru is. You will become a guru. You will learn all of the things in the study, and you will master it yourself. The devotee relationship, it can work, but it tends to be in the West when people do that, that they're kind of giving responsibility to the master. Master, enlighten me. Master, why have you not made me enlightened yet? And I'm just comfortable looking at you like you're a god. There's good things about that. I mean, like in Tibetan Buddhism, in yogic practices, they always start with Guru Yoga. And this is where you will visualize the guru, chant the guru's name, see the guru coming to you and it is a very beautiful thing and it's very very powerful and elevating.

1:34:30
However, it has to be really authentic. If it's not authentic and coming from your heart, if it's just you, it's just ideas, it doesn't make any sense. And if there's a separation through that saying, oh guru, you're great and I grovel, then it's not useful. I remember going to a school of Bhakti yoga, the path of love, where they practiced devotion to their guru. And I was looking at the students, and they were all going through the motions, like bowing and, you know, chanting and stuff like that, but hardly any of them were authentic. They were just going through the motions. And if there's no true love and devotion, then going through the motions is kind of useless.

1:35:26
So this is a school of apprenticeship, not devotion, where there are disciplines that you develop, you learn it from the master, and then you become the master. It's really, really kind of wonderful. So, yeah, there's a beautiful dance between teacher and student, and it's a very important aspect of understanding in the spiritual study. When you're learning with an esoteric teacher, there's a lot of magic, magical, wonderful things. There's miracles that happen in your life. Like, there was this one miracle I heard about where a woman was driving somewhere in India, out in the middle of nowhere, she got lost.

1:36:31
And it was 1 a.m. in the morning. And then she chanted her guru's name, and then all of a sudden, some other car comes out of nowhere. And then she flags him down, tells him, I'm lost. And they say, oh yeah, I'm going to the same place, just follow me there. And she's like, it's a guru miracle. And I'm like, oh, yeah, or it's a coincidence. But thinking of it as a guru miracle is even better.

1:36:59
Or, let's see, we were in India with Ganga Nath, and we were going to fly from South India to North India. And we heard of, we were, we went to this ashram of this guru who's passed away, but Guru Ram Sarath Kumar, if you say his name in a time of trouble, he will, he will magically solve your problems. So we were late for our flight. We were going to be, late and then Ganga Nath says, we need a mechanical error on the plane that will buy us an hour. And then he's like, Yogi Ram Sarakumar, Yogi Ram Sarakumar. And I was like, we're going to miss the plane. And then we, and if we didn't have that, we would have missed the plane. So that was, that was a Christmas miracle. Yeah, so there's all sorts of stories of people experiencing miracles and magic and coincidences that they think are miracles. When they bring their teacher to mind, protection is one. There was a woman driving and she somehow, another car was coming at her and she had to swerve and she went off the road and the car was going to go down this cliff. And she says her guru's name and the car goes down, rolls, breaks, all sorts of trouble, and the car is completely demolished and she doesn't have a scratch.

1:39:00
And she says, thank you, guru. So having an esoteric teacher, it's true that they can offer dimensions of protection and miraculous experiences. So there's a well of magic when you have an esoteric teacher. So don't miss the magic. If you think if you look at things in just a very physical way you won't see it, but there's there's great blessings So I'd like to Give you an esoteric teaching To do this You'll sit up straight maybe have a light focus on the third eye and We will sit just for one song, and you look up here towards me, and I will give you a teaching that's a profound teaching on enlightenment.

1:40:13
The kind of teaching a teacher gives to a student, but the teaching will have no words. Just sit. Don't have to concentrate so much. Just look up this way. So, so So Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, you Very nice. That is the essence of the teacher-student relationship. Now this is important. When you experience this, it is completely beyond words. It is beyond the physical world. It's an experience of light and you say, oh, yeah, that was something, something in your spirit has recognition.

1:45:47
But then after you say, eh, that was nothing. You know, oh, I saw this thing, but, ah, nah, whatever. It's not a big deal. Or you, you, you take it like, I don't know, maybe my eyes are playing tricks on me So it's important to have a recognition of what that inner experiences in words and When you can bring it into words and you're starting to bring more awareness of that inner world into your physical reality So I'd like to go around Just have a few people in the audience share what they experienced during that teaching. It also really helps people who think they didn't have any experience. They're like, I didn't experience anything.

1:46:44
Because someone will say, well, I had this, I felt this, or I saw that. And then you'll say, oh yeah, I did too. That's true. Only I couldn't put it into words until somebody else shared it and then you go, oh, so that is happening. All right, so if we could, who would like to share an experience? Raise your hands. Hi, okay, I can't see but anyway, we have someone with a microphone perhaps Yeah, there we go So I saw you grow taller, your shape was changing, and then you were sometimes shrinking as well. And the appearance of your face was shifting at times. And I saw the background also kind of swirling and moving like it was liquid. Fantastic. So I saw your body coming closer to me and the background going further away.

1:48:05
And I also saw the whole room just kind of waving around like it was under the ocean or something. I felt warmth knowing you were giving to us. Hi, I kind of regret I could get more out of this experience, but I start focusing on visual effects and the body was like, became fluid and disappearing and then you didn't On your right side, it's my left side, I saw two Russian churches from Moscow. But it started as more powerful, but then I started watching and I lost it. I saw a bunch of past lives where you were my teacher. The first one was in Tibet where you were a mystical master showing all these magic techniques and doing magic and you teaching us the magic. And there was another past life where you were, I guess a general in an army, and you were teaching swordsmanship to us and leading us in battle.

1:50:38
And there was all these past lives of you being the teacher and your students learning powerful things from you. And in the last one, it was one where you were a classic Buddhist teacher and you gave an empowerment on the third eye which formed this golden pill that was, I guess, I think a lot of you saw that. In the beginning I started to feel all disrespect what you were talking about and later I saw you and all your masters inside you. You were changing your face into their face and it seemed that you are never without them. And you are also teaching us that we are never without you. And I saw lots of different lives what you were showing to us and everywhere you are just shining everybody's life.

1:52:25
It just felt peace and closeness, and a lot of it did have to do with past lives. Something hard to say, but oftentimes, well, you feel it, or sometimes you see it. Yeah. Very, very good. How about we take another break, and then we'll come back, and I'll answer a few questions, and then that'll be great. So, thank you.

1:53:28
Before I go into my Disney princess diary and answer some of your questions, I'd like to talk a little bit more about an important subject. How do you find a teacher? Open your eyes. Okay. Now, I think there's an app for that. You're all like, you're all, Swami with an orange robe, you're all, no, next, and you're all, Shaolin monk, nah, too much fighting. Tibetan for sure, I don't know. That reminds So, you know, they say that when the student is ready, the teacher will appear. And that's super lame that they say that. Because with an esoteric teacher, when the teacher is ready, the student will appear. Yeah, I haven't, you know, my school was closed to the public for eight years. And I said, oh, this is time. I create an inner opening.

1:55:07
And I reach out to you in subtle ways. Some people recognize having dreams with me before they ever met me. So, when I was ready, I want to learn this stuff. Okay, well, let's see. Oh, there was this one teacher of mysticism. He was a spiritual teacher, but he was really into, like, magic. And a guy goes over to him and says, oh I want to learn magic from you. Can I learn magic from you? And he says, no, because you'll use it to hurt somebody someday. And he says, no, I promise I won't. Then the teacher says, okay, let's begin. Close your eyes. And he puts his finger on the third eye. And then he takes his finger off, the guy opens his eyes, and then he has a magical book, opens up the book and he learns. He spends years with the master, learning all about magic and mysticism and power, and is teaching others. Then one day, a pesky Buddhist monk comes to town and says, you shouldn't practice magic, and he talks about magic being something that creates attachment and all sorts of problems spiritually for you. So some of this magician's students start quitting the school because this monk starts saying, don't practice magic. So the magician gets very angry. And then after more and more students are quitting and becoming Buddhists, he eventually decides, and he does his magic on the monk, and he casts a spell.

1:57:39
The moment he casts the spell, everything falls dark, and then he feels something on his third eye, and it moves, and he opens his eyes, and he's back to the very moment that he started to learn from his master. And his master says, see? He's like, I told you, someday you would use it to hurt someone. He's like, so I can't teach you. So an esoteric teacher will really reach out to people with very good karma and make an opening, an opportunity for them. And for people who it's not right right for, they won't even make it into the room. Yes, this is a situation that is not a coincidence. When you are seeking to find a teacher, to follow the spiritual path, it's very simple. You just take the opportunities that are before you. It doesn't have to be like this, like, shopping for Buddhas, you know, forever. Like, you say, I see an opportunity, so I will take it. It's kind of like, oh yeah, I want to take karate, but I just haven't found the right sensei yet. No, you just take karate.

1:59:09
You know, you just start. Maybe your path takes you somewhere else. But in the beginning, the first important thing to do is start. You know, it doesn't have to be perfect. It just has to be... you just have to start. Activate yourself. And then you start moving along the spiritual path. You might find that one teacher is a stepping stone to another experience, another teacher. You might find that you have two teachers or three teachers. Yeah, it's not necessary to just have one teacher. You're always available to study with other people. If it makes your life better, your meditation better, you know, then that's great. It moves you along.

2:00:08
Yeah, I learned from many people. So I've learned from many teachers, many masters. I've learned from Tso Wong. He's a Tibetan Khenpo who left the monastery because he's like, yeah, monastery is a certain experience of spirituality, but he's like, I want to go beyond that. So he comes over to the West. So, so long, I learned from him, not just in the teachings that he gives, but in his being, it's a very profound thing. So anyone who teaches you something powerful about spirit is a teacher, is a guru. If it helps you, then that's good.

2:01:07
If you see some practices or some things that teachers show you that detract from your personal power, your happiness, the stillness of your mind, then maybe don't practice those. But definitely, it's possible to learn from many teachers. So, all of you who are guests here are invited to join my school. I think it will be very beneficial and happy and powerful, enlightening, literally, for you. You would still work with your meditation teacher, have your weekly meditations, work on the enlightenment workbook, develop yourself, and then we would start to have a connection and transmission from me directly. And during this time, I'd like to make this offer. I I don't know how long the school is going to be open. This is a beautiful opportunity. With new students, I don't accept donations or tuition or anything. But what I do like is, every time that you come to the meditation seminar, if you bring for me. You could buy one, you could make one, you could just write something on a napkin.

2:02:56
Here's my dirty napkin. I wrote, I love you. Oh, thanks. You know, but this is a way that we start to develop a dialogue. I like funny things, but anything that you want to say in a few words. So it's been a pleasure meditating with you and sharing the teacher-student relationship. These were sent to me earlier. Okay. I am overwhelmed with happiness and joy after meeting this school and becoming your student. I feel so much gratitude for this opportunity. What can I do to support the school? Be successful. Be successful. Take the opportunities that you have here and make yourself strong. Like, really take this opportunity to learn to meditate very well. Practice your mindfulness.

2:04:17
Do the Enlightenment Workbook. Make your career very, very strong. So take advantage of this and do well. I want you to be the master, right? Master all of these skills, master these disciplines, make yourself a success. And that will be supporting the school. What would happen if Sambara stopped meditating? The universe would end. It would be a... I don't know. So, what would happen if a fish stopped swimming? I don't know. Nothing? Okay, so, I have got to a place in meditation where my mind is always still. So where somebody would like sit there and work on meditating, I'm like already there. So if I am not sitting in a daily meditation practice, I am already meditating. Now I like to meditate daily because I can go higher, but I have gotten to a level of integration in meditation where I'm always in a state of meditation.

2:06:22
I had a dream that we were on a spaceship together, like the Starship Enterprise. You were in the captain's chair, and I was an engineering officer. There were lots of new students and also meditation teachers there, too. We had amazing adventures. We avoided being eaten by a space monster. You gave me an incredible teaching about enlightenment that was amazing and really blew my mind. Also you were incredibly funny. Then we flew into a planet made up of only white light and then I woke up incredibly happy. I felt that it was really you.

2:07:13
Is that true? Yes. Yeah. I often teach in dreams. And I really like the symbol of a spaceship. But, the dreams differently. There's a certain state of consciousness or lesson, indescribable in words, that I am teaching, and people interpret it in different symbols. So someone might have had the same dream and said, oh yeah, but we were in a car driving through the Rocky that. But the fact that there's a vehicle is a very important aspect. So I often teach in dreams, and whenever I'm teaching, I follow a very strict etiquette. I teach things that are very high and spiritual, or I'm just funny. That's what it comes off as. So if you have a dream with me and it's like a really profound spiritual dream, or if it's a really funny dream, that's me.

2:08:35
So yeah, it's uncanny. Sometimes people have dreams though where I appear and I yell at them. You're bad and ugly. And when that happens, that is not me. I wouldn't do that to you in a dream. I would do it in real life. Yeah. So I would never do that in a dream. Sometimes people kind of project, like, oh, I'm bad, and I'm going to make it look like now Semphara is telling me I'm bad so I can really believe it.

2:09:07
No, that's just projecting. All right, okay, I'll do one more. Tech class is hard for me. I really want to learn it, but I think I may fail. What should I do? Hang in there. Yeah. of this martial artist who could jump through the air and break 10 boards in one leap, 10 kicks. At one point, he was a white belt.

2:09:46
He couldn't do any of that. So if you hang in there, keep working on it, you will definitely succeed. When I was learning tech, I was very bad at it. So I was like, my teacher tells me to do tech, but I'm not a techie person. I'm like really bad at math. Like I failed algebra three times in a row. And the only reason that I could pass is because I could speak Chinese to this girl who sat next to me, she gave me all the answers in Chinese.

2:10:17
And for some reason my teacher let us talk in Chinese. So I was all like, oh man. So that's how I got out of, you know, past. But I was really, really bad at like mathematical things and I thought I'm going to be horrible at computers and I was horrible at computers. It was very difficult for me. I went to this school called the Computer Learning Center, and I failed. It kicked me out. I was supposed to get a certificate there, but I flunked out. And I was like, wow, this is terrible. I'm like, what am I going to do? I mean, my teacher says it's really important for me to learn this, but I'm bad at it.

2:11:13
And then my mentor, my meditation teacher, she just said, keep trying. And I said, okay, I'll keep trying. And I was, I kept at it, I learned more. Eventually I got lucky and I got a job and then I learned more on the job. And I eventually did very well. I mean, after a while I was an artificial intelligence programmer on Wall Street. So, you know, I went from being really bad at tech to being very advanced in technology. So people who meditate have good minds and they can do very well with technology. So Keep at it. That's the plan.

2:12:03
Alright. So I want to say thank you all very much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
