0:00:00
Welcome. I'm so glad you have all come today. And we will be discussing enlightenment tonight. So good that you're here. I'd like to begin with meditation. We will sit for three songs. heart and the third song the third eye. Let's begin.

0:00:29
Excellent. So tonight I would like to share with you the Sangha. Sangha is a Sanskrit It means spiritual community. A sangha is an organic fellowship of people who support each other in the aim of attaining enlightenment. that meets together and meditates together, a group that works on spiritual projects, reads spiritual books, discusses spiritual subjects and ideas. We network in a very outward way and also in a very deep inward way. My sangha has a symbol. There's an I Ching hexagram. First time I threw the I Ching

0:13:52
coins to find what is the symbol of my school, of my sangha, and it came up, lake over lake. This is a symbol that's very powerful. It's known as joyous and successful. It's the image of a lake over lake. That's kind of hard to pull off, but stay with me on this one. So the image it describes in the I Ching is that the lake on the bottom, the water evaporates up and then supports the lake on the top, and then the lake on the top, the water spills over and nourishes the lake on the bottom. But in the lake over lake, it's a situation where everybody succeeds more because of everybody else. We help each other out. And that's a very positive way for the Sangha. A long time ago in China, no, no, sorry, India, there were three Buddhist nuns. And this is hundreds of years after the time of the Buddha. And there was a king who was a Hindu and he got mad at the Buddhists. So he went in and destroyed all the Buddhist temples. And these three nuns lived in a temple and an army came over, kicked them out, destroyed the temple and all of their books and everything. And then they said, okay, no more Buddhism, Hinduism only. And the nuns were kind of upset, but then they decided to do something about it. The first thing was that they were hungry, but one of the nuns said, oh, I grew up on a farm, so I know how to farm. So they started farming. And then they needed shelter. The other nun said, well, I know how to build. My father was a carpenter. So she starts building. And then the other nun is very moved by the support from the other two nuns. And then she starts saying the Buddhist teachings. She goes just verbally going through the mantras and the teachings, and she becomes enlightened. And the three of them supported each other because one could provide food, one could provide shelter, and the other one provided other out. And a sangha is a, it's really a spiritual family, but a spiritual one. And it's something where we really support each other and offer each other powerful spiritual opportunities that not, you know, if you're outside of a Sangha, you just don't get them. I remember I was spending some time in Kopan Monastery in Nepal, and there was this special event. A monk who had gone away to run a center in Argentina. He was returning after eight years. And he was very successful. He was a senior monk. And he was, you know, they were going to have a special Dharma talk. And so, you know, we're sitting in the meditation hall. And then he walks in and he sits down to give a dharma talk and he's just like looking at everyone and then He just bursts into tears And he says Wow, I've missed my my sangha My spiritual family It's very beautiful Sangha is very very special. It's a special support. It's something that, even if you're far away from everybody, you gain a spiritual support from that inner connection. You know, your birth family did something good for you. First of all, they helped you to incarnate. Then they raised you, kept you clean, hopefully, fed you, put funky clothes on you, until you learned how to dress yourself, right? And then, and they did their best for you. I mean, sometimes, and that's something that is very, very useful. It's very helpful for society. But the Sangha is something that lifts you into a higher dimension of understanding spirit. It gives you support for spiritual attainment. Sometimes you have a bad birth family, and if you have a bad birth family, then you don't get proper support. It doesn't help you. I remember once my doctor asked me if anyone in my family suffered from mental illness. And I said, no, I think they enjoy it. Yeah. Families are funny. If you take out the family tree and then you shake it, a bunch of nuts might fall out. So your birth family, as good as they could with all of their, you know, difficulties and hardships, did the best for you and it at least got you to where you are now. But a spiritual family is a group that brings you into higher dimensions of spiritual awareness. They support you in that way. And it's a beautiful thing. Now, a sangha is something that gives you a very profound opportunity for spiritual balance. So, we might try to do things in ways that don't work. So a lot of people have an idea. They go, oh, I think spiritual stuff is like this. I think that spiritual stuff is like that. They have ideas of what will get them to be liberated and enlightened and empowered, but their ideas sometimes are off. It's kind of like, you know, you can take a person who's like a white belt and they can have lots of ideas about how to win a fight. But if they go to a fifth degree black belt, he'll say, no, no, no, your ideas don't make sense. In the dojo, here's how you train to be able to do it properly. So that's a very good, powerful capability to learn properly. You gotta get out of your ideas and see, you have to be in a Sangha where you actually work on things so that you see that things work properly. And then you can go from there. So Sangha offers support. There was a time, a long time ago in China, where there was these Taoist practitioners. And they would go to a temple where there was the master, but they were not monks, but they were really kind of like yogis. So this one Taoist is meditating in a cave, and he just can't stop thinking about sex. He has all of these feelings and desires and he says, alright, I know what I'm going to do. I'm going to go down and hang out in the brothel until all of my ideas, until I get bored of thinking about sex. So he goes to the brothel and he's sitting there, you know, watching people have sex and he decides maybe he'll have sex and then he stays there. They're all, huh, this Daoist guy moved into the brothel. And then one day, another Daoist yogi is walking by and he sees, he just looks over at the brothel and sees through the window that this other guy is there. And he comes in and he says, what are you doing in a brothel? And he says, well, I'm hanging out here until I get tired of sex. And then the other one said, oh, no, no. He says, you're coming out with me. So he pulls him out and he says, OK, we're going to this. There's a special teacher who teaches a Taoist kind of goddess empowerment and He he took him to this and in that in that empowerment The there was a feminine enlightened energy that he was empowered with and that was a something that Enabled him to overcome his desire Because he he was then able to experience the feminine energy, not in a way of sex, but in a spiritual sense. And then he was liberated from his suffering. So that's a way where we help each other out. We see that he might be doing something really silly, and then we come in and help. Sangha also, it helps you to be inspired because everybody is, you know, working on meditation and mindfulness, compassion and works, yoga, you know, works of light. And when we see someone do something well, succeed at something, someone have a nice meditation, then we're happy. It's exciting for us. We say, wow, that's cool, because if they can do it, then I can do it. Right? You see somebody in a dojo learn to break a board, and you say, wow, if they can do it, I can do it. You're going to learn it too. So we inspire each other by our successes. It's very important not to be jealous. It's really silly if you're in a sangha and you're jealous. You're like, oh, he's smiling in his meditation. He must be having a good meditation. And my meditation's horrible.

0:25:57
If you have jealousy, it shuts you off from getting what you want.

0:26:00
You see something good that someone else has, and you get sad or jealous because of it, then you're going farther away from it. But if you are happy because of another person's attainment or experience, then you share in their joy, and that brings you closer to it. I remember when I moved to New York, I was doing computer programming as my job yoga, but this is before I had a job, so I was learning it. And, you know, me and my friend were moving to New York and we were looking for our first computer jobs. Now my friend, he and I went to elementary school together. We played on the soccer team together. So I knew him, like we were good buddies. And when we were out there, he got a computer programming job. And when he got it, he was happy, but I was really happy. I felt that we got a computer programming job. I was like, wow. And it was really happy and exciting. And with that feeling and energy and momentum, it helped me to get my computer programming job. So when someone gets something good, then share that with them and you get like a big, beautiful, uplifting energy. It's really nice. So Sangha is very powerful because it's real, it's a living teaching. Sangha is very special. There's powerful benefits. Like, people in the Sangha know what you're going through. They know what you're working on, you know, when you're working on enlightenment, when you're working on getting rid of violence, you know, getting rid of sadness. They know that you are striving for enlightenment. And we develop a dialogue, an inner dialogue and an outer dialogue about that support, that understanding. And there's great encouragement coming from our hearts. And we connect and we share a beautiful experience. And it is a living teaching. It's something that is in your experience. You see the other people in the Sangha. We're all working on the same things together. Enlightenment. And that is something that shows us where our mind is now. Now, recently, we had a trip to Iceland, and a bunch of people from the American Sangha came over, and a bunch of people from the Hungarian Sangha came over. We met halfway. And we had a Sangha unity event, where the two Sanghas got together. We've always had the Hungarians coming and visiting and some Americans going and visiting, but this time it was like all of us got to be together and it was a very beautiful experience. It was not only a power trip, but it was like this very powerful heart chakra experience. And during the week that we were there, I just observed. I was just watching them. And we would go to a beautiful place of nature, sit and meditate. And we would go and have dinner. And I would just observe people talking, their minds, what was happening. And then I would talk about it. I'd say, hey, look, this is what's going on, and there's a dharma in this. And so every day I would speak about the unfolding dharma of just being together and what we can learn from it. And those were beautiful, beautiful teachings. So outside of a Sangha, you're in the world. You're in the structures of the world. Inside the Sangha, you are in spiritual structures. So, the Sangha is a mandala of enlightenment. A mandala, if you've ever seen one, it's a circle and it has like all sorts of little magical symbols or little Buddhas and symbols come together in a magical quality to express Dharma, to express truth. So a Sangha is a mandala of enlightenment. And when you join a Sangha, you enter into that mandala. structure of balance and this structure of a lot of assistance. All of a sudden, all of those powers and divinities and those Buddhas, you have accessibility to them. They are there to help you and support you when you're in the Sangha, when you're on the mandala. So, it is a very, very powerful structure, spiritual structure. And, when you join a sangha, then you enter into that spiritual structure. And then, you're out of the world. You're still in the world, but you're also in a new dimension of life. A very, very powerful, beautiful one. It's quite nice. If you're out of Sangha, then, you know, a lot of people like read some books, see a couple teachers and say, yeah, I know some spiritual stuff. And when you're kind of studying on your own outside of a Sangha, you tend to be very heavy and ponderous in the way that you look at spirituality. In a sangha, there's more power, it's more fluid. In the West, we're kind of like, I'm on my own, I do my own thing. I got my desires, I'm going to kind of chase them and that's what I want to do. But community is very important and we lack that. We start to gain strange... We have a strange way of looking at community now. You're like, I've got 10,000 Facebook friends. And yet, people feel more disconnected. They'll have way more friends, but they feel more disconnected. You know, Facebook's okay.

0:34:20
You know, it's all right.

0:34:22
I remember we were in North India and we were in some obscure little temple. And then this yogi comes over to Ganga Nath. And he goes, Where do I know you from? He's all, I'm one of your Facebook friends. So strange. So Facebook, you know, it's all right, but we need more meaningful connection with people. You need to network in a strong way. You need to talk to people. You need to have a connection that is not just about, you know, here's a picture from my last trip to Hawaii where I was actually miserable, but I have one picture where I was smiling. All right. So, you know, there was something I read that said, the people who do social networking the most are more unhappy because of it.

0:35:44
Isn't that weird?

0:35:45
Yeah, it's artificial. You start to see that everyone else's life, whatever they post, makes, they look all happy, and then it makes you look like, oh, my life is horrible. But they are just taking out of a hundred pictures the one where they were smiling. So it's an artificial connection. So we have to seek meaningful connections. they had a sign that said, we don't have internet, pretend it's 1995 and have a conversation with someone. Laughter

0:36:33
These are really cute.

0:36:37
Yeah, so, it's important to, you know, choose the right people to be around. One of the meditation teachers was telling me about her student. Her student was hanging out with friends that made her feel worse. She identified this. She's like, oh I gotta hang out with my friends. Oh my friends, my friends. But then always after she hung out with her friends, she felt worse and worse and worse. And then her teacher said, well, do you notice you feel good when you come to meditation? Do you notice that when we're talking, you feel good after? And then she's like, yeah. So it's like the people that you hang around bad people, you're going to be bad. If you hang around a bunch of people who smoke cigars, you're going to end up smoking cigars. Yeah, you just start to do what they do. So it's important to observe who you hang around and how you feel afterwards, during and afterwards. Yeah, I keep telling myself, I'm not gonna hang around any crazy people anymore, but then I won't have any friends. And Buddha would say, then it's better to not have any friends. He says, if you can't find a good companion, go on alone. But fortunately, everyone here has a good companion. Your meditation teacher is a good companion. So, a good companion... So, Buddha says, hang out with enlightened people. Yeah, he says, go and be with the wise. He said that the biggest effect on your enlightenment is the ability to find a realizer who will realize you. So, when you can find an enlightened person and learn from them, then your life changes. Then you can have a clear path to liberation. If you're out there doing whatever yourself, you won't have proper discrimination to see the way. One has to let go of the self, of the ego, to see clearly. And when you're still clinging to desire, when you still have fears, then the way that you see the world is obscure. So you can't see truth correctly. And Buddha said it's good to have good friends. So don't hang around the bad people who you feel bad. You know, hanging around them you feel bad. Find good friends. There is a cute story. A western layman was visiting a Zen monastery and he was given the duty of, after the meditation, of putting out the lights on the candle. Now, in Zen tradition, they don't blow them out. So what they do is, they cup their hand and then they put it out like that. Pretty cool. So the Zen master gave a Dharma talk, they meditated, bowed, everyone was leaving the room. And so this lay practitioner goes to the altar and there's these big candles and he goes and he hits it and it falls over, boom. Okay, but the problem was on their altar there was a statue of, and it was a wooden statue of Quan Yin. So the candle falls down, hits Quan Yin, and burns. So Quan Yin sets fire. And he's afraid, but he puts it out. But Quan Yin is burned. And then he's horrified, and he goes to one of the monks that he knew there. And he says, I'm so sorry, I burned Kuan Yin. And then the monk says, he listens and he says, it's okay, we all make mistakes sometimes. Then he says, come on, let's go over to the Kuan Yin, we can fix this. And then they go over to the Kuan Yin, and then he says, okay, so she's burned. So then they got something like sandpaper and fixed it. So, for him, he was very upset. But then his friend showed him the way to fix it. Now, that's a good friend. It's not like, oh my gosh, you came into my house and broke something and you're a jerk. He's like, calm and let's fix this. We work things through together. So, like your meditation teachers are good friends. They speak about wise ways to develop yourself, strong ways to get out of suffering. So they're very, very helpful. You know, the Sangha is not about you. And that's what's so wonderful about it. If you're just thinking about yourself all the time, then you're separating yourself. When you're in a Sangha, you transcend the self, and you're in a powerful group of happy, silly people seeking liberation and something good. So there was a man who goes over to a Zen master. So the Zen master was building a temple. And there were not monks building the temple, there were actually workers sitting there building it. And he was like saying, do it right, you know, he's sitting there watching them and telling them how to build things. And some man comes over and he's asking him all these questions, and he's all kind of in his head and it's all about himself, and then the Zen master is answering his questions for a while. And then the Zen master goes and picks up one of the stones, brings the stone to him and puts it in front of him and says, what can you do with that? And then he's like, I don't know, not much. And then the Zen master said, then be a stone, right? But when it's in a spiritual temple, then one can create a space for enlightenment, can foster the Dharma. So then the man, understanding this, was able to let go of all of this spiritual ideas of self, and then he became a monk. There's a book called What I Learned from Geese. And it's an interesting thing. Geese, when they fly in their formation, able to go 72% farther in range than if they're flying alone. Because every time they're flapping their wings, they're bringing up an upswell of air, and that supports the goose behind them. So they go together and they're stronger. That's why they do that. It's not just because they thought it was like a cool way to hang out with other geese. So if a goose leaves the formation and is by themselves, they say, whoa, this is harder, so I'm gonna get back in formation because this is better. And then, you know, the goose that's, you know, ahead and at the point, you know, is doing, taking on the hard work, but then they rotate. See? Geese know. Be as smart as a goose. Why not? Yeah. But in a group. So you don't have to be one of us, Todd and Lorraine. Everyone here is either Todd or Lorraine. We are powerful, independent beings, and we come together and work together and are strong because of it. We're like the super friends. Now they call it the Justice League. Just Us League. So, yeah, no, we have like our great powers, our great capabilities, and we come together, and we're stronger together, and our strength, of course, helps others. So, being an individual is good. Succeeding in the disciplines of the school, you know, getting a black belt, gaining a strong career, being mindful and happy, having strong, beautiful spiritual experience in meditations, these don't preclude you from your Lego hobby or you doing cosplay or racing hamsters or, I don't know, or whatever you do. So you can still be a happy individual doing the great things that are happy and powerful for you. But then you're also able to succeed in these wonderful things. And actually, succeeding in meditation makes your cosplay even more cool. Hamster racing. Who knows? Where am I getting this from? I'm telling you.

0:48:54
There was this famous writer.

0:48:59
Her name was George Sand. She gave herself that name. She was a French writer in the 1800s and she wore suits, drank scotch, and smoked cigars. And she was very successful. And she had a mastermind group, a group of very, very interesting people that she worked with to like inspire her writing. Some of them were forward-thinking politicians, some were very innovative businessmen, Victor Hugo, Chopin, and she was a very strong individual, very different. Like in the early 1800s, wearing men's suits and smoking cigars, she was really a powerful individual. But she worked with this group and they accepted her, of course. And they had, they drew upon the abilities of all the different people to have greater insight in life. So that was the mastermind group. So being an individual is very powerful in a Sangha. We don't want you to just come in and fall in line, put on the uniform. It's very strong. So, okay, I think we need to take a break. I'm getting the sense that, yeah, we're going to take a break. Okay, so let's take a break, 20 minutes. We'll come back, a little more meditation, a little more talking. Thank you. So, groups are good. There's strength in numbers. Two heads are better than one, etc. So, I had a friend who was out of shape, overweight, didn't really get into regular exercise. the basketball team. And he went to, he just joined, and then he just went to practice, and then liked it, had fun, and then he got in shape and healthy. So simple things like that. Or we all know the story of this guy who liked rowing. He would go out and row down through the lake, and then he ended up joining a rowing team, and in 1988, he helped the team to win the gold medal at the Olympics. We all know who that is, right? Kevin Bacon. In a team, we're strong.

0:52:20
I don't know why I said that.

0:52:21
Yeah. But in a team we're strong. We gain a great power when we work together. There was a time in China during the age of the warring states where there was a small regiment of about 20 soldiers and they just went the wrong way and they ran into this great army of their adversaries and they were attacked. There was like a thousand enemies attacking them and what they did was they put up their shields and they all kind of went back to back in a circle and the enemy just came in on all sides as hard as possible and they just held their shields up and got pressed together. But they couldn't break the circle because all the pressure made the circle stronger. This is what we do inwardly. This is what we do. You know, I look at the companies that we have that are doing work as yoga and I see that they face great pressures, great pressures, real hardships, difficulties from customers and competitors and just the market and everything. And I see that from those pressures, they become stronger. They go into that deeper connection and unity. And because of that, they are victorious. There's ways to grow. A lot of times when we're in the Sangha, we want to be stronger. We want to express a greater power. And there's ways to do that. You know, in the West, we have this thing like, I must be the leader, right? I want to do my thing. And in the East, we gain a greater wisdom by not wanting to be a leader, but wanting to be a follower. A follower, not of some ego or some stupid system, but a follower of the truth. So I'm not a spiritual leader, I'm a spiritual follower. I follow the truth. I see the truth, I follow it. You get the self out of the way. Don't try to be a leader, be a follower. Judo was very, very, very popular in Japan. And there was a student, a senior student, his name was Koizumi, and he wanted to express Judo in a powerful new way. So he went to London and started a Judo dojo. And then Judo became popular all across Europe and then in America. And it's because Koizumi went there and promoted it. So you know, in America it's really funny. Like a lot of people will get like a black belt in like Judo and then Karate and then they go and make up their own school. They're like, this is called, let's say it's a guy named Brian. This is called Brian Kwon Do. Me Jitsu.

0:56:08
Me! I, Kido!

0:56:10
I!

0:56:11
So, it's really cute. Americans do that.

0:56:13
But there's a very, you know, what Koizumi did was a very beautiful, beautiful way of growing things. So, in a sangha, it's not all rainbows, unicorns, and Captain Crunch. Sometimes there's difficulties. Sometimes there's hardships. I remember I was in a Zen monastery in China and we were sitting there and the monks were reciting a long, long mantra. And this one monk is holding the mantra, reading it, then he would like fall asleep and he'd bump into the monk in front of him. The monk in front of him gets bothered and wakes him up and then they go back to... and then he falls asleep again. This happened over and over. So, these kinds of things happen. People annoy people. People bother people. It happens. In a sangha, people make mistakes. You know? There's the vinyas. These are Buddha's 226 rules of how a monk should conduct himself or herself. And each one of those rules came from a mistake that the monk made. It's true. There's a story for each of the rules. Like, whoop, that monk did something stupid. And another rule. So, in a sangha, even when there was the Buddha's sangha, people make mistakes. And so, we have to accept the mistakes, learn from the mistakes. You know, Buddha kept on adding rules when he saw something happen. Then the sangha is more aware, we focus, we learn, we become a stronger Sangha. So, it's not so bad. It's not so bad. Now, sometimes in a Sangha, people, like, you might perceive that someone actually is doing something really bad. Like, that person is so evil and wrong and terrible that they're not even doing anything that's the Dharma. And even that happened in Buddha's Sangha, where people are like, you hurt me, you're evil, you're terrible. And when this happens, we have to see that person not as an enemy, but we have to learn to change our outlook on life. Because a lot of people actually did some pretty terrible things to Buddha in their ignorance, students, but Buddha never saw them as an enemy. He had an enlightened outlook. He saw what they did and how they caused harm, but he also then would teach them and help them. He saw no reason to blame. So, when someone does something where it bothers you, don't blame them. You have to start to reach inside for greater enlightened resources resources to see that there is no problem, that you can have more mindfulness, more compassion, and more care, and that that is what solves the problem. That's what solves the issue, not trying to get them to act differently. If you're bothered by someone, then see them as your teacher. In the Sangha, we see ourselves, there's a simile of the bag of gems. So, we are like all these wonderful gems, gemstones, but there's dirt covering the gemstones, something overlaying. So in the sangha we go and we put the gemstones into a little bag, and we shake the bag. And we bounce off of each other, and then in our interactions, the dust, the ingrained dust kind of clears off of the gemstones. So we're all... Then what comes out is that perfect, beautiful gem. So a sangha is a wonderful thing this way. In Buddhism, we say that sangha is a place where we take refuge from the heaviness of the world. So, when we join a Sangha, we join a group where there's a powerful aura, an aura of enlightenment that we enter. It pushes off a lot of the heaviness of the world. And we are free and strong and happy in that aura. So we take refuge in coming into the Sangha, then you have a refuge from that. It's very, very powerful. Even if two Sangha members get together, the moment that you guys get together, a powerful aura of unity expands around you. So being in a Sangha is very, very strong. And in the Sangha we care for each other. We actively practice mindful care, caring, where we say, okay, this is a very noble group, and I'm going to bring my best to care for people's feelings, I'm going to be as mindful as possible, pleasant, constructive. We bring our best to this group, and that's why it's a beautiful group. And when someone needs help, we help each other. Once Buddha came to a group of his monks, and there was one who was sick, and he was just laying around, you know, being sick and dirty, because no one else was helping him. They were all like happily meditating somewhere. And then the Buddha, you know, cleaned them and took care of them. And then he said, Hey guys, we have to take care of each other. Yes, we all want to be enlightened and meditate and everything, but we also take care of whatever we need. Whatever someone needs, if someone's sick, we take care of them. So, you know, geese do that too. It's true, I've learned it. So, if the geese are flying, and then one of them gets hurt, or sick or something, and falls out of the formation, two other geese will follow them down until they're better. Isn't that amazing? Let's be like geese. Geese Sangha. Yeah, so in a Sangha, we let each other grow and change. So you know, someone might have a bad day, you might form an opinion of them. Forgive people when they have a bad day. Just forgive them and let them change. I guarantee that, you know, a year from now everyone's going to be completely different. This is a place where we go, where we grow and we transform into higher, better beings. So don't hang on to ideas of people. Let people grow and change. Makes it very nice. Sariputra was one of the advanced students of Buddha. And he just loved everything about the Sangha. And he was sitting there with Buddha, looking at everyone and just being happy.

1:05:42
And he said,

1:05:43
Buddha, I think that half of the spiritual life is being with the Sangha, being with the monks, being in spiritual communion. And Buddha said, don't say that. He said, the whole of spiritual life is the Sangha. So Sangha is a transmission of Sangha energy Now this is a esoteric teaching It's a direct experience of this of this Sangha thing that I'm talking about and in this You will bring a light focus to the heart chakra, and you'll just look up here towards me, and I will transmit the teaching. So sit up nice and straight, and we'll sit for just one song. Thank you.

1:07:25
the the the So So so So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. so so So, I'm going to go ahead and close this out. All right, wonderful. Now this is the part of the evening where I ask the audience to talk about their experience. This is very, very important. For people who are new to the esoteric teachings, sometimes they experience something that is outside of their description of the

1:12:30
world. And then as soon as we finish the meditation, they discard what they saw and just go back into their description of the world. But then when somebody talks about their experience and says, well, I saw this and I felt this, then they say, oh, I did too. And then that increases your connection of spiritual awareness. So this is a very important thing. So if you had a scene or a realization or a feeling during this teaching, please share it with the group. So we'll just have a few people share their experiences. So if you would, please raise your hand and we'll bring a microphone to you. Microphone.

1:13:20
It'll be a magic mic.

1:13:36
So, I saw you get tall and skinny. I'm not calling you fat, I promise. And I saw energy around your heart chakra expanding from the heart out, mostly to the right and left, and it was clear energy. And I saw something I've never seen before. It was a feminine energy, and also and or childlike. So maybe underneath those words to describe what I felt, it was innocence and very beautiful.

1:14:23
Hello. So I just wanted to say that the first thing that I noticed was you and your presence and of course the table and the flowers, immediately as the music started was beating with my heart. And I just felt so connected, like just as one. And now as I'm looking at you, you know your body's beating with my heart as well. But as I got more into it and felt more connected, I noticed that your neck kind of like disappeared. Your head was just like floating but it wasn't like a head. It was just there. And you know halfway through the song I just see this such bright light and for me I'll call it a portal coming coming straight from your third eye. As your neck would elongate into the air, I just saw such strong, light energy coming from your third eye, as if we were going into a portal of energy. But the last thing I want to say is the energy that I feel in my hands. It is something that is so unexplainable. I just feel my hands as if they're shaking and I have complete control over all the energy and I just feel completely connected. Thank you.

1:16:18
Very good. All right, let's do one more.

1:16:48
So as we started meditating and I was focusing on you, I saw this really bright gold light pour into the auditorium and I could no longer see outlines of people or people at all. Everyone just merged with this amazing gold light. And as I was looking at you, I saw many other teachers surrounding

1:17:22
you and sitting with you in meditation. Excellent. Very good. Yes, so some pretty magical things in these esoteric teachings. And these were good and accurate scenes. Some people don't see nothing. They're like, I saw you sitting on stage. Totally normal. So don't worry if that's the case. You're like, what's going on? We did a desert trip. Took my students students down to this place of power in Southern California. And in that place of power, it's very, very strong. And I can use a lot more mystical, magical dimensions. And then some people who were there said, okay, now I start to understand what's going on. You know, in the seminar, I don't see anything, but down there, okay, now I start to see. You know, we're in an age, it's a very difficult age. It's a time where things are very physical and not very spiritual. It's very, very, very hard to see the spirit, to see the light. So a lot of people are very psychically blocked. It takes some time in meditation to clear out, going to these places of power and having these very powerful mystical experiences there to clear your third eye so that you can see the truth and see the light and see the beautiful structures of the meditation teachers was telling me that she has a student who really loves meditation and always tries to make it to the seminar but fails to get there. Always something comes up, oh I couldn't get there for this reason, that reason, just never It's because she can't see. She can't see the light. She's blocked. And these things happen. It's a very difficult time to turn to the spiritual path. So, you are fortunate because you can see. Even if you didn't see anything, in your spirit, you saw that there is a reason to be here. You saw that there is a powerful positive lesson for you in being here today. So that's a very beautiful thing. You know, Buddha said that very, very, very few people can understand the pathway to enlightenment and see the way. And he said that, you know, there will be many, many people who look at it and don't see anything, but there will be some, but few, who see the pathway to enlightenment and follow it and attain the way. Buddha, at the end of his life, he said, It's okay, you know, I I'm confident I've completed my life's work because I have I have created a strong sangha he said so now I Created this sangha that will carry many people to enlightenment He said so now you don't need a Buddha anymore. So then he died but he was But he was he was right. He created a Sangha that became a way for people to actually attain enlightenment. This is one of those Sanghas. And guests, you are invited to join. Join enlightenment. This is one of those Sanghas. And guests, you are invited to join. Join and thank you for coming this evening.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
