0:00:00
Well, welcome to healing lesson number four. So, to begin, illness comes from a subtle cause. So, we have a physical body, but we also have a subtle physical body. This is an energy body that surrounds and encompasses our physical body. When there is an imbalance in the energy of the subtle body, then there will be a pathology that leads from the subtle to the physical. And then there will be a physical imbalance. So, in Chinese medicine, they always look for these places of imbalance in energy, and then they'll affect the acupuncture points that can bring balance to the energy, and then it brings a balance and healing in the physical. Now, in Amrut Chakita, they focus primarily on the chakras. Guru Raghunath says that the chakras are the organs of the energy body. So, they are the primary structure of the energy body and they correspond to different aspects of health. So, whenever there is an imbalance in the chakras, then there will be the next pathology is to have an imbalance at a certain aspect of the energy body and to being an illness in the physical body. So, therefore, it's very important to practice the balancing and cleansing of the chakras one at a time. But by doing this meditation practice, it purifies the chakras and it brings them into balance. Chakras have a certain vibration. Each chakra, a different vibration. Chakras have a certain like spin and just by doing this mantra, this focus, this meditation exercise, it brings all of the mantras, all of the chakras into balance. So, this exercise begins with a mantra. The mantra is the Gayatri Mantra. This is an ancient and sacred mantra. Back in ancient, ancient times, it was considered to be a profound spiritual secret. So when a Brahmin would be given this secret teaching, they would hide him behind some cloth so people couldn't even see, read lips or see what's going on because it was considered such a special mantra. Now you can find it anywhere on the internet, along with the Tibetan superteachings. It's true. But the reason why Guru Raghunath says that, you're never going to find this anywhere. And I'm like, really? Because I Googled it, and I got like 100 pages of it. But this is a secret teaching or a powerful teaching, because it comes from a place where the attention draws upon the power. So if you are just kind of like going on Google and you find the dietary mantra, not much will happen. But if you come from a place where you do Guru Dhyana every day, you do, you know, Ushapana, then you're creating a connection to the dimensions where this is powerful. And so Guru Raghunath says this is the most powerful mantra in the world. And it's a practice that we use for healing ourselves. Once your chakras are in balance, then your whole aura will be in balance, and then your physical body will be in balance. So we begin with a mantra. And the Gayatri mantra is as follows. Om bur buha swaha tat svitra virenyam. Bor go deva sya dhi mahi. Dhi yo yo naha prachodayat. documentation. And we might even add, you know, Guru Raghunath singing it. So I have a recording of that. So there's a way to sing the mantra as well. It just takes longer. If you get good at it, you'll be able to say it faster and faster. All right. So, to begin, you take a finger, any finger, on your hand, any side, and we're going to do this together. We're going to locate our first chakra. This is the root chakra. You've got... You might want to put on a glove. Just kidding. So, if you... I'm serious. If you're going to poke to find the very, very bottom. And, you know, it's findable. But really, like, find your, the bottom point of your spine. You can, you know, it curves in a little and you can touch the very bottom. So this is where the root chakra is. Now to do the chakra balancing and cleansing practice, you will say the Gayatri mantra seven times. Then you come up about two inches. This is sufficient for the second chakra. Here again, you're going to say the Gayatri Mantra seven times. Now you can come up to the back of the navel chakra or at this point you can switch to the front because you're accustomed to meditating on the front. But you're going to touch the area and again, the Gayatri Mantra seven times. We all know where the heart is. Gayatri mantra seven times. The throat chakra is at the bottom of the throat, right above the collarbone. And again, seven times the Gayatri mantra. Then we bring the focus to the crown. And some people like to touch the body or sometimes the crown chakra is actually a little bit above the head. If you can feel it, touch that area, then you say the Gayatri mantra seven times. Good. After with your hands, open your crown chakra. So, really feel like you are opening it. Feel an opening. Yes. It's a very beautiful, subtle physical feeling. Now, we say, Sun, please, give me your energy. Surya, the sun god. We want the cosmic energy of the sun to come down into our crown chakra. Now we say Guru Dhyana. Om Sri Guru Raghunathaya Namaha. Seven times. Second chakra, Guru Dhyana seven times. Navel chakra, Guru Dhyana seven times. Heart chakra, Guru Dhyana seven times. Third eye, Guru Dhyana seven times. Crown chakra, Guru Dhyana seven times. Then, we bring our hands back up and we thank the sun for giving us a blessing. We thank the sun for giving us this cosmic magical energy, and then we close the chakra. Very good. Now, this takes a little while, right? So this is a practice that if you want to do it every day, you should do about once a month. And this keeps you very, very, very healthy. It keeps your subtle physical body purified. You know, Amrit Chakita, as Guru Raghunath always says, And the means to achieve this is by healing of the mind, the body, and the spirit. So all of these practices, they affect the body in a certain way, they affect your mind attention in a certain way, and they affect your spirit in a certain way. And by going through these practices, you're conditioning yourself, aligning yourself with a vibration, other dimensions of healing. So, just by following the practices, it works over time. So what you're learning is very, very profound healing. Now, when you do the chakra balancing and cleansing practice, Guru Raghunath suggests that you start by bathing, especially a salt bath. And again, that is, you have a bucket of water, you throw in a handful of salt, splash it all over you, then you can take a normal shower to wash it off. So then you're purified. And then you do Guru Dhyana at least 21 times. So you're going to be connecting with the dimensions of the seven gurus. And then you say a sankalpa. You make that intention for your healing. And then you do the chakra balancing and healing practice. At the end of the practice, we always end the practice. Lokasamastha, Sukhino, Bhavantu, three times. So that's the order. Okay, very good. That is chakra balancing and cleansing. is a practice of body awareness. So, in a lot of the healing dhyana that you would do at the ashram, every day they have healing meditations, you practice part of it of understanding your body, listening to your body, feeling your body. A lot of people have no awareness of their body, and without awareness of your body, it's hard to know what your energy is, what's going on in your body, and it's hard to heal. So this next practice is a practice of body awareness. It's called Param Dhyana, and it is a practice of breathing. Now Guru Raghunath says that most of us have imbalanced breathing. If you're breathing through your nose, he says most of the time you have like most of the air coming in through one nostril and a little from the other. So this is a practice where you focus on inhaling and exhaling through both nostrils equally. So you have conscious awareness of, as you inhale, that the air is coming in through both nostrils equally. Second, as you inhale, you imagine yourself going in and being in your lungs. I know that sounds funny. It did to me. He's all, as you inhale, go into your lungs. I'm like, okay, that sounds easy. It's feasible, yeah. But as you inhale, you're actually going to bring your attention into your lungs. It's as if after you do the inhalation, you feel like you're inside your lungs looking around, inside your lungs. And you feel your attention is in there. And then as you exhale, exhaling through the nose, you feel like your attention goes outside of your body and is no longer in your lungs. So, yeah, so when I do it, I'm like, okay, inhale. And I imagine that I have an attention, like I'm in my lungs looking around and I have a focus that I'm in there. Then when I exhale, I feel like I'm coming out and I kind of feel like I'm sitting in front of myself looking at me. That way, I'm sure I'm outside of myself. So this is a very powerful exercise of awareness of the body. So let's just try it for a minute or two. You're just going to inhale and feel the inhalation coming in equally on both through both nostrils and then that you're coming into your lungs. And as you exhale, you're coming out of your lungs and your attention is outside of your body. Let's just feel this, practice this.

0:16:15
Okay. All right, very good. Yeah, so while I was there, Guru Raghunath had me practicing this a lot. And he was like, it's not easy, is it?

0:16:56
And I'm like, it's something that takes people a lot of time to develop. I've been doing qigong since I was a little kid, so I've done tons and tons of breathing exercises. So it's pretty easy, and so I like it. But he had me practice a lot. He's like, okay, practice. He's like watching me. I'm like, okay. But again, this is a practice that brings you into awareness of your body through attention and breath. And it's very, very important for you to have awareness of your body so that you can just intuitively heal yourself. The next exercise is a good one. This is a therapy. It's called reduction therapy. And it is for healing diabetes, high blood pressure, and insomnia. So this is a practice to heal. It's a pretty simple practice. breathe and count down breath cycles from 100. So, he would inhale through the nose and then you exhale through the mouth making a soft noise. That's 99. That's 98. We're going to go all the way through it. Just kidding. It seems like it's a little bit boring to do, but if you have any of those inflections, you can very quickly see that it helps you. It'll solve high blood pressure very quickly, diabetes very quickly. And he says with insomnia, he says, he's never heard of someone make it to 50. Somehow they're gone. So, you know, for people with insomnia who can't stay awake for hours and hours and hours, give it a shot. So he says that you have to just be present in every moment when you're doing this. If you start thinking about stuff and you space out and you forgot what count you're on, you have to start back at 100. That's the rule. This is a powerful healing technique. And he's given me lots of examples of people who've been healed of high blood pressure, insomnia, and diabetes just from this technique. So that is reduction therapy. There's one more therapy. It doesn't have a name. It's putting oil in your belly button. And this is a therapy that heals any digestive problem. Any. And it also heals any problems with menstruation. So, this is where you take any kind of pure oil, it could be olive oil, coconut oil, any kind of oil that's pure, and you do it before you go to bed, you lay on your back, pour some oil in your belly button, fill it up. Yeah, yeah, it's like, you fill it up and then go to sleep. Okay, that's it. Now, Guru Raghunath says that, you know, there's over 70,000 nadis in the body. These are, in Chinese we'd call them acupuncture points, or teeny little chakras that affect all sorts of physical things and subtle physical things. And that from the belly button, there's a meridian connection to all of the nadis. So when you put oil in your belly button, it purifies and charges all of the nadis in the body. So this is a therapy. Okay. That is lesson number four. Thank you very much. So these things are things that you should practice. If you don't practice, then you don't get to the next level. When I teach the lesson number five has some miracles in it, but they don't happen if you don't practice lesson number four. So make sure that you do some practice. Yes? Yes. So you need to be able to do all the lessons. Now, again, the basic practice is Ushapana and Guru Dhyana, saying it at least 21 times. If you do that daily, you are in the dimensions of the healing. But if you want to develop yourself more, then be familiar with all the other practices. Do them once in a while so that you've felt them. And then you'll find the things that really, really work for you, that you really like, that you want to put more attention into. But definitely, you know, at least practice this stuff at least three times until the next meeting, and then the next meeting gets very strong. Lesson five is good. Yes? You can use mala beads to count for sure, yeah. Yes, even with breathing.

0:24:02
You can do Japa. Okay. Okay. Thank you all.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
