0:00:00
Hey, everyone.

0:00:01
Oh, yeah.

0:00:03
I hear me.

0:00:04
Merry Christmas.

0:00:06
Nice to see you all here. We're going to begin with meditation. And we're going to sit for it. We're going to sit for a half hour. So two songs on the navel, two songs on the heart, two songs on the ear. OK.

0:00:23
Let's begin. the the the the the the The. So, I'm going to play a little bit of that. the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the Thank you. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, So, I'm going to play a little bit of it. Oh so the the the so the the the the the the so the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the So the the the the the the the the Thank you. Oh I'm going to go to the bathroom. so So Oh the the the the So So So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. the the the the the the the the the the uh the the the so so Thank you. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Alright, wonderful. So, I heard that we have some new open water divers. If you are a new open water diver, please stand up on the stage who's new? hello, Jim! applause

0:26:33
good job, buddy welcome to the diving mafia who is the diving mafia? ok, do we have any advanced diving divers? no? ok we'll ask tomorrow

0:26:50
ok

0:26:52
ok who whoever

0:26:58
you advanced

0:27:00
open water who advanced open water it wasn't you

0:27:06
we caught ok ok ok

0:27:14
wonderful

0:27:16
Wonderful you are moving up in the family. Alright, who is up next? OK. Hello. Can you guys hear me? OK. OK, good.

0:27:40
I have a little bit of a throat problem, so I will try to cough next to the microphone, next into the microphone. So tonight, I think I will talk about sangha ulilities, or the different aspects of Sangha unity. First is, what is the Sangha? And you may have heard from Sambara, it is an organic fellowship. And what's kind of significant is that sometimes we may do similar things, or the same thing in the first attention. But it's very important that you see, look beyond. You look beyond the surface. Because sometimes we may do a complete opposite thing. But in the second attention, it affects everyone else. So an example. So the sangha is kind of like, as I imagined, it's kind of like in a yoga project. We talk about it. It's a vehicle, right?

0:28:59
It's like a boat.

0:29:02
So if you're on the same yoga project,

0:29:04
then you're on the same boat, right? So some people are kind of like working hard and rowing forward. Some people are doing nothing, right? Some people are going backwards, right? Some people are jumping up and down, and it's super hard to keep the whole thing balanced, right? It's just like super fun to be a yoga leader, and I'm going to everybody, right? And then, so, you know, if you go to the next step, then, you know, there's some guys, this, you know, kind of like group of boats, they all tie together with ropes, right? So if somebody's jumping in another boat, you're like, wow, I feel something. I don't know what it is. Everybody's looking at my team, but something is moving on the left, right? And my back is hurting, and whatever, right? It's sad, right? And you talk to another yoga intern, you're like, ahhh. So you know what's going on, right?

0:30:01
Yeah.

0:30:01
Because it affects everybody.

0:30:03
You know, first attention does matter. But what's way more important is how you do things in the second attention, right? What kind of mindset you bring. If you want to really simplify it, I would say two things, right? Which chakra you are coming from, right? Maybe heart or above, that's good. And the other one is, are you coming from the self? Or you drop it. It's better if you drop it and you see what's good for other people.

0:30:37
So coming from the heart and seeing

0:30:39
what's good for other people. Those two things that really help to be in unity with the Sangha.

0:30:48
OK, what's next?

0:30:50
Oh, okay, I remember. So, you know, there are certain aspects that we are already in unity, right? That's the fun part. And you may not even know about it. So I want to talk about that. The first one is, why are we here? We are here because we all love spiritual life. We all share this in common. Maybe you didn't know, but now you do. That's it. Second one is we love our teacher. We share that in common. And when we are in unity, we just have love for our teacher. You can always see that, oh, I don't like my teacher. Then you are falling out of unity. So you guys want to come back. I would love for the sangha, the next one. Because the sangha, I was thinking about it for a couple days. How did the sangha help me? It helped me in many, many different ways. But if you have the correct view, the sangha is always helping you. Because when people are kind of like rowing your boat forward, they're pulling you forward and you're like, ah, this is fun. It's almost like jet skiing. And then when people are rowing back, right, oh my god, I'm getting so much stronger. This is fun. No matter what, you're getting the help. You didn't ask for it, but you're getting the So it's very important. And I wanted to mention, maybe in chronological order, some of the experiences that I had in terms of Sangha unity, or unity within the Sangha, that helped me and others to succeed. Again, the importance of unity, as recently we heard it from Yashar, is that we are stronger

0:32:56
together.

0:32:57
Right? It's like, let's say there's an accident, there's a person under the car, you have the biggest heart, you try to lift it, and you can't lift it alone.

0:33:06
Right?

0:33:07
But other people come, and they're going to lift it.

0:33:08
And you lift it together.

0:33:09
Right?

0:33:10
So we are stronger together. Maybe my first experience in the sangha in terms of unity was a long time ago. We started doing karma yoga a long time ago. I had no idea. I had no idea. I had no idea. It was like 14 years ago. And then the Saga was not exactly new. Some people were like, yay, let's do yoga. Some people were like, what? Like the French, right?

0:33:51
To work for free, what?

0:33:54
No, no, it transforms you, and then you can get closer to enlightenment and things like that. So anyway, and then we heard about martial arts and some helpful, constructive diet that helps you be healthy and strong. So anyway, my first experiences were with tahini and tzatari. We were like, Friday night, we were like exhausted, we really totally didn't want to go to martial arts. You think you know what martial arts is? No, this is America, right? I mean, that is America. In America you get a water break every 10 minutes. You don't need a water break in martial arts. In Hungary you never get a water break. You might have a 5-hour class, there's no water break. That's martial arts. So that's the kind of martial arts you were going to on Friday, where they ask you to hold a pad before class. They punch it like a few hundred times, and then your aura hurts so bad that you're

0:34:54
going to go home before the class starts. Those are the classes.

0:34:58
But we stayed strong, and we were like, hey, some person, do karate. So like in Saturday night, every Friday we went. It was painful, but we did it. And then after, we watched some uplifting movie, and then we meditated together. There was some beauty. And then I was looking back, and I was like, oh, it's so interesting. I think six years later, in a different context, but we all got our black belts together. So there was something there that kept us going on our pathway and made us stronger.

0:35:34
We meditated together.

0:35:35
It's kind of like a mini-sangha. It was very, very powerful. It was very good to count on each other. And maybe I'm going to jump in time a little bit forward. No, I have to tell you.

0:35:51
So I have to tell you about martial arts in Hungary, right? We walk into this dojo. We put on our white belts. You know, like he has a blue belt. So I'm turning at two years of experience.

0:36:01
I had two years of experience. Good that they get to put on our white belts. We walk in, after a class, there were like five black belts come over. You guys are not white belts, right? And they had previous experience, they're like, wow, you guys are really good. 18 months later, we got our yellow belts. That's how good we were for them. And I think Saturi stayed longer, so in two and a half years, he got his orange belt. So, yeah, it's constructive, it's developmental, but it kind of keeps you down there.

0:36:29
Okay?

0:36:30
So, that's anyway, you know, just context for the Americans, right?

0:36:34
When you don't get your bottle in six months, it's okay.

0:36:37
You get like three more bottles.

0:36:39
It's okay.

0:36:40
And, okay, so let's go, let's go.

0:36:43
Yeah, I think I was significant. OK, yeah, I was significant. So at a different expense, we were jumping into 2013. Again, we were doing, we started a new yoga project.

0:37:04
We had buddies, Dakini and I, we were the yoga leads.

0:37:08
Rest in peace.

0:37:09
Bye, guys.

0:37:09
Bye.

0:37:10
Bye. Bye. Bye. It was exciting. We had lots of people. We got some amazing yogis on our team. And maybe in a year, we got the momentum. We built the product. We got some help from other yogas. But what was interesting is that that was the first time I realized what I was talking about in a really positive and really powerful way, which is that whenever I was doing yoga, like hard, you know, like every night I was just doing yoga. And I started feeling, wow, what's this feeling that is pulling me forward? And I didn't get into it too much, but I was feeling that for several years. I may have mentioned it, but it was Parvati and Dharma working on Empathy. their focus was so strong and so powerful and they were so impeccable and so selfless I was feeling it every night, I was just working in my cabin and I was like wow, there is this wave that they are creating it's super powerful so when you're like, I'm not sure if I should do this or not you might be able to help somebody just by doing you don't have to do too much, just do the things you gotta do. Rest when you need to rest. Work when you need to work. Just do the minimum. Because you might really help your Sangha.

0:38:37
Okay?

0:38:38
That's my advice. And stay balanced.

0:38:44
It's very important. Why are you laughing? Yeah, okay.

0:38:57
That reminds me of a teaching from 2007. We were in a Skype meeting, I think it was summer, and he was addressing us. It was like a Wednesday business meeting, meditation. I never talked about balance. I was like, work class. And then after the meeting ended, I was talking with Tahini.

0:39:22
And I was like, wow, this is so interesting. I don't know who should work last.

0:39:25
I think all these people should work more. I think like, no. This doesn't apply to anybody. It's just like, only apply to you. And I was like, wow, OK. That was far out. That's all about that. OK, the next story of Unity. OK, maybe you guys will like this. Next time, so when I started learning tech, I think first, Kali had the compassion to help us learn, to teach us technology. We learned HTML, CSS, JavaScript. It was fun. We got somewhere. And then she was teaching us a little more. And then kind of like, this is a longer story, but this is my second experience of Unity, is that after that we got into something that's called an advanced tech class. So Zen volunteered to teach us technology, right? And if you don't know Zen, he knows everything about technology. But I'm serious. It was a really uplifting and amazing experience to learn from him. But before we get into the unity part, let me share a couple of stories from there. So we had our first tech class and I was like, hey, this is going to be a short meeting, just a few minutes. So your homework is something simple, you just choose an operating system, you wipe your computer, you install a Linux operating system, and if you don't do it, then don't show up next week. And then you have one week to do it. I was like, wow, that sounds like fun. And then, you know, kind of everybody was able to get through it and then we showed up next week. But there was something really, really powerful because, I don't know how long, it was like a year or something. We started maybe eight or ten people and then after a few months, you know, we were like on a Skype call. And then we were like, OK, let's take a break. And they're like, OK. And then it was like, hey, you, you, somebody, stay on the line. You just mentioned something. We're like, OK, everybody else drop off. And then we come back after the break. And I was like, what's happened to him? What's happened to her? And he's like, oh, he's not coming back. And then a few months later, hey, stay on the line. It's not as well as I was looking for. Two months later, two weeks later, hey, can you stay on the line? And here was somebody again. So in the end, I think it was just Dakini and me for a few months. But it was super powerful, because the agreement that Zen had with Ajahn is that, I can work, I can help these people to the best of my ability, and they're gonna get the job guaranteed as developers. And I was like, that's a good deal, it sounds like a good deal. It was very, very challenging, but what helped me get through it is that, of course, we got perfect instructions and support from them. But what helped me is that we got some homework on Sunday, and then Monday, I was talking with Akin, I came home exhausted. I said, oh my God, it's like 8 p.m., I can't do anything.

0:43:05
And she's like, I'm like 50% done with my homework.

0:43:07
And I was like, ah! I'm behind!

0:43:11
So Monday, I pulled myself together and meditated, and I tried to get there. And then maybe Tuesday she had a workday, and I was like, hey, how are you doing? And I was like at 60%, and she's like, oh my god, you're at 60%! And then she put it, and we talked every day. And then, I mean, that was going on for a year, and we always finished the homework. But it was like a very, very strong, empowering, you know, connection that we had, that we positively inspired each other. And without that, you know, she probably would have succeeded, but I probably would have failed. Because, you know, programming is not my thing. I mean, I can do it, but not my thing.

0:43:53
Those are a couple of stories of my life, whereas it's important. I'm curious. Yes? It's my first time.

0:44:02
Where's the projector in the talk?

0:44:03
Yes.

0:44:04
So one thing that we just kind of talked about a little bit is the love. What I find important recently is also the love for the dark.

0:44:06
And I think that's a very important thing.

0:44:07
And I think that's a very important thing.

0:44:08
And I think that's a very important thing.

0:44:09
And I think that's a very important thing.

0:44:10
And I think that's a very important thing.

0:44:11
And I think that's a very important thing. And I think that's a very important thing. And I think that's a very important thing. And I think that's a very important thing. And I think that's a very important thing. And I think that's a very important thing. And I think that's a very important thing. And I think that's a very important thing.

0:44:19
And I think that's a very important thing. And I think that's a very important thing.

0:44:21
And I think that's a very important thing. And I think that's a very important thing.

0:44:23
And I think that's a very important thing. And I think that's a very important thing.

0:44:25
And I think that's a very important thing. And I think that's a very important thing. And I think that's a very important thing. And I think that's a very important thing. of the love, what I find important recently is also the love for the Dharma, the love for the truth. Because when truth comes up, the ego usually doesn't like it. The ego is going to be upset. It's going to be kicking and screaming and want to do the opposite. So if you want to stay in unity, then you want to be able to see what is the Dharma, what is the high path, what is not the self, what is selfless, and go with that. Instead of the self kicking and screaming and reacting. we have something and we are also making it stronger is the ability to face ourselves. So it's your ability to face yourself, no matter what your teacher does, what your teacher says when it comes up, what somebody else says in the sangha, whatever comes up, observe. What's truth, right? If it comes from another sangha member, it's like a guarantee. There's 50% truth, statistically speaking, and 50% garbage. But you need to see which is which.

0:45:44
So because of that, never ignore when

0:45:47
you get feedback from somebody, and never take it just as it is. Observe and see how you can change and how you can be a better person. So that's what I mean by selflessness and the love for the dharma, meaning that the dharma is ahead of the self. This is just a fun story. So it was the day of the martial arts test. So how proud you should be of yourself. I was talking with my music teacher, like the day of the martial arts test we had. And then somehow she was just saying, oh, so you know when they kind of lock people in an empty room alone, they usually start having mental problems. And I was just like, wow, that sounds like meditation. It's like you start facing yourself. And 99.99% of the population said, OK, give me some medication so that I can not feel and not think what I'm feeling and thinking. So whenever there's something that you don't like, figure out something. In the beginning, there are very wonderful practices. Like, you know, as a beginner, I practiced overeating.

0:47:19
Um, but it works, it works.

0:47:22
Overexercising, you know, eating chocolate, you know. I don't know, maybe not drinking. I did drinking a little bit, right? But those things help, yeah? Um, and then you try, you know, mindfulness later. And then, you know, always remember, you always have your fallback, right? Mindfulness doesn't work. You can go back, eat more, right? Then you become intermediate, right? Then you are like, okay, here is this bodhisattva thing, right? But then you can always remember, here is my fallback, you know, mindfulness. And if it doesn't work, I still can eat more, right? So, you know, there is this structure that we are following. This is called the structure correctly.

0:48:02
OK? Yes, I think that's approximately

0:48:05
what I wanted to say.

0:48:08
I hope it made you happy.

0:48:09
I had that much fun, and I am happy. And thank you very much.

0:48:13
Hi, everyone.

0:48:14
Can you hear me? Yeah.

0:48:15
OK.

0:48:16
Hi everyone, can you hear me?

0:48:23
So tomorrow we are going to exercise two mystic scuba exercises. The first one is breathe in light and breathe out light. So envision that every breath you take is light, and that light goes into every cell, every particle in your body. You become light. And as you breathe out, you breathe out light. And you can envision your bubbles as light. And that light goes through the ocean, goes to the atmosphere. So with every breath, every sip of air, envision light and see that you become light. So this is the first exercise. And the second exercise is the Sutra exercise. In the Sutra exercise, we are going to pick something that's really, really important for us. Something that's really meaningful to us. This exercise came in the book after the Healing Ocean exercise. And Vanessa was getting the advice from the ocean, or heard the ocean. Ocean told her that beyond fear there is only love. So, pick something that's really, really important, really meaningful for you. she said, I am peace, I am love. So beyond fear there is only love. And when she heard that, she started to exercise, I am peace, I am love. So anything that is really, really important to you and you want to feel this really deeply and understand the meaning, so practice that. you can practice at any depth. This one is a super exercise. If you can, please turn to the blue ocean and start with that. And you can exercise all the time when you are swimming around, whenever you remember. Thank you. I might personal fit.

0:50:38
Thank you. So thank you, Rosha, for your stories of sangha unity. It's good sometimes to hear some of the old students talk about their experiences in yoga, their experiences in the study and in Sangha unity,

0:51:09
because they are hard-won victories. Now for you guys it could be all easy. It's all simple. So, I wanted to tell you kind of the story of Mystic Scuba. Mystic Scuba started in the winter solstice of 2005 in Chicago. You know, this is Great Lakes, Eric. And I think Satori had just come to visit. And he said, Satori and I were, I made him do, he's like, I'm here to visit for two weeks. And I said, okay, let's sit down at this computer. And I made him just work with us. Me, Zen, and Satori, we would just work like for hours and hours until the sun would rise. And the sun rise over Lake Michigan was very beautiful. And we would just do yoga. We were doing yoga and it was the three of us in the same room and it was just really, really beautiful. At the end of his vacation, yoga vacation, he and I sat out at the lake. And the lake is a place of power. And we were just, we meditated, we were just talking. And then he said, hey, Samara, I keep telling my friends, like Raja, like he, I have these friends in Hungary. I keep telling them that value. Maybe you could come and meditate with us. And I said, oh, okay, that's a good idea. Sure. I saw. I looked at the lake and the lake nodded. It waved. And then I... I started to feel in the second intention, started to dream of people in Hungary. And I came to this idea, I was like, whoa, if I go to Hungary and I sit there and open the light, that will be very powerful for the right people. However, if I go once and I just don't come back, because I have no intention of going back, I said, wow, that would be really tough. Because if I think, I was able to see my teacher and see the light and then he's off in some other country where I can't get to or it's very, very, very, very hard and he's like, well I can't do this to these people

0:55:00
so I was like, hmm

0:55:02
how am I going to do this? I don't want to go to Hungary twice a year or something like that or four times a year

0:55:19
as they do now.

0:55:21
It's like I'm too busy with my 13, 14 students in America. Too busy. One day after meditation, I was sitting by the lake. Lake Michigan is a grand place of power. two crystals, a white crystal and a blue crystal. And they were very, very powerful. And they were being handed to me by my teacher. And I was like, oh, two crystals. And I knew that they were very, very significant and very, very powerful. So, then I looked into the White Crystal, because the White Crystal was handed first. And the White Crystal was the Enlightenment workbook. And I said, oh, this is perfect. If I write this book, I can go to Hungary, you see people, show them the light, and then give them this book. Because this book could give them at least a year of study. So then I started writing the book. Then I wrote it. The first teaching in Hungary, I brought it, right? Yeah, I was like, all right, I'm here. I wrote you a book. It's all about Americans. OK, and then I started the second book. And the second book was Mystic Scuba. And Mystic Scuba was a cross between my martial arts background and scuba diving. So there was a time where, you know, Rahul would go sometimes to Hawaii or Fiji or something and he would go diving. And he took the diving practice seriously. He was a total extreme diver and a very strong diver. He became a dive master and he did a lot of what we would call deep diving or tech diving without the tech. Yes, very, very, very mystic diving. He would tell us about his diving experiences and when he told us about them, it just opened many dimensions. Then he said, you know what? Every single one of my students should be a scuba diver. He said, we're all going to get our open water divers certification. And then, you know, that started a great adventure. So I became a diver. I dived faster. And then with the blue crystal, I said, I need more tonal. So I became a dive instructor. And then when I became a dive instructor, then the information from the blue crystal opened up more. And I was like, oh, OK. So I could take my background in tai chi, qi gong, and these breathing exercises and I can say, hey, you know, in scuba, what do we do? We breathe a lot. In Qigong, you breathe a lot. And in life, you, you know, kind of breathe a lot. So, I took some Qigong exercises and I've applied them to exercises underwater in scuba. And you know, there's the detoxifying quality of water. This is something that Rama talked about a lot. He's like, take a shower. If you're feeling tired, take a shower. Shower will... a very simple thing, a shower will cleanse your aura. And it's like, oh. But then when you go deep down underwater, it's very cleansing. Deep, deep cleaning. And then the partial pressure of oxygen. So basically the deeper you go, the greater the amount of oxygen that you're inhaling in a single breath. Those two things are like keys of health. And so that's what Mystic Scuba is about. And then there's not only the healthy part, your aura and your body, but also the meditative aspect. Meditation on your own. So, I was kind of listing these things out as different exercises, and I kind of planned And then I said, Savitri, we're going to Hawaii. And we're going to do this to Tsukuba. She's like, what's that? I was like, I don't know. So then we went to the big island. And we spent a week doing all of the exercises, or 90% of them, most of them. Probably all of them, right? We do. Doing all the exercises in the book. And also writing the book. We got the first draft of the book done in that one week. And then it took four years to get it. I don't get around to it very often. So, one of my favorite things, we're like halfway through the week and we're writing up the story and we're doing the exercises, and Savitri says, this is funny, I feel like I'm a character in a story. And I'm like, yeah, you are. But I feel like I'm actually in the story. I'm like, yeah. It was a fun writing process. And one last story about the shark chief. So I never heard of a great white shark in Hawaii before. There's an ancient Hawaiian legend of a shark that was bigger than regular sharks, but bigger than the tiger sharks. It didn't have the tiger marks. This shark, I don't remember the story, did something crazy and scared people. It was like this monstrous shark. Then Hawaiians go, oh, that was a great white shark, it was a different shark than the regular tiger sharks, which are also man-eated. And, well they prefer turtles, but the human gets in the way, so they'll try it. And we went to the place of refuge at like 3am, and we swam way out and without our lights on we dropped like 115 feet, something like that, just dropping in the dark and we hit the sand. And I told you before we went in that there's something out there. Like there's like Shiva energy out there. And so we're sitting in the sand, 115 feet, in the dark, looking out to the deep. And there was a great white shark. Only, we couldn't really see it. But we felt it. I thought I saw some fin or something move and I was like... But we could, even before we got in, this is like the Shiva dive, this is like destruction. This is that kind of intensity. So I knew that even before we got in the water. And then we did some weird and crazy, like diving deep in the dark kind of thing. And then we came out.

1:05:21
It was cool.

1:05:22
And then the next day, we were getting coffee or something, and there's a newspaper, and the headlines on the local Hawaiian, big island newspaper is, Great White Shark Spotted in Kona. And I was like, that was it. I was like, that's what it was. So the story of it, there's some story parts, especially with like the whale god and the shark chief, that are kind of like story, but a lot of the shark chief, what it really was, was also pretty interesting. So now we're going to have one last meditation. And this is going to be my Christmas present to you and we're just going to focus on the heart.

1:06:29
Try to be relaxed.

1:06:30
And then after the prance, I'll have some afterwards. Close eyes or open eyes? Yeah, open eyes. Let's be open. open the

1:06:49
the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the the Oh, Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Thank you. the Very nice. I think I had a kind of analogy of Sanda where we're all rowing in the same direction and eventually we figure out how to do that people are jumping around on the boat going the wrong way and everything I remember, I like that one because I used that one I was in Iceland giving a teaching. There were about 60 brand new people. They showed they were very interested in meditation and teaching. They were very happy. And I say, so, you know, we all have to work together. And they're all warm to go. I'm like, yes, if we all work together, then good things happen. And they were like, what kind of good things? And I said, imagine we're all in the boat, and we're all paddling together, and they're all, mm-hmm. And I said, but, you know, some people don't get it, so they start paddling their own way, and they're all, ee-ee, ee-ee, ee-ee. They're like, they have their different timing,

1:12:54
and they're going backwards, so they're all mind blown. They're all, oh my god, you can't go backwards. So the Icelanders, you've got to use this one, you guys. The Icelanders, if you talk about a boat and paddles going together in the right direction, in the right way, in the right timing. They get that. Anyway, thank you all so much. Oh wait, I have my afterwords. My afterwords are, we're going to have dinner, hopefully wonderful and delicious, And then, drink responsibly. If you're driving, don't drink. And tomorrow have a wonderful dive. Do we have instructions for tomorrow? Okay, so... Well, tell me and I will relate them, because these are my afterwords. Tomorrow we're going to meet at the same beach that we met at, the pink beach?

1:14:03
Pink beach.

1:14:04
Pink beach. At 6 p.m. tomorrow. 6 p.m. tomorrow. So you guys know where we've been. We've been there before. We've been there before, done it. And another, another one. Oh, okay, so we're not teaching open water tomorrow. Everybody here, everybody here is a certified diver. So. Woo! I'm a Buddhist man, work at Diving Force, Buddhist Diving Mafia. So, yeah. Thank you all so much. Happy Christmas, Merry Solstice. And hopefully we'll have a good time tonight and drink responsibly. And hopefully we'll have a good time tonight and drink responsibly. I know I did.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
