0:00:00
All right. Ah, this is better. Okay, so how about we welcome the equinox or celebrate the equinox meditating together. Equinox is a very, very, very special time of year, beautiful Meditation So let's begin with meditation we're going to sit for three songs one song focusing on the navel chakra second song on the heart chakra third song on the third eye Let's begin so

0:00:47
So so so you Thank you. the the the So, so so So so you so so so so Thank you. Tanka's are amazing things. I studied Tanka painting at Khopan Monastery in Nepal, and I quickly learned I'm not a Tanka painter. They're like, what is that?

0:13:38
I'm like, this is not a comic book. So tankas are representations of divinity. So when Romeo was showing the Buddha or Tara, I was sitting in the back and I was like, wow, it's very strong, very powerful, a very powerful expression of Dharma. I remember I was walking past a spiritual bookstore maybe ten years ago and I just looked through the window and I saw this big book. It had a Tanka of Buddha on the front. And I was just drawn into the store. And I opened up the book and it's just pages of Tanka paintings. I could see something in the paintings that they brought through that divine energy, the energies of dharmas, of buddhas, of bodhisattvas, of harukas. And I could tell that the painter, the artist, was a good stalker. And for those of you who are new, we have this term called stalking power or stalking enlightenment. So it's not like Tim and Alice sharing a beautiful walk on the beach late at night, full moon, only Alice thinks she's alone. It's not that kind of situation. Stalking power, stalking enlightenment is finding in your mind the connection to enlightenment, the connection to that power and being able to manifest it. manifested. So I could see this in the paintings. So I bought the book. I usually try to get those little pocket books, little Shambhala pocket books, but this one was big. And so I hauled it around and I went, you know, every time I moved, I'm like, I was like, who's this guy, Romeo? And she's like, he's the most famous Tanka painter in the world. And I'm like, they have such a thing as that? I thought it was just, you know, monks doodling. So, but I learned more later when, you know, like today.

0:17:00
So today's a beautiful day. We're in the equinox.

0:17:06
This is a time where the day and night have an equal duration, and there's an energy in this season, in this transition, there's an energy of balance. So it's a time where we can balance ourselves. It's a time where we can observe where we lack balance. And then we can create balance. So, if you take scales, and if there's a whole bunch of stuff on one side, it falls out, right? So, what we do in Buddhism is we practice this thing called emptiness and we get rid of the garbage and then things come into balance So today we will be getting rid of garbage so that we can have balance but this is actually a very a very very very powerful and pivotal teaching Today we're going to enter into the yoga of compassion, and it's a very significant practice. Now, the yoga of compassion has many, many steps and many teachings. Today we'll be going over the core teaching. And this is something that you'll practice twice a day with your meditation. And we practice it, you know, just for a few minutes or as long as you'd like. a very pith teaching called Bodhicitta. And it is the pathway to enlightenment through compassion for another's suffering. So compassion is the active side of love. When you love, you care about another's well-being even more than your own. You just are selflessly caring for the other person. When you have compassion, that love. So if you have like a little happy, you know, a little happy dog and you're just sitting there with your dog, there's just, you know, beautiful love. And then your dog runs out into the field and then comes back with little, you know, foxtails in the paws and it's hurting. Then you gently pick up the dog and little by little pick each one of those out. So that kind of action, that's what compassion is. So this is a very powerful teaching because in the first teachings it's all about the self, developing a personal power, developing your focus, developing your career. So these are things that you must have, you must be solid in your initial practice. But this is a very powerful practice because you are transcending self. Your ego, your self, is being let go for the care of another person. And that opening is where you become enlightened. That's why this is a yoga. It is something that brings you to liberation. That opening in the self and care for another is very, very powerful. And there's an action, this is a process that you're working on, you're developing. That's why it's a yoga. But it's a concentrative yoga. We focus, we think, there's certain considerations, awarenesses, practice. And then we develop very, very, very strong compassion. It's very beautiful. So with learning compassion, you have to have care for others. And is that a... I'm like, whoa, got to care for others. You know, we come from a me, me, me culture. And we just think about what we want. We're just dwelling in our ideas of self so often that a lot of people don't care about anybody else. So you have to start to have a greater care for others. In the Japanese culture, there's a lot more attention paid for caring for others. Like in business meetings, very often in America, someone likes to stand up and go, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And in Japan, they're listening to each other a lot more. They're like, instead of someone coming up and talking, they're all sitting down. Shouldn't you come up and talk? No, how about you? What is your idea?

0:23:49
Yeah, and just in the culture,

0:23:52
there's a lot more awareness and care for the ideas and feelings of other people. But in America, mm-mm. So it's very important to start looking around at other people. Start thinking about caring for other people. Because it's a good disposition. It feels better. You also have to have a great deal of respect for people, because you can see someone who's suffering and you'll be like, why are they suffering that? They're stupid. You know, like they shouldn't be suffering from that. That's like not a big deal. They should just Right? But, yeah, there's no hierarchy on suffering. You know, somebody could be, you know, homeless, no food, no body helping them, you know, angry that her father didn't get her a Porsche for her 16th birthday and got her a Mercedes instead. And her suffering could be, you know, Milarepa. Milarepa was a great saint in Tibet. And he was homeless. He didn't have Just had a loincloth. So, wherever someone is with suffering, if they're suffering, you have to respect that. You can't just be like, uh, they're suffering, whatever. Or their suffering is stupid. that which cuts a being off from enlightenment. So, when you're learning compassion, you want to have an awareness that whatever someone is suffering, it's something that you respect and you're going to work with. Yeah. It's funny because, you know, sometimes you can understand someone's suffering very easily and be strong. And sometimes you might be suffering something that another person is like, oh no, that's not a big deal. And then this way we're compassionate towards other and it lifts us up. You also have to start increasing your awareness because when you start to have compassion, you have to be more aware. You have to be able to see more dimensions, see more deeply, to understand what's really going on with people. One of my students, EJ, I just got his SCUBA instructor certificate, and he, you know, that's really good. And an instructor cares for who they're teaching. Now when I was doing my instructor course, I was a very good diver. I had been diving for over 10 years and something different happened. We had this exercise in the pool where the course staff says, okay, hey diver, you're going to have some problem, some problem with your equipment or some kind of diving problem, and then I had to fix it. And then, so I go down in the pool and then the person has a problem, but I didn't really notice because I was like always a good diver for myself. And I'm like, what? So it took a little while to like, to be more aware of other people having problems. So this is what we have to do when we're going to practice compassion. We have to have a greater awareness. We have to start to look deeper. And we also have to have patience. A lot of times people learn this and then they say, I did it and the other person's still a jerk.

0:29:16
Or they're still sad.

0:29:17
And you can't judge your meditation and you can't judge your compassion. You can just do it to the best of your ability. The practice of compassion is real and it has a very powerful effect, but it has an effect that I would say is in the second attention. If we're looking for first attention results, then we're getting our mind too caught up in the transient world. the expression of compassion is something that touches someone's spirit. And, you know, that creates a transformation over time. It might, you know, change things right away, also might just be an influence of light in 10,000 influences of darkness. But that influence of light is important because it can lead to more and more and more. But you have to to it. So I'd like to do the transmission. So in our school, we do a transmission for Bodhicitta. And it is a teaching in the second attention, an esoteric teaching, a teaching that's beyond words. And it's a direct knowing of compassion. All right, so just sit up nice and straight. And look up this way. And we're going to just sit for one song. And during this time, I will do the transmission, which is, it's a use of Kundalini transferring in certain structures, structures of energy and consciousness. It's a teaching of energy and consciousness. So just observe your mind. Let's begin. So

0:32:13
so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, I'm going to be a good boy. so the The transmission is like planting a seed, a seed of a very, very powerful dharma. And then through the practice of bodhicitta, we tend to that seed, we water it, and then it grows into a great redwood tree of compassion.

0:36:54
It becomes very, very powerful, very, very strong. I use Bodhisitta in my work as a teacher. It's just very powerful. It's very selfless. It's very concerned for the well-being of others. And I use it in martial arts, in yoga, in all the things that we do. Yes, compassion in martial arts is good. Jesus said, you know, turn the other cheek. I say block. Yeah, you know, Aikido. It's don't let them hurt you, because then that's bad karma for them. But don't get hurt. And then don't hurt them. Don't get hurt. Letting someone hurt you, it doesn't help them. It's compassionate to not have someone hurt you. And it's compassionate to have the skills and ability to harmlessly end the conflict. So in all ways, in all things that we do, everything in job yoga, our practices, these are all ways where we can add compassion. When you add compassion, you become more skilled. spiritual dimension that comes through you. Yeah, it's really good. And then this way, walking the path of compassion, just beautiful things happen. I like to just walk along with my students and watch these miracles happen. Bodhicitta is a very powerful practice. Bodhicitta is a Sanskrit word. Bodhi means the enlightened principle of your being. And citta means the heart mind. So bodhicitta is the awakened mind or the awakened heart. Now, the Tibetan Buddhists like to call it bodhicitta. So I always say bodhicitta, but a lot of people say bodhicitta. So if you hear anything outside of this school, it will probably be Bodhicitta. Because the Tibetans got these teachings and they got really into it and did some great stuff. Now in India it's not there anymore. In India at one time, this is where Bodhicitta came from. And at one time it was very, very popular. And then it kind of made its way up to Tibet and became very, very popular there, and not very popular in India. So a lot of the books about Bodhisitta are Tibetan books.

0:40:45
Yeah.

0:40:47
Yeah, it's kind of like the potato. Potatoes came from America, right? And then the Europeans got them later. But the Europeans did something really good with potatoes. Like when I have potatoes in Europe, they're delicious. And in America, I'm just all, oh, it's a potato. But in Europe, I'm like, oh, potatoes? Can we have potatoes? You're gonna have to go there and test it out yourself. It's a funny thing. That's weird that I would say that. Yeah, but the Tibetans really took Bodhicitta practices and they did it. And they created new structures for how to develop yourself. Because a lot of practices of compassion from the original Mahayana Buddhism in India, was just kind of like, oh, you know, kind of do compassion. And then people would just open their heart, right? And then the Tibetans said, okay, we have to actually help people here. So we're going to create these seven points of mind training. And these are the seven points, seven steps, practices, observances that open your heart to compassion. And they have many beautiful aphorisms and insights. So you just have to, you know, the foundation of Bodhicitta Caring, respect, awareness, patience. So in learning compassion, we Buddhists try to get full of crap. I just noticed that. All right, let's talk about the actual practice. So this is a practice that you will do twice a day after your meditation. You might want to listen to one song or just sit in quiet for a few minutes and you will practice this thing that we call relative bodhicitta or just So It's a sitting practice where you focus on suffering of other people and there's in in in one session, there's four gates of compassion that you go through. And each consideration of compassion has two aspects, like awareness and activity, awareness and action. So you have to like be aware of what you're practicing on and expand your awareness and then you have to actually do something. So the first one is the most important because if you don't start the first step of compassion, then you can't build it to these transcendental states feeling some compassion. You have to actually have concern, a feeling of concern for another person. And I know for a lot of people this is hard, but you can do it. If you practice it, you can do it. are dimensions that are very, very, very powerful and beautiful of the heart that are open to you. Where before, you might have been closed into your own way of thinking, but in that transmission doors open. And if you practice, then you'll say, wow, I do have a heart. I was a gutless wonder for a long time. Yeah, like for me, I was like really into power and martial arts and meditation and discipline. And then I was learning these teachings and I'm like, I don't even know if I want to do this. And I said, I'll practice. And then I was like, wow, I do have a heart. I thought I was like the Tin Man. And then so you got to find compassion. You gotta find a feeling, a feeling of care for another person. So in Tibetan Buddhism, they came up with a really cool way. They say, think of your mother. you know, fed you, wiped away your filth, you know, you know, educated you, did everything, many things for your benefit. So you go, oh yeah, mom did that. Thanks mom. And then you say, suffering, you know, maybe anxieties, fears, you know, difficulties in her life, maybe physical pain, you know, just difficult things that she's going through. So you say, wow, this person who did good by me is having a hard time. So it could make you feel some compassion. And you have to get a feeling of compassion. You've got to get a feeling of care. Now, Americans are different than Tibetans, though. A lot of Americans that I know are all frustrated about their mom. Like, mom, mom argued with me. The Tibetans, and also this was a bunch of monks, so it's like this boys club sitting around going, what will make us have compassion? Oh, mom, she was nice. So there are other ways to generate compassion. Yeah, so Americans tend to have, you know, like in our culture, imbalances and separations that are unhealthy for your spirit. Yeah. So if you're trying to have compassion for your mother and all you're thinking about is that time that she did this and argued and she doesn't approve of your friends. And there was that time where she didn't let you go to Ricky Thompson's birthday party at the amusement park and you had to stay home because Grandma was visiting from New Jersey and you had to eat a pot roast and then we had to You know, that kind of thing. Then maybe that doesn't actually generate compassion, right? So you have to start looking at other things. If you're a parent, then there's a very strong way to generate compassion, thinking about your kids, or if you're a pet owner, you can be like, oh, my little bunny, you know, or whatever. You can have strong compassion for a goldfish or something. My goldfish, he suffers, or how to generate compassion or feeling is to, you know, maybe an experience you've seen a place where someone was hurt or got sad or something bad happened that you actually felt something. So you might have an experience from your life that anytime that you think of it, it gets you to feel something. You got to feel something. I'm like, wake up to your heart. Yeah, there was this one Tibetan Rinpoche. The way that he would generate compassion is he saw, I think he was very young, and he saw these kids, and they were just throwing rocks at a dog. And then he's like, oh, that poor dog. So as a kid, he just saw that one thing and he was like, that poor dog. And if you've never ever seen or been aware of or cared for seeing somebody else's suffering, then there's YouTube. Go with YouTube suffering or something. You might have to. You might have to go out and try to find something where something bad happens to someone and you don't laugh. You have to increase your care and your awareness. I mean, you've got to do all that crap. It's essential that you find a place, a consideration of a loved one, a consideration of something you've experienced before or seen before, or you've got to go and find something. And you have to have that feeling. You have to have a feeling of compassion. Now that's the awareness part. And then you have to do something. And the action part is called tong len. It's taking and giving. And some of you have done this practice in in our Yama Yoga, because it's a very powerful practice for Yama Yoga as well. But this one is broad, it's for everyone. So, Tonglen is where we have the intention of giving our light to them. So we can put this on to a practice where we breathe, where you say, well, okay, I see my mother, she's got the suffering. And you can imagine it as dark smoke going from her and coming to you. And then you see her as enlightened. Or it might be your puppy, right? You inhale, you say, I want to take all the suffering. This is the practice of Tonglen. So, breathing. Taking it in on the breath. Exhaling. Giving them light. It's a very beautiful practice. So, this is the first part. You have to find some compassion in you for someone, for something, for one thing. And then you practice taking the dark, giving your light. And then we go to the next stage, the next gate. And this is where you expand your bodhicitta for more than one person. So you go, okay, so mom got my compassion going and then I saw this poor guy on the street. So I'm going to do compassion for him. He, he was homeless or something. And, and this is, this is where you do it for more than one person, you grow your compassion. Then, you know, we practice the same Tonglen, but you feel compassion for two or more. Okay, then we go to a team or a group. So it's going to be more people than you can hold in your mind at once. But there's going to be some association. So you can do compassion for the Sangha. You can do compassion for a high school where they just five minutes ago, you know, this is America. So there could be places where you say, wow, that place there, there's suffering, or this group of people here, there's suffering. So the third gate is where you go into the consideration, tonglen, consideration of compassion for a large group or a small group. But it's a group where you can't hold every individual in your mind. This is where you start to, your psychic senses start to grow very powerful and strong, because it's beyond your tonal thinking, beyond logical thought. It's beyond what the brain can handle, but what the spirit can feel and know. Finally, the fourth gate is where we practice bodhicitta for all sentient beings. So all beings on our planet, and if there's some other planet, them too. All beings in the universe. And we practice, we have a feeling of care and compassion for all beings, all sentient beings. And then we practice that Tongwen, taking the darkness of all beings and giving enlightenment, the light of spirit to all beings. So, those four considerations in one sitting session. So, after you sit for your chakra meditation, then you'll maybe play another song or maybe just sit in silence and you'll generate my compassion. I think of a person I saw who was very, very sad when I was 16. And I go, oh, I feel so much compassion for them. And then I practice Tanglen. I take Once you have that, and it's a strong feeling, that's when you grow. That's when you go to the next stage. That's where there's another person. And then you have to have that feeling of compassion for both of them. And it has to be real feeling. And then you go to the And you have to continue to grow that compassion. The compassion should be like an energy that you're always feeling, like in your heart, you're always like, I have a care. I care. And then you can go to the next stage, which is for all beings, all sentient beings, you know, can have untold suffering.

1:00:31
Why don't we practice together? So go ahead and close your eyes.

1:00:35
And take a minute to get in touch with a feeling of compassion for your mother or someone that Okay.

1:01:07
Now practice Tang Len. Inhaling the darkness, exhaling the light. See them as being free, being filled with that light, and being happy.

1:01:50
Okay. Now, bring to mind another person who suffers, maybe in a totally different way, but expand that feeling of care for them as well. That feeling of care is for both of them. And now see that as you inhale, that the darkness, their suffering from both of them come to you, and that the light from you goes to both of them.

1:04:26
Okay. Now let's consider our country, all of America.

1:05:45
America has got some tough times, lots of suffering. We're here so we can, we're part of it. awareness to that suffering.

1:06:07
Okay. Now, feel the suffering of all beings. Tongue in. Okay.

1:07:13
Okay, good. Very nice. It's so exciting to sit with very powerful thing. It spreads Dharma. It spreads light. This is where you become a conduit of enlightened energy. Now some people say, do I really want to do this? You know, like, start focusing on other people and trying to take their pain. You're like, I have enough pain, thanks. I don't need more. No, so the funny thing about this, the secret is that when you face suffering and have the intent to take other people's pain, then you transcend out of your pain. See? It was like the twist at the end of the movie. You're like, oh, I'm doing it all for myself. And it's all difficult, but now it's for someone else. And then all of a sudden, where did myself go? Darn. It tricked me. Buddhism is all about tricking So I'm telling you the trick up front. Okay, so it's true. When you're suffering and you then care about someone else's suffering more, then your suffering's gone. It's great. Also, it's very important that you understand that this is, this transmission, this teaching, and these considerations are considerations at a very deep level. So when you're thinking about someone who's even physically sick, you're not taking on their physical sickness, you're not taking on their mental states, you're not taking on their subtle physical body, not their aura. When we practice Bodhicitta, we're practicing compassion for the essential aspect of a being. We call it the causal body, but Romeo calls it the body of light. We are bringing into our body of light, our enlightened body, the suffering of other people, and it enlightens them. So you're taking what is transient to someone suffering, and you're taking that away from them, and you're giving them the eternal light, your body of light, so that they can be free of the suffering. So it's not something that'll make you sick. It's not something that will make you, you know, mentally confused or anything like that. We're not psychically connecting with people in that kind of way. It's at a very big step on this equinox. We're changing everything. Because now it's not going from struggling about the self so much, it's going to a whole new level of caring for others, having compassion for others. So it's very good. You know, you get to this part where you're like, just working on yourself so much until you're just like, what am I doing? You get frustrated and you get stuck. You get stuck in the frustrations of the self, even when you're practicing enlightenment for the self. So the yoga of compassion just breaks through all of that. And you can grow faster and spread the light more. So this is a very, very significant teaching and one that really needed to happen. But now I'm going to do something like Bodhisitta. So, we still got the scales, and we got to get to that even point. And to get to the even point, we got to take the garbage off of the scaly thing. It takes the dark and then gives light. And it is something that's necessary for a lot of you who've been struggling.

1:14:09
Let's see if we can get some music.

1:14:10
How about canyons of light?

1:14:31
Arches.

1:14:32
I like that one. Yeah, so just relax. But this is a cool thing, and it is a demonstration of Bodhicitta in a very powerful way.

1:14:49
It's nice to do it to music. I usually do bodhicitta to music when I'm doing sitting bodhicitta.

1:14:55
the

1:15:02
the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so It's very nice. Ah, good. Now you guys can reboot. Let go of all your worries. Practice compassion. The yoga of compassion, bodhisitta, is just such a beautiful thing. You can go into the hardest, most difficult situations and dealings with people and just bring compassion. It's really beautiful. And now you have the transmission, you can start practicing this

1:20:57
very beautiful way. And don't worry about yourself. Worry about someone else. Yeah, I felt compassion in many of the paintings. Even in one, you know, like there's this one with some big scary monster looking thing, I'm like, what is that? Some Haruka or something. And I'm like, wow, it's like this big scary monster thing. And all I feel from it is all this love and compassion. Some people ask me, why don't you act all compassionate? Because I teach a lot about compassion. And then they're like, you're always like, do martial arts, get a freaking job, you know, and stuff like that. And I'm like, yeah, that's my compassion. to be intense and to be very focused, to be logical and to be serious and to be very, very stern about developing yourself, developing your life. That's my compassion. If you come to the karate dojo with me, I'm not going to be like, there, there, how are you feeling today? No, I'm going to be hard on you. I'm going to teach you, you know, I'll probably beat you up. I'll give you a serious workout. I'll tell you how to be strong. I'll be disciplined. I'll be exercised. Because that's how martial arts would help you. If I was easy on you, then you'd go out into the street and get attacked and get hurt. But if I give you a hard time in the dojo, then if you get attacked, you can defend yourself. And spirituality is serious business. It's not all like, whatever, I don't know. People can sit around and space out and talk about stuff and whatever, but it comes down to reality. Can you deal with your suffering? Can you transcend the self? Can you meditate? Can you have a heart? Can you care? Can you do compassion? It's like, this is serious business. So that's why that picture, the scary little mini arms, like fire all around him, and all I feel is like all this compassion energy. I was like, wow, it's amazing. So yeah, so sometimes, compassion.

1:23:46
You know.

1:23:47
And when we were in New York where I met Romeo, we met at the Tibet House, which is a beautiful spiritual center. And I walked in and I was like, look at these, they're like 30 foot long Tanka murals. I was like, I've never seen anything like this. It's beautiful. And then he said, oh, you guys got there just in time to help me. We were like, that's what we do, I guess, but I didn't even know we were helping. I thought we were like, wow, we're so lucky. We're just here. He's like, it's a way for us to be with the Dharma. All right, everyone. I'm very happy to be able to teach you Bodhicitta today, and I'd like you to practice every day, twice a day, after your meditation, even if it's for a few minutes, or as long as you'd like. Make sure that you get some compassion going and practice giving it all to others and taking their suffering. and taking their suffering. Okay, thank you all so much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
