0:00:00
Just bring the focus to the heart chakra. Just hold your attention there.

0:00:10
We're going to go ahead and get the door. Um... Okay. Okay, very nice. So meditation is good. Meditation loosens things up. Things become malleable. Things flow in meditation. When you're stuck in thought, things are rigid. But when you can let go and flow with

0:02:05
the tides of consciousness, and things are open. So today, at one point, I was walking around, and there were two students digging in dirt. And it was pretty hot, and they were working for a while, and they seemed a little frustrated. And as I walked by, I don't think they saw me. Because then they would have been like, oh, hi! But as I walked by, I heard one of them say, they're just digging, and they were like, ah, we're just stuck. And I said, ah, yes. Isn't that something that happens? Especially in August. I like to make fun of August. Because it's a really intense time. We're lucky, we're in a sanctuary in Northern California. We're like, oh, it got pretty hot today. But the rest of the country, like, from here up to Seattle is really nice, but the rest of the country is like really hot and humid and grumpy

0:05:46
so

0:05:47
psychically August in America is the kind of lowest vibe time and Being in America we pick up psychically the whole vibration of the country, unfortunately. So it's a tough time. So I thought it was very poignant when they were having a little difficult time digging in dirt. They're like, oh, we're stuck. I'm like, oh, don't we get stuck in our work. So that's a place where we can say, hmm, you know, I'm stuck. Stuck trying to get something done, trying to meet a goal, trying to get a job, trying to promote something, trying to sell something. We find that our aspirations are sabotage. Things are getting in the way. We're blocked. We're not getting what we are aiming for.

0:06:57
We're not achieving our goals.

0:06:59
We would call that being stuck. And we find ourselves just not summoning our power, not being the greatest being that we can be. And we go, why is that? Why am I not? What's going on? We're getting stuck. And getting stuck means that you're not stuck in your tasks. You're not stuck in digging in dirt. You're not stuck in getting a job. You're not stuck in getting a promotion. You're not stuck in achieving your yoga business goals. You're stuck in your mind. Once you are unstuck in your mind, even if you're just trying to achieve, you know, chewing some bubble gum, it becomes impossible. You're like, okay, I want to chew this bubble gum, but I'm stuck in my mind. But how do I do it? It's impossible. I'm not kidding. I've heard these stories, many ridiculous stories of, I'm trying to take a step forward, like with my left foot, but it doesn't go. So, when you're stuck in your mind, you can't do anything, you're paralyzed. But when you are unstuck in your mind, you're free. When you're stuck in your mind, you're unsatisfied in anything that you do.

0:09:14
Even if you have a lot of power

0:09:16
and you're the captain of the industry, billions of dollars, that doesn't matter.

0:09:24
If you're stuck in your mind,

0:09:25
you're not satisfied. If you're stuck in your mind, nothing makes you happy.

0:09:31
You're unhappy. Nothing makes you happy.

0:09:34
You're unhappy. Everything's difficult. Everything's painful. There's no solace. Everything just sucks. If you're stuck in your mind, you exist in tremendous limitation. You don't see any way out when you're stuck. That state of mind, that condition, that karmic condition, is all that there is. And it's impossible. Reminds me of this very well-known Hungarian joke. At least, well-known to me. I think it's, there's only two that I remember. In Hungary they have these angry pig jokes. Jokes about angry pigs. So here's one of them. First one that I ever heard and the one that sticks with me. And the one I got stuck with. There's an angry pig that gets caught in this ditch, like a hole, and the pig can't climb out. And then a little rabbit friend comes by and says, Oh, pig friend, you're stuck in a hole. I'm going to go get a ladder. Just wait a minute. I'll get a ladder so I can come and rescue you." And the angry pig goes, No, I'm not going to wait! And that reminds me of being stuck. When you're stuck, you're angry, you're frustrated, things are difficult, you're in pain, you can't do what you want to do. You don't want to wait for salvation

0:11:41
so

0:11:43
The ego is a bunch of angry pigs

0:11:46
But really you know this is the way it works out for many people in life. They get stuck. They have goals, ambitions,

0:12:07
and

0:12:08
they try to achieve them. They don't do it in the most powerful way, and then they get stuck in a place where they're dissatisfied, where they're unhappy. And they struggle in the way that they can think of struggling and they suffer. That's being stuck. Being stuck in work, being stuck in meditation, being stuck in a belt rank in martial arts and anything where you get stuck, wherever you get stuck, there's dissatisfaction, there's suffering. Practically speaking, most people get stuck in their day job, in their work. Things don't work out. They had this idea, it didn't work out. And then they're mad, they're upset, they're angry, they're sad. They live lives of diminished aspiration. Their spirit is lowered by the experience in their work. I mean, work is a big thing. They're working many hours a day. And when you're in a disempowered place where there's no growth, where you can't achieve your dreams, your spirit is diminished. You can't do right livelihood. There's no enlightenment without right livelihood. So what is it? There's got to be a way past that. You can't be stuck that way. If you're stuck, you're not free. And in job yoga, we find a way to freedom. Job yoga is all about freedom. In Bodhiwood's Workday, we're doing a physical exercise of working together for freedom, for liberation.

0:14:29
But so many people and their lives are diminished in their work.

0:14:33
I think the place where I saw that very clearly was it was my first technology contract on Wall Street, a company called Bankers Trust. At Bankers Trust I was hired to automate some FX trading system and I got these two domain experts. They were these older guys, they were in their 50s. And they had been at Bankers Trust for like over 25 years. And they were just doing these very menial trading tasks. Not things that made a big difference, they just gave data to the traders. And their system could have been automated, but they were just doing it for 25 years. So they hired me to automate the system. I don't know, probably they fired those guys after I did it. I'm not sure. Because these guys were like, they were such disgruntled fellows. They were like always complaining, always unhappy. Well, first of all, we worked in this horrible, dingy space. And, you know, yeah, and like these little tiny cubicles. It was like the worst New York Wall Street office space. And these guys were so frustrated. I mean, they were there for I'm like, hey, what do you guys want? And they were the don't mean experts to give me the information to code their system. And these guys complained every day, many times.

0:16:32
They were like, oh, it's horrible here.

0:16:34
It's terrible.

0:16:35
I'm like, this is my first contract. I'm super happy. And they're like, been here forever.

0:16:41
We never get promotions.

0:16:42
And they're like, Biddy as ever,

0:16:46
you know, we never get promotions,

0:16:48
it's impossible, everything's terrible. They complained about, they had been there for 25 years and found everything to complain about. And there was a lot to complain about because it wasn't that great there. I had beginner's mind. So I was inoculated against their stuckness. They were stuck in spirit. I was not stuck in spirit. And they just complained, complained, complained,

0:17:23
complained.

0:17:25
And I was all, yeah, this place is like a sewer. But for me, it's great.

0:17:32
For them, they were stuck.

0:17:34
I was in the same situation as them, elbow to elbow with them, doing the same work with them, spending all day with them. And there were these two gray-haired, funky guys complaining about everything. Like a New Yorker, I'm so terrible. It's horrible. Nothing's going to work out. And I'm like, oh. I'm like, thanks for giving me that advice and it they reminded me of those two guys on the Muppet Show right and they're always going to the Muppet Show and always complaining someone knows their name no, Tao knows their name anyway you know those two little grumpy guys who are always heckling? So these guys are like that. It's like Why do you keep coming to the Muppet Show? You don't like it? But because

0:18:34
That's what people do

0:18:36
If that's the only thing that they are aware of they keep showing up and they keep doing the same thing and not liking it. That's being stuck. So I learned a lot from being with them. A lot about what stuck was. And I was like, I never want to be stuck. I learned about having an open mind, whether you're in difficult work. You know, that's what they say. If you're an arhant, an enlightened Buddhist, you could sit in hell and have a samadhi, perfect meditation. So I worked in this dingy place. It was horrible. It smelled and the coffee was always cold and just you know the lighting everything and I was like and I had these two guys who are always complaining to me. And I was like,

0:20:04
Yes!

0:20:06
And they were like, No!

0:20:08
Yes, that's very beautiful.

0:20:10
Yeah, so...

0:20:12
They were stuck.

0:20:14
You don't have to be stuck

0:20:16
in the same situation.

0:20:18
But people tend to get stuck in any situation. People tend to get stuck three seconds into a situation. They're like, oh, wow, I won the lottery. I'm a millionaire now. And then you're all, I got the money. And then you buy everything in 30 seconds. And then 30 seconds later, you're all, now I'm stuck.

0:20:43
It happens.

0:20:45
Yeah, money, fame, whatever. Trust me, who are those people called movie stars who wanted fame and they are the most famous? Did it create spiritual satisfaction? No. They're stuck. They're stuck in whatever they're stuck in. Everyone says, oh, wouldn't it be best to be a supermodel that everybody loves. And then if you did that, you'd be stuck in that. Wherever you put the self, there'll be stuckness.

0:21:30
Yeah.

0:21:32
But on the spiritual path as well, when you're practicing meditation, when you're practicing mindfulness, learning yoga, discovering the spiritual truths, you can get stuck. And if you get stuck, then you'll be like, oh, this spirituality sucks. Or you'll be like, I know enough of it so I get the idea. And so I don't need it anymore because it's not good enough for me. And then I call that the yellow belt syndrome. I tried karate. I did it for six months or so. I got a yellow belt. And I got the hang of it. There was a bunch of punching and kicking. I saw the black belts doing stuff. I didn't think that was very interesting after a while. And then I got stuck, so I quit. And then I got my ass kicked while I was walking down the street. Somebody punched me in the face. But I didn't like karate. That's what people do. They say that about enlightenment. They go, I got the idea. We sit around sitting and talking and hearing ideas, and then I walk out and get my ass kicked because I get angry or sad, have some ego reaction or an attachment, and I suffer. And if you're not real about your suffering and just your judgments, then you will suffer from your judgments.

0:23:10
See?

0:23:12
Yeah, so we want to go beyond that. That's stuck. That's what stuckness is. In spirituality, we've had people very... people get stuck in spiritual practice more than anything else. It's so elusive. So much caught up in desire, aversion, self-concept, ideas. That's why I like to equate spirituality to martial arts. I love it. You can go to martial arts and be like I have all these ideas because I saw this kung fu movie I saw this Van Damme movie Chuck Norris Chuck Norris so I now I know that's like oh your ideas are great you think that your training is real and you're like I feel myself is more powerful than the idea of training And any sensei will put you on your back But people think that in spirituality. I have an idea. I don't like this And then they won't even realize when they're put on their back. They'll just be reacting And that's called stuck. But in spirituality getting stuck is the biggest thing. Because if you get stuck then you can't move forward.

0:24:49
If you get stuck you're trapped in self.

0:24:52
But if you learn how to get unstuck, you move beyond the self. And then there's liberation, there's empowerment, and it's great. In the time of the Buddha, there was a great Brahmin teacher, a Vedic teacher, and he had many many many students And he was teaching He knew he was he was very very well versed in the Vedas all of the teachings of the Vedic religion and He was smart, capable, was able to say smart things, and everyone loved it. So he had a lot of students that were coming to him. And then he heard about this Buddha guy. So he's like, he's all, tish posh. You know, this guy's making up his own spiritual. When the Vedas, the Vedic practices have been here for thousands of years. And he's all, but Buddha came to town. And he was like, I'm going to go check Buddha out, and then I'm going to watch him and figure out everything I don't like, and then I'm going to go and tell my students Buddha's lame because of A, B, C, D, E, F, G. And then he went to see Buddha and he sat, you know, way in the back and it was like a big public thing. There were a bunch of monks, a bunch of lay people, and a bunch of first-time people just wandering around going, oh, we've heard of this Buddha guy. And he sat there and then he he heard Buddha speaking, but whatever Buddha said, he didn't remember the words at all. It just addressed his spirit. And he was, all of his thoughts were to be, he's a highly intelligent fellow. And he was like, I'm going to dissect this guy and show everybody everything false. And something reached him deeper and touched his spirit. And then when it touched his spirit, he realized something. He realized that even though he was a really well-renowned teacher, and that he knew so much stuff, and was able to share the knowledge that he knew, he knew that what his spiritual awareness was was nothing compared to Buddha's realization. And he just looked at Buddha and said, that is the truth. And he said, and what I have in myself is a great sadness. And he realized that even though he's just out there teaching and saying things and words, ideas, reading from the book and telling people what the book means, he was like, I am sad, very sad, deeply sad. And he realized that seeing Buddha. And he realized the great truth in that. So, after the Buddha gave his discourse, he stayed there. And he said, I want to talk to him. And the monks are all, no one talks to Buddha except for monks. And then he said, I need to talk to him. And then they're all, no, no, no, no, no, no. And then Buddha goes, hey, that guy way over there, let him talk to me. And then he was a loud audience. So he comes over and he says, Buddha, he says, I've been a teacher. I'm called master. And I know I have seen completely and truthfully that you are a master. And I want to have And he said, how can you deliver me from my suffering? I will follow it. And the Buddha says, I can tell you. He says, please tell me. The Buddha says, no, no, no, no, I don't think you're ready. And he says, please tell me. No, no, no, no. Everything happens in threes with Buddha, at least in the discourses of the Buddha. No, no, no, no. Yes. No, no, no, no, yes. No, no, no, no, please. No, no, no, no, come on. It's true. I think that's the etiquette. It's the etiquette of the time.

0:30:14
And so,

0:30:16
finally Buddha said, if you want to be free of your sadness, of this deep suffering, then he said, tell all of your students to follow me. To let go of all the teachings I gave you, you gave them, and to follow me instead. And then Buddha stood up and walked away. And he was like, what? He's like, I've developed my career and being a master. I was born with the highest born thing that you can be born of. And I read a book and memorized it and said smart things from the to nod and agree. He's like, so he spent 24 hours really fighting that. How could the Buddha try to take my livelihood, try to take my reputation? He's just trying to steal from me. But he remembered, when I sat in satsang with Buddha, instilled my mind and looked at Buddha, I saw the freedom. I saw the liberation. What we call spiritual unstuckness. And then he said, all of my considerations are spiritual stuck. And I saw Buddha is unstuck. So he And he says, Do you trust my teachings?

0:32:01
And they go, of course, of course, of course, of course.

0:32:04
And he goes, do you believe what I say? Of course, of course, of course, of course, of course. I will tell you the way to enlightenment if you want. Yes, please, please, please, please. And then he says, but you must be committed. Yes, yes, yes, of course we are.

0:32:23
Then he says, OK.

0:32:25
Then he says like three or four other things.

0:32:27
I guess then they go, yes, yes, yes.

0:32:30
There will be punch and pie at the end. Oh, yes, yes, and we went back. And then they're like, what is it?

0:32:37
What is it?

0:32:38
What is it?

0:32:38
What's your secret teaching? And he goes, Go and study with the Buddha. And then they go, huh? And they go, Well, we studied with you, but you're a Brahmin, but you're in the structure, but all this stuff and all our social conditioning, all of our this and all of our that, and now you say do that? And he says, You do that or I will have nothing to do with you ever. Because he knew. And he fought with his students because they were like, no, totally attached. And it hurt and it was difficult and he struggled through it and he let it go completely. Because he saw that truth in Buddha and then they left him there okay I mean like you know I think 30% of them didn't leave but 70% of them walked over to Buddha and said because of our faith and our teacher we're going to become monks shave head shaved head, put on a robe, ate some cake, drank some tequila.

0:34:06
Buddha's smile!

0:34:08
I don't know if it happened in that world. And then he was there and he saw all these devotees of his for decades, 10 years, 20 years, and they just came to the Buddhist teachings because they believed in his teachings, and he believed in Buddhist teachings, and he saw them become monks and they saw them transform. And then because of all of them transforming, he said, I'm going to do this too. Buddha just said to tell my students to become monks, but I'm so excited to see that he becomes fully enlightened. We call it an arhat, a perfected saint. So beautiful. He was stuck in his suffering, even though he was a very high being, very high meditation, knew everything about the Dharma that anyone could talk about, except for he had to go a little bit behind or beyond self, Dharma, ideas, and he was free. He did something that freed him. That's the way to get unstuck What is stuck? What's being stuck? It's like when you're walking on a hot day in New York City, and you step on some chewing gum. Is that being stuck? Now that's just that's just gross. Sorry about that.

0:36:26
Um...

0:36:28
Putting glue on your fingertips?

0:36:32
Is that being stuck? No. Yeah, it could be. But you gotta let go soon enough. And then it's just goopy. Life might be goopy, but if you stay in the goop too long,

0:36:44
it becomes concrete,

0:36:45
which some of you know about. What is stuck? Stuck is... What I call stuck does nothing. It's not a real thing. There's no a-stuck. It's true, there's no stuck. Stuck is a process. For the spirit, stuck is perceiving things incorrectly. Stuck is using your resources in a way that's not effective. So, stuck in every regard of your life, whether it's a job, or an enlightenment, or walking your dog, or hanging out with your friend, stuck is that you are using your resources in an inefficient way. your time, your focus, your attention.

0:38:05
Attention is it.

0:38:06
If you're working on a job, if you're working on a yoga project business, if you're working on anything physical, picking up garbage and bringing it over to the truck, anything that you do, if you do it in a way where there's no self, there's a flow of energy no matter what you do, it could be a very simple thing, there could be enlightenment in it. Whatever you do, it could be a very technical advanced thing, the biggest thing, the most powerful thing, this spiritual advancement. But whether it's picking up trash or running the universe, essentially it's the same process. One can pick up trash or rake dirt and be assigned... Yeah, at the same time you can be completely connected with the essence of the universe. You can be one with God. God's running, you know, our solar system, and there's a few others. And some of them don't even work, but he runs them anyway. They don't work the way we describe working. Yeah, but everything that we do, if we do it in the right way, there's a flow of spirit. That flow of spirit is beautiful, powerful, and amazing, magical. When the self gets in the way, ideas, concerns, worries, difficulties, troubles, then that's where things get stuck. So stuck doesn't exist. There's no stuck in this dojo, is there? No sensei! That comes from a movie, it's a really old movie, so some of you weren't even born before that movie came out. It was the Karate Kid. The first one. Yeah, so doing your work selflessly opens you to power, opportunity, a different outlook. It's a really great practice to come and say well I'm gonna um you know why are you here? It's the funniest thing. You're coming here, you're digging in dirt, you know like struggling, it's hot, and pouring concrete and digging up ferns and things like that. It's just an amazing act of spiritual selflessness. And by doing that, it creates an opportunity of dharma, of awareness like this. Because if you don't do some work, if you don't put a little bit of selflessness forward, then what do you expect to get? More self. Because more self is boring. Oh yeah, which is a big teaching of being stuck. You got to get really bored of your desires, of your self-description, of your aversions. You have to say, I'm so bored of being afraid, of being powerful. I'm bored of these definitions of I'm weak. What if I let go of those things? What if I go into a karate dojo and I think I'm weak And yet I learn and I see I got stronger and stronger and stronger What if my side thrust kick ends up being strong? Am I still weak? What if I can fight? I can spar stronger And what if I can stretch more am I still weak? What if I can beat my opponent? Am I still weak? The practice that we do is constructive. What we do together is we develop ourselves together. This is a place of growth, of strength, of empowerment. That's all that there is here. There's no weakness, there's no stomping down. This is, even coming to Foddy Woods birthday and digging in dirt is all a constructive act. It's all building. And there's something really, really honest about doing physical work together. And there's something really honest about doing martial arts together, and there's something really honest about doing technology together, something really honest about doing yoga together. These are all many dimensions of really learning the way, a spiritual practice of, through any act, together in the Sangha, of opening something that leads you beyond the self. It's very beautiful. When I look at all of you, and the work that you did today, I just see so much light. And I see the light in the people who worked hard.

0:44:54
I do.

0:44:54
Some people just put it all, put everything into it. A lot of people are still like, oh,

0:44:59
it's a long day and it's hard. It's okay. The steps that you've taken are good, but some people can work that six hour stretch with like total impeccability and total drive. Start to see that. Look at them. A lot of people, I know we all start off at some point. If you come here, you check in, you do half an hour of work, and you're like,

0:45:39
whoo, whoo, whoo.

0:45:41
You do it half an hour later, or whatever. I'm like, good for you to show up on time and to do your best. Because I remember when we first opened this up to ST4s, Lakshman was the first one. I was like, Lakshman, you come here. And he's like huh what okay I really like you Sambara so I'll do what you say that's all like builds things and he's like oh you know it was a big deal for him he had never built things before but and it was a big shock and so it was hard to start and I just had him doing it imagine if I just grabbed one of you guys and I'm like, hey you! I give you this giant task to do. And if you do, then I won't complain. And, you know, we develop this little by little. But I just see so much amazingness in all of your efforts. And for those of you who are like, oh, it's really hard, so I can only do a little bit. Well, thank you for coming and doing a little bit. Good for you. And then next time, do a little bit more. This is how we develop ourselves. And some of you, first time here, worked the whole time, pushed it. It's like, wow, that's really good.

0:47:17
This is amazing.

0:47:17
This is the practice that we do.

0:47:21
It's just practice.

0:47:22
But this is a very, a very developmental practice.

0:47:26
Because we all have our yogas,

0:47:28
we're pushing buttons on computers. But when we're together and we can just like build paths and get rid of garbage and cut things and build things and do things, this is something where it's very visible to us. This was very important for Milarepa. He had to have a very very clear vision of What he was doing in his karma yoga if it was wishy-washy because it before he Studied with Martha. He had a great enlightened teacher. It was like let me teach you Spiritual attention and focus to make you enlightened and he's like, okay cool. I'm here for that And it didn't happen for him. And he's like, go on to Marpa. And Marpa was the one who was like, this isn't just spiritual, like, hey, everything's cool, let's just have my own ideas. It was spiritual beatdown. And it was like, hey, we're going to do something you don't really want to do. You wouldn't rather do this. I mean, you guys would probably rather be like watching a movie or hanging out with friends or just like zoning out. Right? Like welcome to America. I mean, so this is a very strong push in a different That's a push of Dharma. It's exceptional. So what you're working. I'm very happy with how you work. In every endeavor, with every intention, and I know sometimes it's really hard, but you guys do a very good job. It's very beautiful.

0:50:03
Yeah, I wish I had this with my teacher

0:50:05
when we had to do something physical together.

0:50:09
Like, it would have been great. But we didn't have this. We just had to do computer things. I'm like, ah, OK. But to be able to come together here in our sangha place of power and to work together is just a great thing, a wonderful thing. Okay, we're going to focus so I know it's difficult you guys worked all day but this is where we get to really push meditation so we're going to sit for six songs which is about 24 minutes two songs on the navel two songs on the third eye. We're going to really really...

0:51:19
Which songs from...

0:51:21
They have it. So we're going to focus, right? So, you guys look alright. So, when we focus on the navel, strong focus. So we did a lot of physical work today. And the body might be a little bit tired from that work. But don't be tired in your focus. This is the time to wake up. Because this is where I open up a lot of power for you great people who've come to this workday, you put a lot of physical work in, so I open up a lot of Kundalini, a lot of spiritual energy. So if you're like a little bit like, oh, mom, I'm tired,

0:52:13
then

0:52:15
that's okay. It's still good for you because there's a lot of empowerment in what I'm giving. But if you want to have a deep meditation Then be awake to the thoughts follow me All right

0:52:34
Good friends Who has the playlist?

0:52:43
You do.

0:52:48
Who has the playlist?

0:52:51
You.

0:52:52
The first six songs or the first six songs?

0:52:55
The first six songs.

0:52:57
So, thank you.

0:53:04
the the the the Thank you. Oh, the the the so so so So, the the the the the the the So, I'm going to play a little bit of it. so so so So So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. So the the the the the the the the the the the so so I'm going to go get a drink. Oh, so So so the so the the the the I'm not afraid of the dark I'm not afraid of the dark I'm going to go to bed. the the the the the the the the the the So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so so so So, thank you. the the Oh. So, thank you. so the the the so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, You're not alone. the Very good everyone. That's a wonderful effort of meditation. It takes effort for a long time to perfect meditation. So you perfect transition. Woo! Makunda lady, I'm telling you. That's what you have to do. You have to work sometimes, be selfless sometimes, and work for no reason. Or sometimes, in the right direction.

1:20:32
Give it your all. Love it. Love giving your all for no reason. For no return. And there's experience that comes from that. So today is a day of beautiful selflessness and really wonderful, really beautiful. It's just so fun seeing here how we're building together and developing together. It's an amazing, amazing thing. We're doing something. I see the pathways. Building and building and building. We're building the pathway to enlightenment. Some of them have concrete and stone. Some of them have decks. But all the things that we're creating is the pathway to enlightenment. It's very beautiful. So what you're doing is very, very magical.

1:22:08
So, thank you all very much. This was very beautiful. I'm very happy to sit with you.

1:22:14
It's just a great thing that we come together, work together, and do something. If we had something else, we would do the other thing. But this is the one common denominator. Digging in dirt. And so let's rejoice. Let's have a fun time doing this together, spending hours digging, or whatever we do, like all sorts of physical work. It's very fun. It's very good. And those of you who have been here a couple times, you know, you start to understand it a little bit more. And we have a, we have, so next week is going to be satsang, but the week after we still have a couple more times. And I would say, take advantage of that, because the teachings and the wonderful things that we're able to share together are beyond time and space, beyond an idea of what I get or what I don't get. There's something very, very powerful and beautiful in us, a spiritual sangha, working together in our little spiritual retreat, our place of power. And we're building something. And what we're building here is going to be something where we have very powerful teachings in the future. You're like, oh no, I've got to drive all the way out here? Yes. And it's worth it. Not only to come here and build it, but once we build it, you being a contributor to building it, and what we share with many other people who can't show up, who are too busy or don't know how to get here or something. I mean, it's hard. We're way the hell out over here. We're here. Okay, yeah. So, but these are things that are really, really wonderful, and it creates a power, and we're going to have sangha events here in the future. You are people who contributed selflessly to build this place. That's what we were doing today. It's just a very beautiful thing. It's a thing that is self-evident. You might be like, well, I could have gone and played video games, gone to the mall, hung out with my friends, and all these other things that you could have done today. But you came here to do some work. And that work that you put in is working to your heart. So when we come here and we have some powerful spiritual classes, you'll be like, I put my heart into this place. Even if it's just today, beautiful thing. Yeah, so challenges are of the mind. It's a way of looking at things. They're not real. Being stuck.

1:25:45
Being

1:25:47
you know the Great Wall of China stopping you from coming in? Guess what? They came in anyway. Donald Trump wants to build a border. Guess what? They're going to come in anyway. There's no way of stopping enlightenment. Your heart wants enlightenment. There's a way.

1:26:36
There's no stopping you.

1:26:40
Everything that looks like an obstacle is not an obstacle.

1:26:50
Everything that looks like an obstacle is

1:26:53
exactly what you need to face to learn from, to grow from, to struggle with, to see the bigger picture. And it's a perfect lesson for your liberation, for every single one of you. That which gets you stuck is your lesson to be enlightened. That which makes you feel stuck and hurt and bothered in every thousand dimensions is that you to the thing that you need to learn from, to dissolve, to let go of, to embrace, to be, to not be obstructed by. It's the catalyst, that which frees you. And it's all in your mind. You think it's everybody else. That person did this to me, so stop me. That person did this to me, so stop me. There's nothing that can stop you. There's nothing that can stop you. When enlightenment is in your heart, you seek freedom.

1:28:21
You can be free.

1:28:27
Because everything that you think stops you is just in your mind. It's true. This is the reality, the truth of the truth. So I just want you to follow me. Close your eyes. Imagine that you are in a dark room. Bars on the windows, barbed wire all around, an electrical fence, and angry pigs that will bite you if you come next to the fence. And you're like, I can't move. I'm in the dark. I can't see. If I move forward, I might get bitten by a pig. If I move forward beyond that I'll get zapped. And the room is dark and I can't see the doorway out if there is a doorway out. This is the way that we see our lives. So what's the way out? You're in this world of darkness, this world of biting pigs, this world of barbed wire limitations that other people set up. Let me tell you the way out. Stop imagining it. Okay, we're done. Don't imagine that anymore. Maybe imagine we're sitting in a yurt in the middle of the woods. Let's imagine this is a palace of enlightenment, where Buddhas and Bodhisattvas, the gods and goddesses come. Imagine that. And they show us in every moment ways of being strong, ways of being liberated, ways of being bright. Every one of them shows us a new dimension of happiness, joy, perfection that we easily can bring into our hearts. There's no separation. That's the way out. When you find yourself stuck in physical activity, digging in dirt, struggling in your job, trying to get a job, don't just get stuck in the the way that you look at it. Open your awareness to a bigger way, a greater perspective. Enlightenment's on your side. There's endless

1:31:21
opportunities of grace.

1:31:23
There's endless blessings of God's goddesses. Bodhisattvas, if you don't believe in them, then just good stuff. There's endless good stuff for you to just get. There's a snicker bar over there. Whatever you need to get high, to get strong, to succeed in your way. Whether we call it a god or a goddess or a snicker bar, it's all before you. In any way that you can perceive it, success and enlightenment, perfection is before you. Being stuck does not exist. It's not real. What's real is 10,000 dimensions of perfection that bring you out of stuckness. Anytime you're stuck, just let that go. Don't be attached to the one out of 10,000 dimensions. Anytime you're stuck, let it go, and find that place where there's an opening that you can feel that helps you. So, thank you so much. Very beautiful to be able to meditate. Tonight, we're going to watch a wonderful film, and I hope you can all see it and watch it. It is called Joe vs. the Volcano. And Joe started off in a condition of awareness where there's complete concrete horribleness and he found liberation and freedom so I hope that either you can horribleness and he found liberation and freedom so I hope that either you can stay and watch it or if you gotta go then go but watch it this week.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
