0:00:00
Hello and welcome to Satsang with Samara. Today we're going to meditate together and speak about enlightenment and the spiritual path of liberation. But let's begin with meditation. We're going to meditate together for about 15 minutes. We'll meditate to music, to three songs. The first song will focus on the navel chakra, the second song on the heart, and the third song, the third eye.

0:00:44
Thank you. so so So so You're welcome. so so You So, thank you. so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so you so you you so So so so You're my everything You're my everything You're my everything You're my everything You're my everything You're my everything You're my everything you So today I'd like to speak with you about an important spiritual subject, ruthlessness. most important teachings in job yoga. It's one of the most important motivations on the spiritual path.

0:04:16
Ruthlessness is the ultimate drive for enlightenment. When you're ruthless, you're completely efficient toward that aim. You're not putting somebody else down in any way. You're just completely committed and determined to be liberated from suffering and to be higher in every moment. It's like if you're in your house and there's something outside, something fantastic, like the most wonderful parade you can ever imagine. And if you see that parade, your heart will be filled with joy and you'll be ultimately supremely content. Okay, but you go over to your window, and the window's covered in filth. It's very dirty, so you can't see the parade outside. You know it's there, but you can't see it. So if you're ruthless, you're going to get out the sponges and paper towels and everything and clean. You're going to get the ultra windex and you're going to do the work. And it might be a lot of work, but if you're ruthless, you're going to do whatever it takes so that you can see that amazing parade. Most people will say, yeah, I want to see the parade, and then they'll start cleaning, and they'll say, whoa, this is really hard. Then they'll say, well, on the other hand, privacy is good. It's how people do things. Manjushri comes to mind. Manjushri is a bodhisattva, an enlightened saint. And he is a saint of great wisdom. He's depicted as holding a flaming sword above his head. And with that sword, he cuts through concepts. So he's the one who is ruthless. Anything that is false, anything that is unreal, anything that obscures truth, he cuts through it. So that's a power of ruthlessness. There was a story of a monk who was in eastern China, this area. And this monk wanted liberation. So he prayed to Manjushri. He prayed and prayed and prayed, Manjushri, I'll do whatever it takes, but cut away my obscure vision, cut of self, so I can see truth and be free and be enlightened. Then one night he had a dream with Manjushri. Manjushri said, when you prayed to me I actually came to you, but you couldn't see me because you have this obscuration of self. So now I can visit you in the dream and tell you something." He gives him a mantra and he says, I want you to do this mantra while you travel to a certain cave in Tibet. And he tells him where the cave is. And he says, you have to prostrate yourself and do the mantra and get up and prostrate yourself the whole way. And then when you get to that cave, you say the mantra, and I will come. And so, the monk wakes up, and he says, wow, this is wonderful. Now my prayers have been answered. I know what to do. I know what to do for enlightenment. So he sets out, doing the mantra, prostrating himself all the way from eastern China to Tibet. This is a long and arduous journey, and wasn't easy, very difficult, but he got to the cave and he did the mantra and then nothing happened. And then he said, you know what, I'm gonna do the mantra more. Does the mantra more, expecting Manjushri to appear, and then Manjushri doesn't appear. So then he makes a vow. He says, no matter what, I'm going to do this mantra until Manjushri appears. And I'm not going to leave this cave until I see Manjushri. So he sits and does this mantra for 100 days. He doesn't even get up to get water or to use the restroom. He's just somehow committed, sits there for 100 days. And then finally, on the 100th day, they say that Manjushri says to him, now you have purified your awareness. There is nothing more in your way. So now you can see me. And then at that moment, the monk became enlightened.

0:20:41
We have to do a lot of hard work

0:20:43
on the spiritual path to make progress, to gain personal power, to be free. And if you have that ruthlessness, I'll do whatever it takes, then you will be free. But when we have to do the hard work, we can't feel sorry for ourselves. We go, oh man, this is hard, I don't want to do this. I want to go play video games, I want to go do this, I want to go do that. But if you do the hard work, then you'll be free. We But ruthlessness is the opposite of self-pity. We don't see ourselves as weak or lacking. We are directed toward a higher goal, a higher awareness.

0:21:40
And we're going for it.

0:21:41
There's a very positive power, a feeling of flying, when you're ruthless. You don't sit there and say, oh, I can't do it, I feel bad, I don't like this, I don't like that. Long ago in China there was a beggar, very poor, and he was filled with self-pity, very sad, miserable, and he was just sitting there, just being unhappy. And a Taoist layman went walking by and he said, you know what, you know, you shouldn't have self-pity. You shouldn't be so unhappy. He said, I'll tell you a secret. I was very poor once and I learned this from a Taoist gods. Yu Huang is a great Taoist god. And he says, you pray to him and you tell him, I told him, if you give me gold, I will go to the temple every day for the rest of my life. And the next day, there was a large amount of gold just in my room, and then that set me on the right path. Then I go to the temple every day, now I'm spiritually happier. So he says, pray to him. And the beggar goes, okay, I've got nothing to lose. So then the Taoist walks on, having shared a beautiful way. And then the beggar looks up to the sky and he's like, Huihuang, please give me an ingot of gold. If I had an ingot of gold, it would change my life. And he says, if you give me an ingot of gold, I will go to your temple every day for the rest of my life." If you give me an ingot of gold, and then he sees the corner of his eye, a little sparkle, he looks over and he sees this giant ingot of gold. Then he says, oh, uh, that's okay. I already got one. He's like, sorry to bother you. He goes and takes it. So then it's late at night, and he goes, oh, tomorrow I'm gonna go buy things and, you know, fill my belly and drink and be happy. He wakes up in the morning, and the gold is gone. And then he goes back to his unhappiness and self-pity. He didn't take the opportunity. So when you indulge in self-pity or self-importance, you lose personal power. Your awareness, your consciousness actually contracts, becomes smaller. You look at life in a smaller way. And it could be self-pity, but it could be self-importance. They're two sides of the same coin. That's the description of self. You feel sorry for yourself or you feel that you're great and fantastic. Many definitions of sorry for yourself, many definitions of how great you are, that's self-pity and self-importance. And indulging in this is a way of losing attention, being stuck in the self and not seeing higher virtue. When you indulge in self-pity and self-importance, the assemblage point shifts to a very fixed state. It is a position of morbid self-centeredness, where even your ideas of good things are negative. They're stuck in self. It's a place of sham, compassion, and cruelty. It's a place where you have great, disturbing emotions and dark thoughts. It's the place of self. When you're ruthless, it shifts the assemblage point to be unstuck into a higher place. When you're ruthless, it always brings you to a higher attention. So long ago, somewhere in India, there was a yogi, and he had an enlightened master, and he was a bhakti yogi. He was filled with love for his master. He practiced devotion every day. He would practice these pujas of devotion for his master. And then one day his master died. When his master died, he got very, very, very sad and then he fell into drinking and brawling and just having a really bad negative life. Then one day, he drank too much, he brawled too much, he found himself waking up either from getting beaten up or from too much alcohol, waking up in a ditch. And he realized that his life had become a living hell. Then he had a little bit brighter. He said, I need to focus on what my teacher taught. So he sat up in the little ditch and he started to practice one of the mantras that his teacher gave him. And immediately when he practiced this mantra, he felt like he was in the presence of his teacher. And then he ended up going back to the ashram, practicing, and he got higher and higher, and finally he became liberated. So he went from a place of love and devotion for his teacher, but that was a place of self-importance, because the moment that his teacher wasn't there, he ended up going the other way, which was to the place of self-pity. In job yoga, we have to be ruthless in our work. Ruthlessness is a disposition that we assume. We say, all right, I'm going to be ruthless and then I'm going to take action. The moment that you set your intention ruthlessly is the moment that you go beyond the self and you are impeccable. Impeccability is born from ruthlessness. So if you're like, oh, I'm going to try to do something impeccably, then it's kind of nice. You're working on something, you're trying. But if you want a radical shift into impeccability, then you get ruthless about what you're doing. So I remember one of the gals, one of my students, She was on some, you know, track for a career, going to university, and she had some people in her life that were very negative towards her and very detracting of her happiness and success, but that was her life. And then she decided to learn computer programming, drop out of the school that she was in, move away from those people who were negative in her life. And I remember the time that she decided that she got ruthless. She was sitting there, it was after a satsang, and she was just clear and looked at her life and what was going on. And then she looked at the opportunity of Dharma and she went. And in that instant, she became ruthless and she was able to throw away all of those things that were not satisfying, forward and was immediately extremely strong as a yogi. And then she ended up doing very, very well in her career, becoming a very successful computer programmer. So this is what you have to do. You have to be clear and see what you want. See what the Dharma is. And if you're ruthless about it, you'll radically I remember an old Zen story. There's a Zen monastery, an enlightened master, Dojen. And this new monk comes in, and all these old monks are sitting there, and they say, that you have to go through to learn to meditate, to learn the sutras, to practice the calligraphy. They had all these practices. And he said, so sit down and we'll teach you. So the young monk sits down and they said, okay, here's how you practice. Here's how you learn the So they go through it and then the young monk says, okay, got it. And then they say, what do you mean? And then he was able to repeat the sutras and speak of insight about the sutras. And they were like, wow. And then they said, okay, so let's do a koan practice. So they give him some strange koan, like, what's the color of the air? And he gives like this answer, and then the old monks are like, hmm, that seems insightful. And then they say, okay, we're going to teach you zazen. So they sit, they teach him, they go, this is the hard part. Okay, so you got to sit up, you got to stop that. And then the older monks start getting grumpy. And then they go to the master and they go, Dojen Senji, why did this happen to this monk? You know, this is supposed to take like 10 years. What's going on? And then says he's completely dedicated to enlightenment. There's nothing that is in his way. If you're ruthless, there's no obstacles. If you're ruthless, what seems like an obstacle to some people is to you a strength. So you got to be ruthless. You can't skip steps. There's no shortcuts. There's only going faster. So you can't say, oh, I like this whole enlightenment idea, but meditation is hard, so I'll just watch videos. Or something like that. I like enlightenment, but I don't like a sangha. So I'm going to do it on my own. You know, it's just stuff like that. That's where the self comes in. So you can't skip steps, you have to do things the right way, but you can do it faster. You can do it faster. But you've got to be ruthless. You've got to take on what's worth taking on. You can't shy away from things. You have to face them openly and honestly, and then you can move forward. And that's powerful. You have to, being ruthless is wanting enlightenment no matter what. Whatever comes up, you have to say, do I want enlightenment or this? I want enlightenment. Whatever the situation, the condition, you have to say, I want enlightenment more. The first patriarch of Zen, he made a big breakthrough. Bodhidharma was in China, and Bodhidharma was the 27th lineage holder of Buddhism. He came from India to China, and nobody understood him. They were just like, wow, he's this great, enlightened master, but he would say, he would give a teaching and people would not be able to learn from him very much. So he was like, I'm going to go and hang out over here by myself. And then he would come in, everyone was like, wow, this great master, but he's like so high above us, it's hard for us to understand. And then this one monk says, after one satsang, he says, I understand your teachings, now teach me. And Bodhidharma says, you don't understand, go away. And he says, I do understand. This whole world is just transient. And I know that you have the eternal teachings and I want the eternal teachings. And then Bodhidharma says, really? You think so? He says, no, no, I think you're stuck in maya. And he says, I know maya is an illusion. And then he takes out a knife and cuts his arm off. And he's all, see, this is just an illusion. He's like, I want eternity. And Bodhidharma goes, very good. That's the comic book version. But this is a real story. Apparently he cut his arm off to prove to Bodhidharma that he could see that this world was just completely transient. And then Bodhidharma ended up teaching him, and then he became a very great teacher. But that is some determination, right? He wanted enlightenment no matter what, and he was willing to show the teacher that he was serious about it. And then he got it. So that's pretty strong ruthlessness. Now, not everybody has that kind of awareness to be able to see the truth of the illusion of life. So when you don't have ruthlessness and determination like that, that's when you have to study with a teacher. Because a teacher teaches you how to be stronger than you would be on your own. It's like if you go to a good karate class, the sensei will push you, make you to do lots of exercises, push harder, punch harder, fight harder. You by yourself, you might do some kata, practice some kicking, but when you have a good sensei, they push you harder and you become more powerful because of that. a Zen monastery in China, and the Zen master said to one of the monks, I will teach you enlightenment through calligraphy. So he says, okay. He's teaching him these classic calligraphy forms, and he would rip up the paper and say, do it again. And then the monk would feel bad. And then the master would come and yell at him, how could you be so stupid? You're doing this all wrong. And then he'd rip it up and go away. So he does this again and again and again. And then the is feeling really bad, he's filled with self-pity. He's feeling bad about himself and he's like, I'm never going to get this. And then he's about to start and then the master appears and he's like scared. And then the master says, I want you to write something new, not one of the classical forms, just write anything. And he goes, alright, he thinks about what to do, what to write, and then the master goes, do it now! And he's all, huh? And he's all, now! Now! Do it now! Do it! And he's all, I don't know what to do, do it, do it, do it! And so he's like getting yelled at, do it, do it, do it, and then he gets annoyed, then he gets frustrated, and then he goes through all this, like, why is he yelling at me, and what am I going to write? And then eventually he gets ruthless and he gets unbothered by the Master and he just writes something. And he writes, Go away. And then he looks at it, and it's perfect form. And then the master is like, perfect. And he takes it, and he goes to the meditation hall, and he puts it above the altar. And then it was a symbol for all the monks. They're like, I'll come to meditation. Go away. Okay. Oh, don't go away. Yeah, so a master is very good because they create a structure for you where you have to work, where you perfect yourself, and then they give you a hard time so that you go beyond the self. See, I give my students lots of work to do. That's what job yoga is. It's taking your work and making it yoga. And in the structures of yoga, there's many things to do, things to perfect, being impeccable, being selfless. beyond the self, you can become ruthless and transcend your work through your work, which is perfecting your work. And this creates tremendous power. Ruthlessness is extremely powerful. When you're ruthless, nothing stops you. When you're ruthless, everything's perfect. Buddha had a monk, a close companion, named Ananda. And after the time of Buddha's death, the council of arhants, all of his enlightened students, got together and they decided to record his teachings. Because he taught a little over here, a little over there, so they wanted to put it all together. But Ananda traveled with him everywhere, so he heard it all. Ananda heard some things that even the arhants didn't hear. But Ananda was not enlightened. And so they said, well, you're not enlightened, so even if you know some information, it's not going to assemble his teachings. And then Ananda went through this condition of self-pity. He's like, I'm so upset. I'm not enlightened, but I know things that they don't. And then he went into a condition of ruthlessness, where he said, Buddha's teachings are very important and I truly, in my spirit, wish to have those teachings recorded for the benefit of others. And he became so ruthless in that aim that he became enlightened. And all the enlightened students were together writing down Buddhist teachings. And then Ananda appeared. He just teleported in the room and floated over to them. And then they were like, okay, tell us what you know. So ruthlessness is powerful. We're going to do a meditation on ruthlessness. And this is a meditation of the radical power of ruthlessness. So I'd like you to sit up nice and straight. We're going to bring our attention to the navel chakra. And we're going to sit for one song, Waking from Samadhi. And you can have eyes open looking up here to me because I'm going to go ahead and get my phone.

0:47:43
So, so so So So so You In the business world, ruthlessness is a powerful way to succeed. You know, ruthlessness in a positive way, because there's a lot of mean business people,

0:52:57
but there's also a power in ruthlessness that is positive. For example, Jeff Bezos at Amazon. He wanted his company to succeed and to grow, and he realized, hey, you know what, we have to open up our vendor systems, our architecture is closed, we need better integration abilities. And so he goes to his tech team and they go, well, no, I mean, it's going to take forever and yeah, we can't, you know. So he was like, no, this is what we have to do. And they were like, well, all these problems. And then he set a date. And he said, we're going to have this implemented by this date, or we're going out of business, or we're all fired. And then the programmers were like, what? This is impossible, this is crazy. But he was ruthlessly determining a point. He drew a line in the sand and he said, this is it. And then they were able to get a good job, and then you gotta do it. If you're ruthless, you'll do it, you'll succeed. So go out there and get a job, get a raise, get a promotion, change your career, do something fantastic. If you're starting a business or running a business, make your business grow, make your business succeed fantastically. Be ruthless.

0:54:52
So

0:54:54
walking down the street and in the financial district And this guy in jeans and a t-shirt comes over He doesn't look homeless or anything. Just a regular guy. He comes over and he says, Oh, can I have some money? And I'm like about to say, No. But then he goes, like $100. And I'm like, huh? And he says, Yeah, can I can I have $100? And I'm like, Whoa, that's a lot to ask for. And then I said, it comes on a little like, what's it for? And he's all, just, that's what I ask for. That's what I do, ask people for a hundred bucks. And I'm like, that's a lot. Why don't you start off with like, you know, asking for five dollars or ten dollars? And then he goes, hey, hey, hey. He's like, look, give me a hundred bucks. I said, I can get a good joke out of this. Or is this other guy? I was with some students walking down the street. This guy comes over over and he's all like, can I have some money? We're all, no, go away. And then he says, okay, he goes, then I have a joke for you. I'm like, what? And he's like, okay. He says, what's the best nation? And I'm like, I don't know, like, I kind of like Japan. And then he goes, nope. And I go, what is it? And he says, the best nation is a donation. And so that we gave him some money. Yeah, so if you're ruthless, you might find some humor in Ruthless with competitors. Larry Ellison, he was working with this business in Japan, and this one Japanese businessman man taught him about ruthlessness. He said, so Ingress and Oracle, this big, I think it was the Bank of Tokyo, was thinking which one should we use. And then this one businessman said to him, we see it as if our competitor wins, that it's taking the rice off our table away from our family. It's like, oh. And so Larry Ellison really took that to heart and it made him ruthless. It gave him a power, and then he was able to win the deal. Yeah, so you have to be ruthless with competitors. You have to be ruthless with enemies. So when there's an enemy, that's someone who's trying to obstruct you or push you down. So you have to be ruthless with them. You can't let them obstruct you or hold you down. Because if you let them, then they're going to get bad karma. So you have to be ruthless with them and succeed over their designs so that they don't get bad karma. It's true. This is the idea Sensei Ueshiba had in developing Aikido. He's like, hey, if someone's trying to hurt me, I need to defend myself, because if they hit me, it's bad karma for them. But at the same time, I don't want them to hurt me, and I also don't want to hurt them. So in Aikido, in Jujutsu, when someone attacks you, you fend off the attack in a way where you stop the attack, you don't hurt them, and then that's a way where you don't let them get bad karma, and you care about them so you don't hurt them. So it's true. When you have an enemy, you can't let them stop you. That would be bad for them. You're a job yogi. You're on the pathway to enlightenment through your work. If someone is obstructing you or pushing you down, you can't let them. But then we also don't hurt them. The best that we do is help them. We want to ruthlessly help our obstacles and our enemies. Rockefeller, He had this small oil refinery and he had a big dream to be the biggest person in oil in the country. And he was struggling against competitors and they were outpricing him and he was having all these difficulties. But he ran into Cornelius Vanderbilt, who had the train lines through the country and he made a deal with him, which opened up distribution for him in a huge way. All of a sudden he started making more money and then he started buying out his competitors and they were happy because he bought them out at three times the market value. So that's the way that we want to deal with obstacles. At first they're an obstacle. They're outpricing him and beating him. But then, if you're a powerful job yogi, if you're ruthless, you'll find new ways. And there will be ways that help you, but it also helps the obstacles disappear. It helps the enemies become not enemies and be happy. This is the way of job yoga. Of course, he bought them out at a good price for them, but then he was able to grow a much bigger enterprise because of buying them out. don't let people destroy your dreams, your ambitions, your goals. If you're around people who are negative, they could just give you definitions and doubts. They'll say, nah, I don't think that's the right thing for you. They just have ideas. You can't let anybody squash your dreams. It's important. When you're dealing with people in life, you Follow a high, powerful dharma in your work, and don't let anyone tell you you can't. Don't have any doubt. You have to be very, very, very focused and positive. And whenever anybody wrongs you, Revenge. Buddhist revenge. Ruthless Buddhist revenge. It's like the Klingons say, revenge is best served cold. So, for the person who wrongs you, they hurt you in some way, you use that power of being wronged, the power of revenge, to become strong. See, there's a power in revenge. Something pushed you down, so to right that wrong, you have to push up. Now, most people in pushing up, they push the other person down, but we just push up. So if someone hurts you, if someone wrongs you, then you just use the power of revenge to make yourself stronger, more successful, happier, and brighter. And the greatest revenge is making yourself strong and the person who hurt you strong. That's Buddhist revenge. See, there's no So there was a bank acquisition in South Korea. It was the Shinhan Bank buying the Cho Bank. And the members, the workers of the Cho Bank, they thought that they were getting a bad deal. They didn't like the idea. They thought that they would lose jobs and they would get paid less and everything was going to go bad. So they got really upset and 3,500 of them, all men, they shaved their heads and brought their hair to the lobby of the headquarters of the Xin Han Bank and they And that sounds weird to Westerners, but in Korea, it is the greatest insult. And so the CEO, his name's Jin, sitting on the top floor, hears what happened, and so he gets mad, and he comes down, and he's like, this is such a great insult. I'm going to do some taekwondo on you." And then he goes, why did you do this? And they say, well, we have all these complaints and we think we're going to get a bad deal and all these things. So he listens to them and then he says to them, I understand what your complaints are. And he says, so I'm going to, one, forgive you for doing this, which was huge. And then he says, I'm going to give you guys a raise, and there will be no layoffs. And anything that you guys are upset about, we can discuss in committee and address in a beneficial way. And then these workers were like, whoa. They expected him to be mad, and they were hoping that he'd get so mad and he'd see that they don't wanna work for him that he would just back off the deal. But then his forgiveness and his way of working with them positively made them say, yeah, we want to do this. So they cleaned up their hair and then they were dedicated to work with him. And then the company, even in the first year after the acquisition, made a lot of money. CEO had forgiveness and he worked with the enemy in a very positive way and it made it better for his company altogether, all people involved. And forgiveness is essential. If you just become strong because of fighting an enemy, you might not be happy. But if you forgive, then you become strong and happy. There's a story of a woman long ago in China. Somehow these thieves are robbing her house or store or something like that, and they kill her son. He was like 10 years old or something. And then get away. And she turned to this evil sorcerer and she said, how can I get revenge on these guys? And he said, all right, what you have to do is this practice, this ceremony, and you have to do it every day, and you have to memorize it. And it was a ceremony that would raise the god of the underworld. And then you can ask that god for one wish, and then you can get your revenge. So she goes through learning this ceremony, practicing it, and it was something, you had to practice it to have enough power to be able to open the door for the God to come through. So she's developing herself through doing this practice and eventually she has enough power and she's like, I'm gonna wish that he kills all those guys who robbed my store and killed my son. And then she thought about it and she's like, wait, if they're dead, that won't bring my son back and that's not even gonna make me happy. So she reflects on it it, and then she asks for her wish, she says, I wish for the power of forgiveness. And then the god of the underworld's all, what? I came here to kill people, and now you want the power of forgiveness. But he had to give her her wish, and no one had wished for something that. So he gives that wish and then in giving that wish she's happy, she's liberated from her suffering. And also in giving the wish, the god of the underworld is transformed. And he goes, wow, the underworld? He becomes a dharma protector. He changes from evil god God to a very powerful God that protects truth and seekers of truth. It's a very interesting story. So yeah, you have to have forgiveness. This is how we're ruthless with enemies, with competitors. We empower ourselves through dealing with them, we empower them and we transform and we forgive. Ruthlessness is being victorious. Successful in the physical world in the first attention and successful in second intention. Victorious, able and capable of overcoming all obstacles, transforming those obstacles into the pathway to enlightenment, dealing with any enemy, transforming those interactions to the pathway to enlightenment. So you have to be victorious. You can't be a victim. When you're a victim, everything stops you. Everyone else is to blame. And that's not being ruthless. That's being completely caught in self, filled with self-pity. That's the ego. And even when you're doing that you're like blaming the people trying to help you

1:12:51
That's like and

1:12:53
scuba diving when you're learning rescue diver They say okay if there's a person at the surface in the water Drowning or having you know a panic attack or something They say you have to have certain techniques to approach them because if you just go over to them, they're going to grab you and push you down to get up. So they'll drown you. So you're like, I'm coming to help you. And you're like, thanks. So when you're when you're caught in being a victim, you're in that mentality. Everybody's a problem. You're going to push everybody down to get up an inch. So that's not that's not ruthlessness. You have to be ruthless with the obstacles. You have to be ruthless in your life to determine how to be victorious. You've got to set your goals and you can't let anything stop you. So I had a student who came to me and she argued her limitations. She's all, oh, I can't succeed in a career because, you know, I don't have any experience. Oh, I don't have a college degree. You know, I can't learn these things because it's too hard. And I'm like, OK, well, other people have had those same conditions and they have succeeded, but I can't. And starts blaming, that person did this to me, those people did that to me, society did everything to me, God did everything to me. You know, just everything about their life. They said, this is wrong, this is bad, I can't succeed because of this and this, everybody else is giving me a hard time." So that is being a victim. And when you're ruthless, you're not a victim. When you're ruthless, you set your mind on the dharmic path of success and you overcome all those karmas. This is what we do in meditation, you'll never succeed in meditating. You'll sit there and say, oh, I don't know, it's too hot out, or it's too cold, or my legs hurt, my seat's uncomfortable. And then you'll say, oh, there's this thought and that thought and this thought, right? And they block me and I'm caught in them. But when you're ruthless in meditation, you go beyond thought. You go beyond the physical world. You have to be ruthless in meditation. In meditation, this is the essential practice of ruthlessness. When we sit and meditate, we really try to and let thoughts go. This is where we train that ruthless spirit. No time for thought. No time for time. Only ruthless seeking of silence. And then, as you develop your ruthlessness in meditation, you apply it to your work. That's why ruthlessness is a tremendous aid for liberation. Consider Buddha. Buddha said, I'm going to sit under this tree, this Bodhi tree, until I'm enlightened. I'm not going to get up. I'm ruthlessly going to seek enlightenment. And he ruthlessly found it. Okay, we're going to do one more meditation, focusing on the third eye. This is the transmission of the teaching of ruthlessness. One song. Let's begin.

1:17:05
you so you you so Thank you. All right, thank you very much. It was wonderful sitting with you today in Satsang. All right, thank you very much. It was wonderful sitting with you today in Satsang. Alright, thank you very much. It was wonderful sitting with you today in satsang.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
