0:00:00
Let's begin with a meditation on the heart.

0:00:10
So, the the the the So, So. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, So So You The first time I met my teacher, he gave a beautiful Dharma talk about enlightenment,

0:05:24
and it was eye-opening and liberating and beautiful, and I was like, wow! And so there's this Buddhist master speaking the Dharma, it's amazing. And then the last thing that he said, he was talking about enlightenment, I was like, wow, very happy. And the last thing he said was, fuck you. And somehow I It's beautiful. It's like a hearing test. Let's begin. Compassion, Bodhisitta, is a very powerful, beautiful teaching. It is what I would call a step higher. The past is dust. And what you did in the past, and what you think, and stuff like that, yeah, it's the past. We're going to go higher. You must start the practice of compassion from a place of harmlessness. If you're harmful, you cannot be compassionate. Taking and sending for your suffering while I'm beating you down, right? You can't be conflicted in your mind about all this shit. You gotta, you gotta like, straighten out, you gotta figure it out, straighten out your mind. So you're like, oh, I'm gonna practice compassion, and then I'm gonna be pissed off, and then I'm gonna get angry and hit somebody. So, harmlessness is important. You cannot do compassion when you are harmful. Seems simple, right? It's true. Now, why are you harmful?

0:08:17
Like me?

0:08:19
I'm not harmful. Fuck you. No, no, no, no. Fuck you. Okay. A lot of times you You're ignorant. I'm not ignorant.

0:08:46
I got a degree in something.

0:08:50
A lot of times they're harmful because you are unaware. So, we're doing a very special thing. We are going to raise your awareness. This is what my teacher called a chip upgrade. Now, back in the early 90s, when we had computers this big, in the old horse and carriage days, we would do this thing where we'd take that little 386 chip out and put in a 486. Isn't that funny? Let's see, so now it's not a chip upgrade, it's get a new iPhone. I don't know, right? iPhone up. Yeah, so this is going to be the iPhone up. So what this is, is a wonderful thing. This This raises your awareness. It makes you look, you're looking at life through a certain thing of karma. It makes your outlook and awareness grow, like for real. It's very powerful, it's very beautiful, so wonderful. And I'm happy to be able to be at this stage with you. It's a wonderful thing. I remember when I got my chip upgrade. Sign up for your free chip upgrade. iPhone up! It's a good thing. But the thing is, like, you know, when you're aware of more things, then there's more things to be aware of, and to be mindful of, and to have responsibility for. But if there's stuff going on and you're not aware of it, if it's harmful, you should be aware of it and then stop being harmful. So it's a greater responsibility, but it's good and you need it.

0:11:22
I need it. So we're going to be taking a big step today. And you deserve it.

0:11:38
That's my mudra of, yay! It's funny, so I go back into my room while you guys are taking a break and I just keep going really high. I'm like, wow. But, you know, we do this together, you know. There's a teacher-student relationship is something where I do my work and I do it perfectly and very selflessly, but you got to do your work. So I'm serious about self-compassion practice because that's what's going to make So you have to be responsible.

0:12:44
Handle your stuff.

0:12:48
You have to be responsible for what you do. So Buddha had a teaching where he had a simile of how we should be together. And his story was, there was a girl and a guy. It was a young girl and an older guy. And they were acrobats and they did, they got up on some rope and they did something, some weird stuff. And the guy said, oh, you know what we're doing is really intense. So maybe I should like really, really try and focus on you to make sure you don't get hurt. And then she said, no, I will focus on doing my part perfectly so that you can do your part. You can focus on doing your part perfectly. That's what we do together. And Buddha said, that's the way. The girl was smart. So when you have a lot of work to do, the spiritual path is a big thing, you have to do your part, honestly, earnestly. You've got to put your heart into it. You've got to do the best that you can. If you make a mistake, we're filled with forgiveness. But you have to endeavor to do better. So in Buddhism, we observe first and foremost our thoughts. So this is why I'm teaching self-compassion to you. You practice mindfulness, but I care about you. So I want you to have compassion for yourself. Because if you have compassion for yourself, then you're going to be the good acrobat. And so will I. See, when the acrobats are doing their thing on the high wire, if one person messes up, they can both fall. So both sides have to do an impeccable job. So we're going to do the lift, the iPhone up, so that you're more aware. So there was this monk, or this guy becoming a monk, and he goes and takes the five precepts and he makes a vow. So he's sitting there with his Buddhist master and he goes, I vow not to kill a living being. So that's one of the five precepts. And then a mosquito lands on his arm and starts biting him and he goes. Just... So, out of habit, out of ignorance, he just took the vow and he killed. So, that's what you do. You have karmic habits that are negative and are harmful to you and me.

0:16:26
And what this lift,

0:16:28
the upgrade of iPhone, this gets you to see what that monk saw. Like once the master goes, you just killed, then he goes, oh. And he didn't kill again. He learned. That's awareness.

0:16:41
He was ignorant. He was just in habit and didn't know.

0:16:43
That's the whole situation. So you have to be more aware. That's why we're doing this. Do you guys know that I'm yelling at you? I'm trying to do it in the most polite way. So thoughts. When you think of thought, and you're trashing yourself and not being compassionate to yourself, There's a thing called a sangha.

0:17:27
There's a thing called a teacher.

0:17:28
We're both on that. This is new mudra. You'll be all like, oh, I'm really mad.

0:17:38
Remember?

0:17:41
So we're psychically networked. The Sangha is an organic network. And I call it like a table thing. Like, if there's a leg off of a table, it falls. We're all holding up a table. And we have something to do to hold up the table. If you let the leg go, the table will fall. Or it'll spill my flowers. So, we're networked. And here's the thing that that means. If you're not mindful, and you indulge in crazy, sad thoughts, angry thoughts, it affects everybody. So Buddha, he had this one meeting where there were thousands of monks who came to sit with him and they were ready and thirsty to hear the Dharma. And he walked over and sat down and just sat there. And Maha Kasyapa, one of his enlightened students, came over and said, Buddha, why aren't you giving a discourse on the enlightened dharma? And he says, not with this, this assembly is not ready. It's impure. Then he sat there waiting and then Mahasattva came back and said, come on Buddha, like what? And then everything happens in threes with Buddha. So he doesn't really actually say yes or no until the third time. Then he's all like, he's like, some, there's a monk here who is bad and it's affecting the whole Sangha, I will not say a word of the Dharma." And then, Mahakasyapa goes, because he's enlightened, he's all and he's all like, he's all like, badass all over there! And he goes over, grabs him by the ear, and pulls him out, and goes, get the fuck out of here. And then when he's gone, Buddha gives a beautiful Dharma talk. Now, I always have like a ton of compassion for that poor motherfucker. Like I really feel a lot of compassion for the guy who was so fucking pissed off that an enlightened dude threw him out of the audience

0:20:59
and he couldn't hear Buddha's talk.

0:21:02
There's no, they don't say anything else about him. But I have a strong compassion for him and I don't want you to be that person. I've had hard times learning the Dharma, dealing with my mind, my bad thoughts, my bad feelings, my doubt, my negativity. So I understand. I've been there. I've done that, and all enlightened people go through that, and I want you to go through that.

0:21:40
Follow the Dharma. It works out.

0:21:44
So, when you have negative thoughts, it affects the whole assembly. We owe it to each other to always have a joyful, only a joyful mind. To do self-compassion for real so that the other acrobat is okay. Mmm, good. There's respo... we have to take more responsibility. And I'm lifting your awareness so that you see more. Oh! I killed something. You kill things with thoughts and feelings. Buddha said, an enlightened one would rather drink a bowl of molten lava than to have a thought of desire. Because Because desire hurts. Desire is self. And if you have doubt and ang- My teacher said, doubt is the AIDS, HIV. Doubt is the HIV of the spiritual world. If you have doubt, you're gone. It's only a matter of time, unless you get a new lease on life, which happens now. You've got to stop being negative. You can't be a big grump. No more grumps. I love the grumpy people. I know. Even if I've never talked to you, I know. It's true. And even if you don't talk to each other, one random asshole over here can get mad, This is a connection, a network. It just is. It's the way it is. See, this is an adult conversation. Now Europeans, you're all good. It's good for you guys to know what's going on, but this is the new students in America. Yeah. See? Our teacher used to yell at us, and we're all, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah,

0:24:48
ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah,

0:24:50
But I'm serious. Oh, in Iceland it was really funny. Yeah, shout out to Iceland. It was really funny. I was like in an altered consciousness, and a lot of them were new. And I'm like, Tara has been here teaching weekly. And then a bunch of these guys come and see me, and I'm like, you know what, it's time for you guys to like, step up. You know?

0:25:52
So, I kind of yelled at them.

0:25:54
And actually worse than this. Wait, this is, we're not there yet. We're still working on it. But I yelled at the Icelanders. I was like, I don't care if you're a Viking. Be a Viking for enlightenment. Join the Enlightenment saga. They're all, huh? Yeah, but like it was really cute. There was this one point where I'm like, it's important. Do stuff. Do shit. And then I was like, if you're going to do this thing, then stand up for enlightenment. And I stood up, and then immediately, this one guy who seriously looked like a viking stood up. And I was like, come on! And then they—well, 85% of them stood up. 15% of them said, Samoa is fucking crazy. And then I was all, yeah, I like me, totally cool. And then this one guy in the middle sat back down. And I was all like, I'm so high. And then I was like, what? Why are you sitting down? What's up, brah? You like, stop. And I gave him a hard time, and I was actually yelling at him. I was like, ah! And then he was like, and then, like, he complained some things, and then all of a sudden his eyes changed, and they went bright, and he's all, yeah! And I was like, whoa, this shit works. There's a chair. I don't know if they're just gonna like leave or something. When you allow negative thoughts and feelings to run through your mind and your body, it hurts everyone. And not only when we're sitting here together, but when you're elsewhere. You could be off in the East Bay! I have a big love for the East Bay. Not for the East Bay, the students who come from the East Bay. I don't know why, I just do. I don't know why. I mean, they go all the way across the Bay to see me. Come to Bodie Woods.

0:28:54
Really, we have to be responsible to each other. We're the acrobats. We have to do our job perfectly, take care of ourselves,

0:29:01
so that the other can do their job perfectly and take care of themselves. And then we put on a good show. That's impeccability and power. This is Buddha's teaching. If you let negative thoughts into your mind and negative feelings, it doesn't only hurt you. It hurts everyone This is an enlightenment sangha. I used to always say this is a black belt dojo Everybody goes up and right now Everybody's going up. We're all going up. I'm gonna give a list iPhone up I'm giving it Giving you a new iPhone. Isn't that a good thing?

0:30:00
Oh no, there's new features.

0:30:01
Oh, battery life is better. Oh, there's a better camera. Now, not only do your bad thoughts affect you, but it also affects me. So I know I sit on stage, my teacher did this too, so beautiful. My teacher was a better martial artist than me. Far better. knock you down with a touch. Or not even a touch. One of my favorite times, I'm going to tell you guys more about him next Satsang, but one of my favorite times was he only did martial arts with black belts. So he's like, yeah, only black belts. And there was this one time where he got on one side of the stage and we were on the other side, or it was a room, and then he said, OK, I want you guys to run at me and try to get me, just touch me. And he goes, and if you can do it, if you're the first one, I'm going to give you a very special empowerment, spiritual stuff. My teacher could touch people and put them into Samadhi. I can only do that at 200 feet under the water. Underwater Samadhi. He taught me that. But I can't do it above... So he says, come on, come on, you guys really gotta get me in. I think there's like 11 or 12 of us. And I said, I'm faster than all these guys. I know it. I used to run track. And then he goes, okay, ready? Go. And I was all, I'm ahead of everybody, I know it. And I'm like, how did he get him? And then he goes, that's what he did. And then the next thing I know, I'm on the ground going, looking at all the other black belts on the ground. Yeah, so he was good at that. I got a good left thrust kick. He said that in the next incarnation, that every one of his students, he's going to knock them down with that energy. So that he shows them there's something powerful, more powerful than what they think. And it is a good demonstration of power. So I can't knock people down with energy. Maybe with my left foot. But I don't know, you guys want to fight? Apparently so. So, I am also, like, my teacher seemed invincible, powerful, but he was also an enlightened being, very sensitive, very psychic. And so, I'm very sensitive. I'm strong, but I'm very sensitive. And so, I can put up with some stuff, but when it gets to a certain point, it's too much for me. and say, I will give you the teaching that you need to be stronger, more aware, to come up. And you've got to do it. We come up to a higher level together, we have to do it. Some of you have been here two years, some of you this is your first time, we're all coming up, because it has to happen, because I can't continue. Sometimes we are harmful because we are harmed. A lot of you have weird karmas, and you play them out on me, and amongst each other. You gotta stop that. You have to be mindful. You have to have self-compassion. You have to take this teaching for real. Because this is real. It is not like, ooooh, wishy-washy shit. I'm serious to death. So the world's a crazy world. Why are we in this world? This is a crazy world. Who chose this loka anyway? Loka means universe. Who chose this? I don't know. We're here just like everything in our life. Stuff happens, and all we can do is be mindful. All we can do is bring compassion to if we suffer, or bring compassion to others. What can we do? We're given something. If you're going to sit there and moan and complain, I mean I moan, I don't complain. I just don't. You bring a joyful mind. I'm giving you an important teaching. You bring a joyful mind to hardship. There's another enlightened teacher of my His name is Shiva. And I went traveling with him to Europe. I brought him to see the Hungarian Sangha. And I was so impressed with him. He was just... He's older, he's like 73. And he just went through all the hardships of travel, where I'm very sensitive traveling. I'm all, oh, oh, it's tiring.

0:36:50
Ooh.

0:36:51
Like, I'm very sensitive, but he's just all like, yeah, no problem, poof, and he's just super strong, driving on the wrong side of the road and everything. It was really cute. We went to Scotland, and he's all, I'll drive. I'm like, okay, cool. And then he's all like, oh, wait, we're supposed to be on the other side of the road? The funniest thing. Love that guy. Okay, but he's super strong. He's super strong. Hardship and adversity, he's like super strong. And I'm all like, oh, I'm sensitive. His name is Shiva.

0:37:31
You've got to be strong.

0:37:35
I've got to be strong. I'm working on it.

0:37:37
I'm also doing self-compassion. Big time. I'm really, really, really working on self-compassion. And at the same time, I'm really, really working on compassion for you. I do 100% twice. No? Not good? Okay. start doing that myself. Whoa. So, that trips me out. I never heard that one. Just going It's going to get better.

0:38:57
My teacher told me that once.

0:38:58
I was just sitting there like thinking. thinking, I can never be a programmer. I can't meditate. And he just looked at me once and he said, it's going to get better. And guess what? It did. So the pathway to enlightenment doesn't have to be this horrible struggle. It can be happy and beautiful and always just uplifting and amazing. You have to be mature to be able to deal with difficulty. You have to. You hearted, and impeccable. But it can be just great. Like I told you, my master yelled at us for six years, straight. I mean, am I kidding? She's like, yeah, I was there. I'm all like, oh, oh.

0:40:26
So I was like, mm-hmm.

0:40:28
But I want to share with you, this is me yelling at you, you know, from a place of, fuck you. And I want you to have a happy experience. But you got to do the work. You can't be fake, you gotta be real. It's like martial arts. You can go to the Cobra Kai and get stronger by having a sensei who kicks your ass and beats you, and you could live there and get stronger. SKA, Shotokan Karate of America, Oshima Sensei, very noble, very structured. Or you can have sambara, kenpo, jujitsu, very noble, very structured. was started by a great enlightened teacher, Bodhidharma. So there's different ways of experiencing the pathway of martial arts. There's the... And then there's the noble knight, the samurai, selfless, given the self aside to a code of conduct. The round table of Arthur, they were knights and they had rules, they had nobility. You caught that fast. You're like, holy shit. I'm all, hey Romeo, how about you send me a tonka I could put up So I guess you guys have to put up with this. All right, so let's get real. You guys are all, why are you making a joke about buckets? And I'm like, it's an inside joke with my other students. Before we taught, I was like, we need to find people who are proper vessels for enlightenment. If there's a vessel that has a hole in the bottom, we can throw a lot of energy and enlightenment into it and it goes out. But if there's a good vessel, we can give them enlightened teachings, enlightened energy, and it will fill them up and they will hold it and they'll be full of enlightenment, like a bucket. And so I was always calling you guys buckets. But now, today, you graduate to ST5. ST5, what, yeah, like you guys are, what's ST5? So my teacher taught, for like over 10 years, one group of students. And then he took in a new group of students. So he had the older guys like Shiva He's like 70 and then the younger guys like me. I'm like 173

0:44:57
And then

0:44:59
The first generation of students for that 10 years he called them but he was like barely He said they're like Star Trek, well, Spock's cool. And then he's like, and then Star Trek the New Generation came out, and I was watching it all the time. I would stand on a horse, because I had to do my martial arts at the same time, so I'd stand on a horse stance. And I would watch Star Trek. So I was really into it. And then I watched Star Trek The Next Generation and I was really into it, and I guess a lot of us were, because he's like, Star Trek was, you know, Spock and Kirk was the old students. You guys are the, they're the ST1s and you're the ST2s. And then when I had my students, they became, the first group of my students became ST3s. I was like, deep space nine. And then the ST4s, eight years later, Voyager. Now you guys are the ST5s. What is, what's SC5?

0:46:29
Ambrosia?

0:46:30
Enterprise? I just heard like three weird things from you guys. I'm going with Enterprise. I haven't seen Enterprise. It might be bad, so I apologize if I call you that. But you guys are Enterprise. Wait, you are very enterprising.

0:46:52
Mmm-hmm. Mmm-hmm.

0:46:56
So, here's what I like about you.

0:46:59
You guys were going through a really hard, difficult thing as a group in yoga. Yoga. When you do yoga, it is enlightening. But remember my story of Milarepa. Milarepa had a really hard time. It's not like, I tell you, you can have a good time. It can be great. But Milarepa, look at his story. He had a hard time. It was difficult. He had the most difficult feelings and pain and suffering. The work was hard. He wasn't getting where he wanted to be spiritually. He was suffering. That's yoga. You know, unless you do compassion for yourself. If you can see, if you can have a joyful mind, if you can see the Dharma all the way, you could be, I'm going to go a thousand miles up to Everest and just be happy the whole way. You should be happy that you're on the pathway to enlightenment. You are learning what you can do to get out of your suffering. You should be happy about that. I was so happy. I was like, I have an enlightened teacher. I have my own personal Jesus. Like I have someone who has truth and wisdom and when I have trouble inwardly I can go to them and I get answers. If you need answers, come to me inwardly. So many dimensions of love. Like here we have lilies, but we also have roses. So many dimensions I love you. I love you even when you're being an asshole, because I always see your Buddha nature. So this is what I call an adult conversation. And the SC3s and 4s, your meditation teachers, they know this. And it's such a beautiful privilege for me to be able to teach you this step. You guys are coming up. We're going from self to selfless. From just being like, yeah, whatever I'm going to do, whatever I think, to I'm going to have compassion for myself. If you all have compassion for yourselves, I'll be very happy. I have compassion for you. I have compassion for myself, but I want you to have compassion for yourself. You'll be very happy. Please have compassion for yourself. Please follow the teachings. If you follow the teachings, they work. Buddha had many enlightened students. My teachers had many enlightened students. You will meet them. Yeah, I know, it's funny. It's like, Shambhala is the enlightened dude. Enlightened dude looks bald. Can't wait until you guys to Turia, a woman, an enlightened woman. And tonight I'm going to introduce you to Mandala, an enlightened woman. Mandala was with me before we started a yoga project together, before I was liberated, and before she was liberated. And it was awesome. and It was awesome wait, maybe it was right after I was liberated. Yeah That's all like yeah, I got liberated and I was like we need to do the great math adventure And I told my students I was like we're all working now and you guys are all And And then we did yoga, and then Mandala one day turned gold. It was all, ooh. And Mandala started, she was the yoga leader for the whole sangha, and we worked on one project. And Apadhi was kind of like the reincarnation of that project. So it was like, it was a really, really powerful thing. And then we worked on it, it was amazing. And she was the one who started all of the structures of Golden State. So all of these structures of the school of technology that really, really helps. I mean, if you're not into technology, it's okay. I talk about it a lot. It's okay.

0:52:20
Do your thing.

0:52:21
But technology. I programmed a computer. I just tell you guys things that work for me. I mean, martial arts works for me. Meditation eventually worked out. Don't give up. There was this gal, a student of mine recently who quit, a woman of color. And I'm, you know, I have a sensitivity to women of color because I'm a woman of color. But she just, and she's good, and she has lots of love, but she just, the world told her, you can't do this. You can't, like I have a big focus on, I want all of you to be successful in your career is super important for your personal power." And she was just like, I can't. I said, you can. Don't say you can't. Don't doubt yourself. Go love yourself. Follow the teachings. Don't stop. And she was like, I give up. I can't do it. She didn't believe in herself. She didn't believe in enlightenment over the self. It's sad. It's very sad.

0:54:07
Mm-hmm-hmm-hmm-hmm.

0:54:08
Am I boring you?

0:54:09
Good.

0:54:10
I'm going to start throwing flowers at you. Am I boring you? Mm-hmm-hmm-hmm-hmm.

0:54:13
I'm going to start throwing flowers at you. Am I boring you?

0:54:15
Mm-hmm-hmm-hmm-hmm. I'm going to start throwing flowers at you.

0:54:17
Mm-hmm-hmm-hmm-hmm.

0:54:18
I'm going to start throwing flowers at you.

0:54:19
Mm-hmm-hmm-hmm-hmm. I'm going to start throwing flowers at you.

0:54:21
Mm-hmm-hmm-hmm-hmm.

0:54:22
I'm going to start throwing flowers at you. Mm-hmm-hmm-hmm-hmm.

0:54:24
I'm going to start throwing flowers at you.

0:54:25
Mm-hmm-hmm-hmm-hmm.

0:54:26
I'm going to start throwing flowers at you.

0:54:27
Mm-hmm-hmm-hmm-hmm. I'm going to start throwing flowers at you.

0:54:29
I have this big heart nod. That's my heart nod. I learned a good happy And then, let's see, sorry, so this comes to the crux of the matter. When you have bad negative thoughts, it affects the group and it also affects me and I'm sensitive. And I know it looks like I'm not, but I am. So there was a time, I think from the 14th of September, where a lot of your new students were doing your yoga and getting frustrated, and you had sadness, anger, frustration, and a lot of self-thoughts. Can I get an amen? Yeah. Amen. Okay? Okay. And here's what happened to me. Now, this is a very important thing. This is why I say it's a special thing to have an esoteric teacher. I open my aura to you. And this is a blessing, and very important in Buddhist mysticism. I open my aura and my heart to you. And what that means is I am always giving you enlightened energy. And it's a connection in the second attention. It's something that uplifts you in so many ways. Even when you're being all jerky and weird and upset. Even in the most difficult times, I don't abandon you, I don't cut you off because that's the most important time for me to support you. So my heart is open to you. My aura is open to you. And I am doing Bodhicitta for you any time. I have a second attention, a very strong one. So when you go, I'm having a hard time, I'm doing Bodhicitta for you. And I'm doing more than Bodhicitta. I'm doing 10,000 other dimensions of teachings for you.

0:57:17
And you're all, a lot of good it does.

0:57:19
I know, but see, that's what I used to say to my teacher, my master. I'm all, this is shit. But guess what? Then I became enlightened. I mastered meditation. Pretty good left breast strip too.

0:57:38
So,

0:57:39
I'm open to you and you need to know that.

0:57:42
And you need to know that what you send back to me also affects me. We are like this. So, we have a responsibility to each other. I will do my job, and I will do it perfectly. And my job is enlightening. But you as a student, you have to do your job. You have to listen to the teachings, you have to do the teachings. If you fuck up, you can fuck up. I'll forgive you, but I need you to correct it. So on the 14th of September, I think it was like 85 of you, at the same time, because we're networked. Remember, a guy sitting in this room gets mad, you're all like, I feel grumpy. We're networked. We're holding up the freaking table, right? The table got not held up. The table fell like this. And what happened was, there's like 85, 90 of you, psychically networked, decided to just get pissed off. Sad, mad, angry, freaky, weird. A lot of it had to do with yoga. And here's what happens to me. When you get mad, it becomes difficult for me. So there was a time with the ST4s where when I would experience their reactions, it hurt me and I'd be like, ah, I would do bodhicitta, but it would hurt and then I lost consciousness. I would just go So I'd feel all this stuff and I'm like and I'm giving my heart and then I go I would fall unconscious it's just too much my consciousness get blotched out and That was something that I Had to deal with for some time and guess what I did to the SE4s? I yelled at them. Like this, but worse. You guys remember? I was all like, I love you! No, I wasn't saying love. And then what I did was I left. I said, no more frickin' shot songs. I'm like... and I disappeared for six months. And I just took care of myself and recovered. Then I came back and I was like, but you know the same thing happened with the SD3s. The SD3s were in Chicago and we were doing yoga like crazy. I kept yelling at them, I'm like, you guys,

1:01:08
I'm like, you guys are,

1:01:08
hey.

1:01:09
And then I was like, I'm gone. I'm going to Hong Kong man. I'm gonna work at Disneyland

1:01:12
Selling popcorn and You know, so That when you get into the study Into yoga, this is a stage

1:01:24
now

1:01:26
stage. Now, I want to talk to you today because I want to get beyond this stage. I want to grow beyond this stage with you. I don't want to just have to leave for six months. I want you to listen, I want you to learn, I want you to practice, I want you to take this seriously. It's serious. The reason I left because my health was bad. So when I'm dealing with fields of energy of negativity, anger, sorrow, doubt,

1:02:00
all this

1:02:02
human craziness, and if you're not practicing compassion and growing compassion, and you're just attached to all this self, at this stage of where we're at in this yoga, it becomes harmful to me. So I was sitting there, happily writing a book about compassion, I'm writing a book about compassion, and then all of a sudden I felt, you guys are networked, people got mad, mad, mad, mad, mad, mad, mad, confused, weird, all this stuff, and then it comes. So many people at the same time. I immediately respond with compassion for you and other significant teachings. And then, after about six minutes, you guys chilled out. You guys might remember on the 14th. When I brought my attention back from the second attention, I noticed my heart was beating really fast. I was all, whoa. I was like, I guess that was intense. Dealing with it was not a happy thing, but it was dealing with really intense negativity that you guys were going through. So it wasn't fun or anything, but I do perfect bodhicitta. I do perfect teachings. And then I come back and my heart's beating really fast. I'm like, well, I guess that's kind of intense. My body's in a little bit of shock. And then I sat there writing about compassion. And I'm even happier. I'm like, I'm going to write about compassion. So in my mind I was super happy, my body very relaxed, and my heart rate kept going up. I'm like, hmm. So I started going, I'm like, wow, I'm just sitting here and my heart rate is like 140 beats per minute. I'm like, that's weird. And then I kept writing and it kept going faster. And it was like my neck and my head was beating. I'm very good at stilling my breathing, relaxing. So I'm like, let me really focus on relaxing. Deep breathing. And then I'm just observing my heart and the rate goes higher and higher and higher. Got up to 150, which is like a pretty good running workout. And I'm like, I'm just sitting there and I said, all right, I can hold my breath for a long time. So I'm like, let me just hold my breath and see what happens. And so after about a minute and 15 seconds, I'm like, I'm in a state of physical shock. Like something shocked my body. My mind, fine. No stress. Psychically, everyone chilled out. I'm like, there's nothing happening to me right now, except for... See, once a pathology starts, it has a physical karma. You throw a baseball, it's gonna go somewhere. So something happened, and then I started a physical pathology. So I was sitting there going, it's going up. And I was like, it went up and it went up and it went up. And I was like, this isn't good. So I was in the Dharma Villa and Patala was there and I was like, hey Patala, I have an idea. How about you take me to the emergency room? And she's like, okay. She was like on it. And then she's like, you want me to drive fast or slow? And I'm like, break the rules.

1:06:29
Then I got to the hospital,

1:06:31
and then I saw a doctor right away. And I think when I got there, my heart rate was at 180. It's bad. And I'm just sitting there, deep breathing, and I'm just like, this is very uncomfortable. And I'm like, this shit is not okay. And then the doctor took me in right away. He was like, you know, the doctors were very concerned that I was going to have a cardiac arrest. Then they put me on the EKG and they were like, well you have a, there's no arrhythmias, you have a regular heartbeat, there's no blockages. They're all, okay, so it looks like your heart is fine. And I'm all, okay, good. And then they're all, but why is it beating so fast? And I'm like, I don't know. Can't you figure it out? And then the doctors were very concerned. They're all, did you take caffeine? And I'm like, no I don't drink coffee. But did you take caffeine? And I'm like, no I didn't. I don't take caffeine. And they're all, okay then we can heal you. Caffeine, by the way, is awesome. Just don't take too much. And then they gave me like fentanyl or something like like... and then like within an hour my heart went down to a regular rate. But then it happened again on the 19th. The same thing. Then my heart did the thing. I went to the hospital earlier so it didn't get as bad, they're all, hey, welcome back. Okay, so, if you have, like, we're networked. If you have bad thoughts, it affects other people and sparks their bad thoughts. And if there's too many bad Spiritually, not. But I want to be able to be here physically to teach. So then I taught Bodhisitta, and that was a game-changer. You guys really responded to the teaching in a very positive way. So we're on the right track, and it's amazing that you guys did, because when my teacher taught me compassion, I was just all, that's weird. It took me a long time to get into the practice, but you guys did it fast. So that means you guys have a good heart. I appreciate that. And I need more heart. We need to have more heart. We need to come from a place, a place of heart for each other. Because that's where I come from. I know I seem mean and weird. I sit on stage and I say shit, and then I go, you get a job, get a job, get a job, just get a black belt. You know, I say things like that. It might seem intense, but I am always coming from a place of heart. So, you need to get in touch with your heart for yourself, self-compassion. And if you do that, you're going to be great. You're going to deal with your weird sufferings. All you have are some weird sufferings. And you're going to be like, oh, it's okay. I understand. I see the way through. Enlighten yourself. Go enlighten yourself. That's what I'm teaching. I don't enlighten you, you enlighten yourself. But I'm telling you what enlightens

1:11:00
Yeah, so then I set up this whole trip to Europe, which when I was healthy would have been fine, but it's difficult.

1:11:11
So I teach equinox, then we do Mount Tam. That was really a big piece of work. Then I did the intermediate teaching. The next day I flew to Munich and I taught in Munich. When I landed, I went and taught. Then in Vienna, the next day, and taught. And then I did a power trip for the Hungarians in Austria for like three days. Then I go to Hungary and I teach, teach, teach. And then I go to Paris and teach, and then Santa Fe, and now. So here's what happens to me. It's something I call getting stuck in enlightenment. Stuck in light. Kundalini is, we can call it the energy of enlightenment. And so when I sit and meditate, I go really high. Like when I'm sitting with you, I'm structuring what I'm presenting to you. But when I go by myself, I go really high. And I liken it to a river. River's flowing. There's this big river and it's flowing. And it's totally natural and normal. Now when I teach you guys, I do, when I take that kundalini and I project it to you to teach you something. Now when I do that it gets really intense for me because it's kind of like there's that river and I put my hand down to make the water go in a certain direction. When the water is just going it's all just a flow. But when I go, oh I wanted to go here, it's like, oh all of a sudden, wow, there's that water is intense. And when I'm thinking part of that water to go somewhere, it's like, okay. And so what happens is that Kundalini flow of enlightenment within me, I project it to you in structures and teachings. Those are the esoteric teachings. And if I didn't do that, I wouldn't teach. So I just sat up here and told you concepts. I wouldn't even do that. Why bother? I'm not that kind of teacher. So when I teach, Kundalini comes out of me. It's Shakti. It's a teaching to your body and your mind. You transform just by being present. You're getting imprinted with enlightenment, enlightenment, enlightenment, teachings after teachings after teachings. That's how I was taught by my teacher. That's why it's super powerful. Even when you don't know what's going on, it's going. It took me a long time to see that, but it's really, really true. This is the way I teach. This is my way. Now, when the Kundalini goes through my aura, it's very intense, my aura. And it's funny, like, after I teach, I just see gold light. Even right now, all I see is gold light. I mean, I can see Dolma G. I mean, I can focus on something physically, but my awareness is just gold light. So it's funny. Sometimes I'm driving, and then all there is is a steering wheel and gold light. But I drive perfectly. It's a funny thing. And sometimes the steering wheel goes away, and I'm like five miles down the road. Oh

1:15:38
Time time and space

1:15:41
So

1:15:43
Yeah, the teachings that I gave

1:15:46
Consecutively I was in gold light all the time. I caught stuck in light and it's blissful, it's extremely ecstatic to the point of painful. It's really painful. I know this is weird. This is an advanced idea. I experience so much light that every cell of my body is experiencing this explosion of light. And it's God-consciousness, and it's also, for my physical body and my subtle physical body, really intense. So, in Europe I was Sensitive. And I'm sensitive right now. And I'm here because I love you and I want you proper acrobats of enlightenment together. So, we're going to do a special practice, starting tomorrow, called fasting. Europeans, you guys are all good. You don't have to. Eat your croissants. I wish I could. But here, ST3s, 4s, and 5s, we're going to do fasting. And when we fast, we let go of excessive energy and we become more aware, more sensitive to thoughts and feelings. A little more tired, but a little bit more aware. Because you guys are all, so four days of fasting, and on our fasts you can do juice. So if you feel that just water, drink water, if you feel that you're really weak and out of balance and that you can't drive, you can have juice. Any kind of juice. You're like, ooh, hamburger juice. So, if your blood sugar drops and you're not used to that and that's not cool with you, then get ready with juices. Be prepared with juice. But this is a wonderful thing to fast. Because when we fast together, we slow down, we chill out, we look at things in a different way. This is what we're going to do as a practice. And it's a first attention practice that helps us to be more aware of our second attention. But, you know, take care of your mind. Have compassion for yourself. Yeah, so I'm not doing well, but I'm teaching you how we can go to the next level. I do self-compassion for myself by teaching you self-compassion. But we all, as a group, I mean, we're not going to just sit here and be assholes and all confused and have weird thoughts forever, right? Like, this is a school of enlightenment. We're going to come up together, so let's do it. Do the teachings. Be real. Take it to heart. And then we all change. We all transform. We all grow. And then, enlightenment doesn't have to be a painful thing. It doesn't have to be a big struggle of your weird thoughts. Just skip that part. Just follow the Dharma. Have compassion. Just compassion for yourself. Don't struggle. Just be in compassion. Compassion is a power. It's a happier way. But you want it the hard way? I'm full of that. Let's all meditate together. I know it's really sad. Even right now, I don't know what to say to you. Some of you are angry. What can I say?

1:22:05
I wish you weren't. I'm giving you the best teachings of Dharma.

1:22:11
You know? But it's your responsibility. This is where it gets real, kids. We take the training The iPhone upgrade. All right, sit up nice and straight. If you're pissed off, I care about you.

1:22:47
And I'm strong.

1:22:50
Sit.

1:22:52
Eyes open. Sit, eyes open, one song. So, So Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so you Be big hearted for yourself.

1:28:10
So we have a very special opportunity today. So Mandala is here, an enlightened woman of our lineage, a great yogi, and the founder of Golden State. She taught all of my students tech, who's taught all of you tech. And if you didn't learn tech, she didn't teach you guys tech. Her teachings of technology have been a very primary driver of yoga in this school. And she was the yoga leader for So she's here and she wants to share some things with you guys, which is really nice. You guys ever seen the Lightning Woman? She looks exactly like me. You're like, her hair is weird.

1:29:38
Why is she wearing those shoes?

1:29:39
Ha ha ha, just kidding.

1:29:41
And I use the word enlightenment, you're all. Well, you all have Buddha nature. That's what I want you to find in yourself. Look at yourself in the mirror. Say something good to yourself. Look at yourself in the mirror. Look in your eyes and say something good to yourself. You have Buddha nature, enlightenment within you. See that more and more.

1:30:12
So thank you all so much. It's a pleasure to sit with you.

1:30:18
You've got to do your work.

1:30:21
I sit with you.

1:30:22
You gotta do your work.

1:30:23
I don't wanna go away. Like, what's been happening to me pushes me away. And in the past it's been for six month periods.

1:30:32
I don't wanna go away.

1:30:33
I wanna be here and give you guys the teachings. But it's up to you. We're working together on the high wire, but we're working together. Do your part, I'll do mine, but do your part. Because I love Sambara.

1:31:22
And I had a dream last night to be here, so here I am.

1:31:38
You know, he talked about how our teacher yelled at us a lot, and I think there might be some people in the room who understand what that was like. And I know that in those moments as a student sitting where you are, I would say I could feel everyone, not everyone, but I could feel a sense that people in the room not talking about me. And as a student, the moment when I took responsibility, personal responsibility, over my practice and said, no, he's my teacher. He's speaking to me. And if I want to be in this room, and when I say room, I don't just mean this auditorium. I mean in this room and he says, I think what I want to do is just clarify a few things in case they weren't clear and maybe describe them in a different way. You know he says, the teachings in our lineage are esoteric. He's got a wonderful, a wonderful way of teaching. I mean, it's beautiful. It's poetry. It's comedy. It's powerful. It's all these things that you see in him on the surface. But we were talking actually about the Bhagavad Gita earlier, and they described, they were talking about Shiva as a personality of God, incarnate. Samvara's, in this moment anyway, in what he presented, is a personality of compassion. I've known him for a long time and for many lives and to see him now, I'm just... that he has. You know, we learn and read about the Bodhisattvas, and when we were students, we were encouraged to read about the Bodhisattva way, a personality of compassion. He's a master, but he is serving compassion. He's a servant of compassion. And that compassion comes out. It's, um, when he says he opens his heart to his students and that he loves you, I know that being a student, it's difficult to understand love. But I can tell you that love is it. It's all about love. To really realize love is to realize enlightenment. to understand, to... I can't even conceptualize it, but it is love. And when you feel that love, you say, Oh my God, this is it. This is what I have been feeling from the moment I met my teacher or what I was longing for before I met my teacher. And when I met my teacher, I felt that love. or whatever the feeling is, waves of light, gold, however you want to describe it, contentment, peace, fulfillment, fullness, emptiness, it's all this love. It comes out of Him when He of enlightenment streaming through for your liberation. And to... and I think that you're here because some part of you recognizes that. So if you have... the path is really hard. Oh yeah. Really fucking hard. You know, Buddhists, they say, we're so joyful. We have to be, because it's so fucking hard. We are realistic, pragmatic, grounded, aware that the world is fucking hard. working hard, but it's very transient. Transient happiness, transient sadness. It's all transient. What's not transient is that love that he's talking about, or as our teacher would say, you know, always be positive, always have a joyous mind, because beyond this transient or the transient, what is it, of pleasure and pain. There's endless ecstasy, and that endless ecstasy is that love. It's what you feel. It's home. It is why we are here, not just to bask in it, which is always so lovely. That's that transmission he's talking about. That's just part of it. It's what we do with it that really matters, that we take personal responsibility over our practice and not just listen to what he said. He said everything you need to know to make the shift he's talking about. He said everything. The question is, what do you want? And what choices are you going to make? And for those of you who are very attached to your anger, They're real, for sure.

1:39:56
They happened. They happen.

1:39:59
You know, it's a fucked up world. Fact. Move on. Do you want to be a victim of that? Or do you want to take a stand and be free of it? That's your choice, your responsibility. When he says he's serious, let me clarify, he's very serious. When he says it's painful, he never complains. For all students of all generations, for those who are new, you know, everyone should be practicing what he taught, the teachings today of self-compassion. That's what you should do. Yeah, let me see if there's anything else that I could clarify.

1:41:49
Yeah. at any level, it is your own personal responsibility, everything, liberation.

1:41:57
It's what you do with this. So this compassion, it is. Yeah. And our teacher used to, another clarification, you know, you talked about stuck in light and things like that.

1:42:13
Our teacher too would go through different transits.

1:42:15
We all go through transformation. That's the path. It's incredible.

1:42:19
It never ends. And he is transiting. He's, and that beautiful transit makes it so he can teach more and have more, like the capacity for compassion in the vehicle that is him. But it makes him more sensitive. So some of you might see his, literally, as tears of compassion. Don't be afraid of that. Tears of compassion, it is not a weakness. The compassionate, the bodhisattvas, are vulnerable to our vulnerabilities. They have to feel it so that they can love. So he is vulnerable to your vulnerabilities, to your doubts, to your anger. So it's a wonderful opportunity for you if you feel that this is your path and he is your teacher and you want to take personal responsibility for your practice to practice that self-compassion. You don't have to practice pity for him. He doesn't need pity. He's taken care of. But listen to what he said. If you are a student, decide. Make a choice. Like the waves of that light that he gives, it's some pristine shit. And that's, you know, that's special. It's very fucking special. It is an incredible opportunity. And he's teaching. It's all you have to do. Thank you. So thank you guys. That was beautiful and profound and intense and heart-opening.

1:46:05
We have just a few practical notes to share with you about etiquette. So we

1:46:10
thought about sharing this before today. So I have some notes which I'm very grateful for in this moment. And I have Parvati, so she'll fill in if anything is needed. But I don't, this part doesn't, eh, eh, it's okay.

1:46:34
So etiquette, does everybody feel like

1:46:36
they know what etiquette is?

1:46:38
Is this for you new folks, is this even something that you've gotten to hear the word or talk about. A few yeses, but etiquette is really our regard toward ourselves and toward each other and toward our teacher and it's the way that we operate in this school and the way that we're harmonious with each other and the way that we offer our energy and and keep it bright and and cultivate this joyous mind and compassionate heart.

1:47:15
It's an incredibly important part of our practice.

1:47:18
It's really how we work together. And it's also incredibly important to have good etiquette towards Sampara because he is so sensitive as he's shared with us today and in possibly a very new way for a lot of us. And so these pragmatic tips to cover encompass a couple of areas. So some things about email and office hours etiquette. So Samvara does have two email addresses in fact and some of you may have been using them. The request is to please email only important questions, so really reflect ahead of time. Connect with him inwardly, you may have the answer before you even need to ask over email. Only email one of his email addresses. If you do deem a question that you feel like you need to ask, don't spam him by emailing both email addresses. In terms of office hours, office hours are going to be limited to advanced and intermediate students only with important questions. Newer students, you are warmly encouraged to reach out with your questions to your meditation teacher, to your yoga teacher. If for some reason neither of those feels like it works for you, you can reach out to any other advanced student. You can write to me, ping me, Parvati, anyone else. For the intermediate and advanced students, when there are office hours, they're gonna be limited to 10 minutes each,

1:48:58
which means you need to be incredibly efficient

1:48:59
with your questions.

1:49:00
So think through them carefully, email them prior to meeting with him, and also come with them written down so that you can make the most of those 10 minutes. And the next bit is about when you're around Samvara in a physical space. Please don't reach out to hug him or touch him. Maybe you have the personality where you like to hug people as an expression of your love. A more appropriate alternative for a really, really sensitive being like him is a bow or a little wave. You know how Bodhi waves? Has anyone said Bodhi's wave, give a sweet wave to someone or just a smile. Please refrain from approaching or asking him questions at this time unless he approaches you and initiates conversation. And then regarding Dharma talks, you know, really recognizing, as I you all feel now that these events are not ordinary affairs. They're incredibly rare, profound opportunities, and we're so fortunate to have this connection and opportunity and expression of Dharma. So, hassle the details, you know, get yourself prepared, be respectful of the time, come with your brightest, most joyful mind and healthy, vibrant aura to this space. During the Dharma talks, please stay quiet. Don't ask questions. A couple times in the past in Bodhi Woods, I think people shouted out these sort of lewd and or suggestive questions. It's not necessary. Please don't do it. Additionally, after Dharma talks, whether they're the really formal ones or even the ones that maybe feel slightly less formal, please don't crowd around Sambhara. Just give him some space to ground himself. He explained to us about his experience of Kundalini. Just respect that to be his reality and give him space for that. And then the last part that I think I'll share comes from, I did a little crowdsourcing with the SG3s on this, so it's a really beautiful point shared by one of my Sangha sisters who says that one way that you can really support your teacher is by supporting each other. And so she says to ask for help from a sangha mate when you need it and to offer help when you think it may be needed. And that by making life better for a teacher. Parvati had some thoughts specifically about advanced students. Thanks, Amitri. One more thing about Dharma talks and events. It's a really easy first attention thing that can help the whole sangha, which is stick to the schedule. So the schedule will always be published, you'll know when the event starts, and also you know when the event ends. It's really nice when we all get together because usually events are really joyous and we get into a really good mood and get really social and we might lose track of time and sometimes it happens that we don't want to leave but this can cause complications so please be really mindful of the end time of events whether they're here or Bodie Woods or maybe on a trip because that will help give the proper space not only to SINVARA but also the the event, the facility, the staff, or like if we're at Bodie Woods, it gives the Bodie Woods residents you know, the space that they need based on the schedule. And for the advanced students, some of us had this idea, you know, we've been on the path for 7, 10, 18, 20 years. And, you know, we have been around long enough to make very balanced decisions that are in line with the dharma of this lineage. And I think it's a really great time for, you know, to encourage the advanced students to initially, if you have any questions, personal questions, not sure about something, to seek guidance inwardly. And if that doesn't work, to seek guidance with other advanced students. Instead of initially seeking Ajan's support. Because we're, you know, all the advanced students, there's about 60 of us, we have a lot of experience and we can really draw on that together. And this will strengthen not only our own practice, but it'll also strengthen the Sangha unity, by collaborating together and it will make some of our really happy, that we're working together in this way. Anything to add to that? Okay. So I think that's it. So practice these teachings, take responsibility, Okay. So I think that's it. So practice these teachings, take responsibility, and have a wonderful rest of the day, and enjoy your fast.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
