0:00:00
All right. Yeah, we might be missing some people, and we might have some people who are transient, in and out, and talking and things like that. So we're going to actually just do three songs of meditation just to be still and relax. Then we'll go from there.

0:00:28
Do you want the video thing or just the audio thing?

0:00:30
Audio is okay. Yeah, thank you. Alright, let's just relax, listen to some music. You can call it meditation, but just, you know, listen to music. A little bit here, a little bit here, a little bit here. relax and be still and give a space for people to do whatever they need. Okay.

0:00:57
Let's begin.

0:00:59
We're giving a few minutes of just music where they may know people are kind of meditating. We're just chilling and being a little bit repugnant. don't just listen to some music the the

0:01:38
the the the the the the the the the the the the the Oh, so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the the the the the the the the so the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, So So So Oh, you Thank you. the the the the the the Oh, the the the So, Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the So beautiful. challenges, hardships, things that I work on. It's so beautiful to sit with you and meditation. And the other thing that I said, and the other thing after that, and it's just so beautiful, and it's just very, very beautiful.

0:16:54
Thank you, John.

0:16:55
I know there's hardship, challenges, difficulty, in everything. We sit here in meditation together. There's hardship, difficulty, and hardship, and... And the end of it. And then there's the beginning of it. And yeah, that happens, you know? And. I'm not going to help if you don't want. I've been getting serious. I bet her. I bet her middle finger. Well, I forgot. I forgot whatever I was talking about. And then the rest is the rest is two middle fingers on each side.

0:18:36
What's happening with the ear?

0:18:39
The problem is that I have this thing called an ear.

0:18:44
Well, that seems to be about it. I'm not sure why I didn't.

0:18:53
Yeah. If I if I if I can just like shut it into my nostril. Well, whatever, whatever. There's only this. Sorry, that was like, I guess? I've had a lot of unbeing and untimes. It's difficult, and it's also very, very, very high, and unbeing. But it's also very good. spiritual practice, bigger enlightenment, where it's like, okay, yeah, it might be hard, it might be difficult, but if I open myself, and if I'm bigger, if I'm stronger, then I can do something more for this community, for this group, for the people on my yoga project, for the people not on my yoga project, and people who are the new buckets, the new ridiculous buckets. It's like, yeah, you know, things are challenging. There's no way out of that challenge. We just have to face the challenge. Anything that you feel is suffering, difficulty, and hardship, and negative in your practice, that's okay. I mean, I face things that are difficult. I don't think they're bad. They're hard. I try to face them and deal with them in a way where I can be strong. I'm very aware of giving the proper teachings and the proper structures and light. But things are difficult. It's not easy. Is it easy for you? It's not easy. Fuck easy! Yeah, okay, so, like, you can't just want easy. You can't just want simple. You have to be strong. Life is easy, but it's also not easy. Life is not like there's so many secret easinesses in the spiritual practices, but life's not easy. You can't just like, yeah, we have got all our like wu-wei dou. No, that's the easy thing. But no, things are then good for you, but you're facing the hardest things. And you have to, if you have the greatest techniques and you're facing the hardest things, then you have, you're facing the hardest things and you have the greatest techniques. That's enlightenment. But don't expect it to be simple and easy and pat you on the back and all that stuff. It's difficult. Things are difficult. We're in the Kali Yuga, Donald Trump fucking America. I mean, we just finished 9-11, which almost killed me. So We have to be strong, enlight, and we can't just think that it's going to be easy for us. You have to be very strong in your meditation practice, in your practice of enlightenment. You have to wake up in it, and just like, fuck all that bullshit. You can't just sit there and whine and get hurt. Get hurt and don't whine. This great enlightened master, what's his name, Lorenzo, St. Lorenzo, of Boulder Creek. So, I mean, he was a Protestant in England, but this the the Val where the top of the valley that's called the San Lorenzo Valley That guy was a badass motherfucker and I was like When I when I when I heard of the San Lorenzo, I was like, where do we move? We moved to the valley of this badass motherfucker. Okay, so He was getting burned over a fire, you know, right? And they were burning him, and they could flip it over. So they're flipping him over, flipping him over, burning, just burning him on both sides, because they're, what do they call that? Catholic? And then, why not? He got totally murdered on his backside at this period of time, and then he's all like, Turn me over, this side's done! And then they turned him over and he was just already dead and cooked. things in life, even if you're a great saint, if you're enlightened. Man, look at a lot of enlightened people. Didn't work out so good. Jesus Christ didn't work out so good. Facing hardships is what we have to be able to face. You have to face all the hardships of the mind, of difficulties, of pain. I mean, you guys, don't be weak. Don't be weak of, I can't do this, I'm sorry about this, I'm weak about this, and I can't do that. That's acceptable of all of your karma, but the advanced teachings are like, whatever that is, whatever your hurt is, whatever your sorrow is, whatever your past is, whatever it is, and it's been whatever it is. It's been just big chunks of stuff of self. Now in the advanced teaching, we acknowledge it, but we let it stop you. So you got to like understand your mind and understand your karma. You got to know it because it hits you but you got to know it and you got to be ready to let it go. You got to be open to let it go. And in the advanced teachings, it is the worst, it hurts you the most, it hits you in the face the biggest that you ever had. But you have enough awareness and light to say, I'm going to let it go. I'm going to I'm going to I'm dispersing this like I'm, I'm moving to a place beyond this karma. And that karma is real. And that thing has been the description of your life and the and the rules of your existence until now. And until now in the magic of the Kala Chakra, you Enlightenment is real. fighting through self. And, you know, and I practice, I

0:28:33
believed my teacher I practice, I went into Samadhi. But some point, even after, I know, like, going to the Salva

0:28:42
Copa Samadhi is a big important thing for you to go, whoa, but you got to go into it a lot. And then you go, holy shit, you're like, enlightenment's real. It is. And once might make you go, wow, I had this amazing experience. Twice might make you go, whoa, it happens again. And then many times makes you go, wow. But at some point deep in your spirit you go, holy shit! I mean that's what I'm trying to tell you guys, that these ideas and thoughts and who Our whole karma, it's an illusion. It's not real. It's like something you hang on to and fight me with, and I'm like, Jesus fucking Christ. Do you want to just like, I'm ready to put on the bare knuckles if that's going to be the end of it. But I'm like, come on. Right? So the stuff that you guys, like everything that you go through, and that you cling to, and your samskaras, and your past, and who you think is... Come on, none of you are what you think you are. I mean, like... Talking about unity, we are all enlightenment. I'm not the guy sitting in front of the room, and you're not the asshole sitting on the

0:30:49
couch.

0:30:50
It's true. I'm telling the truth. I mean, we're caught in a little weird web of like this play, but it's not true. And I remember this one time, I think I was after meditation talking to Parvati. I was just walking in my car. I'm like, and I was like, hey, holy shit, enlightenment's real. And I had gone into somebody a number of times and it was just like, wait, when we're doing yoga, that's where we can get a really strong awareness of the truth. And that truth is a very beautiful and amazing truth. And I remember that night where I realized that enlightenment is true. And I was like, Oh, because you know, we can talk about things, you guys can have high exalted experiences but wait a minute you motherfuckers every one of you motherfuckers enlightenment is within you like didn't the Buddha say that and isn't that the teaching isn't that the truth and you got it you got a that's that. It's so cool. I never doubted that and I believed it but at some point you gotta know it. You gotta know it's true. Okay, we're gonna do a little bit of most of you don't meditate properly you meditate like this or like this or something right so so we're just gonna work on technique and technique is that you sit up like this. You don't go like this, or like this, or like this. So I think I need all of you to get a mirror. Put it on your altar or something like that. You need to look at yourselves. Like 70% of you don't sit up straight. It's a very simple thing. If you don't do it, the Kundalini will miss. You won't go into, like, if you're like all like this, the Kundalini will miss. You won't go into Samadhi. So it's like, hey, you guys, come on. I mean, I've talked to This is like, this is a karate dojo. It's like, I can do this or I can do this. But, but, but I have to be serious with you, very clear with you. When I meditate, I sit up straight. I mean, this is what I do. And sometimes maybe I chill out a little bit. But that's about as much as I chill out. But if you guys see me, I sit up very straight when I'm teaching. When I'm meditating, I'm not like all... I'm not all sideways. I don't think I am. I mean, like, dude, when I'm teaching, like, the kundalini is very strong, and I direct it. But I see a lot of you do stuff like this. I see a lot of you do this. And I'm like, and I've talked to you about it before,

0:35:19
I'm like,

0:35:20
the fuck are you doing?

0:35:21
Like, this is meditation. You guys are meditation teachers? But anyway, I mean, there's a lot of bad meditation teachers in the world, but if you want to be enlightened, you've got to sit up straight. Like, if you don't sit up straight, and you sit like this, your crown chakra is here. And I know it's like the crown is pulling up. You have to have that feeling. And the more that you feel this pull of the crown, the more the Kundalini pulls up. So, let's do that. I want you to feel like your crown chakra is just pulling you up, almost like you're going to, actually some of you will, you'll levitate off the fucking ground. Like it's pulling you up so much that it pulls you up, right? I want you to all feel that. And we will go bam bam bam bam bam bam bam bam bam. But I want you to feel that if you're not feeling levitated and pulled up by your crown chakra, then you're gonna be all like... You understand what I'm saying? We're going to do it in just 15 minutes.

0:37:19
Okay. Aum. Okay, very good. What an amazing result.

0:38:15
When you sit to meditate, I don't care if you meditate for four hours or an hour or 15 minutes sit like this the the amount of time is you got to put in some time but you've got to put in the right focus and if you put in a focus where you're never gonna be enlightened and fuck you. Fuck. Oh yeah. Fuck rap. So you gotta be real. You gotta be real in your heart. You gotta be real for sure. You gotta be real for real. You gotta be for real for real for real. And if you just ask yourself, do I want to be real about this? Do I want truth? You'll find truth. If you are just mushy, mushy, squishy, squishy, then, then fuck rap. Bust it like an addict with a semi-automatic, who done had it, and ready for anybody but a bump back. No, we're not doing that. We're for real. Are you for real? I'm for real. I fight through death. Death. And the hardest, and the difficultest, of all you motherfuckers, especially you. Fuck you. I love you. But no, I go through everything. You think you're like, well, I'm just positive. Come on, I'm with you. Come on, we're not fucking around. We're going for enlightenment. We're going through everything, right? I'm like, dude, it's hard for you if you're honest. And I'm honest about all of you. So, hey, what we're doing is the hardest thing in the universe, and the best thing in the universe, and the greatest thing in the universe, and the most difficult thing, and the easiest thing. Because, well, Buddha nature, but come on. Be real. And we have this beautiful opportunity where we have these great teachings that we've worked for, we've done, you know, we have all this in our school, all this structure to build up, to get it, and you've all done it, and it's the time to you have been to nature, everyone is enlightened, and you are like, okay, cool. That's a neat idea, and then it didn't work, and I'm like, fuck that. Then I killed a cat, and smoked some crack. Killed a cat, smoked some crack. That kind of thing. While I was talking, I created a joke. I was like, unity. And I was like, there's a Tantric unity. Tantra, the Tantra joke. In Tantra, unity, we all come together.

0:42:51
I didn't say that to the other guys,

0:42:55
because I didn't think they would get the joke. And then I was also thinking, you know, us tantric mystics, we all are very sensitive beings, we're all like a snowflake. Everyone's different and everyone's precise and very delicate and amazing. And it's like, like a snowflake, we're very delicate. But if we stick together, right? We can be a ten-foot bluff that stops you from going somewhere, or we can be a big ball, a big ball of snow. So, I was thinking about that, and I was like, I am having a bit of a hard time. So I thought I would share those jokes with you guys instead. But boy, you know, things are good. Things are enlightenment. But I just got to say to you guys, like, enlightenment, and not self. And I know that you guys are still working on learning to meditate and shit like that. But you have to find in your heart, like, enlightenment, we have a practice is a very powerful practice. But you have to have some, you have to have rule number one, I could be enlightened. Rule number two, nothing's going to stop me. And if you don't have that, then this practice doesn't work. So, you have to know, and all of you should know, and it's totally true that enlightenment is within you. That you can be enlightened and that enlightenment is your true nature and figure that out. Like don't fight that and don't be mad about that and don't beat yourself up. It's ridiculous. So weird. When you get the advanced teachings, you have to say, okay, I have to accept them and really, really reflect on it and feel it, because it comes from a very profound place of truth. And then, when the big work is everything that you do you have to say what I'm doing is this enlightenment? or do I want enlightenment? why am I doing this stupid shit if I would rather have enlightenment? and that's the big push but that's also easy once you know. All right, so the big thing I wanted to talk to you about tonight is posture. When you sit to meditate, I don't sit for 15 minutes, but sit up straight. I'm really getting sick of this shit. You guys do that.

0:46:55
You need to be an awakened black belt.

0:46:58
A black belt doesn't do karate like this.

0:47:01
Right? Come on.

0:47:02
A Zen master is just going to hit you in the head with a stick. Get a fucking mirror. Every five minutes, look at yourself. If you're like this, Zen master is hitting you in your head.

0:47:13
If you're like this, if you're like this,

0:47:14
like, look at yourself, you're like sleepy attention, girl. Then fuck that? Come on. Enlightenment isn't sideways and it's not asleep. These are the teachings of being awakened. So just wake up. God damn it. I mean, if you don't want to be awake, you can have a Big Mac and sit in the back and a Caesar salad and take a nap. But like, just, like if you, if you really want enlightenment, then see, the gates of

0:48:15
eternity.

0:48:23
That's what they say in Zen. They're like, hey, where's the doorway to Zen? There's no doorway to Zen. But how do I go in? There is no in. There is in. Everywhere's in. In-N-Out Burger. I don't even go to In-N-Out Burger when I get In-N-Out Burger, okay? So that kind of thing. You know, I think you understand. But anyway, so you got to sit up straight. So in the end, when we go to In-N-Out Burger, you have to sit up straight. Okay. I know you guys understand what I'm saying. What a day in the universe and yesterday but I can fight through it can you I'm totally willing to fight for it I will arm wrestle you I'll get you an arm bar I'll fight any of you except for I'm gonna take a nap after this but I can fight. I got some black belts on me. Okay, but it's tough work for me. It's been very, very, very tough. But what about for you? Are you facing it? Are you just bullshit? Are you just wishy washy-ing and you're just going through your karma? You're not like sitting up straight and working hard on your meditation? Like do the real deal. And then you'll go through the hardships and your hardships will melt in light. I got a lot of hardships. It's very painful, very difficult. Is it painful? Is it difficult? And then you push it into the light. Take the pain, the difficulty, push it in the light. This is the pathway to enlightenment. These are the teachings of enlightenment. There's nothing else. Bodhicitta is pretty cool. That's some selfless shit. But, it doesn't... I mean, it's super selfless, but in our school, this is what makes you enlightened. You gotta just, you gotta take all your shit, all your crap, and you gotta do this practice. And you gotta sit up straight. You gotta be, like, you gotta have this thing where you go like this in your meditation.

0:51:08
Let me watch something on YouTube. And then, ohm.

0:51:17
I don't know what the fuck you guys do. You guys can work on your technique, but if you, like look at me. You go like this. best. Just give it your best and you sit up straight. When you sit up straight you're awake. And if you're just not sitting up straight, you're like, I don't know. Sit up straight. Sit up the fuck straight and look at yourself in a mirror. If you don't actually align it properly, you'll never go into Samadhi. The crown is up here. You've got to get the energy flowing up the Shashumna. It'll hit the crown. You don't have to focus on the crown. You just go boom boom boom boom boom boom boom boom boom boom and it eventually jumps the shark. So, but it's true. You don't have to focus on the crown chakra, but the place where you go into salvaka samadhi is when the kundalini jumps the third eye and goes into the crown. And that's where you go into samadhi. The third eye meditations are strong, they're good, but the energy of our of our teaching what we're doing right now I know we just you're like why are we doing this why are we focusing on like five other chakras there's a satellite whatever um I don't know but you know you don't have to I have a very strong ability to bring up the Kundalini. I don't have to focus on higher chakras. I really am pretty good at this practice. It is a very constructive practice, a very real practice. Now that I've been doing it for many years, I can just go like, I don't have to do the practice, but it's because of the practice that I have the ability. I can just, like, I don't have to do anything. I just stop thought. It's all because I've done the practice for so long.

0:53:58
For so long.

0:54:03
Fuck rap! I was thinking of like, making a rap.

0:54:14
Y'all should meditate.

0:54:17
Y'all should sit up straight. Thank you. Okay, but... Mirror. Get a fucking mirror. Put it on your whatever, I don't know where the fuck you meditate, have a fucking mirror there so you can start meditating and after like 5-10 minutes like open your eyes and look at yourself. And if you're going like this, or if you're going like this, or if you're going like this, then, wake the fuck up! Wake up, white people! See, when I was with the students today, I was like, wow, look at you, from so many places, and so many different, there's so many Asians, and Mexicans, Latinos, sorry, niggers and faggots, and I'm like, I just said that just for one of my students. I just said that just for one of my students. I was like, wow, do you know that they're so diverse? And you're just a bunch of white people. Which, I mean, that's pretty cool. That's pretty cool for Donald Trump. He's like, down with that. I mean, some of us are, yeah, some of us are in a little club. But the rest of you, right? It's true, right? I mean, but, Hungarians look like white people, but they're, Hungarians are good. I mean, they still are white, but they don't have our thing. They weren't there. They are. thing tonight is I'm just trying the way that is. It's like Buddha nature is in you and when you come across your most difficult-nesses, then believe in enlightenment beyond that. Just do it. Just let it go. Let go of all that self stuff. And guess what you can do from from the empowerment of the Kala Chakra and you're really lucky that I'm sitting here giving you like the third explanation and shit because I don't have to and you can do whatever the fuck you want to do but I gave you the real teachings and if you're smart you're strong and you're gonna listen and you get this me telling you again, and guess what? I'll probably tell you again if I keep living I'm gonna tell you again and in more powerful ways If I keep living I'll tell you strong things But you all got what you need you can go to fucking Singapore Go to like Maui. Hong Kong. You can go wherever you want in the world now. You're at the ultimate experience and you can be enlightened anywhere and through anything. I have a huge amount of detachment. Get the fuck out of here or grow a pair of dojos within a school. You know, like, no, like, you can be like, I'm going to go to Thailand and I'm going to open up a pair of mangoes, of schools, and be a part of something bigger and stronger. You're at a very powerful, versatile place. It's a place of enlightenment. It's not about me. I mean like I'm trying to tell you guys some things would be powerful but it's about you. It's about you awakening and it's not about you know, it's not, oh I have to be in a Sambara structure. Maybe if it helps but you also might find that you have to be free in your mind. Just free yourself, free yourself. It's your enlightenment. I'm not above you. I'm not below you. I'm not next to you. It's you. And you have enlightenment and Buddha nature in you. Enlightenment's within you. Yeah, and you might leave and we might not ever meet again until, you know, the Haryana Loka, where I'll come over and punch you in the nose. Fuck you!

1:00:28
You're like, what's that for?

1:00:30
I'm all, I don't know. That time you didn't like my Chinese food.

1:00:33
I don't know, whatever.

1:00:33
But um, but no, like, I, I, you are all at a level where your enlightenment might take you, take you anywhere where it takes you. I just really want you to to be enlightened to follow that. Well basically I have a lot I can keep meandering is because Jesus fucking Christ! And then the other thing is that you all should sit up straight. The last thing I can tell you after the advanced teachings, like after giving you guys the Kalachakra empowerment, empowerment. Everything that I tell you is just icing on the cake or something like that or wake the fuck up or you know or just a little bit of hints of happiness of showing you just it can help a little bit but after the Kala for enlightenment. But it's kind of cool to sit there with another teacher in the same school who did it, it. I did it. I didn't know it's true. I did a little bit. I tried it happened. Lots of Samadhi whatever, but boom, boom, boom, boom. It's true. It's true. So it's kind of cool. You know, you can ask me some questions and I can... the main thing is that I'm just... I'm real. I'm the reality. It's a weird thing to me that I'm enlightened. It's a really weird thing to me that I'm a teacher of a school. I mean, I'm like I usually want to enlighten like I know all these ideas I'm like I'm just I am enlightened and I I learned enlightenment in a way that worked and and I'm like just saying shit but you guys are learning. You guys are becoming enlightened. Listen to this shit. Sit up straight. Sit up straight! God damn it! The fuck? The fuck is this? What the fuck is this? Sit up straight. Do you guys sit like this what the fuck is that no yeah look at yourself in a fucking mirror you Am I out of line? No? I've been out of line since fucking... when did I almost die? When was that? No, no, it was like... what was the other one? Yeah, two days ago. Remember I used to have the pass out? I don't have a pass out. Fuck that.

1:04:47
I don't have a pass out.

1:04:49
You guys can kick my ass and I'm like, I love you guys. It's true. I get hit with lots of difficulty. You guys know, you have your hard times and I'm like, just love and compassion. So, things are hard. Do you guys have a hard time? Sometimes people hurt you and you feel that, if you just react like, are you weak? Are you weak, people? You're not in this room if you're a weak person. Everyone in this room is a fucking powerful person. Everyone in this room is a fucking this whole world. Do you know that? It's true. Take a moment, because that's how you become enlightened. Buddha, he was like, he faced, he sat under his tree and he said, okay, this is the fucking, I'm drawing a line. And he was like, he's like fuck rap. He's like, I don't give a shit. I'm not, he didn't fight it, he let it. And everything that was a harm turned into flower petals. That's a victor. It's not squashing an asshole, because all the assholes I squash are my students, and I squash them with my heart. And it ain't a squash, it's a love. It's tough.

1:07:16
But it's good. I don't care. I don't wanna hear an angry story, a blame story.

1:07:24
I wanna hear a love story from every one of you.

1:07:38
What's your love story?

1:07:40
This asshole fucked me over, this guy pitched me out. Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Come on, that's not a story of enlightenment. That's fucked up baby stories, right? You're not a baby anymore. Wake the fuck up. Fuck rap. Rap is just stuff, things. Stuff and things. Who the f... Okay. And then, I don't know why I'm talking in my ear. Okay. Dude, you can't like, if you yawn without covering your mouth, it just seems like a kiai. And I'm all like... Anyone driving home tonight? Sand is sand. But, um... laughter

1:08:34
My teaching for tonight is sit up straight.

1:08:38
I'm not fucking around.

1:08:41
Like, sit up straight.

1:08:43
And look at yourself. Um, I don't know it's weird when I meditate I sit up pretty straight and I'm like a pretty normal for me to go like this and that's my normal thing. I could lie down and go into like Buddha used to lie down into his little lion pose he would lie on the ground and he would give discourses and people will become enlightened because he's such a badass motherfucker but on the way there sit up straight you motherfuckers and I I could lie down and go into Samadhi and shit like that but dude I am super trained I'm trained and you should be trained. You are trained but make that shit happen. If you can do that with me then we're cool. But like get up to that. Do that shit right. Be able to do that. Don't be like oh it didn't work and I punched it and it didn't happen. Wake the fuck up. Okay so I'm sorry if I gave you guys a hard time but so tonight's teachings sit up straight but also the good opportunity is that you have the teachings you have you have all the teachings for enlightenment and even if I I go away, you know. And the only thing that I'm showing you right now is what you know. So, I might die, I might disappear or something like that, but this is true, right? And then I'll can help you more. But if it takes you, like it took a lot of art, like ST2s, a long time to go, hmm? ST1s, ST2s, a lot of them didn't even figure it out. in the computer, or in breathing, I don't know, everything. This is the real deal. Yeah, what do you want to say? It was really hard for us when Nala left, just four months after he gave the Kali Shastra, and I would like to ask you to please not do that. I seriously don't want to do that. I really, really, really ask you right now. I don't interrupt, but I'm really asking you. Please not do that to these people. Please, tell us what we need to do. This is really hard. I know. How long has it been so far?

1:11:48
After the summer. Three months.

1:11:51
Three months? Holy shit! I know you want to copy Rama, but please don't do that. No, I... I know you want to copy Rama, but...

1:11:59
I'm sorry I'm interrupting, but I would like these people to have a real algae check about that, because it was really, really, really hard. Oh, yeah.

1:12:53
You know it was really hard, so I know you don't want them to go through that.

1:12:56
Yeah, I agree. Yeah, after the Kalachakra empowerment, Brahma gave us these advanced teachings and sangha teachings that were super hot, super beautiful, and I was like, wow, really amazing. And then it was like four months later where he died. And then I just definitely cycled off. I was just like, I sat every day doing the practice, but I lost it. I really wasn't doing, like you can sit there and just fuck around with your chakra empowerment, you're like, oh yeah, oh hum hum or whatever, and you're never going to be enlightened. But I when Rama taught me I'm like I'm going to be enlightened and believe him and I'm going to practice and I'm like and I was going to the fourth dhyana I was just like like after day two I believed it and I worked on it. Okay Okay, other people had different passages, but after Rama died four months later, I still sat and spent the time meditating, and I lost my spirit. And that's difficult. If you have the spirit, if you have, like, when I talk to you, I'm like waking you up, to like, you can be enlightened. You've got to sit up straight, you motherfuckers. You know, like, I'm telling you what I see, and if you listen, you'll be enlightened. And actually, you don't even have to listen. You've got the empowerment, and you can do it. Everyone here can be enlightened on your own and in your own way. You don't need me anymore.

1:15:02
I need you. Please. Ginger!

1:15:11
I like ginger. I'm not sure. No, it's true. That's the truth of the Kalachakras. You don't need me. But I'm your best friend, spiritually. I mean, after we got the Kalachakra empowerment, Brahma, all of a sudden, I started going into the fourth jnana, and a whole bunch of my karmas, I just wasn't in them anymore. And I was just like, and I remember that, you know, hanging out with Ram, I was on security and walking with him and he would just look at me in a different way. And he's like, that's good. I was doing the real work. I was for sure all in. And then, let's see, the last thing he ever said to me was, after meditation seminar, we walked him out to his Mercedes in the parking lot and, zoom, purchase. And he got to his car, opened up the door. And then he looked at, there was a few of us there, and he looked at me, and he's like, security will do well. And I was like, and he was like. Then he got in, left, and never saw him again. And if you take the teachings into your heart, you'll do well. I don't care where you go. We might get hit with a, what do they call that stuff? Korean...

1:17:18
What do you call that beef? A bonky bonk?

1:17:20
Beef. Korean beef.

1:17:22
Begogi.

1:17:23
Begogi?

1:17:24
We might get hit with a beef begogi. From South, beef bourguignon from France. All that shit. Whatever, you know, like we can die tomorrow. It could happen. But um, the spiritual teaching of the Kala Chakra is eternal. And if You wake up. Oh yeah, but anyway, I'm happy to be here and it's really fun for me. Since I know that it's a real deal and it's really happy, I'm happy to sit here and share things with you and tell you to sit up straight and watch you become enlightened. I'm very happy to do that. I don't want to go anywhere anytime soon.

1:18:30
C.

1:18:30
But basically, sit up straight and god damn it put a mirror because you think you're sitting

1:18:40
up straight but you're not.

1:18:41
It is not like this and it's not like this.

1:18:45
It's like just like what Jana used to say.

1:18:48
Like feel like your crown is being pulled up. Wait, wait, wait, wait. Okay, let's do this together. All right, so I want you to feel as if the top of your head is being pulled up.

1:19:19
Okay?

1:19:20
Chapa, you are like that. Sorry sweaty, you're like this. Um, Rima, wake the fuck up.

1:19:54
You're like this, I'm a tired person.

1:20:01
Wake up, wake your being up.

1:20:06
That's it.

1:20:09
Vajra, chin, this is sideways. Asha, let it go. Let it go. For here, do this together. You're sitting good. I want you to go like this with your shoulders and and and have a ridiculous like why would Buddha smile I would never fucking smile but Buddha would smile there you go Zen, chin down a little bit. Happiness in those shoulders too. Magic. Impressive magic. Zen, just got the magical shoulders.

1:21:34
Wow, you guys are...

1:21:36
I mean, I'm giving a little critiques, but I just see, like, super fucking powerful people. I might give a little bit of a thing, but like I said, I gave you the empowerment. You can be enlightened just from going to fucking Taiwan and sitting in a ditch somewhere and figuring your shit out, if you want to do that but you want to sit there and hang out with best friends we're the I'm the super best friend

1:22:11
Oh Deanna

1:22:15
yeah let's do this together together. More. Yes! A centimeter makes the difference. Feel that. This is just fun for look at me. You're going like this. Genji, just come back and relax. It's too much. Try and do it harder. Just be. God damn it! How the fuck did you get in here? Got the advanced teachings. Gonna be enlightened. Good for you. You did a lot of work.

1:23:14
Okay, Kenji, look at me.

1:23:16
Bring it back a little bit. Like that. Yeah, don't push too hard. See, it's not so much, but you got to sit up straight.

1:23:35
Good job, good job, good job.

1:23:41
Good job. Raja, bring the chin down a little bit super power Chidananda I need I need you two to look at yourselves in the mirror you guys have super strong power it's just happening in many ways many powers in many ways but I need you two mirrors. Look in a mirror, because you guys are fucking strong. You do amazing things with your energy in many dimensions, but if you're going to meditate, it's not about making your yoga. It's about meditation. It's about enlightenment. So both of you are very magical, very powerful, and your powers are going off in different directions with teachings and yogas and all sorts of other things and that's not enlightenment. Enlightenment is thrash that I mean do those things after you're doing great on those things but you're like so powerful into those things that you're not sitting up straight. I'm not sitting up straight! Sit up straight.

1:25:14
Okay.

1:25:14
I'm taking a lot of time, sorry.

1:25:16
Kyoko-san, I'm very impressed.

1:25:18
You've been sitting like this for the past...

1:25:21
months.

1:25:22
I'm...

1:25:23
and I'm...

1:25:23
I'm, uh... grateful. Like, to see the change that you've gone through. Do you know what I'm talking about? You still being a little bastard and now I see you and you sitting up straight and anyway, I don't know if you know It doesn't matter

1:25:48
Kanna, there's no weight. There's no karma.

1:26:31
Anyway, fuck rap. This is just nice. Chinnanda and Raja and the rest of you motherfuckers get a mirror cuz I want you to look at yourself after five minutes if you're like, oh. And he's like, ah, he's hitting me with like shit. Hit yourself and wake the fuck up and look at yourself. If you're not like sitting up straight, then the kundalini will be going, like the crown chakra's here. You have to build.

1:27:32
So it goes to the crown.

1:27:34
And the kundalini goes up. But if you're like this, your crown chakra goes over here. If you're like, whoop, it's okay. Just trust me. Sit up straight and look at yourself. I don't care what the fuck before. Wake up now, sit up straight, do this practice like a motherfucker and sit up straight and look at yourself in a mirror. Know that you sit. Don't go like this. If your head is like this, what the fuck is that? Why do you do that? You're advanced students and I told you this shit before. If you can be a black belt, if you can do some exercise in fucking life, then just fucking sit up straight. If you want enlightenment, don't go... Okay, you're advanced students, right? A lot of you have black belts and shit. Sit up straight.

1:28:43
And focus.

1:28:44
Gone. Gone! I need you to sit up straight. I need you to let the Kundalini come up. you know practicing right this shit doesn't happen so straight and so straight bam bam bam bam bam this this is this is one teaching called posture i was like um i was like what am i gonna teach you guys in a very teaching day posture i got a lot to say about it wake the fuck up but also I see amazing things in all of you I see your enlightenment in all of you so don't doubt yourself you're great beings amazing beings you're enlightened you have Buddha nature and you have amazing to bring enlightenment through you in this world. Alright, alright, alright. Just sit the fuck up and meditate, okay? Like, come on, really work on it. Like, get a mirror, for real. If I come back next time and I say, like, meditate with you. I don't know, maybe you'd do it right. Actually, tell me you'd do it right, but fuck you, get a fucking mirror. As I said before. All right, good job guys.

1:30:39
We all made it another round. It's been beyond, beyond, beyond, beyond. And if we keep going beyond, then that's

1:30:42
good. Oh, so I got some, um, what's this stuff called? Ginger juice! That's a lot of ginger juice. I need to mix it with sake. Is it already mixed with sake? Okay, cool. That's a lot of ginger juice, but I like ginger juice, but I like it mixed with stockades.

1:31:41
Is there something we can do if we're new students to help you not die?

1:31:46
Yes.

1:31:47
What?

1:31:48
Appetite success. Oh, you already did that. The rest of you, appetite success. Get in a little run, god damn bullshit. Just, you know, meditate, become enlightened. You know, the usual things.

1:32:07
You know, I don't know.

1:32:09
Is that true, John?

1:32:10
Fuck rap.

1:32:11
Fuck rap.

1:32:12
Do you know what I'm talking about when I say fuck rap?

1:32:14
What song is it?

1:32:15
It's Logic.

1:32:16
I'm really...

1:32:17
I saw this rapper called Logic, and he's all, Fuck rap! And I'm like, oh, that's a cool thing to say. I'm going to say that, tell me to do that. Then he raps really good. He's all fuck rap. Well, fuck rapping. Nigel? Nigel? Thank you for making ginger juice. Oh, somebody mix it with some sake. Who makes sake for me? Nigel? Oh, Kali. Oh, you two? Then you know. They double mixed it. A little bit of sake, a little bit of vodka, a little bit of that.

1:33:14
Probably could be good with the white claw too.

1:33:16
White claw?

1:33:18
I like that stuff. I was like, what the fuck is this? Hey, pretty clean.

1:33:24
Laughter

1:33:26
So

1:33:28
Martin Luther King used to say, I don't know if I'm going to make it there with you. But some true shit anyway, he ended up saying at the end. But anyway, you know, you guys gotta take responsibility. I almost died. So you guys gotta like stand up. I mean, I definitely want to be here and do shit with you guys. And I can teach. I can tell you. There's super amazing advanced teachings I can show you. And also, just to sit here with me, like I am, like you guys are like working on your primary enlightenment, and I'm like, I can help you wake you the fuck up so much more powerfully than the shit you have to go through by yourself. Unless you're an asshole. And then, like, it's so good, it's so good. But like, what was that, yesterday or the day before I almost died? Like, almost died.

1:34:29
I was like, bwok!

1:34:30
And I was like, you know, like, remembering it, I used to pass out. I don't have a problem with that anymore. I'm like, I'm so strong. I'm very strong. I'm very strong. I'm very strong. Which you'll start to notice when you start to go into the Salvacopa Samadhi a lot. You'll be like, whoa, look at Sampara. That's what I used to do. It's like, holy shit, how did Rama do this? I am exploding out of the universe and I'm about to die and I'm about to, I'm like tearing my shit apart. My mind is going to just, it's just being ripped to a billion pieces. And then you're all, yeah, that's pretty good though. I mean, facing your self, I mean, so enlightenment happens when your ego fights like a motherfucker. Your ego fights for your life. And then you say, you've got to get to a place where you're like, fuck my life. If this is life, fuck it and let it go and let me be burned in the sun of Nirvana.

1:35:50
Fuck that.

1:35:51
What do I want?

1:35:52
Because my life is just pain. But you gotta go through some samadhis before you figure that shit out. I can give you so much to get past places of the self. But I might not. I might die. And if I die, or if you go to fucking Fiji, or wherever you feel like going someday in 20 years may go oh decided to like think about what tomorrow taught again like this is enlightenment and it's a real deal the thing that is amazing about it is enlightenment is real and it's something for sure within you, and I want you to all know it. And even if you say, I have shitty meditation, or I do this, or I do that, it's true, enlightenment's real, and enlightenment's within you. And you are all amazing beings filled with light. And you all can be enlightened. You all can recognize and realize that enlightenment within you, for sure, without a doubt. So one way or another, I'm here, you're there. Enlightenment's real. And, you know, we can go in some crazy world where, like, you know, everything changes, you're being thrown all over the place, likely by yourself. Enlightenment is real. Enlightenment is within you. And you have everything that you need for enlightenment. Fuck rap! I'm gonna drink some sake and what's this stuff called? Ginger juice! You know ginger juice is super potent. it's like ginger that shit is like all right um I don't know that's the way it is take a nap go to sleep fuck rap but I'm very happy. Very happy. Personally. I'm very happy to see all of you at this stage.

1:38:54
But also, as I say fuck you, I'm like, it's up to you.

1:38:58
If you want to be a fucking asshole, you can be a fucking asshole. You want to get stuck forever, you can be stuck forever. You want to get stuck in the karma, you're gonna get stuck in the karma. Samskara, samskara. But all of you have the... the light of the Buddha nature is direct. And nothing, no thought, no karma, no samskara can stop that. The connection with the teaching that propels you into liberation is there. It's there. It's complete. It doesn't have to be tried or thought through or fought over or trying to resolve something because the Kalachakra is beyond karma and it's beyond samskara. So every little bullshit that you come up with, and your hardships and your pain in the asses, I'm like, that's not enlightenment, but enlightenment is already there. And what a wonderful school to kick your ass and give you such a hard time, so much work to wake you up for that. That's what Martha did for Milarepa. Kicked his ass. He didn't have to. I mean, he did. But he kicked his ass so that... I mean, like a big part of it is in Karma Yoga, it's a little bit of hard work so that you realize these teachings are real. And then the teachings are beyond building a company power or something like that. It's like the real deal. It's beyond action. But we do it in a good way. You guys did it all right. Everything's perfect. Everything's perfect. You're completely free. It's the truth of all things. I want to see you guys sit up Sit up fucking straight. Go into Samadhi more. I want to see enlightened teachers, beings. You can be enlightened, just go wherever you want to be enlightened. If you want to be enlightened, you can run a dojo. Be enlightened and share it with the sangha, make these other motherfuckers more enlightened, shit like that. That's cool. I'm down with that. But I don't give a fuck. Everyone can be enlightened. Be enlightened. Everyone can be enlightened and be enlightened. And in the end, sit up straight. Get a fucking mirror. Because next time I sit with you guys I'm gonna like throw things

1:42:08
all right now go do you guys realize I'm just continuing to say the same shit and all right now go do you guys realize I'm just continuing to say the same shit and

1:42:14
some of you guys have to drive home




Transcribed with Cockatoo
