0:00:00
Welcome everyone and thank you for coming to Satsang today. It's going to be a beautiful experience. But let's begin with meditation. So we'll sit for three songs. One song focusing on the navel, chakra, second on the heart, and the third on the third eye.

0:00:30
the the the the So so so So so so the the so so you you so so so so So so so so the the the the You so So You're the one I've been waiting for I've been waiting for you I've been waiting for you I've been waiting for you I've been waiting for you you so You Wonderful. So today I'd like to talk about selflessness.

0:12:29
Selflessness is really the goal of the spiritual path. Selflessness is what brings you beyond limitation. Selflessness is what brings you to your eternal self. So selflessness is what we observe in our work, in our practice. Job yogis use selflessness to have greater success in work, because the self gives us all sorts of barriers, confusions, fears, doubts. And by practicing selflessness, we're able to go beyond them and have greater success in our work. More than that, selflessness brings us happiness and satisfaction in our work. And this is the point of Buddha's teaching, right livelihood. So there were these two guys who decided to help out a co-worker who was struggling to meet a deadline. So they stayed with him until like midnight, working on something, getting it done. And then when they accomplished it, one of the guys said, you know, it feels so good to selflessly help someone. Because they didn't get anything out of it, but they helped their co-worker. And he was like, wow, I just feel so much satisfaction. And then the other guy says, yeah, good point. I'm going to tweet that out. Maybe I'll get some more followers because that's a cool thing to say. And definitely, let's get a selfie here. I'm going to put that on my Instagram. I'm going to put that on my Facebook. So one person did something and really felt, you know, very high because of being selfless, and the other one did it with personal motivation, or eventually. So, it's really important when you're helping another person. Selfless giving is a powerful motivation for selflessness, but you've got to do it right. You can't have ideas of getting something out of it, because then that just builds more self. And sometimes, you know, when people are trying to help out somebody else, they're pushing their own ideas on the other person. So it's like, when you want to help someone, as my teacher always said, make sure they see what you're doing is actually help. So there's a monkey, and the monkey goes to the river, picks up a fish, climbs up the tree, puts it on the branch and says, you gotta be careful, you could drown in there. Right? Yeah, so we have to make sure that when we want to help someone, that we're doing it in a selfless way. Otherwise, it might not help. So in the Job Yoga book, I talk a lot about selfless giving. But selfless giving, when you do it right, it's powerful. It makes your work flow. So when you work, what are you working for? Who are you working for? Your boss. But you're usually working in a way of self. But if you have a way of selflessness in your work, then all of your work is not toil. It's very, very, very beautiful and fun. So I had a student who, she came onto a team that was struggling to finish a project. And she came in, and they had been working on it a lot, and they were hitting all these walls and barriers, and she just was like, wow, look how upset they are, look how stressed out they are. And she was like, I'm gonna help them. She was compassionate. And so she spent a couple weeks working long hours, taking on the biggest challenges and the hardest obstacles, and then she was able to solve it because she was selfless. So more power came out of her than that whole team had for her to solve their problems. and she had energy. She was happy. She wasn't drained and tired. So, when you have the motivation to help someone else, then a lot of energy comes out of you. Your work flows, even if you do more work. It's not something that makes you tired or drained. So, selflessness Selflessness is very powerful. When you're selfless, it's like levitating. When you're selfless, you're light. You can just go higher. You have energy. The self is very, very, very, very heavy. The self is like a sumo wrestler trying to fly by flapping. He's like, is it happening? Not yet. You know, I met a sumo wrestler once. I was in Osaka and he was a friend of a mutual friend and he really liked me. And so, you know, we were having drinks and talking, and then he came over and sat next to me, and he put his arm around me, and he said, let's go karaoke. And I'm like, oh, I don't sing. And then he goes, karaoke. I'm like, no, I don't sing. And then I felt a little bit of bop. And then he stood up, and so did I. And then he walked with me to the karaoke bar, and then I did karaoke. Now, this sumo wrestler was famous. He was like one of the top five sumo wrestlers in Japan at the time. no one knows this guy, but over there, like people in the bar that we were at, they were like, whoa, that's the guy. So in America, don't know the guy, but this sumo wrestler, he was big in Japan.

0:19:59
He was big in Japan.

0:20:00
He was big in Japan.

0:20:00
He was big in Japan.

0:20:01
He was big in Japan. He was big in Japan. He was big in Japan. He was big in Japan. He was big in Japan. He was big in Japan. He was big in Japan. He was big in Japan. He was big in Japan. He was big in Japan. He was big in Japan. He was big in Japan. He was big in Japan. He was big in Japan. He was big in Japan.

0:20:14
He was big in Japan.

0:20:15
So, the self has, it's heavy, and it's a myth. The things that we think about ourselves are actually limiting and not true. We're told certain things from our society, from our family, from our friends. We just get ideas about the self, things that we can do, things that we can't do. But when you can be selfless, you let go of these ideas and you can do much more. So Buddha had a story about a bird. There was a bird, but you can't fly, because we can't fly.

0:21:41
The chicken, he should have known better.

0:21:43
But anyway, yeah, but they were like, oh yeah, you can't fly. And there were no other birds around. So the bird was like, okay, walking around. And one day, another bird flew in and they all saw this beautiful bird flying and they're like, wow! And the bird lands and says hi to everyone. Hey, chicken. But then the bird goes to the other bird and says, hey, you want to go fly somewhere together? And the bird says, what And he goes, no, use your wings. Do like this. And then the bird flew. So that's what Buddha said. And it's so true with all of us, all of you. We have wings.

0:22:44
We can fly.

0:22:45
We can do amazing things, but our self-description, what we're told, what we think about what we can do, holds us back. If you are selfless, you throw out that personal history, that self-description, and then you find so much more is possible. This is what Karma Yoga is. The way to enlightenment through action. This is what Job Yoga is. It's this action in your work, in your livelihood, where you're able to attain higher states. You're able to erase the self every time you act. In every task, throw the self away. Observe that you're letting go of the self, and you're just purely taking an action, and then self goes away, and then you accomplish much more. If you have fears and doubts, and that's the way that you transcend the old description, the old limitations, and you go higher and higher and higher. as many of you have read in the Job Yoga book. He came in and he did his work. He had to build his towers. He's building these stone towers. And it was hard work and difficult work, and he did it very selflessly. And Marpa, his teacher, said, You're burning off bad karma. You're burning off bad karma by doing the work. When you selflessly do your work, the heaviness of self washes away. You know, I've had some of the older students, you know, come into the Sangha in a condition that was very, very bad. Like for example, one of my students, he was homeless when he first came here, and he was a mess. And then he developed himself, and he became a very, very, very top computer programmer in Silicon Valley. And he's excellent and strong and impeccable and amazing. But the time before he did his yoga, he had this self-description of the world where he was a beggar. And that changed. It changes through work. You transform through work. You can uplift yourself through work. The way that you, the self-description changes. It becomes something new. Who you are right now, and who you think you are, can change. Because the self that you think you are is not the self. That's why selflessness is important. Who you think you are, your thoughts, your feelings, your description of self, they are not you. Buddha said that the self is the ocean. So, this whole self-description, who we think we are, is very transient. It's an idea, it's a thought. But do you know how transient thoughts are? You can hold a thought for a little, like 10 seconds, and then it's gone. So, these thoughts of who you are, they're transient. When you go beyond these thoughts and these ideas, then you experience the true self, the higher self. Bodhi, the awakened principle of consciousness. When you experience what is beyond the ideas, the It's a powerful beautiful thing. Oh Okay, how about we do that? I'm going to show you what is beyond the self? I Think we're going to listen to a song from the Iceland album our new album from value and I just want you to look up here and I'm going to show you what is beyond the self

0:28:31
so so So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. the the so you Bowing is a big thing. Prowering is an act of selflessness. It is to say to another, I'm not going to hit you. It is to say, I am humble before the world. You know, in Asia, in Tibet, they will do full body prostration as a pilgrimage to walk around a mountain. Years, years, years doing that. We bow. Oh, yeah, so, that whole thing is something that shows you the self that is beyond thought.

0:30:51
And even if you had thought, I'm showing you the self that is beyond thought, even right now. So, right now, you feel your body, you're listening to some weird guy on the stage, you're looking at me, you're sitting there going, I don't know if I believe him, or whatever, right? What I'm showing you is that there's a self that has ideas, that feels things, that has thoughts, but there's also the observer of those thoughts right now. You can think something, you can feel something, but what I'm pointing to is the one beyond the thought who observes having the thought. This is the selfless state. That is the selfless condition. If you're always caught up in the thoughts, you're that bubble on the sea foam on a wave. But when you're observing the thought and say, oh, well, there's something else that observes it, then that's when you start to be selfless. The ocean, it's bigger. As we say in Hawaii. So there's something very, very, very powerful about the recognition of that observer that that sees the transient thoughts. This is what I'm pointing to. This is the true self. That self is a self that is beyond description, beyond personal history, beyond fear, beyond doubt. It's very, very powerful. You know, the self, this little bubble on the sea foam, is altogether an illusion.

0:36:58
It's not real.

0:36:59
I know. It seems so real.

0:37:01
You're so pissed off.

0:37:03
I know. But it's not real. It's not real. That bubble will burst, and then what happens? Another bubble. But it's not true. That's not truly who you are. And when I teach, I'm giving a selfless teaching. I'm giving a teaching to your selflessness. I have to tell you words and stories and jokes because it engages the bubble. But I'm talking to the ocean. And that's why this is powerful because whatever I say, blah, blah, blah, your selflessness hears the truth. Muji is this really well-known teacher. He was a student of Papaji, who was a famous enlightened teacher. Muji walked into satsang with Papaji, and he sat down and Papaji was just going blah blah blah blah blah, and Muji's just like, I don't know, I don't like this guy. And he's saying a bunch of garbage. And then Mooji got so caught up in his thoughts where he had so much doubt and so much like, this guy's stupid, I don't believe him, just thinking, thinking, thinking, thinking, thinking. And then, after thinking, I totally don't like this, I totally reject this guy, this guy's horrible. Then, he chilled out for a moment and he heard one phrase, to be enlightened, the self cannot be there. And then he goes, oh, he was like, this is garbage. He's like, you know, the self cannot be here. So he got up and walked out of the room. And then he's like, okay, I'm going to my hotel, packing my stuff, getting out of town, because I came here for this guy, and this guy is garbage. But then that phrase came back to him. thing that he accepted, that he heard. His thoughts were cluttering up everything, but he got that one little... it's the serum to take away the venom, the poison. And then he got it and he was like, hmm, ah, hmm, ah, oh! This is truth, this is truth that he could not deny. So he really didn't like hearing it. He really didn't like being confronted with truth. And he really didn't like the style of the teacher or anything. But that truth was so profound, it talked to the ocean and not to the bubble. Don't be a bubble! So this one monk goes to the Zen master and he's like, Zen master, I work on this koan and I go really high and then I'm happy and then I come back down. I study a sutra, I go very high and I feel really good and then I come back down. I meditate and I go really high and then I'm back to like my old heavy self. I don't like it. So then the monk says it's like he picks up a rock, he throws it up in the air and he goes, it's like I go down. And then the Zen master says, no self is satisfying. Any self that you can go up will eventually become boring. You're like, oh, I have this idea. I can be this, and that'll make me happy, and then that'll be boring. It's not satisfying. So the Zen master took the stone and he said, threw it up in the air and it disappeared. Just like this. What should I throw in the air? There was something small enough I would have shown you. And then, so the monk sees the stone go up and disappear in the air. And then he goes into Satori. Actually, my teacher did that. He threw a rock in the air and it disappeared. So, it's very mystical and magical. And those of you who are coming to the Anza-Borrego Desert with us in the summer, we will be doing Buddhist magic and mysticism. It's very beautiful. Yeah, so, the thing about the self is, the self is always a step ahead of you. Like, when you're caught up in self-thinking, you say, oh, I think I'll be selfless. And the self's all, oh, really? So, it's like this monk goes to a master and says, how do I find enlightenment? And he goes, oh, it's just upstairs on the next level up. And then the monk goes up, doesn't find anything, comes back down and says, where was enlightenment? He's all, oh, it was there. But if you get up there and it's not there, it's on the next floor higher. And then this monk, this is a pagoda, right? He comes to the top of the pagoda. So the self is always ahead of you if you're thinking from the point of view of self. But you have to erase the idea of self-wanting, of self-idea, and then selflessness is right there. Enlightenment is right there. But if you're like, oh, enlightenment's over here, I'm going to go and get it, it's not there. Because you're looking for it. Because you are looking for it. So, there was this one monk from the temple and he heard of a scroll of power. Like if he got that scroll and read it he'd be powerful. It was in a cave but it was guarded by a panda bear and the panda bear was a martial artist. Wudang temple, Wudang monastery, they were martial artists. So this monk was a good fighter, a very expert martial artist. But this panda bear, this was the original Kung Fu Panda. So this panda bear was also a good fighter. But this monk's like, I'm the best, I can beat everyone I've ever matched. And then he goes and he fights this panda bear and he throws a punch. The panda bear dodges, blocks, puts him down. Every attack, he can never hit the panda and he gets defeated and he goes back to his master and says, I've never lost a fight until this panda. How do I beat the panda? And then the master goes, oh I forgot to tell you. The reason that the panda beats you is because the panda reads your mind. So when you think of trying to attack it, it knows what you're trying to do. The moment that you think about it, so it's like, oh, you're gonna try and punch me in the head, move my head. So that's why the panda can win. So the master says, you must fight the panda without trying to fight the panda. So you have to be selfless. You can't think, I'm gonna try to hit this panda. Poor little panda. You're like, I'm not trying. You can't try. There can be no thought of it. You must just do it. And then the monk says, how do I do that? Because if I'm trying to beat the guy, the panda, you know, if I don't think about trying to beat the panda, then I can't actually do the attack. And then the master says, okay, stand up and just kick and punch. Just do technique. And then he does. And then he says, when you meet the panda, do that. Just imagine that there's no panda there, and just move. Wu-wei-do, right? When we practice our martial arts, a Wu-wei-do, if you think there's an opponent, all of a sudden, you have no power. If you say there's no opponent, you have all the power in the world. The opponent goes flying away. We have seen this in our martial arts. So then he goes back and he does the Wu Wei. He comes over to the panda takes a nap.

0:47:14
And then he gets a scroll.

0:47:15
So this is the way that it is. Now, when we study selflessness, we want to get to that place of the observer, where we're the ocean, where we are not there, there's no panda. That's where we we want to be, that's where job yogis focus. Now most people, they try to adorn the self. They're like, oh, let's make the self better, let's do some self-help construction, right? So it's like there's a palace, a giant beautiful crystal palace, and this is your birthright, this is your inheritance, this is your palace, but you're out in the backyard with a shack, an old broken shack, and you're trying to fix it up. You're like, I'm gonna make this shack better. And I'm like, well, the palace is yours. You're like, but this shack can be better. I'm gonna paint the shack. I'm gonna put in new flooring. There's a hole in the roof, but we'll get to that later, right? Everyone's trying to fix up their old broken, busted shack when the palace is right there. They just don't see the palace because they're looking at the shack. So, your birthright is the greatest thing. What already is, is the most powerful, beautiful thing. And to see that is to be selfless. the self, it obfuscates your view of the truth of your great power. So people try to develop themselves. We develop ourselves in a way where we erase ourselves. So we become more successful, but we don't do it in a way where we're like, well guess what? I did this and now I'm a bigger ego. Right? Yeah, we don't do that. We make ourselves powerful and successful and in doing so we erase the self and then we see that there's this powerful, beautiful, wonderful thing beyond self. It's fantastic. But most people just try to enhance the self based on desire, based on ideas. So this one monk, he's like, Oh, you know what? I read this teaching about doing mantras. I'm going to do mantras. Then he goes, Oh wait, I heard this other teacher talk about chakra meditation. I'm going to do chakra meditation. Oh, I met this other teacher who said do some fasting. I'm going to fast forever. You know, I met this other teacher who said go to this place. I went to the place. And then he comes over to another teacher, an enlightened teacher, and then he's all like, what should I do? Because I have all these ideas, these practices of these things, but what should I do?" And this teacher says, nothing. Do nothing. And then he goes, all right, and he sits there, and he's like, well, shouldn't I do some mantras? No, okay, do nothing. Chakra meditation? No, nothing. Then finally he goes, okay, I'm gonna do and then enlightenment. Selflessness brings enlightenment. Yeah, it's wonderful. But when the self is there, it obfuscates things. So there's a whole powerful big side of the self, and then there's this little, in Zen they call it the monkey mind, the little bubble. And when we're focused on that little monkey mind, we don't see the ocean. So you have to let go. Let go. And right now, what I'm talking to, you can see the mind that observes the mind of thought. And this is selflessness. This is your eternal consciousness. And when we explore that, then it's much, much, much bigger. See, this is why you need a spiritual teacher. Because you're not going to figure it out by yourself. When you're doing it from, I read this book or I have this idea, then you're always going to have blind spots. You're always going to be doing things in a way that keeps you trapped in your own karma. So it's important to have a teacher because a teacher will you something that you didn't see before. And they'll point out, this is an obstacle, and this is the way to get higher. There was a Zen monk who went to his master, and he's like, oh, okay. And he's like, but the self just keeps getting in the way. Okay, so the Zen master says, well, who's this self? And then the monk says, well, it's me. And he recounts his personal history, where he was born, what his mother and father did, and what he thinks and what he feels. And the Master says, that is not you. And then he says, who is this self that you want to transcend? And then the monk says, well, let me tell you about my feelings and my thoughts. And the Master says, this is not you. The Zen monk goes, oh, who is this self? And then the Zen monk thinks that he figured it out. He did something, and he goes, oh, it's not my personal history, it's not my thoughts, my feelings. And then he sees a teacup on the table, and he picks up the teacup and he goes, this, this is myself. And then the Zen master looks at him and goes, too Zen. That's what a master can do. You can fool yourself into thinking, oh, I've really figured it out. That would be the Zen-iest thing to do. But then the Zen master is like, no, no, no, this is too Zen, too much what you think should be. So it's important to have a master. It's also important to be in a group of people who are all aiming for selflessness. You're all aiming for enlightenment. And in being in that group, you're part of a team, and a team can develop and be strong and grow together. So it's I wouldn't want to be in a sangha who would accept me as a member. Do you guys know that? It's an old Woody Allen joke. He's like, I would never want to be in a club that would accept someone like me as a member. Sangha is a very, very powerful and beautiful thing. So there was this Taoist hermit sitting in a cave, meditating, trying to find the Tao, and could never find it. But he was trying and trying and trying. And then one day, he saw a monk, and the monk was sitting outside and by the river, and the monk looked really happy. So the hermit comes out of the cave and he goes, Hey, you look pretty happy. What are you doing? How's it work? And he says, Oh, I'm so excited because I'm going to sit with the Samadhi Sangha. And then he's all, Oh, Samadhi Sangha? Why is it called that? Samadhi is selfless consciousness. It's also called God-realization. It's a high state of mind that comes through meditation. And he's like, that's what I'm trying to reach. That's the Tao. I'm trying to get there. And what is this Samadhi Sangha? And then the monk says, well, it's a Sangha where we get together and when we meditate together, we all go into samadhi. And then the hermit is like, whoa, really? That's amazing, because that's what I want to do. And then the monk says, yes, we are so grateful to be together and we all go into Samadhi. So the hermit goes, okay, I'm coming with you. So he leaves his cave and then he goes to this group of monks, he sits down with them and they all meditate and they all go into Samadhi, except for the hermit, because the hermit hung around and then he understood how special it is to be in a Sangha. And then he started meditating not just for himself anymore, but for everyone. And then he went into Samadhi. people who find meditation, want to practice meditation, they end up being very selfish. They're all like, I'm going to meditate. And what do they do? They just sit there and think thoughts about themselves. I don't like this person. Oh, I'm afraid of this. What am I going to do tomorrow? What's for lunch? People, it's the funniest thing. Meditation is the practice of selflessness. When you stop thought, the self is gone. And you experience the ocean, which is a spiritual awareness beyond self that is so great and so beautiful and so high and amazing. That's meditation. That's selflessness. But most people, when they sit to meditate, they're just all like,

0:59:14
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me.

0:59:18
I'm like, no, don't do that. And when we're together, this is a very powerful moment. Sangha is together. We network, we connect in a powerful way. When we meditate together, there's light, magic, power. It's a very special opportunity. So Sangha is powerful. Now, selflessness is not being a pushover. It's not being weak. In selflessness, you can be very, very strong. You can be a selfless warrior. I know when we say selflessness, people go, okay, so that means that people step on you. No! It's like Aikido. Someone's attacking you, they're grabbing your wrist, inside joke, someone's attacking you and you don't want to let them have the bad karma of hurting you and you also don't want to hurt them. So when they attack you, you do something to stop the attack. It's very, very strong, very, very powerful, but it ends the attack. So they don't get bad karma for hurting you. You don't hurt them, and you just end it. But it's powerful, it's very strong to do that. I remember there were two older students from my school, and they were talking about a business yoga project together. And they were yelling at each other, talking about different technologies and different ways to do the thing, and they were like, they were really intense, they were very intense and powerful. I was like, whoa. But they weren't angry at each other, they were both sincerely trying to find the best way, and then they did, and they built a company and ended up selling it for 50 million dollars and if they didn't yell at each other they probably wouldn't have... it takes that power to find the right thing. It reminds me of Buddhist debate. So, Seh Wong, the Khenpo, was telling me about Buddhist debate. When they do Buddhist debate, you're debating with someone and you're like, you're really trying to beat them. You're trying to find the weakest place and say, oh, look, you're wrong because of this. So they're really working, fighting, but selflessly. No one's, you can get demolished in your debate and then you're happier. Yeah, it's like sparring in martial arts. When we do martial arts fighting, we do it in a way where we're working on selflessness. We don't fight to the point where you're mad at the person that you're sparring with. Oh, you got a point on me, I'm mad. No. When someone gets a point on you, you say, whoa, good, and that informs you how to have better defense. So this is the way that we work together, and it's wonderful.

1:02:58
It's a much happier way.

1:03:00
When you're practicing selflessness, you develop your skills to be stronger. So a black belt is a story of selflessness. They've developed amazing skills because they've done the work. This is the way we practice black belt. A lot of black belts go, ah, this is more me. I'm stronger. I can punch you. But we develop our skills, our impeccability in our martial arts, in our work. Not to be a bigger self, but all of that work that we do makes us more selfless. Do you guys know Deontay Wilder? He's the heavyweight champ in boxing. He was a beer truck driver. So, you know, he had done some boxing, you know, growing up, but he just drove a truck, delivered beer to bars and stores, and then his daughter was diagnosed with spina bifida, a bad disease. And then he was like, whoa, my truck driving job is not gonna pay the bills. Then he said, how can I make more money? And he's like, wow, I could go into boxing. And usually boxers start off from six and work their way up, right? And he had done a few years of boxing. He's like, I could box, maybe I could win some money that way. And he went into boxing for his daughter. He developed his boxing skills. He's like, I'm not just fighting for me. He's like, I need to win, I need to be good, I need to be great, not just for me, but to support my daughter. And he became so strong. I mean, he's the heavyweight champ. So it's important to have honor. When you have honor, you're selfless. In the West, people are not honorable. People are so selfish, they don't have honor. So, but really, you have to look at your life and see what matters and what gifts you've been given and you have to honor these things. It's really important. When we meditate, when we learn things about life, the self, and power, and truth, everything that we do brings us greater selflessness. You know, any spiritual practice, if it's true, brings you to a place of greater humility, greater selflessness. spiritual book and you get all these ideas and powers and intellectual designs and you go, yeah, this is cool, you have to say, also, does this make me more humble? Am I getting more selfless? So if you answer a koan, you go, aha, now I know the sound of one hand clapping.

1:07:14
If you realize,

1:07:16
who am I? Oh, now I know who I am. If you, you know, you get the amulet of intergalactic oneness. If you pray to the great chicken in the sky. If anything is a spiritual truth, and it can be anything, you will notice that the self goes away. You're not so clinging to self ideas and self concepts. That is the standard. That's the way that we work. We do a lot of stuff, we accomplish a lot of stuff, but while we do it, we're letting go of self. And we're recognizing, wow, I'm not so attached to that reactive thought, idea. Always more selfless. And then we're able to honor our opportunities, honor our life. We have so many blessings, and we can accept them and develop within them and grow them and then dish out more blessings to other people. Yeah, so it's really important. So I was teaching in Munich and this student comes to me after and he's like, I really like your teachings and I'm really angry at my Zen teacher. I'm like, oh, why? And he said, well, my Zen teacher, I was showing him my art, he's a painter, I was showing him, or a drawer, and he's like, I showed him my art and he, you know, he dissed it. He said, oh, this is bad, and he said these mean things, and it was hurtful, and it wasn't Zen, and so that's why I'm here with you. And I'm like, oh. And I'm like, your Zen teacher was not just saying that your art is bad. Your Zen teacher was actually showing you something spiritual, which is that you have self in your art. It's not that your art is good or bad, but something beyond that, which is your self-attachment. And then he's like, oh, and then he's like, thank you. Oh, I see it now. And he's like, oh, okay, I'm going to go back to my Zen teacher. I'm like, good, good. I'm like, okay, we solved that. And then after that, then he's all like, then he showed me his horrible art. I was like, ah, that's terrible. But I'm like, yeah, go back to your Zen teacher. So you have to see it and understand it's an opportunity. It's so hard these days. There's so much maya, so much illusion. Our culture is like self, self, self. And this is all about selfless. So it's hard to see when there's a selfless opportunity, something that can show you your spirit, your eternal being. You're like, I don't know. My bubble doesn't like it. It's true, but if you reflect, if you feel, if you settle down, stop reacting and feel deeper, then you'll say, aha, there's something powerful. There's something very beautiful. It's something to honor and care for. If you don't succeed, if you don't take the opportunity, then it shuts the opportunity down for you, but also for others. I mean, if this is a world that says, I hate enlightenment, I'm going to attack it and yell at it, then the enlightened one will say, whoa, maybe I shouldn't help people. I shouldn't say these things to people. I can only like take a couple people and a Scotty dog, you know. But if this world embraces enlightenment, then it can uplift many, many, many, many people. There was this time, ancient time, eons ago, where there was this Buddha called Mogaciti, and he was a cool Buddha. He had these, they were satsangs, but they were parties, where everyone would come and then he would dance. And then his dance was so magical and enlightening that everyone would dance and they would be caught up in his dancing. And then after dancing, he would sing. And his singing was so beautiful, everyone started doing karaoke. And then he would magically make food and give it out as a prasad. And it was like delicious food and everyone would have a beautiful experience. So he would do that and it was so wonderful. And thousands of people would come. One day he was dancing, everyone was dancing, and two guys bumped into each other and then they got mad at each other and they got into a fight. And then after that, no more dancing. He wouldn't dance. But he would still sing and serve food. And then one day when they were singing, this one guy was watching another guy sing and he was jealous because the guy sang so well. So he went over and he took a, I think, a pot and a pan and clanged it in the guy's ear to bother him from his singing. And then Mogastedi saw that and said, all right, no more singing. And then they had prasad. And then they were having prasad. And this one guy saw the other guy with some food that he wanted, so he took it.

1:13:56
He ate it.

1:13:57
And then no more prasad. And so these wonderful blessings went away because people didn't honor the blessing properly. And it could be, in a big group, one person who does something really bad. So, you know, we're very fortunate. Very fortunate. But it can happen. And it's so important that everyone has honor. When you're selfless and you have honor, it leads you to love. And love works. And love is the spiritual path. And it's not like a sappy love. When we work, we're working to experience love. But it's not like, oh, I'm going to marry my work. I mean, some people do, but it's selfless. that unity, that selflessness, that beautiful enlightened consciousness given to us. It's our birthright. It's our nature. It's who we are in our work. It's so beautiful. There was this one guy who was a woodcutter and he had to spend all day cutting wood. And he's like, he goes to the Zen master, I hate my job. This is a horrible job. It's so tedious, it's so boring, and it's so hard. I would like to do right livelihood. And the Zen master says, work, your work, your job is not the problem. Self is the problem. Every time you cut wood, cut the self. This is your practice. Every time you split the wood, split the self. Cut away the self with every stroke. So you go, oh, okay. And then he's all, eh. Zen master tells me, and he cuts the wood and he goes, whoa, there's something there. The self is gone more. And then he spends all day doing that and he gets happy. Happy, happy, happy. Seeing that with every act in his work, he's letting go of self more and more and more and more. That's the selflessness that we work on. And then he goes from hating his work to loving his work. This is the way. Okay. Maybe we should take a break

1:17:19
So, I'm going to play a little bit of it. so so the the the the so So You're my hero Wonderful. Sangha. It's very beautiful. So, work, how to be selfless in your work, observe selflessness in work.

1:22:12
When you're working and you're dealing with people, observe where you have reactions, self-interests, and say, oh, I should let go of this. Very simple. Be impeccable in your work. Do your work perfectly, even if it's chopping wood all day. See yourself as cutting away the self in every act, in every task. You'll be letting go of self and work. It's a beautiful way. And go the extra mile. You know, go the extra mile has turned into this idea of just try harder, do more, right? Like, go ahead, push harder, because then you get it done better. But do you know Go the Extra Mile came from this other enlightened teacher called Jesus Christ? Jesus Christ. He said, go the extra mile. But you know, the story behind that is, the Romans were in charge and there was a law. If a Roman soldier or official was going through, they could say, hey you, regular guy, come over here, carry my stuff for a mile. They had a law, you would have to carry their stuff if they told you to for a mile. And then Jesus said, go an extra mile. You do the mandated mile and then you go a mile more. That's how you win back power. That's selflessness. Your work's mandated, right? You have to work. A lot of people are crushed because oh I got a good work and then that means that they're experiencing that mandated mile. Going the extra mile of selfless takes going beyond the self, doing more, but when you do it, you gain power. You drop self and you gain power. So do that. All right, all right, all right. So thank you all so much. I bow to you. We're going to take a break and I'll say goodbye to my students in Iceland, Paris, Munich, Vienna, Budapest. But if you guys want to stay on, it's okay. We're going to take a break for half an hour, and then we're going to come back and we have something very, very special. So Kali has come up to give us a presentation, a teaching on men and love. So this is a very, very beautiful teaching, a teaching from our master. And by the way, some of you guys don't know Kali. Kali is one of the great students of my teacher. And she's here to give us a beautiful teaching. She's an amazing teacher and one of my best allies. Her and Dholmajit and Lakshmi are my great allies. That means best friends. In Buddhist talk. So in a half an hour, she's gonna give a teaching on men and love. My teacher, I mean, we teach Vajrayana Buddhism, also known as Tantra. And she's got teachings for men in love and women in power. So these are very powerful teachings in our school. She's going to teach men in love this time. And then she'll be back up again to teach about women and power. to teach about women and power. All right, so thank you all so much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
