0:00:00
Welcome to Satsang. It's a beautiful day here in the Bay Area. could come on this Thanksgiving holiday weekend. Yeah, I'm thankful to be together.

0:00:30
All right, wonderful. Let's begin with meditation.

0:00:35
We will sit for three songs. First song on the navel, second song on the heart, the third song on the third eye. All right, let's begin. So, so so

0:01:05
the the the So, I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go So so Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. So so Oh, so so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, you you so You're not alone. you so You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone you Today I would like to share with you self-reliance and the way of the bodhisattva. A bodhisattva is an

0:15:02
a kind of a pinnacle of Bodhicitta. Bodhicitta is the way of the bodhisattva, the practice of compassion that creates liberation. So when we practice bodhicitta, we are becoming bodhisattvas. we liberate through compassion. A bodhisattva really cares about the well-being of others. A bodhisattva works through their heart to help others be enlightened. A bodhisattva is pure of heart and their commitment is true. They are like a hundred percent in. So, like a bodhisattva is a good, trustable, spiritual friend. They don't have another agenda. Bodhisattva is not like, well, I would give you more unconditional love if you were a little bit more appreciative, or something like that. No, they're just completely all in. It's a good, spiritual friend. A bodhisattva, from their caring, they gain wisdom. From their empathy, they gain equanimity and balance, even in facing great adversity. And their compassion drives impeccable action. Everything that they do is powerful because it all comes from the heart. It all comes from compassion. A bodhisattva is the bridge from maya to nirvana. is enlightenment. Maya is illusion. We exist in a confusion because of illusion, and we suffer because of it. It's like a dream. You know, you might have a bad dream, and then you wake up and you say, wow, in that dream I was all afraid and worried and stressing stressing out, and then I woke up, and now no problem. Right? So, life is but a dream until we awake. And a bodhisattva works for awakening. So, there were these two guys, They were at a Zen retreat For a whole week and at the end of the retreat one of them says to his friend. I I've come to a realization and This friend says what is it? He says Life is just a dream and Then his friend says to him Exactly and in that dream you still owe me $200. So life is a dream, but if you're suffering in the dream, suffering in the illusion, then there's something to do. There's something real about that. There's a concern. So, a bodhisattva is someone who helps, helps people wake up, helps people get past the suffering of illusion. And there's many bodhisattvas, they inform us of the power of Bodhicitta. So the stories teach us the power that we have within us to bring compassion and liberate other people from suffering. Probably the most famous, the most beloved bodhisattva in Tibet is Avalokiteshvara is depicted to have 11 heads, like a pyramid of heads, and a thousand arms. And Avalokiteshvara has many means and many ways to bring compassion to all beings. So, there's a story that describes this depiction. Avalokiteshvara became a perfected saint, became liberated through many years of dharma practice and was living in a heaven world, enjoying the paradise realm. And then one day, Avalokiteshvara heard some cries for help or cries of suffering and looked down upon Tibet. And in Tibet, there was lots of wars and lots of suffering going on. So then, Avalokiteshvara decided to come down to Earth to help. Come down to Tibet and help people. So Avalokiteshvara went from heaven down to Tibet and was helping people in many, many ways. And some ways didn't really help. And when he saw that he wasn't helping someone, he would grow a new head. And then he had a new face of compassion to help that certain case of suffering. And so then sometimes the things that he was doing wasn't working, so then he grew a new arm. And then he was like, I need to help someone over here, and I'm helping them, and then I also need to help someone over there, so he'd get a new arm that would go and help them. Until he had a thousand of them, and eleven heads. And then when he had eleven heads and a thousand arms, then he was like, okay, now I'm able to help everybody. That's a great story. Avalokiteshvara means the one who hears the cries of suffering, because that's what brought him down into the action of compassion. And then it is said that because his compassion was so strong and so beautiful, Padmasambhava, who was the founder of Tibetan Buddhism, decided to come to this world, inspired by that compassion, and then brought Buddhism to Tibet. Yeah. So the thing I like about the story is that it tells us something about ourselves. We're going at our life in a way on the practice of compassion, on the pathway to enlightenment. We don't stay the same, we change, we grow, we can become stronger, more capable. So I had a student and she was learning tech, kind of like going forward towards a tech job, but she really had a lot of self-doubt. kind of like going forward towards a tech job, but she really had a lot of self-doubt. She was like, oh no, I can't really become a computer programmer, it's not really gonna happen. You know, I'm never gonna make more than minimum wage. And I'm just, I am this way, and it's never gonna happen. And then, so when she was, you know, going for interviews and stuff, she was failing and failing and failing. And then one day she had an interview coming up, and she was going through her thoughts of doubt. And she's like, wait, this hurts, I'm suffering from this. self-compassion. And in her self-compassion, she did, you know, the taking and sending, and then she was able to, like, just relieve herself of those feelings of doubt. And then she went, when she wasn't doubting herself and thinking these same thoughts over and over, then she felt a little bit excited about her interview, and a little bit positive. And then she went to her interview and then she was hired the same day. And then, you know, she started the job and was a week into it and was already making really good progress. So she grew a new head. No, but that's what these stories of the Bodhisattvas tell us. They tell us that we can change and we can grow. They tell us many different ways where we can bring compassion to ourselves, compassion to the world, to make positive changes. of the bodhisattva, we're going to bring compassion to all beings. But it has to start with yourself. It has to start with self-compassion. So you must be a bodhisattva for yourself first. Be your own bodhisattva. Yeah, it's important. Yeah. Here's a story. Winnie the Pooh was walking through the woods, is stuck in this hole. And he goes over to Piglet, and Piglet's trying to get out, but he's stuck, and it's pretty deep.

0:26:52
And then Winnie the Pooh says, I'm going to help you.

0:26:56
I'm going to go run to the house and get a ladder. I'll be back in 10 minutes.

0:27:00
Just wait here.

0:27:01
And then Piglet says, no, I'm not going to wait, which I thought was really funny, because if Piglet is stuck in a hole, he has no choice whether he's going to wait or not. But then I, now reimagining this, what if Piglet is being his own bodhisattva? He's taking responsibility for his suffering, and he's like, no, I'm going to do something about it. So then Winnie the Pooh runs off to get a ladder, and then Piglet, I don't know, maybe he learns a mantra and levitates. I don't know. Maybe he finds something, some way to climb out. But he does something. He's taking responsibility. I like that. Yeah, so this is what a bodhisattva does. A bodhisattva doesn't wait around for somebody else to help them. If Avalokiteshvara was waiting around for someone else. And this is very important self-reliance. It's very important for Westerners to know, because a lot of Westerners have weird ideas. You know, like, Westerners are like, oh, I'm going to wait for some guru or some God or some angel or something to come and help me. But in Bodhicitta, we recognize that our suffering is, solving our suffering is up to us. Solving other people's suffering is up to us. Liberation for ourselves is up to us. Enlightenment for all is up to us. We are standing up and taking responsibility for our lives, our minds, and everyone that we come across.

0:29:53
That's self-reliance.

0:29:54
A lot of people, when they get some suffering or difficulty, they'll go to friends and family for some relief. They'll be like, oh, I skinned my knee, mom, you know, help. Or, you know, like, oh, my boss yelled at me today, I'm going to go and talk to my husband and he'll console me. So a lot of people go to friends and family and they get some relief. But then you could depend on it too much. It could also be an unhealthy connection. You know, families are good at certain things. Getting you enlightened is not known to be one of them. Sometimes it's not empowering, sometimes there's a lot of limitation. So, it depends. There was this one student of my teacher. He moved to New York. He was working as a waiter. He had gone through computer programming school, and he was struggling to find a tech job. And then he he called his father and he was like, hey dad, you know, I'm trying but it's tough, you know. And his dad says, son, you're a good person and whatever you're going through, I love you anyway, you're okay. And so this student goes to my teacher and says this. He's like, yeah, so my dad told me he loves me anyway and it's okay, so I feel better. My teacher said, that is horrible counsel. He's all, forget what your dad said, ask yourself.

0:31:52
What do you need to do?

0:31:53
And he's like, well, I should send out more resumes. He's like, and I should practice interviewing because I'm bad at it. And then my teacher said, do that. So then he did that, and then he got his tech job. But if he just listened to his father, he'd be all, oh, I feel loved, okay, cool. And then he's like, you know, bussing tables, right? Buddha said, no one can help you as much as your own mind. Because, though somebody could make you feel a little bit better,

0:32:30
pat you on the back,

0:32:33
you're the only one who can get to the root of the issue in your mind. That getting to the root of the issue, dealing with it with compassion, with dharma, that is self-reliance. That is the way of the bodhisattva.

0:32:59
Then when family's not good enough,

0:33:02
friends don't help enough, people are too confused, they go to a shrink, a psychologist or psychiatrist or something, and they go, oh, you've studied and got a doctorate in understanding the mind scientifically, so you must be able to help me. And yeah, maybe a little. But in Western psychology, they kind of miss the dimension of spirit. And so they don't truly solve problems. That's why you have people going, yeah, this thing happened to me when I was 12 and it was bad, and I've been in 25 years of therapy and I'm still working on it, you know? My teacher said not to do psychotherapy, work with psychologists or psychiatrists. And he said that when you're talking to them, you just start going into the self in the wrong way. You're just kind of like bringing the ego up and wrestling with it and not doing anything that actually solves the problem. Freud, who had this patient called the Dog Man, who thought he was a dog, and he worked with him for 25 years, and the guy still thought he was a dog. But it's like, that's such a weird thing. You know, with psychologists and stuff, you can get into some really ridiculous stuff. Like, you know, hey, doctor. Yeah, I got this feeling, like I keep thinking that I'm a dog. And the doctor says, well, how long has this been going on? Ever since I was a puppy. I mean, ridiculous things. So yeah, the whole thing of sitting down with the therapist and the therapist is going, hmm, let's talk about, you know, weird stuff. Yeah, because, and then they have like really funny weird things that they, like, they come up with ideas and then they bring you into their idea and they start to structure it. Like Freud has some pretty silly ideas and then he thinks that's reality, so he brings his patients into that reality. It's like, you know, you sit down with the doctor and you say, oh yeah, I have a lot of anxiety. And the doctor says, you should reflect on this question when you feel anxiety. How am I not myself? So then you go, how am I not myself? How am I not myself? And then you're like, what does this even mean?

0:35:59
It's really funny.

0:36:00
So there could be confusions, misunderstandings. My psychiatrist told me to write a letter to everyone I hate and to write every single detail about why I'm angry at them. And then, once I've written the letter, then burn them. And so I did, and now I'm wondering what to do with the letters. So the thing about psychology and these therapies is that because they miss the dimension of spirit it's something that they can't really solve. So I remember once a student, my teacher, was talking to my teacher and he said, yeah, I've been going to a psychologist for years. I have this like heart pain and then I ended up getting some medication for my heart and anxiety and stuff. And my teacher said, there's nothing physically wrong with you. You have congestion in the heart chakra. And he said, and here, let me teach you a heart meditation, and it will solve it. He's like, just 15 minutes a day, he gave him a special meditation for the heart. And then, a month later, he comes back to my teacher, and he's like, it's completely solved. Like, I don't have any more of this feeling in my heart that used to bother me so much for years. So, you know, the doctors are looking at physical things and mental ideas and they completely don't understand the problem, which was this guy's heart, his aura. So, a lot of times there could be limitations. And that's why if friends and psychotherapists don't help, then people go to a higher power. And then it's like the priest goes, I see you. You have a hole in your heart. And you try to fill that hole with money. You try to fill that hole with sex. You try to fill that hole. Right? So you feel like, you know, people feel like that, so they got to go and find their God. And there's a bunch of them. So they're going, like, chasing one God or another. And it's good. So there was this Taoist, and he prayed and prayed and prayed to the heavenly king, which is the Taoist highest god in Taoist mysticism, Yu Huang, and he appears after many years of this Taoist praying. And the Taoist says, tell me what the Tao is." And Yu Huang tells him completely, and he's like, wow, amazed. And then he says, show me the Tao. And Yu Huang shows him the Tao completely, and he's totally, completely amazed. And then he says, make me one with the Tao. And then Yu Huang disappears. And then he's all, oh. So then he goes to a Taoist master, and he says, Yu Huang just disappeared when I asked him to do that. And he said, well, he might be able to show you, but for you to be one with the Tao, he can't do that for you. You have to do that. So the best thing that he could do is go away so that you can do that. And then the guy goes, oh, okay. So, yeah, gods are good. But if you want to know the Tao directly, to be one with the It's beyond the purview of God. There's this thing called the Wheel of Life. It's a depiction of the cosmology of being. There's this wheel, this circle, and it's broken down into different stages of existence. And it kind of goes from, you know, the human world down to hell and back up to heaven. And Buddha is on the outside of the wheel, pointing, don't stay in this, they call it samsaric existence. So Buddha, at an interesting time, like in India at that time, most of the Brahmins were praying to gods, sacrificing animals, doing pujas and all this stuff for gods. And Buddha didn't teach praying to God, worshipping God, nothing about God really. He taught about finding the truth in yourself, knowing the truth of being, being liberated from suffering. So in our study, we don't pray to gods. There's a lot of, like, you know, Buddhist gods in Tibetan Buddhism and stuff, but in our study of Bodhisitta, we don't sit there and pray. We might look at Avalokiteshvara and say, I'm inspired by what he did. That's a powerful truth that I can learn from. I don't say, Avalokiteshvara is someone, give me some compassion, please. I say, I see Avalokiteshvara and that compassion and enlightenment in him, I've recognized in myself, I can get a tech job, something like that, I can do something new. So, we don't pray to gods. Now, sometimes God shows up. Sometimes God happens. It's true. And if God appears, a god appears, we give them light. So just like taking and sending, right? We say, oh wow, the thing that I can offer is the light of my heart to the God. So if God and always offer God light. So, and God happens sometimes. A few years ago, we were in Bonaire, around the winter solstice, and we were sitting on a beach, and we meditated, and then after meditation, God showed up. And I was all, look, God. And then we all were like, okay, thanks God. I know that sounds funny, right? But a lot of my students, a lot of my US students, we've gone to India together and in places this mountain in Tiruvannamalai, it is a place where it's very, very easy to see Shiva. So just many of my students were like, wow, I saw Shiva. times, certain places where God shows up, and always we just give light. Thanks, God. But we don't sit there praying and trying to get back to God. Let God come and go. Don't be such a nag. Yeah. That's why the study of Buddhism doesn't conflict with religion. So I have students who are Christian, Muslim, Jewish, Hindu, and they have whatever connection But that's fine. It's just that we are not seeking to know God as a personality or a religion or a description. We're seeking to see God in everything. Which reminds me. So there was this guy in his house, and then a flood came. The water was rising, so he eventually had to get on the roof of his house. The water was rising, and then a guy comes by in a little boat and says, Hey, jump in my boat, I'll take you to safety. And then he goes, No, I'm spiritual, God will save me. And then the guy goes, okay, goes away. Then he's like sitting on his roof. Another guy comes over in a motorboat says, hey, come on. I'll take you to safety. He's like, no, no, I'm spiritual. God will save me. Then he goes, okay, leaves. And then the water's like, there's just a little bit of his roof left and he's on the tip top of it. Then a helicopter comes by. They throw down a ladder and say, climb up. And he says, no, I'm spiritual. God will save me. And then the helicopter moves on. Then the water gets higher. He gets swept away and he drowns. And he goes up to heaven. And then he sees God and he's like, God, like I had total devotion in you. Why didn't you save me? And he's all like, well I tried. I sent a rowboat, a motorboat, and a freaking helicopter.

0:48:15
We want to see God in everything, not as a personality.

0:48:19
Then we have more options. Then God is everywhere. So, New Age spiritualists, they are into, spirit guides, channeling, you know, that kind of stuff. So when someone is, you know, kind of new age and seeking enlightenment, they tend to go to these spirit guides. And Because the spirit guide... Who are these people? Right? You could think they're good, and they might not be good. When you start getting into the occult, and you start going into astral dimensions, where there's astral beings, unless you have extremely strong discrimination, which, you know, in the beginning, you don't, you don't know where you are or who you're dealing with. It could be like a really bad dating app. You're like, oh, looks good, right? And then you go and find out that's not... He doesn't look like the picture. That means you don't know. You don't know. So, when people start... have an inner inclination to be drawn to the occult dimensions, then that's trouble. You can go into dimensions that are bad for your mind and bad for your subtle physical body. It could hurt you. You might talk to beings there that you see in a picture but you're not getting the truth. And it could be, you could be misled. It could be very dangerous. And these beings fool you. They like to fool you. You could be sitting there at your seance, holding hands, and you could be like, I am calling to Charlemagne. Charlemagne, are you there?

0:51:00
Yes.

0:51:02
Someone else is, Oh, Elvis, Elvis, are you there? Yeah. And someone's like, Oh, I want Sean Connery, Sean Connery, are you there?

0:51:15
Yeah.

0:51:17
And you're like, wow, I heard the yes and it made the lights go on and off. Well, it could just be a demon. A demon saying, yeah, what do you want? Sure. So you're calling to like Charlemagne and Elvis and Sean Connery, and then you're like, it's a demon talking back to you. And you think, you know, it's this amazing thing.

0:51:44
But, oh wait a second, Sean Connery's not even dead.

0:51:47
So then, then you know it's a demon. So, malicious beings often try to fool you. And they'll give you insight that makes you think that there's something magically good about them, but they want something from you. So, you're like, wow, I got this good insight, so how could a bad being give me a good insight? Oh, they can do it. Oh, yeah, they can because even in a Like let's say a hell realm where a demon lives when they look at this world They have they look at it in a different way than we do And they can see they can see things different that can see things in the future, and then when they tell us this is going to happen and it comes true, then you go, wow, this must be good. No, it's just, that's the way they can see the world. And when then they give you that insight and then you start to believe in them, then they get what they want. What they want from you is they want energy. Your attention, your belief, your mind, your thoughts, your feelings, they feed off of it. This is a bad relationship. So there was this one gal who was studying with my teacher, and he came over, he walked over to her, and he said, you're being oppressed by a malicious entity. And she's like, what? He's all, yeah, there's a demon that's oppressing you. And she's like, no, not at all. I don't feel anything like that. Then he said, you don't hear voices or anything? And she's like, no. He's like, you don't see visions of some being? And she's like, mm-mm. She's all, well, I mean, this is totally different. She says, yeah, ever since I was a little girl, I've been guided by this angel. And then he goes, that is not an angel. And she's like, no, it is. And he's like, it's not. And then she was like, it's only being good. And then he said, in this practice, if you want to stay here, it is self-reliance and not reliance on some angel. So he said, you want to do this or you want to follow the angel? She was like, I want to follow this study. So he said, so say goodbye to that angel and see what happens. And then, so what she did was she went and she told the angel, it's over, I'm going to practice self-reliance and follow the pathway to enlightenment. And And then she found out that was no angel. It fought back. It was tricking her. She was looking at the app. Oh, that looks pretty good. The picture is not who the person really is. So the angel all of a sudden became a demon and tormented her. And then she had a hard time with it, to let go. So those things that look like angels can be demons. If you don't have perfect discrimination, you might be very fooled. And even when the demon is giving you advice, they might tell you a little something of the future, or this and that, this and that, It's not what that person's thinking. But what they tell you is all kind of insubstantial. It doesn't mean anything. It's not useful. It's not constructive. So the information the spirits give, I mean, they don't give lottery numbers. That would be useful, right? You hear all sorts of stories of people who spoke to a spirit and they told them this thing and told them that thing and it's like, so? What's that mean to anyone who cares? It's not constructive, it's useless.

0:56:18
But it's interesting, isn't it?

0:56:21
Not really. And the worse, it can be very dangerous. dangerous, dangerous for your mind, dangerous inwardly and also outwardly in your life. So there was this company called Oneida. They make platters and forks and stuff. It's the biggest cutlery business in the world. And it was created by a religious group or a spiritual group. They were spiritualists. And they were this group that they went up to Oneida, New York, upstate New York, and they were just living together and they were practicing this thing called perfectionism, which is trying to get rid of all negative thoughts and feelings and just trying to live a perfect life. It's pretty positive. And then the leader of the group, his name was John Noyes, he said, we've got to make a living somehow. So he started this business of making cutlery and things. And he was, you know, the CEO of the company, and he had always called the shots and everything. So then they started doing seances to call him to their board meeting. And in the seances, they would present business problems and ask him for decisions. And there was, I don't know, some spirit gave them answers. And then they almost went bankrupt. They were following some spirit giving them business advice. It's so funny. Yeah. Yeah, so if you're in a tech interview and you say, wait, let me ask my spirit guide what's the answer to that question, don't. Be self-reliant. You don't need to get insight from those spirits. Get insight yourself. That is the way of the Bodhisattva. Yeah, but there are some good spirits, and sometimes good spirits come by. And when good spirits come by, then we just, again, like sometimes an angel will appear, a dakini will appear, and just give you a blessing, and you just give the dakini your being a blessing. It's just that we don't keep going back. We don't just keep going back, looking for them, trying to work I mean, there are good spirits. There's this spirit that this one guy works with, a medical medium, and he works with a spirit named Compassion. Compassion tells him all these things about healing, and he writes books about it. He prescribes diets and things like that. And that's good. The books are good, the diets are good. So you can look at it over time. He's helped many, many thousands and thousands of people with the advice that he got from compassion. Or like Ra and the seven gurus of Amrit Chakitsa, you know, it's like over a million people were healed from it. So it's like, yeah, those are substantial kind of results. So there are positive spirits out there. But we seek self-reliance. Like for example my teacher, so there's the ascended healing spirits that can tell you things or help heal through you and stuff like that. But my teacher, he could heal just from himself being a healer. He didn't have to get it from some spirit. So he would go over to someone, he was able to heal people from all sorts of diseases, even cancer, and he would just, he wouldn't even have to put his hands on them. He was a powerful healer. So he would just be like understanding their illness, seeing it, and then they would be healed. So, do it yourself, enlightenment. Do it yourself, insight. Do it yourself. That is the way of self-reliance and the way of the bodhisattva. So, I was very, very, very difficult. But then I did the Medicine Buddha. So I learned the Nyingma Dakini Medicine Buddha Yoga. And by doing the Medicine Buddha yoga, I was able to heal. So I found healing by doing it myself. And Medicine Buddha is often depicted as this Buddha who's blue, holding a bowl. But I'm not like praying to some Buddha. I'm not even seeing an image of the Buddha. I'm going into the many many many healing dimensions associated with that yoga. So I learned that from a

1:02:59
great

1:03:01
Buddhist master Yuan Miao. So she She's the head of her lineage, and I traveled around with her in China, and she taught me this yoga. So it's very, very powerful. You know, yeah, I was able to find healing. So, Yon Now, you know, helped me with a good thing. And that's what mature spiritual practitioners do. They go to a guru or a Zen master, an enlightened teacher, they can get help because the authentic enlightened teacher can show you the way to enlightenment. They can say, hey, enlightenment is this way, you know, and they can tell you the truth. And you go, oh, I see, enlightenment is this way. And then, they can't make you enlightened. They can show you the way, but you have to do it. They can show you the proper teachings, but you have to do the work. So there was this this Zen monk in China and he was sitting there with his master and he heard all of his master's teachings. And then he wasn't enlightened. So he left. He traveled throughout China hearing all the Masters, getting all the teachings, and then he still wasn't enlightened. So he comes back to his original Master, and he's like, I heard all the teachings, why am I not enlightened? And his Master says, because hearing the teachings doesn't enlighten you. Doing one teaching can enlighten you. So he said, okay. So his master gave him a very basic meditation teaching, and he sat down, and he truly worked on it, and then he had Satori, realization. This is a cute Zen story. the Zen monk in Japan goes over to his master, Hakuin, and he says, why haven't you enlightened me yet? And then Hakuin just laughs. Ha ha ha. And then the monk is curious, and then his laugh was a koan, a teaching. And he was all, why would he laugh? And then he realizes that this great enlightened master isn't going to enlighten him. And then realizing that, then he has satori, spiritual realization. So, you got to do it. You have to put effort in. You have to do it earnestly. If you're just like hearing teachings and getting it mentally and you're not doing bodhicitta from your heart, then it's useless. So if you, but if you practice bodhicitta in its just basic essence, having compassion, caring about another, taking and sending, then it's enlightening. There was this man who goes over to this guru and he walks over to the guru and then he bows to his feet, touches his feet, and then he goes into samadhi and he's just filled with God consciousness and bliss. And then another man sees that he did that and goes, I'm gonna do it too. So he goes over and then he bows and touches his feet and then he goes, hey, nothing happened. And then he says, why? And the master says, he bowed with his heart. And you just bowed You have to do it for real. You have to practice from the heart. If you just understand the words and hear the teachings, you're not doing anything. You get nowhere, but fast. The fast path to nowhere. Yeah, so you got to do it. You got to take the teachings and do something with them. It's like medicine, right? Let's say that you have a stomach ache and then you go to your doctor. Your doctor gives you the medicine that will heal you. You go home and you go, good, I got the medicine. Let me put it here. You're like, yay, I got the medicine. Right? You got to take the medicine. Yeah, because even the most perfect teaching of enlightenment, if you don't engage in it, if you don't take it to heart, then you will suffer. You won't learn anything. There was this Tibetan Buddhist and he found this great, great Tantric master and he says, oh give me the teachings for enlightenment. And the master says, okay I got these three secret scrolls and these are the scrolls of enlightenment. So he gives him these three scrolls. He takes them and he goes, thank you. He goes home, he puts them on the altar and then he waits around and then nothing happens So he goes back to the master and he says So I got the scrolls but I didn't get enlightenment and then the master says oh, that's strange It's like what did you learn from having the scrolls? He's like Nothing, and then the master goes. Well, then that's the problem. So then he goes back to the scrolls, looks at them, and they're just Tibetan characters that he goes. So he starts chanting them, starts meditating on them, starts reflecting on them. He takes it, he starts questioning, what does this mean? and then through contemplation and meditation on the characters, on the scrolls, then he becomes enlightened. So just because you have the secret scrolls doesn't mean anything. You have to take it to heart. You've got to take the teachings to heart. So I'm a tough teacher. I know. It sounds funny because I tell a lot of dad jokes because sometimes he laughs. So, yeah, but I'm a tough teacher. I have very high standards. a very, very intense structure for you to develop, but you have to do the work. I mean, if you come to my dojo, I'm like, I will teach you this one punch that will save your life in any situation. You'll go, oh, I wanna learn it. And then I teach you, you gotta practice it, right? You have to do the work. You have to develop yourself in this system. So I definitely want you to be self-reliant. When people come to me and say, which tie should I wear? You know, or like, oh, I got this problem in my life, how do I fix it? I don't just say, I don't just give an answer. I always throw you back on yourself.

1:12:04
So I...

1:12:05
And the answer that you come out of with me, you say, oh, Samavara gave me this answer. No, no, you're coming to me to find truth in your own mind. That's self-reliance. We don't use gurus to enlighten us. We don't pray to gods to enlighten us. We don't call for angels to enlighten us. We don't call for a fairy godmother to enlighten us. We practice self-reliance, we work hard to liberate ourselves and to become a force of compassion in the world. So I'd like you to sit up nice and straight. We're going to sit for one song and this is the transmission of self-reliance. Let's begin.

1:13:27
So so so so So You're my everything You're my everything You're my everything You're my everything You're my everything You

1:14:28
So I'd like to talk about our Bodhicitta mind training that is very, very powerful for mindfulness of self-reliance, and it is, the aphorism goes like this, whichever of the two occur, be patient. And what this means is if good things happen or bad things happen, accept them with patience and don't lose your perspective of the Dharma. So if something bad Don't react. Don't say, ah, I hate this. I'm going to run away from it. This teaching says to accept it, to see it come, to feel what it is. Of course, don't be an idiot. Try to do things constructive and positive. But when you can't get out of something bad happening to you, when you recognize something bad, you recognize it, you accept it. And then, you do self-compassion, and Tonglen, taking and sending for the self. And then, you kind of reflect on it, and you say, well, if I'm hurt right now, what can I do to support myself. So there was this gal, a student, she had a big fight with her boyfriend and she was really upset and she said that normally what she would do is go into her room and turn on music really loud and eat a lot of chocolate. And so she got into this argument, she ran up to her room and she pulled out the chocolate and then she was like, wait, wait, wait, let me do compassion for myself. And then after practicing, she got to chill out and relax. And then she felt a little bit better and then she said, okay, so what do I need to do for myself to make myself feel better, because eating chocolate isn't going to really do it. And then she's like, okay, I need to maybe understand this about the problem, understand that, and then she was okay. And she was able to go and talk to her boyfriend again in a very constructive way. So when you practice that taking and sending for yourself, it gives you a break from your karma. Then you have perspective and you can see how to do things in a more constructive way. And if something good happens to you, then don't go into the attachment of like, oh, I really like this, this fulfills me. Or ideas of, oh, of course, because I'm good, I'm better than others, this is why I have it. So from something good happening, we don't want to create attachment or conceit. We want to take whatever is good. It's fine to enjoy good things, but also to remember there's a higher dharma. That's not the ultimate fulfillment. You take the good thing, but you also continue working on having a higher level of compassion and impeccability. So there was this one student who was going to university, and he was studying for a test, and there were like three major areas to study for, and he had a work week that he had to do, so he was like, he really studied one area, but then the other area is he didn't study so much. He only had time for really getting into one area. But luck was on his side because on the test, most of the questions were about that area. So he ended up getting the highest grade in the class. And then the teacher announced it, and all his classmates go, wow, cool, good, wow, you're smart, right? And he could have been like, yeah, of course I am. But he was able to remember not to attach, not to be conceited, but he said, you know, I'm lucky because I didn't study the other areas so well. So he said, I'm going to study them, even though there's not going to be another test on them. I just want to be impeccable. The aphorism also suggests that we be patient. So, when something good or bad happens, try and be patient. Ponder patience. don't go right into some reaction, because a reaction to something good or something bad is karma. But if you're patient with the good thing or the bad thing, then you'll be able to not have that knee-jerk karmic reaction. You'll be able to break out of karma. So when we're pondering, well there's a story, there's this monk in Tibet, he's in a cave, and he's just sitting in the cave. Then this Rinpoche comes over and comes into the cave and goes, hey, what are you doing? And he says, I am practicing patience. And the Rinpoche goes, oh cool.

1:23:38
Then he says,

1:23:39
Hey. Goes over and hits him and he's all, what? And he's like, he's all, hey, two scoundrels like us, we really know how to get by. We don't have to work, we just wear these robes and people give us food. And then he's like, no. He's like, I'm an authentic practitioner. And then the Rinpoche keeps giving him a hard time. He's all, I know, you're just pretending, right? And then finally, the monk meditating, he goes, stop this, get out of my cave. He screams it at the Rinpoche, and the Rinpoche goes, hey, where's your patience? I was trying to help you. So, be patient. Be patient. So, when you can be patient with good and bad, then you transcend good and bad. If you're impatient, you go into the karmas of good and bad. It's a roller coaster ride, right? But if you're patient, then you get off the roller coaster. Let's see. Final story. There was a monk in Tibet. He had a cave that he would go to sometimes to meditate. So he walks into the cave, and sitting in the cave is some famous enlightened master, I forgot his name. And so the master's there, he sees that this is a good thing, but he just sits down and meditates, does his impeccable meditation practice. And then Manjushri appears. And then Manjushri gives this beautiful dharma talk. And then in the story he becomes half enlightened. Then he leaves. Then the next week when he comes up to do his meditation, he walks into the cave and there's a demon sitting there. And then he sees it as a demon, but then he sits down and does his meditation impeccably appears and gives a beautiful dharma talk and then in that one he becomes fully enlightened. So if he had been like coming and saying, oh, this famous enlightened teacher is here, yay, exciting, he would have been drawn off into one way of thinking. And if he comes in and there's a demon and he says, oh, this is horrible. He would run away and then he wouldn't become enlightened. So this is good or bad. Be patient with it. Accept what it is. And then you transcend it for liberation. So during this month, we're going to continue to practice self-compassion through this aphorism. Good or bad, accept it, be patient. Practice compassion for yourself. This is self-reliance that we're practicing. This is the pathway of the Bodhisattva. So, in your mindfulness, observe good and bad things that happen. Reflect on them. Try not to react. Try to see. You should be like, oh, I think this is a really good thing. Just be like, okay. Let me not get riled up. When something bad happens, don't go, oh, I'm so mad. Say, okay, this is suffering, and then self-compassion, and ask yourself, give yourself the space of that tonglen, the taking and sending, and then say, okay, now what can I do? Because you'll have more perspective. So for this month, continue to practice self-compassion, the pathway of the Bodhisattva. Okay, thank you all so much. Oh, you're still there. Darn, I thought you would all ascend. All right, so we're going to take a 30-minute break, and then we're going to come back and we have a very special, this is a very special day, by the way. We have a very special presentation that I'm going to give you. It's a presentation about my teacher. and we have a wonderful teaching from Turiya today. So this is just a day filled with dharma. So this is just a day filled with dharma. All right, so let's take a break and we'll come back.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
