0:00:00
So tonight I'd like to give a teaching on awareness and the mind. What is awareness?

0:00:17
What is the mind?

0:00:21
The mind is everything. Infinity. The universe. infinity the universe everything exists in a good bad happy sad funky chunky crunchy someone came in i was just gonna keep on trying to rhyme so so I like costume was it um America okay so the So, the mind is the universe. Your mind is the universe. The complete universe and nothing else but the universe. The universe, only the universe, and nothing else but the universe. sit in Harshi Holi. Awareness is where you direct your attention and in this form, in this situation we call incarnation, we have a awareness. We bring our attention to different things, right? If you're a master meditator, you will sit and your mind will be absorbed into infinity. You'll be one with everything. And then you'll come back, if you have a body, to have attention in a certain place. So, attention is a spotlight of awareness. And anywhere you look in the universe of the mind, wherever you put that spotlight, that's what you will see. You go into Samadhi, see everything. You're out of Samadhi, your attention is looking at a certain place. So Buddhism is a practice of bringing your awareness to a place in eternity, the mind, that is elevated, the highest places that you can find, the most constructive, powerful, powerful and right places. There was... this is an American Buddhist story. There was a man, he had a Theravada Buddhist teacher, and he was not a monk, just a regular American, and his mother died. And he had a hard time, because he had a difficult relationship with her. And the last time that they had been together, he was mad at her, arguing with her, their last words were not good words, and then she kind of died suddenly. He was really struggling about that. He was upset, he was hurt, and he was really, he had a lot of regret. And so he goes to his teacher and, you know, says, hey, this is what I'm going through. And his teacher says, listens to like all the, oh, our last conversation was an argument, and now that she's dead, I feel really sorry, and I wish I could have said this, and that, and this, and that. And the teacher listened and said, okay, tell me about the best or highest, most beautiful loving experience with the mother. And so then he thought for a while, the little smile comes on his face, and he's like, well there was this one time, and tells this beautiful story, smiles, and then the Buddhist preside there. Why be in the worst dimensions of life? There's the worst dimensions of everything. You can take the best thing. What do you think? Being a movie star? Having a life teacher? Oh my God. Look at Jesus and Buddha. Jesus got killed. His disciples got killed. Let's Buddha, they tried to kill him three times. Parmasambhava, they tried to kill him. So it's like, yeah, there could be some bad stuff. But for spiritual beings, we want enlightenment. We are careful of the bad stuff, but we dwell in our minds, we turn our awareness to the good stuff. So yeah, he had a difficult time with his mom. Ups and downs, hardships, who hasn't right? Some of us. Good karma. A lot of people have had difficult times, and this guy had a really tough time, and was struggling and suffering. And the Buddhist teacher said, dwell, put your mind, put your awareness in the place of the good things. And that's what we need to do in life. We need to do that in relationships. We need to do that in life. You can flip anything into love, compassion, enlightenment, freedom. Your mind is the universe. Where do you want to be in the universe? You want to be in a good place. Let's just do a little practice. So this is a good place. For several years, me and the SD3s lived here, and some SD4s, and we had meditations right

0:07:38
here.

0:07:39
This is a good place. Your breathing. How you feel. The weirdest thought that you can try to imagine thinking weird thoughts. Just see what you see here, feel what you feel here. Now this is a cool thing. Now, let's close our eyes. Our last trip to Anza Boreal.

0:08:28
The desert.

0:08:29
The desert chakra, the sand, the mountains, the power of the time. It's a time of great transformation. There's so much spiritual energy that can change our lives forever. There's a potential there, an energy there, a light there, a beautiful thing there. Remember sitting there and having that feeling. Sitting in the group, looking at the teacher, seeing the mountains, seeing the sky, feeling the bliss. of this. See that's... we all just went somewhere else. At first we're aware of the room, and the room's nice. Then we went somewhere else. We went into the magical desert. Because when Time power, place of power, when we do it as power, it is a different dimension. It's a different dimension of the experience of self where there's potential, power, light and magic. And we went from this wonderful place to that. That place is another dimension of mind. So we can change our minds. We can change our minds from a horrible condition to a beautiful place by directing our awareness. Buddha said, The inclination of the mind creates your experience. Padmasambhava said, That which you dwell upon in the mind, Verily becomes your experience. Buddha said...... Um...... Oh, yeah. My teacher said it in a really cool way. He's like, You are what you think. No, no, Buddha said that. My teacher said... Everyone says the same thing. Buddha said, You are what you think. All that you are arises with your thoughts. With your thoughts, you create the world. My teacher said, what you focus on you become. But it also said that inclination thing. And Jesus said, seek and you shall find. What you focus on you will become. If you're inclined to to enlightenment, your whole experience will be enlightened. This is a very, very, very powerful truth. This is something that when we interrupt our karmas with a little bit of self-compassion, compassion, some mindfulness, remembering the path to enlightenment. These little interruptions of self create openings to seeing greater truth. Yeah, so where you put your awareness is where you put your energy into bad thoughts, lots of people do, they're miserable, it's so sad. But if you put your energy, if you direct your attention to good places, your energy will flow into those places. This is kind of like if you're standing out in the garden, you have a garden hose, and the hose is on. Everyone has energy, even people who don't look like they have energy. If they're alive, they have some energy. If they're dead, they still have a little. But if you've got the garden hose going, it's going to be feeding So, Buddhism is focusing on the roses. Buddhism is a practice and a methodology of how to shift your awareness to the best places, the roses, the rose gardens of life. And there's endless rose gardens, and there's endless weeds. You gotta focus on the roses. Buddhism is kind of like eating those dried out shriveled up grapes. It's raisin awareness. One of the difficulties is karma. Karma tells you to look at certain things. Karma tells you, go here!

0:14:42
Like, the mind is everywhere.

0:14:43
It's all like, oh, I can go to this wonderful, beautiful place. If I focus on the beautiful place, I put all that energy there, roses will go. And then karma's all like, hey, look at these dirty weeds. Weeds have their own beauty. That's it, yes. Look at these dirty weeds. Go to the weeds, feed the weeds! Weeds have flowers too. But they generally kind of are difficult. They kind of choke out the roses. So karma takes us to weeds. It's just a natural condition of the samsara if you're in an awareness of illusion you will have a karma that brings your mind to bad things but unenlightened things and you'll naturally just take your water hose and go feed a weed to be careful. We want to feed the poses. One of the difficult things is that we're not taking responsibility and charge for our lives. We are giving up so much personal power to what life presses upon us. Life presses upon us karmas, but when you use enlightened attention, the teachings of the Dharma, it brings you out of karmas. The karmas are everywhere. Like, They affect you. Politics, there's so much energy in politics that it affects you. We're in a crazy toxic world with so many energies and so many powerful people, so many intense like weird structures of power that affect you. And if you're sitting there going, oh I need to get the next, this pair of shoes, I need to get the next, this kind of phone, I need to get the next kind of thing like that, you're being affected by advertising. I got the new iPhone 11, just kidding. But no, those things affect you. your dad. I'm in medical school, I don't want to be a doctor, I want to be a musician, but my dad is a doctor, so I should be a doctor. That's for some of you with higher karma. Things like that, they happen. A boss, a bad boss, you can transform the bad boss, but the bad boss, you're at work, the bad boss is all, mmm, mmm, mmm. And yeah, you want to do your work, but they're pushing you into, they're directing your attention into an unhappy way. They're stressing you out. But that's what Jarba Yoga is about. You don't have to be stressed out. You can take that place where there could be a stress and transform it into a power. You can take that with your dad. You can take that with politics. That's compassion. You can transform all that difficulty. But those things are pressures that are karmic pressures. Compassion leads you out of those karmic pressures. That's what we want to do. We want to get out of karma into dharma. And dharma is everywhere. And karma is everywhere. So that's why we must direct our awareness. We must direct our awareness. Even at a very, very advanced stage, you have to direct your awareness. If you have a body in this world, you have to direct your awareness. You must be ever vigilant. So, I don't want to... I'm like, there's something itching in my forehead. I don't want to do that. Okay, most people don't practice concentration. Concentration is how you can break out of karma. You could say, no, I'm going to exert my will towards a dharma, but it's hard to do. Like people just surf. Their awareness goes with whatever the karma brings them, happy stuff, bad stuff. But we have to say, no, I'm going to do something. I'm going to make a change. I find it interesting. So sometimes, you know, like some famous person will get sick from some disease. And then they get some disease and they say, now I'm going to focus awareness to help people who have the same disease. That's a big Dharma. The way that you deal with awareness with disease and death, pain and suffering, is all about lifting yourself up. So if you're sad, and you just dwell in sadness, then blah. But if you take your sadness and say, no, I'm gonna learn from this sadness and be higher, that's great. Death. Death seems like it's a bad deal for awareness, but it's not. There's this thing called the Bhardo Thadol, which is liberation at the time of death. There's the Bhardo Yoga, Bhardo teachings, which is at death, actually you can move into enlightenment much faster than in life. And more yogis become enlightened in death than in life. It's a powerful transformation. But we're going to do the living part because it's okay, whatever, I got heaven, or whatever. But when you're suffering a disease, it's so interesting to me, you can shift awareness in that disease. So I really like Michael J. Fox. Anyone here know Michael J. Fox? I grew up watching him on TV and I loved him. It was so cool. And then at some point in his career he got this horrible disease. What's it called? Parkinson's. Yeah. And then Parkinson's makes you start to lose your muscle control and eventually the control of the heart. It kills There's no way to survive Parkinson's, according to Western medicine. When he got Parkinson's, he was just all into, I'm a movie star, I'm cool, and all this stuff, money and fame. When he got Parkinson's, he's like, I'm going to bring awareness to the karma that I'm getting hurt with. And that's a way of figuring out his karma. So he's, it's compassionate. And he's bringing, he's trying to figure out, he's working through his karma, bringing understanding and compassion. It's really beautiful. And, you know, he's working it out. You know, it's very, it's a spiritual thing. He's got the power, the money, the prestige, and also, why does he do it? A little bit of compassion. But do you know a lot of kind of famous people do that? They get something that happens to them, and then they go, wow, oh, it's happening to me. And then it opens up their mind to compassion. They say, well, then, other people suffer from this. This is what bodhichitta is all about. It's a very... I want you guys to get a higher level. I don't want you guys to be trapped in physical karma. You can see that. Who was that Superman guy? Christopher Reeve. One of my favorites. He was like, I'm Superman! In his mind, he was Superman. He's like, I'm the daddy of the Mac Daddy. And he's all, and he's like, I could fly in movies and also he's a pilot. He's like, I could fly. Superman. He had so much personal power. And then there was a fly in his car, he fell off a horse and accidentally broke his neck or something like that. And then he created the Christopher Lee Foundation for helping other kids who couldn't read so good. That's a movie reference. But he did, he created a foundation just like the J-Fox Foundation. It brings awareness. So for these people, I want you guys to go way above physical. A physical thing brought them to a karma where they had to bring their awareness and they had power. These guys have power. It brought their awareness and it was like, right. And they helped people because of it. Now I want us to go beyond, I don't want you guys to get every physical injury and then just start to help with that. I want you to get to a place of any injury, any suffering, is where you have tremendous compassion.

0:26:19
That's what we do.

0:26:20
So, oh, there's another one. So this is Alzheimer's Awareness Month, where it's like we increase our awareness of Alzheimer's because of people who have Alzheimer's. And do you guys know Seth Rogen? He's a comedian, done a lot of movies, right? So his mother got Alzheimer's, and I think she died at the age of 60. And he was like, I saw my mother do, you know, like go downhill all these ways. He's like, my mom, boom, boom, boom, you know, forgets things, doesn't remember who he is anymore, can't eat, can't wash herself. You just saw her go all the way down to her death. So he created this little thing, it was a fundraiser to help people. Hilarity for clarity or something like that. He created this thing where comedians would come up and do things, get money to get to the Alzheimer's. And the thing was that there was this month, and he did that, I think he started in like 2012, during that. And I'm like, okay, we're at this stuff, is he gonna do it again? And he's like, no, just slipped his mind. But he really did that. Hilarity for charity, that's what he called it. Am I slipping the mind? It's a joke. Because he did it this year too. So we have to have concentration. If you want to be able to shift your awareness, it doesn't happen unless you can concentrate. If you can't concentrate, concentration means the ability to move your mind to a positive place for an extended period. If you feel good and you feel bad, and you feel good and you feel bad, if you let bad thoughts and bad feelings run throughout your body, you're in karma. And what's going to happen is you're going to be feeding weeds and roses and weeds and roses, and your roses are going to be weak and your weeds are going to be strong. And you're going to have them competing, they're going to be equal. That's a normal human life. That's why there's compassion for everyone. But, if you concentrate, this is spiritual concentration, you direct your mind to the good stuff. You guys are all a step, a good step into the good stuff. There's many more steps. But you're it. Most people can't do this. Most people can't do this. You gotta step into the good stuff. You have to focus your mind, you have to direct what brings you higher. I love it, Buddha was just like this, he's all, one day he's all sitting there going hmm, and he's a badass, I want you to be a badass. Wish I was. But Buddha went like this, hey, I told you guys in the lesson, some thoughts are cool. Thoughts I'm talking about, that's a cool thought. And then you're like, some thoughts are just neutral. You're all like, shouldn't you get like a burrito or a taco? And then some thoughts are bad. You're all, I'm an idiot. You moron. I'm an idiot. You moron. And then Buddha was just like, oh, there's certain thoughts that are bad. They hurt. So he said, I'm not going to think of thoughts. And he stopped it. He used his will and said, no more am I going to think of thought that hurts me or another person. Oh man, I remember reading that and I thought, he just did that? I was like a very new student. I'm all, I can't do that. I'm super pissed off. I couldn't do it. But his example is truth and we can all do that. Eventually. Enlightenment is truth. We can all be enlightened. And we've got to figure out what we've got to figure out. But this is the way we figure it out. Yeah, we practice distraction. Most people don't practice concentration, they practice like what they do. I wouldn't call it practice, I would call it routine. You can practice concentration or you could get in the routines of distraction, which Wake up, gotta check my email and texts. Where's my Facebook? Where's my Twitter?

0:32:55
I don't know.

0:32:57
TV and all, like, the consciousness of our country is So I was flying and there was this Tibetan Buddhist monk next to me. And he was playing a video game on his phone. I probably told you guys about this before. So we're flying and then there was a flock of birds that we had to fly around. And there were some clouds that I couldn't see. Just kidding. We were on the airplane coming back from Shangri-La or something like that and he was playing this video game. I was like watching him. He had a song. They all have songs. He's playing and I'm like... and then like, I was like, what do you think Buddha would think about that? And he's like, oh, and then they're all... And then, oh, another time, I was in China and I went to a Buddhist monastery, a really, really cool monster. Really cool Buddhists. And then, whenever a Buddhist came into a monster, they got two robes, because, you know, you're wearing one, you're washing one. And that's a luxury, I know, I know. And then, they got a bowl. Got some food, and they got an iPhone. This is in Wushuishan, which is a very, very spiritual place, spiritual center. And the abbot, the master, he's really legit, he's super good and I asked him like um so every monk that comes he told me every month that comes he gets this this and I was like uh and they have byline and I'm like um don't you think they're gonna be like surfing porn Oh, all the monks took a super check. That's heretical to say. Because it's not a tantric Buddhist monastery. It was a ch'en, ch'en, zen, Chinese Zen monastery. And I was like, man, that just opens them up to so much stuff. They could be watching Netflix or whatever, you know. And the abbot is like, no. He's like, we use it, we use technology in a good way. And so do we. But he's like, we use technology for communication and for spreading the Dharma. That's it. So the monks will text themselves, email themselves, Slack themselves, and I'm like, really? That sounds weird to me. Just because we do that. And then, the monks will, when they have some kind of spiritual awareness, they will put world and they're sharing the Dharma. That sounds good. So there is, you know, you can use technology in a bad way. If you're making technology, you can go crazy. Or you can use it in a way that's useful. Slack with a wiki, we build multi-million dollar companies for enlightenment and stuff like that. So technology, one could use in a good way. It's possible. The way that we develop this thing I'm calling spiritual concentration is meditation and

0:38:06
mindfulness.

0:38:07
And it's very important. So meditation is our concentration and our focus. It's our way to still our thoughts and stop our thoughts, to see the bigger picture, to see our eternal self, to slow down the karmas that just keep on smashing us into a limited tension that we suffer from. Meditation frees us. This is the most powerful way. Your meditation is more important than anything else. Your meditation is your direct connection with your own mind, your direct connection with your eternity, your direct connection with what stops you from being enlightened so that you can drop it and just be enlightened. So meditation is the foundation of all spiritual practice. If you pray, if you just see truth, if you fast, if you do all sorts of tapas. This is a really good one with octopus I got at this one restaurant. Oh, wait a second. You guys get that? You guys are intermediate. You should understand this. Because I have a really good tapas restaurant where all you have to do is keep your arm up for 25 years. Then you get the octopus.

0:39:53
It's you guys.

0:39:55
Meditation gives you vision.

0:39:59
Meditation and mindfulness give you vision outside of your karma. If you're trapped in your karma, even if you're good, you'll be trapped. Meditation and mindfulness are enlightening practices that push us outside of our karma so that we can see a million other ways. There was this, I think it was like, I was young, I don't remember, the San Francisco 49ers were in the football thing to win the thing.

0:40:48
Super Bowl.

0:40:49
Super Bowl. It was the World Series. The World Series is baseball.

0:40:56
And so the funny thing about the World Series is like, it's only in America.

0:41:01
There's all the American teams, and they have the World Series. And I was like, America wins every time. Wow, we're the greatest. Good job, Boston. Good job, L.A. Good job, New York.

0:41:15
You're the best in the world. I mean you gotta appreciate that. And then, it's 5-0.

0:41:19
Look it's 5-0-2.

0:41:20
I have an important teaching for you. I really appreciate you guys being here. Yeah, so, so it's not the World Series, it's the Super Bowl. Okay, Joe Montana, San Francisco 49ers, going back to throw this thing, and you're like, oh, I'll throw it over there. And he throws it over there. And you're like, why is he throwing it over there? It's the worst place to throw it. You should have thrown it over there at number 42, not number 17. That guy's got too many guys that are going to jump on him, but 42 is wide open. And you're like, Joe Montana, you're watching it on TV. You're an idiot, but I can obviously see, any viewer can obviously see, because they have a different perspective outside of the karma of a guy who's so good that he makes 20 million dollars a year. You could be trapped in a karma where you're making $20 million a year, but from meditation and mindfulness, you can go outside of that karma. You can see something totally different, the better options, the better places. He might be making $20 million and throw it to the wrong person and not win the game. And from a higher place, you can see something different. It's a totally different dimension of awareness. It comes from meditation and mindfulness. This is our practice of spiritual concentration. And they're probably still doing their costumes like you guys. Okay, so when you're practicing mindfulness and meditation, it raises your awareness to To a place where you can manage your life, your mind, your energy, your time, your relationships, your connections, so that it works. So that it's enlightened. You can't be under the tidal wave in a relationship. You will never succeed on this official account. A lot of people in their lives suffer in the relationship. Attachment is the biggest thing. I love him, but man, it hurts. There's so many times where Oh, you're caught in the underpull, Tyler. You don't have...

0:44:54
Can you open your heart enough?

0:44:56
Let's give it a shot. But if you open your heart enough, then you can survive and thrive and become enlightened in any condition but most mostly places that are unbalanced in relationships you lose energy and you gotta stop it and you have to get to know yourself. It tends to happen. If it happens, you have to understand that suffering and give yourself that space. You have to give yourself enlightenment, self-compassion. You have to give yourself care and awareness. It's so important to give yourself these things. Give it to others too. But don't not give it to you. And I'm talking selflessness. I'm not talking build up your ego. And build up your, well here's my reason for blame. Here's my reason for this. Here's my reason for that. I've got two middle fingers for your reasons. And this is peace. Yeah. When you blame somebody, when you have a struggle and a hurt, you've got to have peace and you have to have compassion. Raise yourself up through that. Don't raise yourself up through, I'm right and I want my desire and I've been wronged and I blame you. You will not rise that way. Have compassion for yourself when you hurt. This is what we're practicing this month. Really get in touch with that because this is like math. Do you not know what 2 plus 2 is when we go on to algebra?

0:47:47
It can be so easy.

0:47:48
But we're going to go on. Our compassion teachings are going to go on. And they go really great. I'm going to give you a taste of great compassion tonight so that we can be compassionate beings. Lovely, wonderful. I see the Buddha nature in all of you. I just want you... there's a beautiful teaching in our school is to be compassionate. There's all sorts of understandings and good things, you know. Like there's some Zen masters that are like, oh, fuck you, fuck you, fuck you. Nothing exists except for two little fingers, or maybe four. Okay, so there's all that stuff going on. But there's also beautiful ways of knowing, beautiful expressions. And we need to know the truth. We need to know our enlightenment. and you could be, you know, cold, I'm gonna cut all illusion! But it could also be the bodhisattva, which is considered to be higher, which is, I'm gonna cut all illusion in here Are you a person? You feel like one. I want to help you. I want to make you feel good. I want to show you some truth. I want you to get out of suffering. I want to empower you. You can do that. You can be enlightened for yourself, and you can see truth. You can cut through everything, and you can also know that all of this is an illusion, even your suffering is an illusion, and at the same time I care for you in the illusion. I care for you in the dream. You can sleep at night and you come to me, oh I've got this problem, it hurts, let me help you with that problem. And then the next morning we wake up and that whole dream is gone I know it was a dream you knew it was a dream the dream happened and then we wake up and it's like dreams over dream is over the dream is always over but maybe even in a dream something completely illusional for just a little period of time. If you suffer as a spirit, you should help each other. You should help other people in their journey. If you're strong enough, be strong. Be strong enough. This is what these teachings are about. It's about becoming enlightened. But we have, through our intermediate teachings, a very strong focus on becoming enlightened. It's the Bodhisattva focus. Becoming enlightened yourself. That there's a motivation to help others. And doing both, being true to yourself and enlightened for yourself. But really, also at the same time, equally caring for others. If you don't have enlightenment for yourself, your help for others is just wishy-washy, fish-poshy, poppycock. You know, some people do that. I mean, a lot of people who learn Tango and they're all like, Oh, this is great for you. And they're all just, garbage. We do Bode Sita in a powerful way. Because we become powerful, we become strong in our careers, we become black belts in martial arts, we become strong beings. And when we direct our personal power to help someone, yeah, usually it doesn't work. It's funny, you sit there, I'll give all my force to Bodhisitta to help this person who's sad. And they're just like, oh, I'm sad. But then what you learn in bodhicitta is that the spirit of bodhicitta is spiritual and it's outside of karma. And I could sit here and be outside of karma and deal with everyone who's sitting around in karma and I know, I know that the teachings of Dharma are a little drop of truth that your spirit grows from for sure. I know it. I know it. A deep knowing of that truth. And you're like, well why am I not happy? Well, because we're in the transient world, we have to work through some stuff. And I wasn't happy most of the time I was working with my teacher. He gave me a hard time a lot. He made me feel horrible.

0:53:49
He's like, you look dirty. I'm old just because I'm brown.

0:53:53
I was trying to work it off.

0:53:59
You know, that's the kind of thing that you guys think.

0:54:01
You think the wrong things and all sorts of stuff but teaching teaching the teaching it's truth and these truths structure works oh okay we're going to do one last meditation this is going to be the transmission, the transmission of awareness and the mind. It's an intermediate teaching. The intermediate teaching is very powerful. Thank you.

0:54:50
the the the the the the the the the the the the the Oh the the the the the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so the the the All right, this is good. We need to be heart to heart and we need to have the most intimate connection to it. And I am that. But if you can get beyond the Maya, there's so much confusion. And if you can see it, then it opens your spirit and opens your heart. After my last teaching I had maybe eight people just quit. They're like, dude this is super serious. And I'm like, it's to me. And then I had about 20 people whoa I was kind of just going through the motions and like I did my yoga and meditated over the classes and then you're pretty cool and then they're like now I get it I mean like good cuz if you don't get it come on you're not gonna But this time I'm gonna just be real. Like I've been, do you guys know that like when I act nice and I say jokes and I give good teachings, it's real. But when it gets realer, I'm serious. I'm serious. for life and death. I've been in those fights physically and also the spirit. So, this is a school of enlightenment for you. I might give you a hard time but it's because I was trained in a really powerful school

1:02:18
..

1:02:23
.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
