0:00:00
Welcome to Satsang with Sampara. Let's begin with meditation. We're going to meditate for three songs. First song on the navel chakra, second on the heart, and third song on the third eye. Let's begin.

0:00:21
So so so You're my hero You're my hero You're my hero so So So so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, You So, so So, so So, so So, You You so So so You're not alone. You're my love So it's nice to be here with you today, here at the Cowell Theater.

0:13:16
It's wonderful here. Every once in a while you can hear the seagulls or hear over the bay, I guess they're bagels.

0:13:26
And it's Mother's Day.

0:13:31
Happy Mother's Day everyone. Who's a mother? So today I'd like to talk about dreaming. So dreaming is a spiritual practice that job to further their careers, develop their abilities and disciplines and work, and also to have greater spiritual awareness. of Tibetan dreaming yoga. So, a thousand years ago, Marpa the translator learned from Naropa in India, one of the six yogas, and he brought it to Tibet. It became a Tibetan dreaming yoga. Tibetan Dreaming Yoga. It's a practice of dreaming that brings you to enlightenment. And so, in job yoga, we use this dreaming practice. Dreaming practice to make our careers more enlightened. Now, a lot of people say, oh, it's so difficult for me to practice. Now, a lot of people say, oh, it's so difficult for me to practice.

0:15:01
I don't have so much time.

0:15:03
And the good news about dreaming yoga is you can find the time. Because, you know, you sleep at some point. We spend about 30% of our life asleep. So there's plenty of time for practice now. So yeah, dream yoga is the lazy monk's yoga. Like if someone says, oh, I have to go to India because I want to do spiritual practice, I would say, just go to sleep. You'll save on a flight. So, dream yoga. Dream yoga is something that we practice to gain control and awareness of our dreams. So usually when someone's dreaming, they're in kind of autopilot. So you don't have like a great deal of awareness, you're just, this happens, so then you do this, that happens, so you do that. Something scary, you run from it. Something you like, you go to it. And what we practice is we practice in the dream how to have control, how to be more successful? How can we be more disciplined or impeccable? Or, you know, what's the fastest way to a promotion or a new career? We can find these things through dreaming. who was dissatisfied with his working conditions, wanted to go out and make his own company, but he was afraid, he had fear to do that. And then he had a dream, and in his dream he had a technical breakthrough. He saw a new technology. And then when he woke up, he created it. And that's how Sony started. Just kidding, I don't know how Sony started. But this was actually an older student in my school, a job yogi. He was working on Wall Street at a brokerage firm. And he was a very strong analyst, financial analyst. And he was really bothered by his boss. His boss was always bothering him, giving him a hard time. His coworkers would come and ask him for help and then he would help them and then they would do great in their career, but he was always held down. Then he was talking to another job yogi who was a really strong computer programmer. And then they were like, you know, there's gotta be something that he can do. They were working together on it. Then one night, they both had this dream. It was the same dream. And in the dream, the analyst took this light out of his head and put it into a box. And then he was able to give the box to somebody else. And then the next day they both talked about it. They said, hey, you know, I had this dream. You put this light from your head in a box and gave it to someone. And they were able to see from that dream a new idea. Instead of him staying at that job, and instead of him going out and trying to make his own brokerage firm or something, they created a trading system, a software trading system. They created a product and they were able to sell it. And they were successful, wildly successful. And this came from a dream. So, dreaming is something, it shows you things. You know, yesterday I was in this beautiful place filled with flowers and there was a beach, white sand, beautiful turquoise waters, and there were pink clouds, and then there was a waterfall, but it was a chocolate waterfall. And everything was wonderful and beautiful. I was so happy. And then my alarm clock went off and I woke up. But isn't that... do you notice that? Like, sometimes you have these dreams where it's beautiful and amazing. Hopefully every night. But dreaming is an amazing thing. It's like you go into this other world every night. You go into this totally unbound world where you can see amazing things, have amazing adventures, do incredible things. I mean, to me this is funny because we're here in the physical world and we're like, okay, so this is the way life is and it's all hard and tough, or whatever. But every night we go into this wacky world where everything can change and everything's different. And then we come back and we go, oh, that was just a dream. It's really funny to me. It's like this one time I was watching The Simpsons and Lisa was saying to Bart, I think that's her name, she's like, do you notice that every Thursday everything goes crazy and we go through these crazy adventures and then the rest of the week is normal and then the Thursday comes again and it's all crazy? So I think this is like The Simpsons. You think everything's normal for a while, then you go to bed at night and then everything goes crazy. We have adventures. Like, you could take a rocket ship on a voyage to the sun, right? And you're not afraid of, you know, burning, because you're going at night. I know, sorry. So, dreaming is just an amazing world, an amazing experience. And this is what we learned to work with in dream yoga. Now, in the world of the waking, people forget about what they see in dreams. They don't pay attention. They just say, whatever, it was a dream. So it's like, they might have this fantastic experience in the dream and just throw it away. So we want actually, to a yogi, dreams are real. We want to be able to understand them and see them and explore them and grow from them. Because through dreaming, you can change karma. Through dreaming, you can radically change your life. You can gain new abilities and skills and bring new things into your life. Normally, dreams are just desire, fear, and expectation. And you just playing through your karmas. But through dream yoga, you can wake up and do new things. Like Milarepa, right? Milarepa was doing dream yoga. In his dreams, he had these amazing experiences. In his dreams, he was flying. And then he was so happy because he could fly. And then in the waking, he was able to say, oh, I flew in my dreams, I can fly here too. So he was able to, in the waking, in the real world, he was able to fly. So, there are things that can totally change your life that you can learn in dreams. Now, dreaming, a very important part of dreaming is seeing. So, in your dreams, you can see things. You can take a look at something, you know, you're looking at your life in a certain way in the physical reality, but in the dreams you can take a different view of it and you can gain insight and awareness. So, there was a student I knew, he was working at a job and there was a promotion and it was either him or another guy. And in his dream he saw the other guy standing on a stage, dancing and singing, and the audience was all looking at him. Okay, meanwhile, he is the student, the yogi, he's down in the orchestra pit and he's playing all the instruments. He's like running around to the tuba, going over, playing the violin and the trumpet at the same time, going to the timpanis, and no one sees him. And he woke up from that dream and it was able to show him something, that he's doing a lot of work, but this other guy is being seen. So then he said, okay, I have to get up on stage and show myself. And then he started to promote himself and show his work, and then he got the promotion. If he didn't see from the dream, if he didn't see what was going on, then maybe he would have just been quiet, heads down, and the other guy would have been promoted. So dreams give you seeing. They show you ways to get ahead. There's a really interesting story. Conrad Hilton, one of his pivotal first deals came from a dream. It's why he was able to really launch his hotel chain called Hilton. So he was working on one of his very first deals and he looked at this property and he assessed it and he was a pro, he knew everything, and he said, okay, this property is worth $159,000. And then he had to bid on it to get it. And it was a closed bid so he couldn't see what other people were bidding. But he said, okay, this is what it's worth, this is what I'm going to bid. And then he had a dream. And in the dream, the number appeared in front of him. And it was just there, there, there. And he was like, okay. So then he woke up and he was like, I wonder why I had a dream of $174,000. And then he said, you know what, I had that dream because I'm supposed to bid that. So he put that bid in. And then he found out that the second highest bid was $173,000. This is very interesting, right? He is a very strong dreamer. Stay at Hilton. It's a network of dreams. You can sleep there, too. But it's really amazing that he was able to have that insight from the dreams. But you can't expect to get numbers. You can't sit there and go, I'm going to go to sleep and get my lottery numbers. It usually doesn't work. Because what you see in dreams are symbols. It might be like a big cat comes over, you're all like, ah, it's a cat. And the cat might be a symbol of, let's say, your boss. And the cat comes over and it scratches you. You're, ah, my boss again. And then you pet it and then it purrs, give it some milk, it's happy. But really, the things you see in dreams are symbols. So what you have to do in dreaming yoga is start to understand and see what those symbols mean. Because if you're expecting the numbers to work out, it usually doesn't. Conrad Hilton, it worked out. Yeah, subsequently he sold that property for millions of dollars and it really launched his business. So, all based on a dream. But, yeah, we can't count on numbers so much. So there was this man who went to bed. In his dream he saw for the horse race the sixth horse was named Blue Angel. So he bet on it, You can't always interpret numbers the way you might think. Yeah, and in dreams, you can see where something is going to harm you. You can keep out of danger. You can see where people have designs or plans against you that might harm you. It gives you a way to be safe and to get ahead. was thinking about buying this Greek statue for $10 million. And they did a 14-month study with all sorts of experts looking at it just to make sure it was authentic. And then after 14 months, they said, yes, this is very authentic. Then they hired this young historian to come in and just do some documentation. He wasn't even checking it out to see if it was authentic. But he came in and he had a dream. And in the dream, there was a person laughing. There was a guy going, ha ha ha ha, they think it's real. And then there was a little red mark on the leg of the statue. It was kind of like burning red. And then he woke up and he was like, hmm, that was weird. It was like this guy was trying to get over on us, trick us. And then he looked at the part on the leg and he said, there's something funny about it. So he asked some of the experts and they looked at it and then they said, whoa, you know, this is one of the tells of this very infamous person who makes fake art. So they were able to see that it was not authentic. But they had missed it for 14 months, and his dream gave them the insight. So dreams give you ways of seeing. But dreams also can help you overcome obstacles. So, very often when we face obstacles in our lives, we're just stopped by them. But when you dream, you can see ways around it. You can go through it. You can transform an obstacle, you can transform a block into a door, or anger into love, or sadness into joy. You can transform feelings, you can transform your awareness to see ways of success, ways of enlightenment. Also, you know, for a dream yogi, there are no nightmares. We actually try to face our obstacles in our dreams. We don't try to run away from them. So if you have, let's say, a difficult co-worker and then they appear in your dream, we don't run away and say, oh, I don't like that guy. You say, okay, that guy's in my dream, let me try to change our experience together. And then that way, you know, I had a reoccurring dream once, and this monk, this monk, every night would have a dream where he's in hell, and he's there with a bunch of people, and they're all suffering and he's just in pain. So eventually, you know, he goes to some great master and says, how do I get out of this? It's terrible. Every night I'm having this dream of hell, he was always like, oh, I'm in pain and I want to get out. But now he said, okay, how do I get these other people out? And then he looks around and then there's no hell anymore. It's got to get rid of people. So, recurring dreams. This guy goes over to the doctor and says, hey doc, for the past six months I've been having this recurring dream where there's these pink elephants playing soccer. It's really weird. And then the doctor says, no problem, look, I have this medication, take two of these, you'll have no problem. The dreams will, these reoccurring dreams will go away. Then he says, okay, but can I start taking them tomorrow? And then the doctor says, why? And he's all, well, tonight's the final championship match.

0:37:00
I want to see who wins.

0:37:01
So, I do that sometimes. I wake up from a dream and I'm like, I want to see what happens. Then I go back to sleep and go back into the dream. Yeah, that's part of dreaming, being able to go back into the same dream. Yeah, so in dreaming we can overcome difficulties, we can overcome fear. So when you have fears, We can overcome fear. So, when you have fears, it's really... Dreaming is a really good way to face them and overcome them. Some fears that we have are very... You know, we try to face our fears in life. So, if you have a fear of public speaking, get up and start talking... when someone else was around. But a really good place to face fears is in dreams. So there was a student who was terrified about becoming a computer programmer. He was like, he's like, I can't do it. It's gonna, you know, I'll never succeed. And it's too technical. It's just too hard. And then he had a dream that there was this big, giant robot computer monster. It was computers, it was programming, it was technology, and it was coming at him. And then he said, I have to face my fear. So he said, I'm going it came over and then it fell down like a sheet. And then in the sheet was this little furry bunny. And then the bunny came over and he was able to pet the money. So at first he thought, you know, computer programming is big and scary, and then he found out that it was a cute little happy thing. Which it is. So, facing your fears is something that we can do in dreams. Overcoming fear. You can also overcome obstacles that you come across in work. So this happens very often. You have some situation, like if you're a computer programmer, and you're like, oh gosh, how am I going to solve this technical problem? Then you fall asleep and then you solve it in your dreams. This happens to many of my students. But there was this guy, Alan Wong, who works for Bell Labs. He created the first optical computer. And this is where there's lasers and mirrors. So it's instead of electricity on and off, it's light on and off. Isn't that cool? So, to do this, he struggled for years. Everything that he tried didn't work. And then he started having these dreams. And in the dreams, recurring dreams, there were... There were, you know the Sorcerer's Apprentice, the Mickey Mouse thing? There were these armies of these broomsticks with arms holding buckets. The buckets were holding data and they were marching. They were marching in formation and there were two armies and they would march towards each other and then they would crash into each other and then there would be a big mess. The data would spill all over the place. And he was struggling with this. He was like, why are these armies just crashing into each other? And then finally one night he was just dreaming that and he goes, there's got to be some way that it works. And then they went right through each other and kept marching. And then he woke up and he saw something from that. He said, oh, I understand now. He said, I was always trying to make the lasers be in separate places, but lasers can go right through each other without altering the light. So he was able to see from that dream, he was struggling to see in symbols a way to make it work. And then finally he made it work. And when he knew that the lasers can go through each other, like the little brooms could go through each other, then he was able to create a design that actually worked, and that's what created, then he was able to create a functioning optical computer. I think it's fascinating.

0:41:57
Yeah.

0:41:58
But dreams are very important because when we're in a dream, a transient experience happens. And then we wake up and go, oh, it was just a dream. And then when we're awake, we say, this is real. But this is very transient, like the dream. So if you take the big problem that you have right now in your life, your big difficulty, and if you look at it and say, wow, this is transient, like a dream, then you'd be right. But there was a student, a fellow student of mine, it was a stormy night and he fell asleep, right, there was thunder and lightning, and in his dream, lightning hit the roof of his house and boom there's this big hole and he was like, oh no, this is terrible. Do you know what this is going to cost me to fix this? He's like, I don't have so much money, oh it's going to be just horrible. And then he wakes up, looks at the roof and goes, oh it was just a dream. Phew. And then he's like, oh my gosh, what a relief. And he was very happy. And then he walked outside and saw his car. A branch from a tree fell off and hit the roof of his car and smashed it in. And then he said, oh no, you know what this is going to cost me? He goes back into that worry and then he realizes, wow, you know, I just did this in a dream worrying about something that's broken and how much it's going to cost. And then I woke up and it was an illusion. And then he said, you know, I can let this go. I can let these feelings go. I mean, of course I'm going to have to fix it. It's going to cost money. But he was able to see that the transient experience of his worry in the dream was as transient as in the waking. So this is something that we can learn from dreams as well. So dreams are fascinating. So we, as job yogis, actually develop ourselves in dreaming. We work on it. The way to work on it is first, If you meditate, still your mind, then you start to have dreams. So, all of my students are dreaming. You guys are learning dreaming just by meditating. And I know, because I'm aware of your dreams. And you guys are learning just through meditation. It's part of what we do just in meditating in the school. But the other ways that we develop our dreams are by having a dreaming journal. So if you have, just get a little dreaming journal, just dedicated to dreaming, nothing else and put it by your bed. And then when you wake up, write down what you dreamt. If you do that, that is a piece of tonal, a piece of a structure that really, really enhances your dreaming ability. So have a dream journal. It's like that underwater awareness, right, in Mystic Scuba. It's like once you come up out of scuba diving, then the things that you saw underwater and experienced, they fall away really quickly and you don't remember. Oh yeah, I did see a lionfish. It was on my arm. Something like that. So when you wake up, your dreams will go away very quickly. Your dreaming awareness will go away quickly. So, if you have that journal next to your bed, wake up, get up, write down what you remember. Then you start to make a stronger connection with your dreams. A lot of people don't remember their dreams at all, right? And what you've got to do is, the moment you wake up, pick up your book, and what's the first thought in your mind? Write that down, because that's related to your dream. And then you'll start to bridge the gap and have greater awareness of dreams to the point where you'll remember your dreams every night. So, dream journal is important. What's very strong for dreaming is before you go to bed to set your intention. So you say, I am going to remember my dream. Simple. Or, I'm gonna dream about this problem because I wanna overcome it. I'm gonna dream about this because I wanna see it. So when you have a set intention, then you're going to bring your mind closer to that. And you start to develop the ability to bring that intent into the dreaming dimensions. There's also mystical practice for dreaming. It is to focus on the third eye. So, you know, you lay down, you're about to go to bed, you set your intent, focus on the third eye, and you envision a blue lotus with four leaves, four petals. Blue four-petaled lotus. And this comes from the Tibetan Dreaming Yoga. And that blue lotus is a powerful symbol. The four petals are the... they lift the four veils of self. And then when you go into dreaming you have much more clarity. So it's a very beautiful mystical practice. And then of course there's a mantra. So you're focusing on the blue lotus on the third eye, and then you say OM. And you focus on the lotus and say OM until you fall asleep. Simple. from OM to the dreaming mantra. So, these are practices to direct your mind and go into of dreams. Most important is to be aware. You know, most people go through their dreams and their waking life very unaware. You know, I mean, someone like this gets out of work and they're going to drive home, they get in their car and they've got a 45-minute commute, and then the next thing they know they're in their driveway. And the whole 45 minutes on the way there, on the way back home, it was just unaware, just not paying attention. People go through their lives like that. So, awareness is the most important thing in dreams. Because once you're aware, then you can do something. So, this is what Buddha said. He said, Guess what? Life is suffering. Then you go, Oh, yeah it is. And then once you recognize that life is suffering, then you can do something about it. If you're unaware, you're just like, Oh yeah, life, you're in pain, but you're not, you know, you got an arrow sticking out of your shoulder and you're like, walking around, I'm in pain, but then Buddha goes, look, you got an arrow in your shoulder, and you go, oh yeah, that's right. Then you can do something about it, because you bring awareness to what's going on. So, we use the waking to practice awareness so that we can be aware in dreams. So, right now, you can say, oh, what am I aware of? Sitting in a chair, I'm awake, I hope, and, you know, like, what's going on? So, listen to me. Hear me. Can you hear me? Yeah, so, you've been listening to me, but I'm bringing your awareness to the fact that you're listening to me. So, we're going to do a practice, a practice of awareness. This is where we just are aware. Aware of what we're doing, aware of where we're sitting, aware of what we're thinking, aware of what we're looking at, and just being aware, instead of being mindless. to sit for one song. I'd like you to just look up here towards me. And this is not a meditation. This is a teaching of how to be aware. And all you do is you just look up here and then you go, what am I thinking? What am I doing? What am I aware of? And just be aware of what you're aware of. If you have tons of thoughts, be aware of those thoughts. It should be simple, but observe your awareness. Be aware. Don't drift off into unawareness. So we'll sit for just one song, looking up this way.

0:52:44
Thank you. the the the the so so Some of you guys had the best meditation you've ever had by not trying to meditate. When you try to meditate, it's so funny, you're like, I'm trying to meditate, and then you Then you drift off into like thinking, into the dream. But when you don't try to meditate, just bear awareness. And that's meditation.

0:54:22
So, awareness is important, because if you dream without awareness, then you don't know that you're dreaming. You have to be able to be aware in your dream. They call it lucid dreaming, where you're dreaming and then you realize that you're dreaming. Because if you don't realize that you're dreaming, then you'll wake up and you'll be like, oh, even if you remember your dream, you'll just be all, all these karmas happened. This thing came out, I ran from it. There was a candy cane, I chased it. You know, things like that. So, a really good way to really become aware is to do what I call a state check. See what state you're in. So, right now, everybody, let's try to fly. Try to levitate into the air. Come on.

0:58:18
No?

0:58:19
Okay. Well, that tells you, you're not dreaming. because in dreams you can fly. In dreams you can levitate up into the sky. So if you check yourself, then you can say, am I dreaming? Am I flying? No, okay, it must be in the physical. But if you're in a dream and you say, let me try to fly, and then you say, well, I'm flying. Oh, I must be in a dream. So check yourself. Check yourself all the time because it brings awareness. So you're walking down the street and you go, wait a minute, let me check my state, my state of mind. Can I fly? What am I doing right now? You can be more aware. It's like a mindfulness, just, I want to be more aware, and am I dreaming? Can I fly? So if you're constantly checking your awareness, seeing if you're flying, then you'll find yourself in a dream being mindful and saying, what's my state of mind? Oh, let me see if I'm flying. Oh, I am flying. I must be in a dream, then you have the ability to do something. But just being aware that you're in a dream isn't enough, because you can be lucid dreaming, you're aware that you're in a dream, and you just keep going through the same karmas of whatever the dream throws at you. So the next thing that we do when we're in the dream and we're aware that we're in the dream, is we just look at our hands. But this is important because this is where you exercise your will in the dream to do something. So if you're awake in the dream and you're just going through the karmas of the dream, that's one thing, but when you say, wait a second, I'm going to do this, look at here, bring my attention to this, then you've changed the dream. This is very important. These are very powerful things. Awareness and the will to change the illusion is very powerful. The next thing that we do is we look at something. You might like look at a building. It's good to look at a clock or something, you know. Because when you look at something like a clock in a dream, it always changes. Like, the hands of the clock are always going around. They don't stay the same. But you could also look at anything, like a building, and it'll go up and down. The things that you look at, if you focus on something in dreams, they change. They keep, like, morphing. But what you have to do is you have to look at it and you say, stay the same. You have to keep it consistent. You have to sustain it in a state, because it's very, very transient in dreams, in those dimensions. But when you have the power of mind to keep something sustained in a state, then you have a great strength. So awareness, the ability to focus, and the ability to sustain is very, very powerful. These teach very great strengths of the mind in these dreaming dimensions. It's very fascinating. So do that. The other thing is, in dreams, do something useful. So in dreams, you can see things, you can work on things, you can go to places. There's amazing dimensions available. But if you, like, remember, oh, you know, I left my running shoes at the office. And then, in the dream, you fly over to the office and get your running shoes, and then you get back home in your dream, then that's useless. That might make sense in the physical world, because you've got to go running, so you've got to, you know. But in the dream, it doesn't really do much. So, in the dream, you're like, come over and talk to me. I had a student I was talking to recently, and she remembers a dream where she came to me and I said to her, oh, you came to me. And she said, yes. And I was like, oh, okay, cool. So yeah, come over and talk to me. Or try to see something powerful and beautiful. Try to figure out how to overcome obstacles, fears, how to succeed in business. Do something useful. I mean, that's the place to do something like that. You wouldn't be like playing golf while scuba diving, right? It wouldn't make sense. So, when you're in the dream, try to see, you know, use those dimensions for what they're for. I teach very often in dreams. I know some of you know because you guys write me about it. And I'm like, yes, I do that. Yes, I do that. Very often. And I have a very, very... It's very important for me to tell you, I have a dreaming etiquette. Because sometimes people dream of me and they're just projecting their fears or something. And they're all like, you were in a dream yelling at me. I never yell at people in dreams. I'll do it in real life. I promise. Yeah, so, in dreams, there's two things that I do. I'm either funny, or I'm very, very spiritually high. So that'll be your experience. Or maybe I tell really bad jokes. I'm funny to myself.

1:04:27
Just kidding.

1:04:30
No, but really, if I'm in your dream, it'll either be spiritually high or it'll be funny, or both. But if you have a dream where I'm yelling at you, then that's just a projection, a symbol, probably a reflection of a fear or something like that. Yeah, so dreaming, yeah, so, you know, I learned from my teacher how to do dreaming, how I can go into someone's dream and I can even teach and do amazing things. And then in dreaming you can learn advanced things, like you can learn how to find these things called scouts. And the scout is a, I guess you might call it like a wormhole to other places, other dimensions. Very, very, very high, amazing places. There were these two older students in my school who were such strong dreamers. They were at a satsang with our teacher and at the break they were like talking about where they're going to go that night. And, you know, like how to get there, which scouts they were going to use. So a scout is a kind of interesting thing. These are more advanced subjects, but you guys might experience them. A scout is a funny thing. It's like a little weird thing in a dream. They are there, it's just that most people aren't aware of them. And if you go look at it and focus on it, you go up into some really high places. There's really high experiences that you can have in dreams. Let's see, what else in dreams? There's the second gate of dreaming, which is waking up in your dream. So you're asleep, you wake up in your dream, you go back to sleep, wake up in your dream. But you're in your dream. And when you wake up in your dream, it is just like... whew! It's a very beautiful experience. It's hard to explain. Yeah, so there's really high things. There's dreaming emissaries. And these are sentient beings that actually live in the dreaming dimensions.

1:06:50
Fascinating.

1:06:51
You know, kind of like Freddy Krueger. Just kidding. They're all nice. They're like little fluffy talking dogs or something like that. So there's a pretty cool place. Oh, there's this place called the Marketplace in dreams. and then the marketplace is a place where you can kind of trade, trade things that you know for other things that show you different places to go. It's fascinating stuff. But these are kind of more advanced subjects. But if you can have awareness, if you can direct your attention, and if you can sustain a vision, those are powerful. You know, we develop these skills not to just have cool experiences while we're asleep, but the art of dreaming is to make our minds strong so that we can create things in the physical world. It's not only to see something, but it's to bring it into your reality. It's to take these visions or these dimensions of intangibility and to create something, to succeed in something, to do something that is measurable and real. Dreaming is a whole bunch of dimensions that you can't access when you're awake. And you can have dreams where you fly, you can have dreams where you go into these high, beautiful, amazing places. Things can change so much and be so bright and your dreams come true, and all these amazing feelings and experiences into this reality and make things happen. And really, you know, really powerful things. So, like, let's say Henry Ford, right? Henry Ford, he had a dream. He didn't have a dream while he's sleeping. I mean, maybe he did, but you never hear about it. He didn't sit there and dream about cars. It's that he used those dreaming dimensions to make cars, the automobile industry. But he had a game-changing dream, which was the assembly line. Before that, mechanics would just sit there and work on one car and it would take a long time. But when he was able to make the assembly line, then production was increased. He also had this dream that there would be a car for every home. So he really was a powerful dreamer. But he didn't sit there and have dreams at night about cars. It's just that he had a dream, he had an intention, and he used those dimensions of dreams. I could see that, to make that happen. So sometimes, you know, in business and things, dreams can be a game changer, really transforms the way things happen. Walt Disney was a powerful dreamer. He always talks about dreaming, right? And, you know, Disneyland was a big dream of his, and it took a lot of work, but Disneyland, all the things that brought it into reality came from dimensions of dreams. So interesting, fascinating. Yeah, Walt Disney used to go every summer to Zermatt, Switzerland. That's where the Matterhorn is. And I've taken my students there a number of times and it's amazing to look at that mountain from Zermatt. There are amazing dreaming dimensions, very Disney, but it's just very, very, very amazing. these dreams and bring them into reality. You got to have a dream, you know, some higher goal, some accomplishment, some wonderful thing that you want to bring into this world. And then when you have that dream, you start to... it starts to touch upon these high dimensions and you can use those powers to bring it into this world. So this is important. Richard Branson, you know, Virgin Galactic, he talks about when he was a child, you know, when there was the lunar landing, he was like, someday I'm gonna fly on a spaceship. And this was a dream. And then eventually he brought this into reality. So there's powerful, amazing, fantastic things that we can bring into this world. You can bring into your life. So how do you do it? How do you do it? We develop our dreaming strength through awareness, focus on the hand, sustain. You develop very strong dreaming strength and power by doing that while you're asleep. So that's your exercise. But how do you bring, how do you use those dimensions and bring things into the physical? Well, you know It's probably a lot of ways that you can find on the internet There's all sorts of techniques, right? Essentially you have to have your intention and Then feel the dream dimensions So you say, in the waking, you say, I have the intent for this, I have this dream, I'm passionate about it, it's a higher thing I wanted. And then you have the feeling of dreams. I'm saying a feeling, an awareness. So that's essentially how you do it. But there is a technique, it's just kind of the surface, because the technique would be stated in the waking world and that would be limited. So it's really a direct spiritual awareness, how to dream, how to bring your dreams into reality. We will do a meditation. How about the last song of Breathless? So, just look up here dreaming Okay, let's begin So so

1:14:55
You're my everything You're my everything You're my everything You're my everything You're my everything so So So You're my everything You're my everything You're my everything You're my everything You're my everything You Very nice. Now you can dream. Yeah, dreaming is amazing. Don't be limited by karmas, by fear and desire and going through the regular routine. In dreaming, amazing things can happen. I remember a fellow student, fellow yogi, he found this apartment he really wanted and

1:16:52
it was just that it was too expensive. He said, you know, it's just too much. I would need to make another $2,000 a month to be able to afford that apartment. This was back in 1995 or something like that. And then he said, but I want that apartment. So he said, I'm going to do dreaming. And then he just went to bed, had that intention. He didn't remember his dream, but the next day he gets this call for a job. And the job rate was exactly $2,000 more per month. And then he got the job. And then he got the apartment. So you can set your will to dream for amazing things and then You're able to touch those dimensions and bring things into reality Your wishes can come true There was once a poor man in Tibet all he had was a yak. You know, and he was walking around with his yak. Then he, you know, sat down to have lunch. And then there was this monk who was a pilgrim on a pilgrimage. And the monk was bowing and prostrating himself, standing up and, you know, making his way to some holy mountain or something. And the monk comes by and he offers the monk some of his food. So the monk sits down, eats with him, and then the monk says, may all your wishes come true, and thanks him and then just keeps bowing on his way. Then he gets up and he walks away with his yak. Okay, that night in his dream, the monk appears and says, come with me, I have a place I want to take you. And he takes him to some weird place where there's this special rock, this big stone. And he says, this is a wishing stone, you can make a wish here. And then he says, all you do is touch it and then make a wish. So the man walks over, touches the stone and says, I wish for a thousand gold pieces. And then he looks around, doesn't see anything, and eventually wakes up from his dream. And then that day he's walking with his yak, holding his yak, and then they're walking along this mountain pass and going around this turn, and then all of a sudden this horse comes running fast around and they almost crash into each other, but the horse bucks and stops before crashing into the yak. We don't want to have a yak-cident. Okay. So then the man riding the horse gets bucked off the horse, falls down the hill and hurts himself and gets knocked unconscious. But then the man with the yak notices that tied onto the back of the horse, where the saddles are, or where the bags are, is a young boy, like tied onto it. So he's like, oh my gosh, that guy's hurt, and why is there a boy on the back of his horse? And after some time, he carries the guy back up, he's still unconscious, and then he unties the boy. So it turns out that the man on the horse was a kidnapper, and he kidnapped this boy who was the son of a very rich merchant. So then the authorities eventually get there, they arrest the guy, and then he gets a reward for returning the boy, and it's a thousand gold pieces. His wish came true. There are wishing places in dreams where your dreams can come true. But you've got to be careful, because you might wish for weird things coming from a point of self, right? And then if you get those weird things, it ties you up in more So, this man finds a lamp. He rubs it, a genie comes out, and he gets three wishes. And he says, I want the best food, the best wine, and the best woman. And the genie goes, okay, here you go.

1:24:38
He gets a kale salad.

1:24:39
He gets non-alcoholic wine. And then he gets Mother Teresa. So, but dreams are powerful. Amazing things can happen in dreams. There's a story from the medicine Buddha tradition where a woman, and this is fairly recent, a woman was diagnosed with cancer, something like stage 3 cancer, so it was serious. And she was like, oh my gosh, I have to do chemotherapy, this is going to be terrible. But she went to this practitioner of medicine Buddha, Medicine Buddha. And he said, I can help you, I know I can. And then he didn't do anything, he just said, go away. And then that night, in her dream, he appears, and he takes her somewhere and then, you know, that's it. Now, the next day, no difference, right? But she, over the next few weeks, the tumor started to go away, and then eventually it went away completely. And she was just like, thank God I didn't have to do chemotherapy. So, dreams are powerful. Amazing things can happen if you can find them. Find the scouts. They take you amazing places. Now, the ultimate point for dreaming is waking up. So, waking up from the dream. That is, you go, oh yeah, I always wake up from a dream. No, but this is the dream of the day, the dream of the self. What you're experiencing is an illusion. It's a dream. The physical world that we are in is a dream. In Tibetan Buddhism, they always say, look at this world, see it not as a physical place, but see it as a dream. That's a practice, that's a meditation. And it's true. This physical world that we're in is a dream. The self that you think you are is a dream. We practice awareness, seeing our hand, being able to sustain a vision, doing useful things, seeing, going to amazing places, talking to Buddhas. We practice all of these things to awaken. We get power and awareness while we're awake, we draw upon those dimensions to make things happen in our life. But we wake up from the dream. We're doing this to awaken, not to be caught in the dream, not to be a dream master, but to awaken. When we can see that we can control the dream when we're asleep, and when we can use those dimensions to bring things into this reality, we say, wow, this reality is like when I'm asleep. And then you say, well, this is a dream too. And we awaken from this dream.

1:28:58
So,

1:28:59
we dream to awaken. Dream yoga is the way of dreaming for awakening. To wake up to truth, to wake up to be enlightened. One final story about that. There was a monk who was dreaming that he was a bluebird, I think. Why not? A bluebird. flying through the sky, having a wonderful time, just greatest joy. Then he woke up and he was really bothered. He said, ah, that was such a great dream. I thought that was real. So he goes over to his master because he's so upset. He's like, master, I had this dream. I was a bluebird and it was so wonderful. I was so happy. And I thought it was real. And then I woke up. And then the master says, it was real. And he goes, it was real? He goes, it was as real as now. And then the monk is like, well, if it's as real as now, then why did I wake up? And I can't fly anymore. And the master says, you haven't woken up. So then the monk ponders this. And then he wakes up. He wakes up from the self, from the illusion. And he becomes enlightened. He sees that in that dream he thought it was real. And then now he thinks this is real. And then by dreaming you can see there is awakening and he became liberated. So this is what we do in dreaming. We dream to awaken. Okay. Thank you all very much. You can all go back to sleep or wake up.

1:31:18
It's really nice.

1:31:19
Now let's see, we're gonna take a break and goodbye to students in Europe. But we're going to take a break for a half an hour and then we will come back and we're going to do a few, maybe we have five yoga presentations that didn't make it last time. So this time, we will have all of the yoga presentations and then we'll go from there. and then we'll go from there.

1:31:53
Excellent, thank you so much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
