0:00:00
Alright, that's six sounds, two sounds each track.

0:00:07
the so so so So, so the So So So So So So So So So So So So, I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. so So, So the the the the Oh, I'm so sorry. So You. So, I'm going to play a little bit of that. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so so so so so so the the the so So, Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, So so the the the the Oh, So So, so I. So tonight, I'd like to talk about right and wrong. That machine is wrong.

0:26:05
And coming to Bodewood's birthday is right.

0:26:10
There we go.

0:26:11
There, that's the teaching. That's the donkey.

0:26:13
We're done. That's the donkey. We're a donkey. So, I find that Bodhiwood's workday meditations and teachings

0:26:27
are more powerful than our monthly satsang.

0:26:33
You know why? Because you do something. You work. You do karma yoga. So you're doing karma yoga all day long, and then we get to sit together. And then it's very, very, very hot. At Satsang, you're like, oh, I've got to wake up early. And I'll grace Sambhar with my presence. I'll get there probably late. But here, you come, you're working, spending all day toiling in Karma Yoga. And it is something that puts you into a very good state of mind. In Tibetan Buddhism we have all of these prerequisites. It's like, before you do this practice, do this and this and this and this. After this meditation, do this prayer. All these things. And then you can do the practice. Then you're suitable. Here at Boneywood's Birthday, it's like, yeah, work. I like to make fun of it. I'm like, yeah, dig in dirt! But just by digging in dirt, or raking leaves, the things that we do, it is a karma yoga. It is a service to your sangha, and our special place of power. And by doing this, you open, your mind opens. And so then, when we meditate, it's very, very powerful. So, I like satsang, our monthly satsangs too, but the spirit in which I'm seeing you develop in the Bodhi Woods workdays is very, very beautiful, very powerful. And meditations are strong. The Dharma is strong. Yeah. So I teach the introduction, the beginning, the intermediate, and the advanced teachings all at the same time. It used to be that my older students know, I'm like, okay we all go from this rank to this rank, from this level to this level. And if you can't get to that level, then you're gone. And everybody who makes it to that level is powerful. But I was like, definitely, no, this is a black belt. Dojo, everyone gets a black belt who ends up at the end with a black belt. But I brought everybody from rank to rank, level to level at the same time. And now I'm a more experienced teacher so I can have all levels in my dojo. I can help people progress all at the same time. So this is a beginning teaching, this is an intermediate teaching, this is an advanced teaching. Buddha called it... I think he called it Buddha Ear. The Buddha Ear! So the Buddha Ear is a way of speaking to every in the audience. So it's a way where it happens to me a lot. I'll teach, and then someone will come up and say, I know, it was all about me. And I'm like, no, no, no. It was all about everyone. At every level of practice, at every level of awareness, I'm here, I'm aware, and I'm speaking to you. And in my second attention, I know what to transmit. So like right now I'm transmitting the beginning teachings of the Bodhi Woods Workday. Right now I'm transmitting the intermediate teachings, because we have the new unfolding intermediate teachings, which are very powerful. And right now I'm also transmitting the advanced teachings for the advanced students. So this is the way I teach. So that's right. You know that's that's that's the right way. What I say in the physical, the stories I tell, how we go through this, is the surface, the first attention. And that's important. But the most important thing is the second attention. So for the first attention, it's all the same. The same bad jokes, you know, or whatever. But as long as I can actually get you to listen, then I can teach you the proper things in the second attention if you're a beginner, or if you're intermediate, or if you're advanced. Now there's some new intermediate students. I gave that opportunity. I said, all right, let's do a new thing, because it's going to be super fun, like it is right now. So Buddha said that the pathway to enlightenment is great in the beginning, great in the middle, and great at the end. And he was right. So, when you're a beginner, it's fantastic. It's wonderful. When you're intermediate, yeah, fantastic. It's appropriate. It's the right place. And when you're advanced, then it's great. Why not? But all stages are beautiful, powerful stages. And you can't just say, well, I'm really sad that I'm not intermediate. You're not intermediate because you don't have enough first attention and second attention. So therefore, you learn that in the beginning classes, the beginning teachings. Once you have enough first attention, your career is strong, then you'll have enough money. The money that you need. And then, when you have enough selflessness, you'll have the right second attention, and you'll just want to do it. And that's what it takes. And then you just naturally go to the intermediate level. But if you don't have the selflessness and the first attention, then that's what you have to learn. That's what you have to work on. And that's the right thing for you. So enjoy being a beginner. In Zen mind, we always say, it's good to be a beginner. Zen mind is a beginner's mind. There's nothing lacking in being a beginner. And intermediate?

0:35:22
Yeah.

0:35:24
That's when you're an intermediate student, that's where you become a spiritual warrior. And then advanced, whatever. Who knows? Probably a good thing yeah so good and bad good and bad so I was early in the day making sure that everyone was in the right place and someone came over to me and said um how do we do the paths right? Should we do this, or that, or this, or that? Lots of different ideas. And then he said, so how do we do the paths right? And I said, obviously by learning how not to do them wrong. And then I walked away. So, learning what is right and what is wrong is very important on the spiritual path. When you do the right things elevates you, opens your consciousness, heightens your attention. When you do the wrong things, it limits your awareness. So, I mean, this was Buddha's whole like pathway to enlightenment right it is called the eightfold path and there's eight right things right right view right speech right job right right action right spaghetti you get the wrong spaghetti forget about it I've got this spaghetti travesty. See, I lived in New York for a long time.

0:37:38
So I would go down to Little Italy there,

0:37:40
an Italian neighborhood, and I would go to Italian restaurants. And I would eat spaghetti. And I was like, oh, this is what spaghetti is. And then one day, Dharma and I, we went to Florence, Italy. And then I ate spaghetti, and I was like, oh my God, this is so much better. And then all we did, we skipped all the museums, and we just went everywhere eating spaghetti. And I was like, all those years wasted in New York, eating the wrong spaghetti. See? Right and wrong matters. So yeah, Buddha had the right... everything was the right way. You had to have the right concentration, the right samadhi. And that is the pathway to enlightenment. If you do it wrong, Buddha didn't teach wrong. He's like, let me teach you wrong view, wrong meditation. Then there would be just more Maya, more illusion, more self, more attachment. So Buddha taught the right way by understanding the wrong way. So he's like, what is wrong? What is wrong with you? What's the matter with you? Yeah, you guys know that movie reference? Okay. So, what is the wrong way? You have to observe. You have to start being aware. Start seeing what's happening. If you do something that is wrong, then your awareness starts to come into a more limited, fixed condition. And you are more limited, there are less possibilities, and it doesn't feel good, and your heart doesn't feel good. So when you do something wrong, that is the condition that occurs. So then we seek to do that which is right, to get out of limitation. Yeah. When you do something wrong, if you're mindful, you'll immediately change it. You'll immediately say, wait, this isn't right. I have to be more humble. I have to be more forgiving. I have to let go. I have to do the right thing. Do the right thing. Yeah. They pulled past. Do the right thing. okay yeah so you know when you're when you're building pathways like we're devoted with we're building the path if you do it right it's beautiful like the path you have been built so the student who I said learn how not to do it wrong. Learned! Otherwise I would have said, this is wrong! And it's in concrete, and guess what? It's harder to fix. But we'll fix it. So they learned. You know, if you're working on a path, and it's working, working, working, working, and you go in like the wrong direction you're going downhill into the creek and you're like hey are we doing the right thing here why are we way off course of course or if you do a bad job the path doesn't a functional outfit, a Mickey Mouse company, to redo our driveway. And they redid our driveway, and then there was these two places where the asphalt just started crumbling. And we're like, oh, this is wrong. Wrong is dysfunctional. It's limited. It's something that is weak, unbalanced. And in the physical, that was wrong. So then we had them come back out, and they cleared what was broken, and they redid it, and they left. And then a week later, it's broken again. I'm like, wow. I'm like, that was wrong again. So wrong is not very good. Right is good. It reminds me of this joke. These three idiots, I call them students, I mean friends, these three idiots were walking down the path and then one of them says, look, those are deer tracks. And then the next one goes, what are you talking about? They're clearly not deer tracks. Those are duck tracks. And then the third one says, you know what I think? And then they all get hit by a train.

0:43:33
Pass are important.

0:43:40
Okay.

0:43:43
Another joke.

0:43:46
This joke is totally random as well. So it's important, to set this joke up, it's important that you go the right way.

0:44:03
So,

0:44:04
they all survived.

0:44:05
And then,

0:44:06
one of them was driving down the highway.

0:44:09
And he gets a call from his other friend.

0:44:11
He's like, hello? He puts it on speakerphone. He's safe, right? Hello? Then his friend says, Hey man, I know that you're on the way to meet me. And he says, but you gotta drive safe. I heard on the radio that there's a car on 280 that's going the wrong direction. And he goes, tell me about it. Actually, there's like hundreds of them.

0:44:41
Laughter

0:44:46
So when you go the right direction, everything is smooth. When you go the wrong way, it could be not so smooth. Yeah, so it's important to do what is right. When you follow the right path, when you have right action, right intent, right view, things work out. And this is something that we develop in working together. In working together we are toiling, building things, doing lots of hard work, but this is Karma Yoga. This is our Sangha, our group, coming together and working together as one big team to make better our little spiritual sanctuary in the Redwoods. And it creates a very, very positive condition, positive awareness. So right and wrong are important. But you can't get too caught up in right and wrong. That's what happens in our world. In our world, someone goes, I'm right, and you're wrong, so I'm going to drop a bomb on you. I'm so right that I have to hurt you, kill you. I'm so right that I have to take that from you. I'm so right that I have to put you down. I have to tell you you're wrong. I have to find fault with you. So right and wrong are places that the ego can attach to. Or you're like, I'm wrong. I'm a loser. I can't succeed.

0:46:45
Both of these things are illusions.

0:46:47
They're false. Story of a teacher in China, Pure Land Buddhism. Two monks are debating the

0:46:59
Lotus Sutra.

0:47:01
They're like, this is the meaning of the Lotus Sutra. No, this is the meaning of the Lotus Sutra and then they have this debate going and no you're wrong because of this You're wrong because of that. I'm right because of this. I'm right because of that. And then finally they go over to the master and say master

0:47:25
Let me tell you

0:47:27
This is what I think the Lotus Sutra

0:47:29
Truly means the other one says no, it's this Which one of us is right and the master looks at them and goes oh And he looks off over through the garden and he sees a monk meditating on the garden and Then he says He's right And like but what about my argument or my argument he says That monk is right. He didn't say they were wrong, but he said that the monk who was meditating was right. He knew the truth of the Lotus Sutra because he wasn't engaged in right and wrong. He was engaged in letting go, going beyond thought, beyond what is an idea, and that's the truth. Now we have this wonderful practice called Karma Yoga, and it's something that we can together at this Boaty Woods Workday and that is observing action. So we are taking action and then we observe it. Is that action good? Kind of simple. Like I'm working. Did I do it right? Did I get the result that is positive? Did I get a dysfunctional result? So karma means action, and yoga means unity. So are we elevated from the actions we're taking? Do the actions work? So we're learning a very simple discrimination, spiritual discernment. It's, when I'm digging, am I digging in the right place? You might dig a big hole, and then at the end you go, oh, it wasn't supposed to be here, it was supposed to be there. Marpa. We've had that. We've had lots of those. But we have that in our tech yoga projects, too. Someone might coat up a whole storm of stuff and we go, oh yeah, we don't need that. It actually has to be something else. But here in Bodewell's Workday, we're like sitting there, just, did I dig it properly? Such a big joke. Digging, we do a lot of digging. mix the cement properly. Not too watery, right, because that would cause trouble. So we observe from our actions if they're successful and when we see, oh I made a mistake, I didn't dig it properly, I didn't mix it properly, whatever, then we say I'm going to adjust it so that I get it right. Doing these things shapes Right. Doing these things shapes your attention to an attention of impeccability. And I know a lot of you guys are new here, digging in dirt. But by doing these exercises, these are exercises of attention, not just, oh, I've got to dig a hole. I've got to dig something. Yeah, you've got to dig something like yeah you're doing something but we dig things we really dig them yeah but we dig we dig you dig to perfect our mind we do you know we lift a rock to bring it over here a stepping stone and we do all these things as a way to perfect our mind. And when we, as you do digging in dirt and all this physical labor, when you do it to perfect your mind, it transforms everything. And even if you're not aware of it, it still puts you... You're doing Karma Yoga. I mean, we're here with the Sangha. All of us are working together. This is the one thing where we work together. Otherwise it's all in separate projects. So this is us developing a beautiful place of power. And this is where, even if you're not aware, amazing things happen. Amazing things happen to your consciousness. I can see. And that's why I'm able to actually teach you in the second attention in higher ways. I used to do this a long time ago. I used to have the Bodhi Woods Workday right before the Satsang. We used to have, I think, Saturday Bodhi Woods Workday and Sunday Satsang. That's how I used to do it. I was like, here, dig and dirt, and then come and meditate. People were in a higher state of attention. I can teach you more when you're selfless. When you work so hard for no reason. I mean, you don't get anything out of it, right? I mean, that's why you're here. You didn't get anything out of it. You're like, ah, sure, it's kind of fun. I don't know. It's nice to be with the sangha. But all that work that you did, you just did. And that's actually practicing selflessness. And when you practice selflessness, then something opens in you. There's an opening. Just a centimeter. The centimeter of chance is what we call it in Buddhist mysticism. And through that centimeter, I can...

0:53:29
It's an opening.

0:53:31
It's an opening of the heart, of the self, of the spirit, and I can connect. I can transmit enlightenment. Many powerful lessons that are in the second attention. Because you did the first attention. It's fantastic. Yeah, so Karma Yoga is good. It's a good, simple way of observing your first attention, which lines up your second attention for the teachings. You could do a lot of work somewhere else. You can say, you know what I'm going to do? I'm going to go to Golden Gate Park and pick up trash for eight hours. That would be good. Good for you. Makes the grass and trees happy. But when you bring the selfless intention here, you know, this is a place where it's a place of power. So when you put that same effort into here, there's a big expansion of consciousness. There's something more to it. There's like, there's structures, Sangha structure, place of power, spiritual sanctuary, there's things that you're connecting to, powerful energies and structures that are more, that evolve you more. So these are good. Very good. Now, in Buddhist mysticism, we also observe everything that we do in a very simple way. Not only did this logic, you know, karma is like, I'm meant to do this, and did I do it right? Or, I see ways to improve. It's the actions and results of actions. But more importantly is what we do in Buddhist mysticism, which is we observe power, our personal power. Everything that we do either gives us personal power or we waste personal power. We either lose it or get it. So if you go to a martial arts dojo and do an intense workout, you could be exhausted and be like, oh I don't feel powerful at all. But by pushing yourself so hard, you gained personal power. You became stronger in your power. Maybe pushing so hard made you physically weak for a little while, until you can recover, but it increases your personal power, because you've pushed it, you've developed your will. So when we work, we work hard. And sometimes we're just sitting there digging and digging and digging, or whatever we do, all this hard work. But if we do it with a strong focus, we gain personal power. And then we say, oh, you know, I gained something from that experience. I got power. I know it was just doing a silly thing. I've got lots of students who make tons of money per hour, right, $200 an hour, or something like that, right? And then they'll come here and they'll dig and dirt. And they notice that they gain personal power. Yes, they have their job where they make a lot of money, but their service here to the Sangha, their Karma Yoga, is very fulfilling. It does something that you can't get from work. So personal power is something that we observe. We observe it in our life. A lot of people are out hanging out with their friends, you know, people in the sangha, they're hanging out with their friends, doing other things, going to the movies, whatever, right? And it's like, that's cool. Nothing wrong with that. But the people who came here today, who did this work, who are sitting here getting this transmission, gain a lot of personal power. Your work for the Sangha, your work for the Dharma, is not something where you get a return on investment. But the power of your work is self-evident to you. You say, I did this, and I did something selflessly. And what do I get out of it? I feel good and strong. That's what we do together. So I'm really enjoying the Bodewoods Work Days. we observe that together we gain greater personal power. Personal power by digging in dirt. It's funny. And we also have our yoga projects. So when we do our yoga projects very selflessly, when we do it impeccably, when we do it we're all in, then our awareness opens. You know, we could be selling protein bars, we could be creating ETL tools for Salesforce, you know, all sorts of things, anything. And whatever we do, when we throw ourselves into it, work on it with impeccability, then we gain personal

0:59:44
power.

0:59:47
Yeah, after understanding that Karma Yoga, functionally, seeing that our actions work properly. It's like cleaning the first attention I Tried to do this and yes, it worked. I choose you do that. No, it didn't work So next time I figure out how to fix it that's cleaning the first attention and then Personal power is a deeper awareness It's the essential awareness of the mystic. And then we start to enter the realm of the advanced yogi, of spiritual discernment. So, often in Zen, they get right to the point. There's a great story. There's, I guess there's three monks sitting together. There's two monks and the master.

1:01:00
Why not?

1:01:01
And the master is sitting there meditating. And one of the monks looks up and sees a Buddhist flag like flapping in the wind. And then the monk says, Oh, the flag is flapping. And then the other monk goes, No, no, no, no, no. The wind is flapping. And then the master looks to both of them and says, The mind is flapping. So, getting to the essence of what is. Someone sees it one way, someone sees it another way. Everybody thinks this is right and this is wrong, this is wrong and this is right. Everyone's That was my polite way of saying it. Everybody has, the self has a very specific idea of what's right and wrong. And it always makes me laugh because someone might be angry at one thing and the person right next to them is like, that's cool. And then there are angry persons like, you're totally wrong because I'm angry. Everybody else is cool with it, but in your mind, in your universe, everything's wrong. So everyone has their rights and wrongs. The rights and wrongs of the self are the definition of the limited self of the ego. When you hang out with the enlightened, they might like have a real strong like, you gotta do this! Like me, I'm like, you gotta work and dig and dirt! That's the best thing! That's right! But if you don't, you're not wrong. So the enlightened, they might have like a doctrine, something they're trying to show or teach, but they're not attached to right or wrong. They're free from right and wrong. In an enlightened view, there's no right and wrong. right. Yeah, in an enlightened view, even things that are dysfunctional, we can see function. Even things that are functional, we can see dysfunction, if there is a the lack of enlightenment. So there's no right and wrong. There's no wrong and right. Or both are each other.

1:04:06
And why not?

1:04:08
So there's an end with a story. There's a story of a Zen master. And a monk approaches the Zen master. And a monk approaches the Zen master and says, you know, I've just taken a sutra class and I've been practicing my zazen very strong, meditation very strong, but I had an interesting experience in my sutra class where I had insight. So I was always going for enlightenment through meditation, but then I saw that there might be a way through the sutras. So which is better for enlightenment? And then Zen Master says, sutras. And he goes, okay, thank you. And then immediately, a new monk, another monk, enters the room and sits down and says, Master, I have a question. I've been practicing my sutras, thinking that's the way to gain, to cultivate awareness. But then I went to a zazen class, and I meditated, and I had a great experience. And guess what happened?

1:05:31
The master says, the way for you is zazen.

1:05:34
Or he says, what is the best way? Sutra or meditation? Meditation. And then the first monk says, huh? Because you just said the other thing was the best. Which is the best? And the teaching is, in enlightened awareness, all is the best. There's just all ways of seeing truth in all things.

1:06:05
Alright, thank you guys for coming to Bodhi with a Birthday. This was really wonderful.

1:06:10
Really nice to kick off the intermediate teachings, which I just kicked off, but then when we meet later alone, it's going to re-tensify. Shakespeare made it worse. to have tonight we have dinner we have Filipino food it's not here yet but it's not here yet midnight what's the ETA on it So this is my new look.

1:07:05
This is good.

1:07:10
So I have been teaching in Europe And I generally either wear like very casual clothes or a suit or very formal spiritual clothes. So I will wear like in my spiritual garb I will wear like a you know like a Chinese you know kung fu suit. So for many of you I wore the Wu Wei uniform many times. That was the first thing. I was like I'm intentional about how I'm appearing. I was like I'm always like this. You guys are like, why is he always wearing pajamas? No, they're Chinese pajamas. And then when I put on a suit, then it's like, that's different. I do that intentionally. So in Europe, I had a very formal, like, monk look. And so, that was cool. It was cool. Like in Paris, they're fine with that. They're like, yeah, people blow up on us all the time. We're cool. Come on. Okay, but in especially Munich, but Vienna too a little bit, they're like, a lot of people would like to come see me because they're like, oh, he looks authentic. Because I look authentic and then they would come and see me and they were like like that the students in Germany filled with smiles like they come in all grumpy they're all like German and I haven't had my beer yet and I'm like, let me tell you about enlightenment. And they're like, wouldn't I have an idea?

1:09:41
I'm like, all right.

1:09:45
And then we work around it. And then halfway through, they start to loosen up. They're like, oh, they're all, cool story. Cool story, Hansel. Okay, so they're like, yeah.

1:10:04
And so they start to loosen up.

1:10:07
And then they become jolly. And then they start acting. Like, you should see it in the beginning. I'm like, I'll tell them a joke. And the Germans are all... They're all... Is that like monk guy something funny no could not have been and then they would loosen up and the last 25% of the Dharma talk there they are way way happier and smiling more than anybody. They're just like, oh yeah! I was like, great, great, great, great. And they keep showing up because they love it. And I say, so we have a weekly meditation class online. You guys need to learn to meditate, meditate every day, and also go through the Enlightenment workbook. And then they're all like, no, no, no.

1:11:14
They're all nine, nine, nine, nine, nine.

1:11:17
And I'm like, ten!

1:11:19
But they wouldn't do it. So I was like, I was like, forget you guys then. Like, if you can't do this, then me coming is not helping you. Like, if you can't practice, then I might tell you, I might make you happy in one evening, right? I'm trying to, I'm trying to create a German garden of Buddhas. And I just have a bunch of got to do something. So I was talking to Samadhi, who's the coordinator and the teacher of the German classes, and we were like, you know, let's totally go for a different marketing angle. Because the Germans who come to see me, they like it, they come, they come a lot. They're like, we're really interested in spiritual stuff, so we want to go to like really authentic spiritual stuff. And so, Sampar comes, he looks cool, but then there's some Swami, and some yogi, and some Rinpoche, and they go to all that stuff. And they go, they love it, but they say, you are so different from us. Like in in our minds we are very fixed in this German way und can't be any other way and then I'm like, guess what, you can meditate now und for you, it's wunderbar und for me it's nix so I was hitting those definitions. But then, lingering in the back of the class, there were some students who were, they were university students. And then I said, if you guys don't come to the online classes, I will not come back.

1:13:34
And then they didn't.

1:13:35
And then somebody reached out to the university students and she's like you guys I saw you guys are super happy like why aren't you doing this and they're like you know what you're right so she sold them on it and they and they came back in and I said all right all right and then and then they said we'll get our friends to come and then I was like okay I'll come back. But the thing is they were like, I don't, you know, I showed up to this thing, my friend invited me, I love what Samar said, but if I just saw that picture of him and stuff like that, the marketing message, they're like, I would never want to go to something like that. So they're like, but then, if you're talking about job yoga, like how to get rid of stress and how to kill people, and the high school stuff, I mean, by kill people killing egos ego assassination not the body and then they were like oh this is so cool so then they were like everything about your marketing now so now I'm, my look is spiritual. Chic.

1:14:56
Western.

1:14:59
That's like a Westerner being spiritual. And that's the way it goes.

1:15:03
So I'm gonna be all like,

1:15:04
hey man, just take it easy. And I think that's gonna be like very acceptable for Europe. But I also, since you guys already know me, this is what you get. So I'm like, oh, okay, we can change. Yeah. Otherwise I'd just be wearing a suit right here. I'm like, oh, there's suit everywhere. The way that you dress is your interface to the world. And it really has a very strong effect on what you're trying to do. I remember I used to work on Wall Street. And when I started working on Wall Street, even though I was a computer programmer, we had to wear a tie. That was the job. You have to wear a suit and a tie. And then, it's like, okay. Now, if you didn't wear a suit, you were oust. But if you wore a suit, you were inst. were very like, like, whatever man. I remember my first job interview when I came back to California after working on Wall Street. I went to a company called food.com and I walked into the interview wearing a blue pinstripe suit and they I'm like I just got here what planet were you on New York and then I interviewed and they were like you guys. And then I was like, okay yeah I've got some dirty... I'll just pull it out of the hamper and we'll come to the party. All right, it looks like the food has arrived. So thank you all for coming to Boney Woods Workday. It's a wonderful, wonderful experience. I'm telling you, There's great power because you guys have the selflessness. There's great power because you guys have the selflessness. So thank you very much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
