0:00:00
It's quite a pleasure for me today to introduce you to my teacher. He's right here. So it's important at a certain time to understand the teacher of your teacher, the spiritual roots of your school. And it opens you up to a lot more teachings. So I'm very excited that we are at the stage where I could introduce my teacher. My teacher's name was Rama, or I guess is because he's eternal. And I often call him Ram Rinpoche. Rinpoche is a Tibetan honorific that means precious one and refers to a person who was enlightened in previous lifetimes. So that's why I call him Ram Rinpoche. In his life, he went by Rama. We often just called him the chief because he was the CEO, the chief executive officer. So mostly we were like, hey, you know, the chief said this, the chief said that. But that's why I say Ram Rinpoche. So Rama was really, truly a bodhisattva. He became enlightened in his late 20s, and he spent his whole life, his whole enlightened life, helping others attain enlightenment, helping others empower themselves and get out of suffering. And he did it in the most outrageously fantastic way. So, meditation, mindfulness, yoga, job yoga, martial arts, scuba diving, all of these things that we do, I learned from my teacher. And it's not even these things. It's all these things in the second intention that is the pathway to enlightenment something that really works for Awakening and My teacher Taught me all of these cool things that I worked on all of them and in the process of me doing my best. I was able to open up to receive his enlightened blessings. So he was able to do this thing in Zen we call the transferring of the lamp. So it's like there's, let's And so he gave me the light and all of his students the light. And then we became the light. And now I can give the light to you. So the thing that's important there is the light. And he had the light. Yeah. And he illuminated all of his students, all of his students. So a little bit later, there's going to be a few of Rama's students, direct students, who are going to come on stage and share with you some of their experiences with Rama, and they are enlightenment. You'll see. Power comes through them. Light comes through them. Rama comes through them, you know, this enlightened power. So I'm not an unusual person. Everyone in our lineage has enlightenment coming through them. We all embody the enlightenment that our teacher has transmitted to us. And that's what I'm doing for you. And by telling you guys about this, it helps you to see what's going on. So, during his lifetime, Rama was known to be a super magical person. He was teaching, I think, mostly in LA, but he was just known. Everyone was like, yeah, there's this guy who can do all these magical things. So I've already told you guys about his martial arts capabilities. So he had this power to just knock you down with one finger or not even touching you You can knock he can knock you down and he would only do it to black belts So there's people who are super strong and trained in this I already told you that he's healed people of cancer He's healed people of things that you can't get healed from or things you can But he healed them very quickly He had the tumo. So some of you guys remember the Karma Lama? I took some of my students. The Karma Lama, he would heal people by taking a little metal thing, spoon I guess it was, and he would put it in his mouth and he would say a mantra and it would come out red hot. And then he would hit you on like some acupuncture point and heal you. So yeah, so Rama had that power to the heat. So sometimes we would go to the desert in, you know, the winter solstice, and at night it gets to be cold, like 20 degrees. And when we were there, he would radiate tumo, and you'd be like, oh, it's like the wind feels cold on my skin, but I feel not so cold. Yeah, I feel like kind of warm inside. So he would be able to radiate the tumor to help us. What else did he do? Lots of things. He had, in the desert, he would do really miraculous things. So you can ask any of his direct students, but he would do things like walk up into the sky. That's pretty cool, right? Anyway, like during his lifetime, he was known for this. I mean, they wrote, people were writing newspaper articles about, this guy says you can walk into the sky. So does everybody who He was known to be a very, very magical person, and he was very magical, and in so many ways. But he was also enlightened. He had let go of the self, and he was very, very, very, very high. And the thing that was funny about it is that he was an American. He was born in America. Now, when I first went to see him, I heard from my teacher his name was Rama, so I figured he was Indian. And then I walk in and I sit down, and I'm like, whoa, that guy's Rama? He's a super tall white guy with With like a fro blonde fro and I was like he looks like Big Bird in a tuxedo So he was wearing a tuxedo and We won't we were wearing tuxedos. It was a formal event and I was like Well, this is this is weird. I thought I was gonna see some Indian guy, and now this guy, this weird American guy comes out. So I was like, this is just totally strange. And, you know, and wearing a tuxedo, which is really strange, right? But you guys have been here long enough to see me. I'll wear weird clothes, right? I mean, I'm wearing weird clothes right now. So, those of you who have been around for a while, I used to always wear my little Chinese tai chi uniform. And then, that was my look. Then I wore a suit. work with my European marketing. This is my European marketing. They don't like suits. Spiritual in suit is bad for them. So I have to look spiritual. And then I'm like, I might as well do that here. And how about all the time? But it's because we learned something called dress for power. I dress this way for a reason, European marketing, right? And my teacher would dress very specific ways for very powerful reasons. So when I first saw him, he was wearing a tuxedo, and I was like, this is truth. And I saw light and I said, this is what I am going to dedicate my life to. I was lucky. Some of you guys have doubts. Ha ha ha. So, you know, back in Japan when Zen started, it came from China, where they called it Chen. And then in Japan they called it Zen. But it started with Bodhidharma, this Indian guy, going to China. And this Indian guy looked really different than the Chinese. They're like, oh, he looks different. But then they're like, that's what And then after a while, a lot of Chinese became Zen masters. And then, okay, a Chinese person could be enlightened. And then the Japanese started to learn Zen in China, and then go back and share what they learned. And then in Japan, it was like, oh, you went to China, what did you learn? Oh, you went to China, and you became enlightened in China, and now you can teach me something." But then Hakuin was born, a famous Zen master. And Hakuin, as a very young boy, he remembered past lives in India. He had visions of a dragon. Very powerful past lives. And he became fully enlightened. And the Japanese didn't believe it. They're like, wait a minute, you're too young, and you're Japanese. You've never been to China, you where the Dharma is open, there will be enlightenment. Buddhist teachings moved from India to Tibet, from India to China, from India to Japan, and enlightened people reincarnate in different places. Rama said it's easier than the long travel. Just reincarnate there. So when I first saw him, I'm like, oh, this tall, white guy. And then he spoke the truth, and he showed me the truth. And his demonstrations of miracles are kind of like, yeah, okay, so if somebody could like, you know, walk up on the air, I'm gonna kind of believe it. Things like that. So, yeah, so, but seriously, like, I was like, he's big bird in a tuxedo. I'm going to show you a video compilation of his so you can see for yourself. But no, he's powerful and beautiful. And in this video, he's teaching. So I want you to have a direct experience of his teachings. He was, it's funny, cuz I tell my students about him, and then they get ideas. They go, okay, and then they can even listen to some of his teachings. But his teachings were living teachings. It's good to see his videos and things like that. But to sit in his presence was just the most amazing thing. Yeah. Indescribable and not conceptual. You can't have a concept of it. It's an experience. It was always a living dharma. And amazing. So he died at the age of 48. So a lot of transmission teachers who do the transmissions, they don't live long lives sometimes because they really, really, really open their auras to work with people. So for him, at the age of 48, he died, and it was as a result of a lot of toxicity. He acknowledged that from working with his students over the years, he had a lot of toxicity that ended up hurting his body. So, but he was also controversial because at 48 he took his own life with some medications, but it was because he had liver cancer and he was at the point where he was going to spend the last six months in a bed just going out. And so a lot of people are, it's controversial because it's like, oh this guy killed himself, but he killed him, he took his own life because his his life was ending and the rest of his life would have just been suffering till the end. But he was controversial that way. That makes people go, ooh, is this a death cult? Nope, no one else. Um...

0:16:30
......

0:16:34
Kool-Aid's in the back.

0:16:36
......

0:16:40
On the way out.

0:16:42
...

0:16:44
You gotta have a sense of humor. Um, but he was also controversial because he was wealthy So he taught all of his students how to have a strong career and how to do yoga and There were many students who made millions tens of millions hundreds of millions of dollars with their businesses And then of course they gave him they were like, I wouldn't have done this if I didn't know you, if I didn't learn from you. And then they gave him lots of money. So he wore nice clothes, drove fancy cars, you know, leered jet. He was well off. And a lot of people, and we're talking in I think you guys are more savvy. But, like, in the 80s when some guy's talking about Buddhism and then he's, like, driving around in a Mercedes, they're like, what is going on here? Shouldn't you just, like, be poor? Shouldn't you be poor? No. So I think that that was something at the time, it was a big confusion to people. Like I knew students when I joined, when I first joined Sangha, who were still confused about that. Why would we want to make money? I mean actually that's how I believed. I was like, I'm gonna be a kung fu teacher and acupuncturist. And I was like, oh wait, why? Now I'm in the Sangha that's talking about making a lot of money and I'm like, I don't make money. A lot of spiritual people don't make money, but he made a lot of money. And in that he confronted us to have to see a bigger picture. But that's controversial. Also sex. He was kind of a libertarian. And he didn't have a problem with sex. And he didn't make us take vows of celibacy. And people think that's weird. Oh, if you're in a Zen monastery, you should be sexless. Yeah, there's those things out there. But he didn't have a problem with it. So I think that he's a very interesting character, just in terms with this being wealthy and, you know, all this stuff. But he, to me, he was the truth. And I really received powerful teachings from him. He was enlightened in many lifetimes. And just because he was born in America this time, you know, if you saw him as some Rinpoche or some Zen master, you'd be like, oh, okay, that fits my description. That's what I was looking for before I met him. I was looking for some... I think I was looking for Chinese Pure Land Buddhism. Tofu. Mapo Tofu. So, anyway. So, he also had, what do we call it, haters. So, thousands of people got to meet him or study with him at a certain point, but he was a very tough teacher. So, if you didn't work really hard You were asked to leave and that bothered some people because they're like I think this and so there was for example one guy who got kicked out and got really angry about it and went into some tizzy and he this one guy, has many websites on the internet saying bad things about Rama. So I don't bring Rama up in the beginning, because I don't want you going and googling and getting the bad things that this one guy is so mad about. Yeah, there's probably people still mad, but this guy is technical. He's like, I learned technology from Rama, and now I'm going to use it against him.

0:21:43
It's pretty funny.

0:21:45
But, you know, that happens.

0:21:47
I remember I went to see the Dalai Lama in Santa Clara. And when I was walking in to the Dalai Lama conference building, I noticed there was this group of Buddhist monks and they had gotten a permit and they cordoned off in their little place where they can complain, and they were holding signs, these Buddhist monks holding signs saying, the Dalai Lama's a murderer! We hate you, Dalai Lama! Down with the Dalai Lama! As Soong and Tenzin know, there's people even in Tibetan Buddhism who are, there's all sorts of ups and downs. They believe in this and they don't want to fight that. And they're all Buddhists, right? Or, this is a great one, a lot of you had met Swami Saswat in Rishikesh. Now this guy is so sweet. When he was 10 years old, he left home, walked up to the top of some hill, and just lived there and became liberated. Just on his own, just completely in nature. And then he comes back down, and he speaks all this beautiful truth, and he meditates, and he's this wonderful, simple fellow. Simple, wonderful, beautiful. And then he had this one woman who was like, you're totally enlightened, I bow at your feet. And then she kept doing that. And then after a while she's all, I'm not getting what I want out of this. So then she got mad at him and she started to slander him and say all these horrible things. So she did that for a while. And then Vivek, one of our friends in Rishikesh said, doesn't it make you angry that she says all these terrible things about you? And he's like, no. And then after she spent years complaining about him, then she comes back and says, oh, I'm sorry, and then bows at his feet again. That's what people do. That's what people do. People go, oh, this is great, until, oh, no. It's like, you know, boyfriends and girlfriends. Oh, you're the perfect person. I love you so much. Then we break up, and then, ah, you're just a jerk. You know, that's what people do. Look at marriages. They go through this whole thing where they get married and they devote their lives together, and then half of them break up. And then lots of them are so mad at their ex. They go from love to hate, love to hate. That's what people do. So I definitely, I you amazing websites and videos about my teacher. I want to share with you the good stuff because there's some, there's a few things out there, some things that say something very negative about him, but it's like one guy, one technical guy who's really, you know, off. But I want to share the good things and I also wanted to give you enough experience in the study to see that this is solid so that you can know for yourself. So we're going to watch a video of Rama. to make a compilation of some of his teachings for five minutes. And it's longer than that. But it's Rama in his own words. He did at one point a series of videos that hardly any of his students saw. And Kali somehow found these and she shared them with us and we were very fortunate to be able to see this. Most of his students have never even seen this. So, and there's, yeah, like, I haven't seen this. So I'm amazed. But I have seen And at the end it shows Rama in in Samadhi and at the end of the video, I'd like you to sit up straight and meditate and Just look at Rama because look into his eyes Even when he's talking look into his eyes. He's not there. There's no one there This is a bodhisattva Okay, so we're going to watch Rama Okay, so we're going to watch Rama Okay, so we're going to watch Brahma.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
