0:00:00
All right, so this is a school of enlightenment for women. And in enlightenment for women, there are inner teachings. It's primarily inner teachings, teachings in the second attention, that work for women. So the subtle physical body of a man. And there are different energies in the second attention that are constructive for women. Tara's gonna come up here and she's gonna have a message for the women. Not yet. I'm just cuing you to come up with your message. Could be a story or anything. Just when we have our little meetings, I'll just bring up one of the older students to say something. So it's important to have just some times where we're together, where I can give this transmission of these dimensions. There are other teachings that are subtle physical considerations that take more time, and when I can find the time, we will go through those teachings as well. But just to be together now, to sit together, is a very important thing. Now, ruthlessness is very important. A lot of times, especially women, allow themselves to be pushed down. And they allow, you know, some guy usually to push them down and they just go... And they could be lots of little things, but those little things disempower you. So, it's very important to be ruthless in your dealings with people. When you're working with people, when you're talking with people, you have to know what your dharmic goal is. And you say, yeah, I'm working on my career this way, or I'm working on whatever you're working on. And you have to be very clear to be strong in reaching that goal.

0:02:49
And you have to start to be aware

0:02:50
of where you have negative influences from people. And when you have a negative influence, you have to be ruthless, and you have to push for your goal. You have to deal with obstacles and enemies. You need to really, really consider what obstacles you have in your life and what enemies you have in your life. And you need to be ruthless. Obstacles, you've got to break through them. What is an obstacle is what makes you strong enough to succeed. When you have an enemy, you have to do Aikido. You can't let someone hurt you. It's bad karma for you to let someone hurt you. So you're on the pathway to enlightenment. You could be enlightened, but you let someone hold you down. Whoa, that's bad karma for that person. We would have never had Buddhism if Buddhism... So Buddha's father was really trying to hold him back. He didn't want him to be spiritual. He wanted him to live the king's life. Now, if Buddha said, I'll just do what my dad says, then we would never hear of Buddha or Buddhism. So, you have to realize that you're on the pathway then there's a tremendous karmic upliftment. And if someone's squashing you, then they're hurting you, and they're stopping you from doing a great thing, and there's a lot of bad karma for someone to do that. So we can't let people get bad karma. This is our Aikido. They're trying to hurt us, we don't let them hurt us. But you have to find a way to do it where you're not harmful. This is where you develop skills, but you have to be ruthless. You can't be ruthless and just harmful. You can't be like, oh, that person's pissing me off, so I blame them and then I'm going to punch punch them. You have to figure out how to be strong, how to forgive, and if you can, how to lift them up. You just being strong and being able to push past their harm and their negativity tells their spirit something. That's a spiritual lesson to them, whether they admit it or not. So that is the Dharma. In this school, especially women, we have to really take a look at our lives. What are reflect on ruthlessness. All right, Tara's turn. We don't have a mic, so just talk.

0:06:03
Yeah. Hi, everybody.

0:06:05
So I just wanted to tell the story again.

0:06:09
Step into the light. I was trying to find some sunscore here. Oh, good. I'm going to put you on the tape, too.

0:06:18
I'll just try to do it again. Well, look, I have one on the tape, too.

0:06:25
What?

0:06:26
We're taping?

0:06:26
Is it like duct tape?

0:06:28
We have a new video recording system with duct tape. Thank you, Kali. to tell a story about me or whoever that was 20 years ago.

0:06:43
So it was on Mount Ham,

0:06:48
I got to spend some time with Samara and we meditated.

0:06:51
And after meditation, we were talking about enlightenment for women. It's always a popular subject.

0:06:59
And I said to my teacher, I said, you know, women can never be enlightened.

0:07:02
That's what I believed. whole self-expression is through man's eyes.

0:07:11
I feel sorry for myself. I guess that's why I'm crying. It was just really a very limited, a very pushed-down, conditioned view of life and women's... My sister is here. So... It will change, of course, but I just don't want anybody to be in that place. Okay. I got it. I got it. I got it together. Okay. And... I don't know. Wait. And Savara said, just listen to yourself, what are you saying? And I said, it's true, that's what I believe. And I said, I just have to see at least one enlightened woman so I can believe otherwise. And of course, all the women in our school, like older generation, Savara's generation, were becoming enlightened, just one after another. and other, the universe is just like, tar, seriously, this, here, here, just no excuse. And so, and I learned that believing in yourself, it's really about overcoming fears, overcoming irrational fears, knowing your fears, and learning how to deal with them and just be Courageous and Just little things like scuba diving or learning programming or Learning how to go to a different dojo and and inspire with people that you don't know and that who might hurt you and believing in your personal power, believing in your abilities, believing in teachings, believing in your enlightenment and your light, in your huge hearts, is what gets you through it. So you just go for it. You just go for it. amazing places in your mind. And of course, geographical locations help too. Starting from California to Hawaii to Thailand, Iceland, Japan, you know, the world is your playground. But mostly you get places in your mind, and I think these places can take you very far. And then you can realize your own power, you can see it, you can feel it, you can share it. And there's nothing like it. So I thank you, my teacher.

0:11:02
It's beautiful. Okay, we're going to sit in meditation together just for a few minutes.

0:11:13
Okay.

0:11:33
Now bring the focus to the navel chakra. the You're welcome. Okay. Okay, very nice, thank you.

0:12:58
the transmissions of power for women on the pathway to enlightenment. When I'm teaching with men and women in the same room, I teach men and women, but there's special transmissions just for women. And I'm quite inspired, so I think I'll try to put on the calendar a way to teach you the subtle physical considerations. I think just for women. And I'm quite inspired, so I think I'll try to put on the calendar a way to teach you the subtle physical considerations. I think it'll be like four or five classes. Okay, thank you so much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
