0:00:00
So tonight I'd like to talk about unity. When things get difficult, hard, when you get out of balance, it's good to take action that brings you into greater unity. When things get hard, when you're in pain, you tend to react and fall out of balance, saying, oh no, I've got to do this to save my life, or to push off somebody who I don't like, or whatever you're bothered by. One tends to get out of balance, fall out of peace, fall out of the heart, fall out of unity, because they're self-reacting. They're going into the ego instead of into enlightenment. Unity is being one with all things, even the things that are difficult. Being one with all things is enlightenment. So I'd like to share the Bodhisattva's formula for unity. They have a unity formula. It's a secret. But they let me in on it, so I'll tell you. So, bodhisattvas always work for unity. They create unity by using this formula. Bodhisattvas are beings that whenever something difficult comes up, they don't run away and say, I'm going to do this for myself, they face whatever difficulty there is. It could be an angry person, it could be hell, they don't run away from anything. When you find yourself running away and reacting, you're falling out of unity. You have to be one with your experience, even if your experience is no fun, if your experience sucks and is painful, you have to learn to be one with that experience. And then you enter into spiritual unity. And then you see that that thing that you were running from, that bothered you, isn't so bad. is coming together. And it could be the opposites, yin and yang coming together. When yin and yang come together, when they're one, they call that Tai Chi. It's not like this kind of Tai Chi. It is enlightenment. So the opposites come together. This is what Tantra is. Tantra is where the opposites are resolved to be one. So unity is a very, very powerful thing. It is enlightenment. It's where everything that exists is one. And you can know that in your mind. I saw a documentary on how they hold them together so they don't sink. It's a great documentary. And it's like, wow, those things are like, these things are as big as skyscrapers, just on the water. And it's about how to hold them together. I mean, the documentary is great. I mean, it was riveting. So, all of us coming together in unity is a way not to sink. We can be a vessel together. That's what's powerful about being in a group. And you know, it's like, we're all powerful, we've got so much going on in life, and together we don't sink. So you being here is a powerful step towards unity, a step into unity, into uniting.

0:04:37
It's very powerful.

0:04:38
I got an Agni Kala joke. What is it when there's two crows together? Attempted murder. That's an Ogbeekala joke. Yeah, so coming together is a powerful thing. It's powerful to be in a Sangha. A Sangha is a very, very, very strong structure of unity. That's why they call it one of the three jewels of Buddhism. So it's really nice. There's two forces in the world. There's the force of unity, but there's also constantly the force of division. And division separates things, breaks things into time and space, into karma, into limitation, into darkness. And this is the experience of the ego, the limited self. It's an experience that is profitless, that is empty, but not the Zen kind of emptiness. It's an experience of waste, of resources, of mind, of attention. It's an experience of separativity. Oh, reminds me of another one.

0:06:21
Okay.

0:06:22
this man, he's stuck on an island by himself for like 20 years. And finally the ship comes by and people get off and they come over to save him. He's like, oh great. And they see on the island there's this little house and then they see these two other churches. And then they say, wow you built churches. And he's all, yes I take my religion very very seriously. I need a church. Then they go, well, what's that one? And then they go, that's my church, my Protestant church. I'm a Protestant. And then they go, what's that one? And he goes, oh, that's my Catholic church. Well, I mean, like, you know, I converted to Protestant.

0:07:09
I don't know if that joke has to do with anything

0:07:13
It just somehow reminded me of that So, unity is the way of the Bodhisattva Unity brings you into wisdom, into love, into light and brings liberation. So this is the way, the Bodhisattva way, and it's a happy path, it's a powerful path. Funny enough, unity brings you to enlightenment, but division could bring you into enlightenment too. That's a different different practice. We could just say, we could divide everything. You could say, oh here, this is real. No, it's not. What about this? No, it's not. You could divide everything into nothing and then that's enlightenment as well. But for our Work on unity because it's kind of fun Unity brings strength You could be a strong individual of course, but when you

0:08:27
ally yourself with

0:08:29
others There's a greater strength

0:08:33
even if they're weaker

0:08:35
Just the fact that you're together. There's a greater strength, but If you're strong individuals, then you're very strong as a group. For example, AppBuddy. So Dharma was a strong CEO. He was good. And he came in and he did a good job. Parvati was a good CTO. She was a good technologist. She did a great job. And then E.J.A. was an amazing salesperson. Now each of them, by themselves, could not have made the company succeed. They had to have each other to be able to build that success. Together, they were very, very, very strong. As an individual, they were good. But they wouldn't have been able to achieve their yogic feat without being together. And it wasn't easy for them to be together. There were quite a few years where Dharma and Parvati were like, I can't work with this person. They went through everything any of you are ever going to go through in yoga. Complaining and and bothered and this and that, difference of opinion. And so we had to work through it all. And then, towards the end, the three of them had nothing but love.

0:10:14
That's unity.

0:10:16
And that's what makes yoga successful. So when you're sitting there having a hard time with your yoga, you're working through it. That's karma yoga. But eventually, you will be impeccable and selfless, and your yoga will be an act of unity. Yeah, so Apati was strong. It reminds me of Hewlett-Packard. So Hewlett-Packard, they were like two strong engineers. And they were both thinking about making a company. And then they were talking, they were at Stanford together. And they were talking and they realized that they each could complement each other to be more successful. So Packard was very kind of focused on sales. And Hewlett was focused on company culture. He's like, no, it's got to be fun. We have to like develop... everyone we work with, there has to be a certain energy, you know. And then they worked together and then they... that that focus that each one of them brought became what they called, in Hewlett-Packard, the HP way. That was the name of their culture. They're like, in our culture, yes, we're very focused on sales, but also we're very focused on everyone having a great time, feeling good together, feeling like everyone is achieving their goals. You get, when you work with other people, you get different angles of looking at things. You're looking at it this way, and they look at it another way, and there's a greater success because of it. You know, Wozniak was working at HP when he, on his own, outside of the company, built the Apple I PC, and then he was like, you know, I signed a contract stating that any invention that I have belongs to HP. So he goes over to them, Hewlett and Packard, and he brings the Apple I, and he goes, I built this myself at home, but it's yours. And then they were like, no, we don't need it. They were like, it's good that you did that, and we want to foster that growth. I think they also hired the guy who created the Canon printers. I think a lot of companies came out of there. They were not territorial. They were like, if you have something that you want to do, go ahead and do it. You know? You want to go and do something somewhere else? Go ahead and do it. So Wozniak had, he asked them to take the Apple I five times. And they were like, no, that's part of their culture. It's like a giving, flowing way. And if they didn't work together, Hewlett might not have had such a strong sales focus. So he might not have been successful in business. But Packard might not have been successful in business or much more limited because he has just pushing people too much or too sales focused. So it's interesting.

0:13:56
Yeah.

0:13:57
So when you're working together, you get higher perspective, or you start to see the big picture. When you're working alone, it's very narrow, you're very much in your head. Reminds me of a story someone told me. He was a Boy Scout, and they were like, his troop leader was like, Sunday we're all going to Golden Gate Park to clean up, you know, collect litter to do a good deed. We're doing this big thing and other troops are coming. So, somehow he got there a little bit early and he was the only one at first and he was like, oh god, I have to do this good deed. This is so lame. And then he, you know, he has a little trash bag and he looks out at the park, and it's lots of trash. So he's like, oh my gosh, this is pointless. So he just goes around picking up garbage and throwing it in the bag, and he's just like, oh, this is a pointless thing. I'm wasting a Sunday. I could be going to the movies or something. And then some of his friends get there. And then he starts walking around with his friends, they're talking about stuff, and then it's a little bit more fun. And then some more people get there, and then his whole troop is there, and there's a bustling activity. And he's like, yeah, this is all right. This is kind of, you know, he's just having the experience. And then these other troops come, and then after a few hours, like he's hanging out with his friends and he looks up and the park is clean. And he goes, wow. He like gets this bigger picture by working together that they did something that was impactful. So that perspective comes, you know, when we work together, we start to see that there's something powerful that happens. Like with that buddy, it started with just Dharma and Parvati and an idea. And they worked on it, and then more yogis joined, they worked on it, more yogis joined, worked on it, grew the company, and then they were able to have a yogic success. So that perspective is important. Unity is powerful because it's greater than the self. The self, you know, it has all these good intentions, but the self is a limited thing, it's defined. When the self goes into a condition where it opens to unity, then there's a lot more support. There's an opening to greater things. So, yeah, because the self is closed. You've got to open your heart. You've got to open your mind. And if you just do it by yourself, there's limitation. You might think, I'm going to go and do something myself, and then it might not be possible. There's too much limitation in your awareness, in your perspective. But if you open to the right sangha, you open to the right things. There's nothing, nothing in the universe you can't do. There was this Taoist hermit. So he had been going around taking Taoist teachings, and then he said, I'm going for enlightenment. And he's just like, I, walks into a cave, and he sits there. He's like, I'm going to sit here until I'm enlightened. And he was like, I'm going to do it. I can do it, because I really want to do it. And after sitting there for years, he's just not having any realization. He has a certain level of concentration, a certain level of experience, but he's not breaking through. So one day, from time to time, visitors would come. One day, four monks come in, and the monks sit down, and one of the monks says, okay, you know, we're going to do this special meditation that our master taught us. It's a meditation on this purple light. And the hermit goes, okay, I'll do it with you guys. And then he has the highest, brightest breakthrough in his meditation. And he's like, whoa. He's like, that was amazing. And then they said, that's nothing. You should meet our master. He's like, our master can tell you things that will make you go much higher. And he says, oh, can I? And they say, sure, come over to the monastery. So he goes with them, traveling, and he really likes them, gets along with them well, goes to the monastery, and then he sits in the meditation hall. The master comes out, and the master goes, okay, we're going to do this kind of meditation. So he meditates, and again, he has this much higher experience. And he's like, wow, it's amazing. And then after the meditation, he goes over to meet the master. And the master goes, the problem with you is you're meditating here. You should be meditating on the dantian, the navel chakra. That's what will give you enlightenment. And everything that he ever learned was that you have to meditate on the third eye for enlightenment. So he's like, that's crazy! And he's like questioning it and struggling with it. But then he goes to dinner with the monks and he has just a great time with them. So he stays for the morning meditation. And then for the morning meditation, he goes, maybe I'll try that thing the master said. So he sits there and then boom he has the enlightened realization that he was always looking for Satori or a Samadhi experience. He merges with the Tao and then he goes okay I think I'm gonna stay here. He's planning to go back to his cave but he's like this is good. With the monks and the master, he was able to have a higher experience. And if he sat by himself, he would have just been heavy and ponderous and struggling. There's a lot more of a flow in unity. It's very powerful. Unity is automatic empowerment. It's automatic empowerment. As soon as you're open to unity, then there's power. It automatically happens. It's like you come here and sit here, there's automatically power. You guys are doing the Sangha thing. But it's true. When people gather, there's a power. And if they have an intention, and they gather, then it's magnified. So, I remember in Shotokan Karate, twice a year they do this thing they call special training where they get together for like three or four days and then they just like work out all day long and it's like intense for them. And one of the famous things that they do at each special training is they stand in tibirach, which means horse riding stance. And that's where you have your legs shoulder length apart and then you bend down and it looks like you're riding a horse, except for there's no horse. And standing in horse stance is difficult. It's quite painful even after a minute. So going up to that training, my sensei said, you should practice horse stance at home by yourself. So he goes, so we're gonna start here in class. We're gonna start just really easy. And we stood in horse for five minutes. And everybody's like dying and then he goes okay now you know when you're at home practice horse and then everybody comes back the next week and I go you guys practicing horse and they're like I can't do about a minute or two and then in class again we do five minutes and we never did more than five minutes and this was our training up to special training. I thought it was interesting. And then it's special training. Our dojo's there and there's like, I don't know, 20 other dojos there. And it's just the big, giant, all the Shotokan people on the coast meet at that place and they're all together for that purpose of intense training. And then magically everyone in the dojo can stand for an hour and a half in horse. Yeah. So that's the power of unity. When like everyone's there for an intent, all of a sudden they could do much more than they thought they could do. It was funny because I practiced about six years of standing in horse for an hour to two hours. So I was very comfortable with it.

0:24:04
Ha ha.

0:24:05
It was funny watching me, me watching them.

0:24:08
They're all, oh.

0:24:09
So, stand in horse.

0:24:11
Yeah, but there's automatic empowerment.

0:24:14
The thing that I was bad at was I was bad at

0:24:16
technology in the beginning. I was like, oh no, learning tech is so hard for me. And if it was up to me, I would have quit. If it was just, hey, go to computer school and learn to be a programmer. If it was just me, I failed out of computer school, and I would have just given up. But since the whole group was learning computer programming, and most of them were way better than me, it was just things that we were talking about. It's like people were talking about things that they were working on. People are saying, hey, what technology are you learning? And people would say, how are you doing?

0:25:02
And I'm like, bad.

0:25:03
And then they would give me like some, they would help me out and pat me on the back and say, you can do it. And eventually I became a very, very strong technologist. But if it was up to me, I would have quit. I just, in my mind, I couldn't do it. Trying didn't seem to be working out. And if it wasn't for the group, I would have never become this awesome technologist. So yeah, just being in unity empowers you. And the Bodhisattva way, this way that they create unity, see the Bodhisattva is there, everything that they do this through the unity formula and it is certain observances but observances that you deeply take to heart. These observances, well there's a So it comes from Tibetan Dzogchen, this realm of teaching. This is a little bit outside of the mind training that we go through in the regular seminar system, but it's very, very powerful. A Tibetan monk goes over to a Rinpoche, this very enlightened Rinpoche, and he says, I want to be a bodhisattva. I'm ready. I'm going to go for it. What shall I do? And the master says, it's very simple. Follow the unity formula. The first thing is that you have to realize compassionate motivation. Two, never do anything for the self. Three, do not push your way. Four, always hold others above you. Five, don't merely look out for your own personal interests. And six, maintain the same love for all beings, for everyone. And then the monk says, that's beautiful, sure, okay, I'm going to do it. I'm going to go out there and become a Bodhisattva. So the monk goes away and practices for months. Then he comes back to the master and says, hey I'm not a bodhisattva. And the master says, okay I see that. And then he says, why not? And then the master says, let's have tea and discuss it. So he says, OK. So they get up and they walk into the kitchen. And in the kitchen, there's some monks doing chores. And the master goes over and takes a teapot, puts it on the fire. Then he says, would you like green tea or black tea? And he says, black tea. He says, okay. So the master starts preparing the tea and a little thing that they would put into the boiling pot. But he's doing it like really slow and weird. So then the monk goes, oh, let me help you. He's like, so here's a faster way of doing it. Now it's ready. Then the master takes it, makes the tea, and then some monk in the kitchen bumps into him and he's like, and he's just like, okay, I can't wait to find out how to fix my, you know, formula, my unity formula. And then the master and him walk outside, they sit down to have tea, and then the master says, now I can tell you why your unity formula doesn't work. It's because you're not practicing it. You're not doing it. I could tell from just having tea with you. We walked into the kitchen, and you didn't have a selfless motivation. I just started doing the tea. If you had a selfless motivation, you would have said, Oh, please, let me do the tea. Let me do this for you. And then, you were doing for yourself. And that means, when I asked you if you wanted to have green tea or black tea, you didn't have any concern for what my interest was. He just said, I like black. Trivially, of course. And so he's like, so that wasn't selfless. And then when I was mixing the tea the way I like to, then you pushed your way on me. Here, let me do it. I'll help. My way is And then, you didn't put the others above you. You had no interest in the other monks. Like, would they like some tea too? And you were just interested in what you wanted. There was a monk behind you who was struggling holding a bunch of bowls and things, and then he started dropping one, so he bumped into you, and you could have turned around and helped him, but you were just interested in what you wanted. You were a personal interest, and you just got bumped by him, and you weren't even aware. And then, above all, you were just expressing love for yourself, rather than any love for other beings. And then the monk said, Oh. So he had gotten the teachings, but he did not put them into practice in every moment. And then that way nothing happened. But from seeing from his own actions and awareness what was going on, then he said, now I get it. And then he was able to practice the formula of unity every moment from that moment on. And then became a bodhisattva and went to like Buddha realm or something. So let's look at number one, the first element of the formula for unity. It is to realize compassionate motivation. Now this is probably the most important one. What does that mean, realize compassionate motivation? So here's the deepest truth of Bodhisitta. Bodhisitta is a power. It's the power of unity. It's the power to liberate someone from suffering. That's amazing. So, if you could have your little fairy wand and go see someone who's like, you know, angry and go, poof, you're not angry anymore. In fact, you're enlightened. Poof! That'd be cool, right? But that's what it is. It's the power to liberate yourself and others from suffering. And that's a powerful, amazing thing. The bodhisattvas realize that, how powerful that is, and then they just go, wow, I've got to do something. So it's like, if you could snap your fingers and end all disease in the world, if you knew that you could do that, wouldn't you snap your fingers? You're like, hmm. I don't know if I like people. No, you would go, you would snap. If you can clap your hands and end all violence, like war or even fighting or even violent thoughts, like if you could clap your hands So, when you recognize the power of Bodhicitta, that it does something super amazing. It's even more powerful than ending sickness or violence. It ends suffering, the essential problem of every sentient being. So when you can recognize the power of Bodhicitta, it propels you. You're motivated. You're automatically moving into action of compassion. So that's the most important one. You gotta see what there is. Long ago, the spring and autumn period in China, this story, there was a kingdom of Qi, and there was this beautiful princess, and it came for the time to find a husband. And there were two countries, Wei and Li, and the kings there had sons, and they said, we want our sons to marry your princess. And they said, if you give your daughter to the other guy, then we're waging war with you. So the king was like, hush, difficult. So he's like, which one? And then Wei and Li got so mad at each other, they started going to war together. And then the king was like sitting there going, how am I going to solve this? Because if I go with Li, then Li and I will be friends, but then Wei will attack, and the others, the other Wei as well. He's like, I don't want war. And then he said, he realized something powerful. Peace is the only way that's going to solve this. But he's like, I have no way to create peace. So then he just started chanting the Quan Yin chant. He's chanting and chanting to Quan Yin, because he knew that Quan Yin had the power of peace. So he chants fully with his heart, and then Quan Yin appears. And then Kuan Yin gives him and his daughter this very beautiful high teaching of Dharma and then his daughter becomes enlightened. And then she goes straight to the monastery. And then so she's happy because she's enlightened, and then she's in the monastery, and then he's, her father was happy. He's like, oh, my daughter is enlightened. This is wonderful. And then as a result of her being in the monastery, the kings of Wei and Li, who are emperors, they said, oh wait, there's no more prize. She's off the board and then they were like all right and then they so they stopped fighting and then they were able to have a good relationship all three states together so yeah when when you recognize the power of bodhisitta there's a powerful motivation and it creates some it creates miracles. Miracles or Dharmic achievements. Yeah, it's really beautiful. So, let's see. The second element of the way of unity, the formula, is don't do anything for yourself. And I'm like, what? Nothing? Yeah, so, and this starts off where when you're acting, you start observing your actions. You're like, what am I doing? Am I doing this for myself or am I doing this for personal desire, an agenda, you know, to be in a higher position. You start questioning why you are doing things and what you're doing. You look at your intent and you say, what's going on here? What am I doing and why? And then you start to reflect on acting for compassion. Now, I remember there were eight students of my teacher who were working on a software company and they were working really hard. Sales wasn't happening and they they're working for years and it was tough and rough. And my teacher said to them, you're working with the intent of desire and anger. You desire to make a lot of money and that's why you're working so hard, but it's not happening because your desire is in the way of success, and then you're getting frustrated and angry. And he said, you must take the desire and anger and frustration out of your work. You have to work without desire and anger. So they learned to watch their intent all the time, like why am I doing this? Why am I making this sales call? Why am I doing all these things? And to do it with no idea of gain and desire, and to do it with no frustration and anger, even when things go horribly wrong. And by really really mindfully working through removing those two elements from their work, then this is what happens in yoga. Then magically the yoga starts to succeed. And then they had a very successful like 50 million dollar acquisition. So they did alright. Yeah. Now, it's hard for people to say, well, I'm eating, I'm eating for myself. You know, you're like, well, I don't do anything for myself. But kind of the secret is to align what you do for the self to be of benefit for others. So, I don't eat for myself. I don't eat for myself. I eat for you. I do. I'm like, I'll eat some lacho, you know, I'll eat whatever. But whatever I eat, I definitely have an intent that I'm not eating for myself. I'm eating to maintain my body, have energy to help other people, to be able to do bodhicitta for anyone that I come across in the world. So you got to look at what you do that you think is for yourself and you can transform it and see how what's empowering for you is enlightening for others or supportive for others. So that's important. The third element of the unity formula is don't push your way. This is a good one. Yeah, so what is your way? So sometimes eventually, I mean hopefully bigger than the self, it might be the self you're pushing your way and then that is very painful for others, but sometimes it's your group, your team, you're pushing your team, you're pushing your philosophy, you're pushing your religion, you're pushing your spiritual practice. And when you're pushing your way, then it makes your ego very, very strong. You're like, my religion is so better. So, yeah, it's like, don't sell your way. Don't sell your religion. Instead of pushing it, you're simply to be it. If others like it, they will be inspired by you being it. Your group, your religion, your way, your practice, your philosophy. If they like it, then they will follow it. But you don't push it. Buddha did say, share the way. It's nice to share the way. But he didn't say, do a hard sell. I already told you the four noble truths. Now, are you going to join up, or are you going to be a jerk?

0:43:30
You're going to be a loser.

0:43:31
You know, it's like, there was a sales manager and he's like, all right, they had a bad quarter last quarter, they missed their sales goals. He says, all right, so you know what we're gonna do? We're gonna have a contest, sales contest this quarter. Now, if you win, you get to be in the contest next quarter.

0:43:56
Yeah, it's funny, you know, religions like to go around selling themselves, like the Catholics go to South America and Africa, and the Mormons go on their missions, right?

0:44:01
And they're all pushing their way. And that's fine for them, it's cool. But if you look at what happens to you, you become stronger in your egotism, attachment to views. So it's better to just do what works for you. Do what works for you. I remember I was on a flight and there was this Buddhist monk, he was, you know, I think he was European, Caucasian. And there's a woman sitting next to him and she's like looking at him every once in a while. And then she goes and pulls out her Bible, and she goes, I want to witness to you. That means share or try to convert you to Christianity. And she's sitting there reading from the Bible and telling him all this good stuff about Christianity. And the monk is just like, he was very polite, because he's a Buddhist monk. But he was just like, oh my god. It was really funny. Yeah, so there's this one time where there's a group of, a big group of Buddha's monks, and some of them were following to the letter the Vinaya's, which are the monastic rules for monks to follow. Like, you know, don't do this, do that, I don't know, whatever. 226 rules of, here's what the monks need to do. And so they were like following it to the letter, and then there was this other group that would go into Samadhi, and then they would say, that rule doesn't apply to me, and you're breaking what Buddha said. And then the ones that go into Samadhi say, well, when you see truth, it's more fluid than the rules. And so they were getting mad at each other, because one was like, oh, you're doing it wrong, and the other one's all like, that doesn't matter. And then, why are you getting mad at me? So they were having all this trouble. And then Buddha comes over. And Buddha sits with the Vinaya's group. And then he deeply, powerfully explains to them Samadhi. And then they understand. It was their way to follow the Vinya's. And then they understood what Samadhi was. And then they weren't mad at the Samadhi monks anymore. And then he sat with the Samadhi monks. And then he explained the power of the Vinya's that was beyond just a rule. And then they understood the Vinya's. And then they understood the Vinya monks. And then they could do different things and not have to break out into two different groups of Buddhist monks fighting each other. This wasn't even Shaolin. They didn't have any moves. They just got pissed off. Yeah, so, that's really good. Pushing away. your way. The fourth element, always hold others above yourself. Now this means when you're dealing with a person, you have to have the intent and awareness of I want this person to feel good, to be happy, to be successful. In our interaction, I'm putting them up. I'm putting them first. So I would rather have them be happy and successful than me. So in every interaction with a person, a group, you know, anything, you want to have this intention that you're bringing light to everybody. Everybody you meet will be empowered and enlightened through the interaction with you. And then when you have that intent, then what happens is the light starts to come through you and it starts to empower people. They have a good experience. They're like, oh, this was positive, empowering, strong. I like this person. And then when you have that intent to give for others to be happy and others to have light, then you become the doorway to happiness, enlightenment, and empowerment. And when you're the doorway to light, you get a lot of light. It's like my teacher used to always say, advance yourself by advancing others. to enlightenment, you let everybody else go ahead of you, you go to the back of the line. But the trick is, as soon as you get to the back of the line, it's the front of the line. Everyone's like, enlightenment's over there. You go, everybody get enlightened. And then you go, okay, I'm the last one. You go, oh wait, there's another enlightenment right here. Then you go to the back again. But that's what the Bodhisattva does. The Bodhisattva wants everybody else to be enlightened before them. Oh, no, no, you have it. But it's true. If you let everybody else go first, then you find yourself right there. So this reminds me of the meditation teachers spent over a year teaching meditation to new students. They, you know, they spent their money getting a place to teach, getting a center, doing posters. They spent their time going around postering. They spent their time teaching. And, you know, their time is pretty valuable. And they're posturing and teaching and spending personal time with people. And they didn't do it for themselves, not in any way. They were always putting their students first, above them. They're not sitting there going, all right, you're in my class because I want to get this out of it. Their only interest was to raise everybody up, to have their students learn meditation, learn mindfulness, be empowered by the Enlightenment workbook, be able to meet their teacher. Everything that they did was to elevate their students. They did a good job. And as a result, which is a natural thing, when they're trying to teach you meditation, then they become the doorway to meditation. And then they go. They sit there and meditate with you, and they have their strongest meditations. Many have reported to me. They've said, wow, when I'm teaching meditation, I have the most powerful meditation. So I'm like, as you should. Good job. Because they're lifting everybody else up. So that's a very, very, very good thing. And we want to do that in all ways. We want to do that in our work, in our play, especially in our sangha. Lift each other up. The fifth element of the unity formula is don't merely look out for your own personal

0:52:45
interests.

0:52:47
Just like that monk, the monk with the Zen Master who wanted to learn the way, he's like, what is the formula? And he's sitting there in the kitchen with the Zen Master, and there's these monks doing all this other stuff around him. He had no care for the chores that they were doing, their interests, right? Or that one guy who was trying to do something in the kitchen to do his chore was having a little trouble. He had no interest in that. He had only interest in what he wanted. So when you are going to have interest in other people, in other people's problems, you have to expand your awareness. Everyone's all like, I'm focused on what I want, but you have to start to expand your awareness and start looking at people and going, what's his problem? Compassionately, you have to say, hmm, you know, I wonder what this person's interest is. I wonder what their concerns are. I wonder what they're dealing with right now. This is where your psychic awareness grows and your heart grows. Because when you start to be concerned about the suffering of another person or the condition or interest of another person, then you start to open your heart, and that's a powerful way to open your mind and awareness. And then you start to say, oh, I understand more. I get it. I see. But usually if you're just sitting there, just sitting here thinking my thoughts, interested in my interests, then everyone else could be going through their whole roller coaster of life and you're still, I don't know, who cares? So you want to expand your awareness. you know, you got to develop having a care for someone's well-being, and you have to talk in terms of their interests. You can't just sit there, you know what I did in my vacation, blah blah blah blah blah blah, and my work, oh, and act in their interest. So the monk, if he was aware, if he expanded awareness, he'd say, oh, that guy needs some help. Hey, let me help you with this. But no, he didn't. He was just all, whatever it is. What do I want? I want to be a Bodhisattva. I want to be a Bodhisattva. Forget all these other jerks. That was kind of what he was doing. So, there was one time where I was going in for an interview at Cadbury Schweppes Global Headquarters, which is in America for some reason. Oh, Global Tech Headquarters, okay. And I was going in for a big, cool contract, the enterprise technical architect. And I had learned this lesson, and I was like, I'm gonna put it to the test in my interview process. So I wanted to get that contract. It was an awesome contract, an awesome opportunity. I was excited about it, and that's what I wanted for me. But then I said, all right, what do I want besides my interest? And I'm like, well, I want to help the company. I want to do a good job for the company, for them to succeed. So before going in, I was like, yeah, I actually want to do a good job so the company succeeds. So I had that, and then I went through an interview process with five different people separately, different people, departments in the company. And every time I sat down with them, I really was like, what is their interest? What can I do to help them? And often I would ask that. I would ask, you know, they would ask me technical questions. I'd give them answers and talk about my background. Then I would come back around to their interests. And I would interview them about what they wanted from a technical architect. And many questions, like not just do the work, but what else do you want to see, and things like that. And then they all had a point of view and things like that. But I also asked them about other stuff. So I saw this one guy had a picture of him on the golf course, and then I somehow brought up golf. And we talked about golf for half an hour. It's funny, when you can talk about people's interests, it really opens them up and makes a positive connection. Or this one gal, she recently had a baby, she just came back from maternity leave, and she had a picture of the baby, so I asked her about the baby, and then she goes, oh, you're going to get this job. And then we talk about her baby for a half an hour. And another guy we're talking about his vacation, you know, things like that. And I had never done this before, having the intent to care for the other person's interest. And I had always been very nervous talking to people. In the interview, I was very closed, but I would answer technical questions. But this opened up a whole new way for me to work with people, and it was really a game changer for me in my career, because then I wasn't at all, ooooh, you can't see me, right? Okay, so, yeah, really, if you take these teachings to heart, it can be a game-changer for your experience in life.

0:59:26
Hmm, okay.

0:59:29
is maintain the same love for everyone. And this is powerful, because you can love your puppy, love your husband until he pisses you off. You know, you can love all sorts of people to varying degrees, love and hate, right? And then you're in a conditional viewpoint. You're in a conditional expression. But if you love everybody, if you maintain the same love for everybody, then you go beyond conditional love. That's unconditional love. And that's a very, very powerful force of Dharma. So, Bodhisattvas, they don't love someone who's poor more than they love someone who's rich. They love them both and they give their best to them. They don't love someone who's sick more than a bad person. You know? The bad person could be doing horrible things, and they still give them the same love as they would give a saint. And that's because they're looking at the deepest condition of all beings, which is that every being is suffering the good one suffering Suffering being good the bad one suffering their stuff too, but the bodhisattva sees that if they can free them of their suffering then That stops the good and the bad and they both enter into liberation being one

1:01:33
with the universe. Unity. Yeah. A good story about that is there were these

1:01:35
monks, I think there's five of them, and one was very ill so they were taking him and they got, there were these thieves or bandits who were just unscrupulous and they went over and started messing with the monks. There was nothing to really steal but they were bad, bad guys. So they come over to the abbot and they say, we're gonna kill one of you monks just because it's funny for us. And then they said, you get to decide who dies. And if you don't decide, then we're going to kill all your companions. And then,

1:02:40
then the abbot is like,

1:02:42
hmm, so he looks at the monks. So, there's this young monk, he's the youngest monk in the monastery. And then he goes, yeah, I don't know this guy very much. But he goes, oh he's filled with so much potential. He's got his whole life ahead of him. He could be the next Buddha. So he's all like, oh no, I can't kill him. And then he looks at the oldest monk, and the oldest monk is like, you know, well into his 90s or something or hundreds. And he's like, he's like, he might die any day. You know, he's very old. And then he goes, oh, but he's such a great, old, wise, you know, master. And I just can't kill him. And then he looks at the sick monk over there bringing to the doctor, this guy is so sick, he might just die. He might keel over any moment anyway. But he doesn't know. He might completely, you know, recover. So he's like, oh, I don't know. I can't figure it out. No, I can't kill him. He could be recovered and then he could become enlightened. And then the other one is his brother. And he's all, I can't kill my brother. Then he's like, and then he knows that they are going to, if he can't choose one, that they're going to, they say they're going to kill all of them. And he's like, oh, see, and they're going, and he's looking at all of them, and he's like, ah, he's like, boy. So he's like, I can't decide. He's like, so instead, you know, take my life. And then the thieves, they were very impressed by that because they thought there's no way anyone would give their life for another person. And they were like expecting the sick guy or the old guy, right? And then seeing that he had, you know, an equal love for all these people in different conditions, and that he would put himself up for being killed, that self-sacrifice was something that really impressed the thieves and then they were they kind of threw down their weapons and said we all were you know we we want to become monks now so it's an unconditional love. And it's a very strong power. So the bandits converting to becoming monks and following the Dharma, they were only able to do that because of experiencing that very powerful unconditional love. And that's the formula, the bodhisattva's unity formula. All right, so we're going to do a meditation where we're going to focus on but this is the transmission of the bodhisattva unity formula Very nice.

1:06:10
So these are very, very powerful teachings. And the important thing is to start implementing them. You have to take a first step. You have to like start, hmm, let me actually think about that. You can't be

1:06:35
like the monk and the pastor with the tea. No, oh okay, cool. I didn't just, I know it, and then where's my bodhisattvaness? The formula of unity is practice or observance, and little by little it leads to tremendous enlightenment coming through. So, it's so important to take a moment and reflect that the transmissions of bodhicitta that you have are something that liberates you and others from suffering, and that's a very valuable thing. It's important to observe in everything that you do. Am I doing this for myself? Examine your intention. And you try to pull the self-interest out of everything that you do. You'll be a lot more happy. or ideas or philosophies or whatever. And always hold others above you. Always promote others. Be the doorway to light and empowerment and happiness for others. Don't merely look out for your own personal interests. Start to expand your awareness and care for others. Say, what does this person need? And maintain the same love for all beings. This means unconditional love. This is the hallmark of a bodhisattva.

1:09:10
So practice. Set your intent to go in this direction.

1:09:12
This is the Tibetan Dzogchen teachings for the Bodhisattva way. It's a complete system of compassion. And what we work on in the seminar series is called the Lojong, which means mind training. I like it because there's a lot of training in it. Because these teachings are super deep. And those are deep too. These teachings are what they call the advanced teachings of compassion. And the Bodhicitta Mindfulness Lojong mind training that we do, that is called the intermediate teachings for

1:10:08
enlightenment and compassion. So this is a very beautiful opportunity.

1:10:13
Okay, thank you so much. Now we have a great fortune, which is we're going to meet next week also and have another intermediate teaching. So nine o'clock next Saturday we'll come back and meet again. That'll be great. That'll be great. Okay, thank you very much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
