0:00:00
Hello from Kyoto. Today I'd like to talk to you about Zen service. Zen service. And I'm not talking about Sunday Mass. I'm talking about how through our work in our jobs we serve other people and the fundamentals of Zen in the art of work for service. Now Japan's an interesting place. As I said before Japanese business has really taken a lot influence and learning from Zen over the centuries. And you know when I look through the world I see how religions have influenced businesses but across the whole country in the culture of business in Japan there's a very strong Zen influence. And businessmen, businesswomen, over the years have seen that there's benefits. They honor and appreciate the Zen teachings for business. An interesting thing I think that's synonymous with this is that business is a very strong supporter of Zen Buddhism in Japan. So for example the great ancient Zen temples. They're places that require a lot of maintenance, a lot of care, and the majority of the support for these temples comes from Japanese business. So Japanese business and Japanese temples, these are places where people come together that have a way of honoring Zen and appreciation for the benefits of Zen. So an example is Taro Hayashi from Toshiba, an executive of Toshiba. He always had an appreciation for Zen and Buddhism, but one day, he eventually decided to take a one-week retreat. So he did a Zen retreat where he learned Zazen, which is meditation. And he found it to be very fulfilling for himself, so much that he brought it back and made his whole department practice Zazen in the morning. So this is just a way where business is able to look at Zen and understand that there are benefits in Zen mind and Zen practices that they bring to their businesses. Zen service is group-minded. So, we always perform our personal tasks perfectly, impeccably. There's strong emphasis on this, you know, great attention to detail. However, when we really understand Zen service, we understand it in that we serve with people for people. So we could try and do everything on our own, but then we would be more limited. We'd be limited in what we can produce and do, and we'd also be limited in our spiritual attention. So in Zen, we have a group-minded service orientation, and that means that we work together and we see that when we have allies, we have sangha, and we work together, that we have greater success, greater power, and greater balance. So, last night I took my students to an okonomiyaki restaurant. And okonomiyaki is like a savory Japanese pancake. They're really good. Anyway, so we go to this restaurant and there's these three women who are preparing the food. These three old ladies. They're, how do you say respectfully grandma? Respectfully grandma. Obaachan? Respectfully grandma. Respectful, no just grandma. Obaachan. Okay, that's it. All right, so there are the three Obaachan who were serving, or they were preparing the food. And we come in there, we take every last table, and there's a line at the door, and we sit down and we order like 50 Okonomiyakis, and they're very, very, The thing that I observed was that they worked with great detail, but they worked really well as a team. There's one back there chopping and preparing the vegetables. The other one in the kitchen is putting together the recipes. Then the other one is coming out, and you So they were just very, very focused on their service, but their service was powerful because they were working as a team. And yeah, there was a power in it and there was a harmony in it that was very, very beautiful. So I could see Zen mind in food service. But I also saw Zen Mind in a construction crew when we were walking down the street during the day. So one thing, when you work in a group, then there's a way where you share your strengths with the group, and then people in the group share their strengths with you, and then everyone in the group is stronger. And then that means that our service is stronger. So this was probably like a dozen construction guys building something, building a building. And one guy was showing another guy how to put a fitting on a pipe. And I said, ah, look, this is an example of that. Very mundane example, very simple example, but it's an example where in a group, if the guy had tried to figure it out by himself, how to do that fitting, it might take him a long time. He might do it wrong, and the construction would be defective. So this is just a very, very simple way of seeing group helping, but really it's a very powerful thing. It's not only knowledge transfer and knowledge creation, but there's actually a sharing of consciousness, a sharing of what we call Zen spirit. So when we're working together for the service of others, then we start to develop this spirit where when we help each other, a light, a spiritual luminosity comes out of us to the other, but then it reflects back to us. And then we see this light and then this light makes our whole group brighter. So in Zen, they have a saying for this, it's called the transmission of the lamp. And this is to say that a master has a lamp that is lit. And a student, a disciple, their lamp is not lit. So the master lights their lamp, shares the light of Zen, And then that person is able to go on with that light. So this is the transmission of the lamp. So when we work together for the service of others, there's a special transmission that we're constantly giving each other. And it grows and grows and grows and becomes something magical. So Zen service is magical service. It's a very mystical mystery, but it's something that you can experience by following the teachings of Zen. There's a great film that shows Zen service and this transmission of the light. The film is called Ramen Girl, and it's about an American girl who comes to Japan and becomes interested in learning how to make ramen. But she takes it very seriously and she starts to study with a ramen chef. And there's a magical quality to this film. So I highly recommend you watch Ramen Girl. ramen girl. It's really fun. I mean, it's actually a very funny movie too, it's very comedic, which is really good, because when you're working in Zen, it should be fun. There's a fun, happy spirit to how we work together. You know, I've lived with many Zen masters over the years, all of them Scotty dogs. But they had learned a very important Zen lesson, which is how to play together, how to be together, and the way that they're together is they're just playing and having fun. So in Bodie Woods over the years, I think we had at one time eight Scotty dogs, Scottish Scottish Terriers there, and I would just watch them play and they're just, they had the right Zen attitude. So I tell my students this all the time, that this is really important, playing together, or this is what I call Zen play and not work so much, because there's a spirit to it that is very, very, very fun. Now, yesterday we went to a famous Zen temple called King Kakuji. King Kakuji is this beautiful, beautiful, wonderful place and in King Kakuji I saw the maintenance crew and they were sitting there pulling out little weeds, meticulously pulling out these tiny little weeds in some grass and I was watching them and the landscaping there is just completely gorgeous. It's wonderful. And they're sitting there, focus, focus, focus, but every once in a while they would look at each other and have a big smile. So they had that spirit. They're doing something that many of us would consider very, very difficult manual labor, but they had that Zen spirit, that Zen happiness. And in another temple we went to yesterday, we went to Kenenji. In Kenenji, which is the in Japan. There's one room where the panels on the room are paintings of monk children. They're like monks, but they look like little caricatures of children and they're playing together and they're just having a fun time with the sutras and running around the Zen temple. So all the panels on the wall show this happy way of working together, being together. And one of my students had a big realization there. He looked at this and he said, wow, this is the first Zen temple. And look at what they have. In one room they have dragons painted on the wall. In the other room, they have the children. And he said, he had this realization, he said, wow, that stuff you talked about, it's a real big deal in Zen. And I said, yes. So, you know, working together in a happy way is very important. You know, in Zen, there's really happy, good, positive feelings. We look at the outer aspect of Zen and there's the monks meditating and you know everyone thinking things too hard and you get these you know weird austere Zen koans like you know how many Zen masters does it take to screw in a light bulb and actually I solved that one and the answer is the plum tree in the backyard. See that's Zen, right? It's like these quirky things that people go, what does that mean? Hmm, oh, let's ponder it. But besides all the the austere practices, what they actually drive you towards is a playfulness and a happiness and a great joy. So, you know, in Zen service we can see it a little bit more directly when we put it into action. So for example, there was Mitsubishi. In Mitsubishi, we can see that in this way of a higher ideal of work, we can have a different experience. So a higher ideal of work would be something like honor. So in America, in the West for the most part, people don't really have a lot of focus on honor. But a lot of things that we learn from in the East is honor. So this story of Mitsubishi is a story of a higher ideal, which is honor. So Mitsubishi was working with a very large construction company in the U.S. The construction company was buying things from Mitsubishi. And the American guy says, oh yeah, you know, my father used to work for Mitsubishi. And then the Mitsubishi executive is all, oh really, that's strange. He's an American? Yes, yeah. And then he's all, when? He's like, you know, 1941, which was during the World War II. So during World War II, a lot of the POWs, prisoners of war from America, they were sent to be laborers for Mitsubishi. So Mitsubishi gave them just really long days of work and really hard tasks, really bad, you know, arrange something. So he and other executives from Mitsubishi Japan went to America, and they went and had business meetings, of course, but then they were able to apologize, and it was a very beautiful thing. And their apologies were happily accepted. So in our work, of course, we gain material success. higher ideals, then we have a brighter spiritual experience. And ultimately, in Zen service and Zen in the art of work, we work for love. And it is a thing that comes from our practice. At first you say, work for love? I don't know. You know, I kind of like doing my work, but Zen in the art of work is something that exposes a profound love and it's a universal love. And Zen service is a way where by serving others, by caring for the person you're serving more than you care for yourself and doing a very impeccable job, then you can come into this spiritual awareness of love. And that reminds me of what makes Subaru a Subaru. So there's currently an ad campaign that says, Love, that's what makes Subaru a Subaru. So that was very interesting interesting and I looked into it. The CEO of Subaru wanted to change advertising companies. He wanted to have a more authentic Subaru message and not just snazzy, you know, things and no gimmicks. And so he gets this new firm and they interview him. And he, you know, he over the years, over the years, developed greater care for his customers and for his employees and for his work. So he, when he would describe, you know, everything in his work, they'd say, so what do you think about this? And he's all, I love that. He's like, I love my customers. I love my employees. I love every aspect of the work. So after interviewing him, then they were like, okay, we're going to make this, you know, not a gimmick, because it does sound, it could sound, you know, kind of tongue in cheek, but it is actually very authentic to Subaru. So love, it's what makes Subaru a Subaru." So little by little, he grew a care for doing his work selflessly. And that's very, very, very Zen. And that's what you learn through Zen service, is you learn how to help people and grow awareness and care for them. And really it's developing love and compassion for people. Now how do you do this? Well, you start with what we call selfless service. And this is seeing that in your job, you do things for the benefit of another. So it might be you're helping out a coworker. It might be you're helping out a customer, and it might be that you're building your product selflessly. So the things that you do selflessly, they expose a greater awareness of spirit, a greater awareness of love. minute a day practice to learn Zen service, try to find a way to be selfless. Maybe one thing a day in that one minute where you say, okay, I'm going to be selfless. You look around and you see someone who needs a little bit of help, you help them. Or you try to do your work in the most selfless way. When you are doing your work for the benefit of others, without the welfare of yourself in mind, then you start to develop that selflessness. And in that selflessness you see great light and Zen. Okay, thank you so much. And in that selflessness you see great light and Zen. Okay, thank you so much.

0:21:11
.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
