0:00:00
Hey everyone! Did you guys have happy dives today? Happy diving? Okay. I'm very glad. Alright, we're going to have our sunset meditation. So we're going to meditate for about a half on the third eye. So

0:00:32
I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. Okay. I'm going to go ahead and start the video. Thank you. I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. Okay. I'm going to go ahead and turn off the camera. Okay. I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. Okay. I'm going to go ahead and get my camera. I'm going to go ahead and get the camera. Q. Sir, I have a question. So, thank you. I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. Thank you. I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. I'm going to go ahead and get the camera. I'm going to go ahead and get started. I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. So I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. Okay. I'm going to go ahead and get started. I'm going to go ahead and get started. Thank you. I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. Q. Sir, I have a question. I'm going to go ahead and get my camera. Okay. I'm going to go ahead and get my camera. I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. Okay. I'm going to go ahead and turn off the camera. So, I'm going to go ahead and get my phone.

0:25:22
Okay, wonderful. It's so beautiful meditating here. Such an amazing place. Sunset meditations Alright, so, I'm going to continue with my students saying stuff at you. Let's see how it works out. I remember when I was a fairly new student, we had moved from California to New York and the first I think six months we had tech classes and Jana, Jana Senior, was our computer programming teacher. He was teaching us C programming. And then we had another six months of learning Oracle database management system. And there were a couple of teachers teaching Oracle. So we had continuous tech classes in between our satsangs with our teacher. students to become a computer consultant. And so I was, you know, a little bit more successful in my career earlier on than others. At a certain point, Rama asked me and a couple other ST2s to teach technologies that I guess the older students weren't doing. So I was doing Microsoft Access back when it was like pretty new. There was another student doing Visual Basic and another doing Power Builder. And so I had a month where I got to teach the ST2's tech, which is pretty funny. They're all, let's get that guy who flunked out of the computer learning center and somehow is going to teach us. Anyway, so Rama took the three of us because we were going to teach. And he said, it's not about you, it's about them when you're teaching. And that's a very, very important thing. Like if you know your computer programming really, really, really well, and you're trying to teach people, if you're just going super techie and all into what you know, and sure, you know it, but you're not conveying it, people aren't really learning it, then you're not doing a good job as a teacher. It's not, so when you're teaching, it's not about you, it's about what you're conveying to the group and what they're getting from your teaching. So hopefully when my students are up here teaching, they're conveying something. They're not just sitting there going, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me. They're conveying something powerful, something about truth. Now, this is the case also for every student, because from time to time we share our experiences with each other. And so if I say, hey, you know, you over there, come over here and tell me about your experiences in mystic scuba diving. What's your highest experience on the trip? Then you're going to get up and you're going to say it in a very clean way, in a selfless way, and when you do that you actually convey the light and power of the spiritual experience. So if you get up and you're just too much in self, then you're just going to seem like a self, and people will be bored, and no one's going to get anything out of it. you start saying just very cleanly what your experience was, what you experienced. It's all about you, of course, because it's your experience. But when you say it in a clean way then the power and light of the experience comes through you. So this is what we share share the self, my idea or I'm cool or anything like that. But what we're trying to share is if it's technology, it's technology. If it's a spiritual experience, it's a spiritual experience. If it's a spiritual teaching, it's a teaching. But anything that we have, we authentically bring it through in a clean way, selflessly. And then that way, it's not about us, it's about them. It's about the person that we're talking to, the group that we're talking to, trying to share technology so they learn it, so that they gain something from it. Trying to share a spiritual experience so that they can feel it, they can understand it, they can see it, they can see the light and power of that experience. So when we're together sharing we're always sharing in a selfless way to benefit our Sangha. Alright, well, whoever's coming up next... Oh, okay. How about you?

0:31:39
So our lineup of people speaking tonight is Ajna, who's going to give a Dharma talk on unity in yoga. And then Patala is going to share the mystic scuba exercises for tomorrow. EJ and Viveka are going to briefly speak about scuba logistics. And then Atman has some comments about Star Wars and other important things. And then if Ajahn has any closing remarks he'll come back. So, Ajahn.

0:32:10
Hello. Can you guys hear me? Hi. Well, I prepared something and then Sambara gave his speech speech and now I don't have anything to say. The subject for tonight is unity in yoga. And that's an interesting subject because I believe the word yoga means unity or union. So it's the unity of unity, I suppose. When we talk about yoga, we specifically So, the subject really is unity and karma yoga. We practice karma yoga generally as building businesses, building companies, building, that will bring light into the world, that will help us and help our fellow yogis learn something spiritual, learn something about their spirit, learn about light, about truth. So we use yoga as a tool or as Raja mentioned yesterday as a vehicle, a vehicle to realize truth. So, interestingly, I suppose one of the major, if not the main point of yoga is union, is working together in harmony, in the spirit of cooperation, to achieve a goal that we could not do alone by ourselves. And I've had the great fortune, privilege to have participated in many, many yoga projects. And I've learned a few things along the way in those projects that hopefully I can convey and share with you guys tonight. The first thing I wanted to share with you guys is that in all of my yoga experiences I have found that the thing that people struggle with the most in yoga is cooperation around a common goal. Which is funny, because that's the whole point. But, you know, in theory it makes a lot of sense. We're like, oh yeah, we're going to work together, it's going to be fun, we're going to learn some stuff. We're going to make a million trillion dollars and It's going to be awesome, and then When we actually get to work We encounter all kinds of issues

0:36:14
difficulties

0:36:15
Disharmony we disagree with with what somebody else on the yoga team is doing or we don't like this or that or the other thing about the yoga or we like the concept of the yoga but we think the yoga leads are doing a bad job or not going after the goal or the vision correctly or not communicating it correctly. There's a literally a million things that we can find in yoga that are problems. We can always do fault finding in yoga is to remember to get along. I tell my yogis on Enzo

0:37:38
that

0:37:39
they always have a list of priorities a list of different things that they should be working on but the highest priority everybody's job on the yoga the highest priority is to stay positive about the yoga that's your one job. Some yogis, some people come into a yoga project and they can contribute a lot to it. They have a lot of skills, they have a lot of personal power, whatever, and they're like, yeah, I can do this. And some people come into yoga and they don't have those skills or they don't have a lot of abilities or they feel disoriented or a lot technically or hard skills to contribute to a yoga project successful more than anything else. Of course look for things that you can contribute, but if you have a lot of doubts and frustrations and criticisms and judgments about the project or your fellow team members or whatever it is, like I said, cooperating teammates. So this is something that we, I think we don't really learn about in any other place besides yoga. Sure, in our professional careers, in our day jobs, we learned how to to a certain extent but the difficulty with practicing yoga in a day job situation is not everybody else in your day job situation is practicing yoga. So some people are there just to collect a paycheck, some people are there just to get power over other people, you know, there are a lot of, I guess, dimensions of motive in professional career situations. So in yoga, that's the one of the few places, if not the only place, where we really have the chance to work with a group of people together that are really sincerely trying to bring their best into what they're doing, into their contributions to the project, into the, you know, towards the overall goal of the project. And that's one of the reasons why yoga is so tremendously powerful, is because if we all bring our best to whatever it is we're working on, then it create, it amplifies the energy that is created or the energy that we draw through us and that we put into the yoga. So even though it may seem like we have small teams and we're like trying to create products that contribute with other companies that have you know tons of funding and tons more resources, tons more people, tons more connections. It seems always as if we're the David to the world's Goliath, in a way. But, as they say, the devil is always in the details. And if you take a look at some of those other companies so much more well suited or more well fortified to accomplish a goal, you'll find that none of those people or very few of them are truly practicing yoga, are bringing their best, harmony with others. So stay positive, right? And cooperate with others on your yoga team. Another thing that I think that people really struggle with in yoga is communication. And the reason I say this is just because I recognize that a lot of times when we see disharmony or problems or conflicts or difficulties in yoga, it's because of miscommunication.

0:44:05
So, you should be able to communicate selflessly and positively with your teammates in yoga.

0:44:14
So this is something I find extremely important. And Mandala actually spent about 20 years drilling this into my head. I hope it's starting to sink in. It's to be gentle with people to be gentle with your fellow yogis you know you may have some criticism or some constructive feedback for others on your team or people that you report to or people that report to you but the way presentation is everything the way you present it to them will either create a positive effect or a negative effect. So you could have some really important criticism for someone on your team, but if you don't present it and position it in the right way, they won't them and then they'll instead of reflecting selflessly and objectively on the feedback what they'll do is they'll have a reaction and a reaction as maybe some of you have experienced A reaction could make or break somebody's whole career on the path, career in the school. One reaction. I've seen students quit the Sangha over reactions in yoga. That could have been avoided. So when you communicate with people, first of all, communicate with people. Sometimes even very new yogis struggle with this. They are like, oh, well, I didn't know how to do that, so I didn't do it. Or I didn't want to do that, so I didn't do it. Or, you know, whatever, whatever happens, whatever the reasons are, it's important to communicate in yoga. Softly and gently, I have had several experiences lately where within the Sangha, in yoga and outside of yoga where I feel like people are definitely doing their jobs, people definitely have roles and responsibilities and they're doing their things. But I think maybe the inclination sometimes is for people to sound a little authoritarian or heavy-handed with their direction or their corrections or the things that they're, you know, with their goals. So an analogy I made the other day, I was talking to someone and I was like, so if you order a pizza and the pizza delivery person comes and kicks your door down and gives you your pizza, well, they're still doing their job. But now you have a whole other problem, which is your door has been kicked down and you probably forgot all about the pizza. when we communicate try to just be gentle with people and also communicate you know if you have an issue I in Enzo on my yoga team I always tell people I'm like if you have an issue if you want to talk to me about yoga if you think that I'm doing something wrong or one of the leads is doing something wrong, or someone on your team or on another team within the team is doing something wrong, first is to communicate with them directly about it in a dispassionate, calm, constructive way. for whatever reason you don't feel comfortable directly addressing you know the person that you're having an issue with then communicate to the lead of either your sub team within the yoga or with the lead of the yoga in a private private, offline manner. So we never want to argue in front of a big group. In my opinion, although yoga discussions, yoga conversations can get pretty heated. I promise I only have about two more hours. Yoga conversations certainly can get heated, but I have a policy, and this is really actually almost the exact speech that I gave to Enzo when we kicked off our yoga, is if you have an issue, talk to the person that you have an issue with, try to work it out with them offline. If you can't do that, escalate to the yoga lead or your team lead, and schedule a one-on-one with them or something where you can talk about and talk through the issue without blowing up about it, without it becoming like an argument in front of a big group. You know, we don't want to create conflict in yoga. So, you know, even if you have a complaint or an issue or something in yoga, of course, always the goal is to resolve it. We don't want to just attack other people or fight with other people. We're always focusing on working towards a goal, working the problem, or working the solution as we've recently begun saying in the last 10 years. We never want to just be confrontational for no reason. Or really, we never want to be confrontational. Sometimes we need to say something that's hard to say to someone else. But in those instances, we want to do it as constructively and gently as possible without causing harm, harmlessly, harmlessness, yeah, harmlessness in yoga. Another aspect that's important is, again, we talked about coordinating with your teammates, and that means if you have ideas about what the yoga should be doing, or opportunities or things that we should do in yoga or shouldn't be doing in yoga. Don't just go start executing your ideas without letting anybody know or letting anybody you know without involving people. If you have an insight or an idea about how to change or alter or improve a yoga structure or policy or whatever, talk to others about it and coordinate with them because they might have some additional ideas and insight that you don't about whatever it is that you think will improve the yoga. And if we all just start doing what we think is best without coordinating and communicating with others, then it's, then we're just a bunch of cats running in different directions. Right? And the whole goal of yoga is to work together. And to learn how to work together. That's not the whole goal. I don't know. I think there's like a hundred different whole goals in yoga. But definitely learning how to work together and coordinate together towards a common goal How am I doing on time?

0:53:48
Okay, that's it. Thank you Ajna. Good evening everybody. I'm Patala and I'm going to introduce to you the next two mystic scuba exercises and getting a chance to enjoy it because it's really beautiful and healing and helpful. The water dimension is a really good place to practice these exercises. It's a very good conductant of energy. So it's very different to practice these things on land versus on water and just kind of notice that. So with that I want to segue into the next couple exercises. So we've been doing a lot of self-healing, a lot of healing, relaxation exercises and now we're gonna do something a little more technical and it's based on an advanced Taoist meditation practice for health and enlightenment So it's it's good for healing And balancing energies, but it's good for preparing you for these beautiful meditative states. And it's called the orbits. So the orbits is basically an exercise where you move energy around your body on the midline. So this is, so I'm moving my hand here. This is the midline of the body, okay? So I'm kind of moving energy in this orbit around the midline of my body. Okay, so the first exercise is called the microcosmic orbit. And we begin by focusing on the navel and breathing to the navel. So inhaling. And then exhaling down to the root chakra, the root chakra on the midline. All the way, exhale all the way. And then we inhale, and then as we inhale, we imagine the energy moving up the spine all the way to the crown. And then we exhale again all the way down the midline, the midline on the front the torso. So this is the microcosmic orbit and just practice this on eight breath cycles. Okay? So this is an ideal exercise to practice when you're negatively buoyant on a sand patch or if you're good at hovering and you can, you have good hovering, then you can do this while you're neutrally buoyant as well. Now, try that out and see how it goes. If you get the hang of that and you like that, next is the macrocosmic orbit.

0:57:20
Okay?

0:57:21
So, this is very similar. So we begin by focusing on the navel, breathing to the navel. Exhaling down to the root chakra of the torso. And then inhale again. Same thing up to the crown, except when we exhale here, the full exhale cycle is going to be coming down and then coming down the sides of the arms, the sides of the arms and then the undersides of the arms and then the sides of the body and then the sides of the the legs and down to the feet. And that's a full exhale. So again, I'm exhaling down, down the side of the arms and the underside of the arms and the side of the body and then the side of the legs down to the feet. And then I inhale up, focusing the energy on the inside of the legs up to the navel chakra. And then I begin the same thing again. So from navel down to the root, up to the crown, down to the sides, and then down to the feet, and then the inner side of the feet to the navel. So I know that was a lot, but have no fear. I'm gonna post this in the Slack channel so that you'll have the instructions and try this out tomorrow and see how you feel. I see a question here. When you do the microcosmic orbit. So the microcosmic orbit. Oh, the macro. Yes, yeah, it's both sides. It's both sides of the body at the same time. Yes, so I'm going to table these questions and we can talk about it in Slack. And I think from here, I'm going to hand it over to Vizica and Ejea.

0:59:35
Congratulations for everybody who completed their open water course today. So the advanced open waters still have to do their night dives and or deep dives. Some of you already did the deep dive today as I heard. I would like to ask to watch out for slack to communicate about the next steps about Edmunds Open Water Certifications. And I ask the Open Waters to stay afterwards for a few minutes so that we can give you your certification card. And tomorrow we'll have a twilight night or what dive? It should be a night dive but because we have the movie at 8 or 8.30? 8.30 right? So we have to do it a little earlier but it will still count as a night dive and We'll post in slack Which dive site at what time we meet and the J and I will be there and Everybody can come who would like to do the night dive and their dive team don't go for it Make sure if you are on advanced course then come and do the night dive And they will also have rescue course. I don't know if you, Jay, want to say a word or two. No, okay, everybody knows what to do. So tomorrow, everything else goes the same. Morning, deep dive, then shallow dive, and we'll meet for the twilight dive, whoever comes. Thank you. And that's it, thanks.

1:01:37
And then after the night dive, we're

1:01:38
going to go to the movies. We'll meet at the Empire Cinema at 8.30 PM to watch Star Wars. The tickets are already paid for, so you can just show up. And they know we're coming. We have the whole theater rented out. I'll send directions on Slack. But if you've never been there before, maybe try to carpool with someone or follow another car, because you have to take a dirt road off the main road, and it's a little tricky to find. There's a little Thai restaurant in the movie theater, but unfortunately they won't be able to accommodate us for dinner tomorrow because there's too many of us. So if you want to bring a snack, bring a snack or have dinner before the movie. Any questions?

1:02:31
It's not going to be open air. It's the same place where we were last year, but they have

1:02:36
some technical difficulties and we'll be at their indoor new theater. It's very close to Captain Don.

1:02:50
Yes. Thank you.

1:02:53
All right.

1:02:56
Thank you very much. All right, everybody.

1:03:00
Beautiful evening out here. Thank you so much. Have safe diving tomorrow. And practice your microcosmic orbit. These are great exercises. Alright, fantastic. Thank you so much. Have a wonderful evening and a wonderful day of diving tomorrow and then tomorrow evening we get to see Star Wars. tomorrow evening we get to see Star Wars. I'm so excited. Alright, thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
