0:00:00
you you Hello from Japan. I am in Japan.

0:00:20
I've taken some students here at this time to teach them about job yoga. So I'm very excited that I'll be teaching you about Zen Buddhism and job yoga. But let's begin with meditation. So we'll sit for three songs. One song on the navel, one song on the heart, and the third song on the third eye. Let's begin.

0:01:42
Oh, so so so Oh so the the the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Thank you. Oh, so So Oh, so Oh, ♪ ♪ the the the the the the the the the the the Oh, the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the the the the So, don't worry, my American students. You come to the Cowell Theater, and I'm not there. I'm just here on the screen. But don't worry. I'm just here on the screen. But don't worry, this is an esoteric teaching, so the fact that I am thousands of miles away means nothing. You will have a Kundalini coming out of the screen. since I'm here in Japan, and I have some students we're learning about Zen Buddhism. So I'd like to share with you Zen in the art of work. So Japanese Zen Buddhism has a strong tradition of what they call practical Zen.

0:10:48
It's applying the spiritual techniques of Buddhism to practical things like work. And this has been a tradition for centuries that has influenced society. So Japanese businesses are really ingrained with this Buddhist philosophy of work as spiritual practice. So at the heart of every Japanese business is some Zen fundamentals. And it's not like new agey stuff, like be one with the emptiness of your bank account. It's really things from Zen Buddhism that they've really taken to heart and they've centuries that these fundamental practices are things that helps their life, it helps their business. So you know there's things like in Zen there's impeccability, there's a strong focus on clarity, there's a focus on efficiency. So these are aspects of Zen that have made their way into Japanese business. So, you know, there's this old Zen saying, before enlightenment, chop wood, carry water. After enlightenment, chop wood, carry water. And this means that in activity, in work, there's the mundane and also the enlightened. So when you're doing work, you can do it in a way where it's just work, but also when you're doing work, you can do it in a way that is enlightening. So this is something that is part of Zen in the art of work. It's a way to see something that might be a mundane task, or a task in work that you would say has nothing to do with spirituality, and it's a way to see within it that there is spirituality. I remember one time I was with a Zen master And he was saying, I teach my monks to have a strong attention. So they might be out in the yard gardening, however, they have a strong attention, just as strong as maybe somebody in Silicon Valley as a computer programmer. So he says, even though they're working on simple things, they work on it with a strong attention. Now while he was saying that, we were sitting by the window and I was looking out into the garden watching one of the monks and the monk is like walking around, you know, doing things and while he's saying that, the monk goes over, he's going to pick something up and he hits his head on a low branch of a tree and then he trips over a rake and then he falls into the koi pond and then and looks at it, he goes, still working on it. So, you know, this is what we do. Whether it's a mundane task, like gardening, chopping wood, carrying water, or if it's a task like computer programming, all, any kind of work, any kind of activity, can be done in a way of Zen. So Zen and the art of work is really synonymous with job yoga. So this is something that in Japanese practice we can learn from in our yoga. We really do include it in our yoga. Zen concepts of introspection, like internal reflection, these have been things that Japanese businesses have really relied on in a very profound way to have success. So in the West we have a certain way of doing things. But in the East, there's another way. And there's power in the Zen way as well. So, for example, Honda, the car company. In the 80s, they started to... sales started going down in the domestic market on their Honda Civic. So they were really losing to the competition. So they knew they had to do something, and the executive team got together, and they couldn't figure out what to do. So then the CEO, he just sat alone, and he was really deeply pondering. So he was like, he said, who are we? Who is Honda? He said, what is Honda? And he started to say, is it just the Honda Civic? Because at first they were like, how are we going to fix this Honda Civic problem? And he started really asking deeper and deeper questions, like, who are we? What is Honda? And this is very similar to, you know, Advaita or Yana Yoga, where a yogi will ask, who am I? Am I this? Am I that? And find that they are nothing, right? So he asked these deep questions and he went deeper and deeper and deeper. And he got to the point where he said, we're not just the Honda Civic. And we can be anything. But to be different, we have to change. So he said, okay, I'm gonna do something different. He hired a whole bunch of new engineers right out of university. And he said, okay, you guys are gonna design a brand new car. And the old experienced engineers, he just had them continue to work on the Civic, but he put this new team in place, and then they created, you know, they said, what do you want us to do? And he said, just create something. And they created something brand new, and it was called the Honda City. And for the domestic Japanese market, it was a huge success. And he was able to come up with this insight from really deep introspection. This comes from spiritual observation. Now, we can learn to work really well and be strong and capable in work, but if we don't do that deep introspection, then we don't have a spiritual balance. So you might be, you know, in the West we have some people who are really great at their work, right? But in Zen, in the art of work, we look to that spiritual insight, greater consciousness expansion, and then we gain a beautiful kind of spiritual balance from that. Long ago in Japan, there was an archer. He was a champion. And he heard that there was a Zen master who was also an archer. And people would say, oh, the Zen master, he's really good. And the archer, the champion, he chooses a target far, far, far away and he hits a bullseye with the first arrow. With the second arrow, he splits the first arrow in half. And then he says, okay, come with me. And he's like, oh, alright. So they walk away from the target. They walk up this mountain, and they come up to this, to the top of the mountain, and there's a ravine. And there's a log laying across the ravine, and it's kind of like, the log is not too thin, and it looks old, and it might break. And, you know, the ravine goes deep, deep, deep, deep, deep. It's a huge chasm going down. And the Zen master walks out onto the middle of the log, and then he takes out his bow and arrow, and he points at a tree far away,

0:23:54
and then he shoots.

0:23:56
And the arrow goes, and a leaf falls, and then the arrow goes right through it and pins it to the tree. And then he walks back over and then he says to the archer, okay, your turn. And then the champion archer, you know, he looks down, he takes one step onto the log and he goes, oh I can't do it. He's too afraid, right? He has too much fear. And then the The Zen master says, you have skill as an archer, but your mind does not have balance. You still have fears and confusions. So without that balance, you will never be a great archer. So then of course the archer decides to learn Zen and starts to meditate. Because it is through meditation and deep introspection that we gain a spiritual balance that transcends the ups and downs of the world. And it gives us a greater peace and a greater capability. See, in the West, we only look at things in a certain dimension. We value certain kinds of information. It has to be just straight forward, correct, easy to understand, like two plus two equals four. That's how we build businesses. That's how we do our work. It has to be completely logical, unambiguous. But in Zen Buddhism, we start to look for solutions, look for developing ourselves or developing ourselves through our work or developing our business in the uncertain areas, in the places that are fuzzy, the gray areas, the place where there's ambiguity. So this comes from the practice, the Zen practice called koan. And a koan is kind of a, sometimes they call it a riddle, but it is a very succinct paradoxical question that when one reflects on it, it gets you to go beyond the conceptual mind to a greater awareness. So, you know, an example of Zen koan is, what is the sound of one hand clapping? So when you start to think, well, two hands clapping makes some sound, but what would it be better with one hand? And you start going, hmm, what is the sound? There is no sound. So, Conan drives you to a deeper awareness. Now, an interesting story. Panasonic, okay, the CEO of Panasonic one day went to a bread maker in Japan and he had some bread that he thought was so good and he was eating it and he was like, oh this is just the best bread I ever had. And then a question came in his mind, can I make a machine that makes bread this good? And then that question just persisted in his mind. And then he said, okay, I'm going to get my team on it, my engineers. They set out to make the first mechanical bread maker. They went to the baker, this master baker, and then they were like, how do you do things? They were trying to get the machine to figure out how to do it. Their first attempts were horrible, and they made some pretty bad bread. But then, little by little, they saw the subtleties of what the baker would do and they mechanically synthesized it and then they were able to make a great bread from the bread maker. So this is something that he pondered deeply and then put an engineering team together to solve the koan. So the koan is something very, very profound when you look at things in a very, very deep way, it's really the spirit of Zen. So Zen has this tremendously powerful spirit. And that spirit is what helps you when you're reflecting on the problems of life, or if you're reflecting on the Zen koans that come up in your business or in your work, there's a spirit. And the spirit is, I guess it can't be said in words, but there's a profound spirit. Hakuin, this great Zen master, he was overseeing the development of his monastery, his temple, and he had this vision. And in the vision, he turned into a giant dragon. And the dragon was just, you know, like luminous, and this expression of enlightenment was embodied or constructed in his monastery. So this is kind of the spirit of Zen. I love In the Zen Dojo meditation temple room, on the top, on the ceiling, there's this picture of these two dragons, and it's painted very big, it's very, very beautiful. So that's to honor Hakuin's vision. That's the spirit of Zen. job yogis when we're doing Zen and the art of work, we have in us this spirit, this spirit like we're this dragon. But at the same time, we're very humble. We're quiet. We're self-effacing. Because when you're egotistical and boisterous, pushy, you lose energy. So we have that dragon in us, but we don't lose the dragon, right? That energy is something that we hold in. So we hold in our energy, because if you don't hold your energy in, you'll lose energy. It'll just be going out everywhere. So in Zen, we want to be very, very focused on, I'm using my energy here, not everywhere. We don't just let it go out. We're very, very, very conscientious about where we use our energy and our attention. So, it's kind of like in iaido, it's swordsmanship, Japanese swordsmanship. There's a lot of emphasis on one strike to kill. There's a great samurai, his name is Musashi. Musashi once fought 60 men, 60 samurai, and it's said that in the fight, the 60 samurai, they had 1,000 strikes against Musashi. Musashi had 60 strikes. Musashi won. So we want to have a great efficiency in our mind because if you waste your energy, it's kind of like, you know, if you look at a western movie where they're doing swords, they're always like,

0:33:17
cling, clang, clang, clang, clang, clang, clang, clang.

0:33:19
They have this exhausting battle and then finally the hero wins. But if you look at this Akira Kurosawa movie called Sanjuro, it's like the two samurai just standing there, and then one wins. So that's kind of the difference. It's like you can like do lots of stuff and exhaust yourself, or if you have efficiency, you can just do the right thing perfectly. You know, when you have thoughts like anger, when you have bad feelings, when you have doubt, So it's very important to focus on a positive mind, clear mind. You direct your mind where you want to have an effect, and then you will have greater success because that dragon energy in you is focused. It's not spilling out all over the place and wasting in negative thoughts. So this is the Zen way. So you kind of have to learn this thing called, you need to practice this thing called Zen laziness. Zen laziness is not just kind of like sitting around binge watching Netflix or something like that. Zen laziness means that you are very, very, very effective and efficient at what you want to accomplish. Instead of doing a hundred things to accomplish it, you do just the one or two things that really make the difference so that you can accomplish it. So, in Zen laziness, you let the action be perfect. And in Zen laziness, you don't get in the way of the action with confused thoughts, with ideas, with emotions. All of these things can obscure your attention to getting something done. So, you know, Zen laziness is not lazy, it's efficient. It's doing things just in the cleanest, clearest, most effective way. So there's a Zen saying, be patient, be still. So this is kind of where we try to understand the flow of life. If you understand the flow of life and you go with the flow of life, then you don't have to spend so much energy. It's kind of like there's a river and you're trying to swim against the current, then everything's really, really hard. But if you're going with the current, then it's easy, and you let life carry you. But this is what a lot of people do. They'll be on one side of the river, they'll look across and see an apple tree, and they'll say, I want to get an apple. And then they'll swim over there, and they'll go, oh, it's so hard to get because I'm getting pushed down, but I'm fighting the current to get across. So people spend so much energy like that. Now, Zen laziness would be, all right, there's an apple tree. Let me look further down there. Oh, there's another apple tree. Then they would jump in the water and let the river take them down, and they would slowly cross, and then they'd get to the apple tree. So the river actually brought them along much more than their own energy, their own willpower. So this is what we want to do. We want to try to find those places to let life happen. Let action happen. Let work happen. Let business happen. And when you do it in a wise way, life helps you out, life flows with you. There's a story from a Zen... There was a visiting Zen master who was coming to a temple, and there was these two monks who wanted to make the garden beautiful for him. One monk was working on the west side of the garden, or the western garden of the monastery. The other was working on the east side. The monk on the west side was going around, clipping the hedges, and pruning the trees. And he was like, oh, okay, I clipped the hedges, but it's a little uneven, so I have to clip a little bit more. Oh, it's a little more uneven, so the hedges got clipped a lot. And he pruned the trees, oh, and pruned some more, and pruning, and pruning, and pruning. Now, on the other side, on the eastern side, the other monk was like, hmm, he's like, little bit of hedge here, a little bit of prune here. And he's all, mm, it's good. Okay, then, uh, then there was, it was autumn, so there was leaves everywhere. So on the western side, he's raking up all the leaves. Mm-hmm, mm-hmm, mm-hmm, puts them away. And then he's like, okay, it's beautiful. And then on the eastern side, the monk looks and says, it's good. So he doesn't do any raking. And then the visiting Zen master comes and he walks over and he comes over to the western garden and he looks at it and he's not happy.

0:39:07
He's like, hmm.

0:39:08
So he goes out and there's a tree over there and he grabs the tree and shakes it and then all these leaves fall down. And he's like, mm-mm. Then he goes over to the eastern side, and then on the eastern side, he walks over and he's looking, and then one leaf falls off of a tree, and then he says, perfect. So the eastern monk was more in tune with what the master wanted and didn't have to do so much work. It's a very simple thing. You could also consider this in a Western way or a business way, like for example, investing. Two people could invest in one company and then somebody hears some bad news. They go, oh my gosh, there's a bad earnings report, so now the value of this company is going down. I better sell." So then they sell. Oh wait, there's a good earnings report the next quarter, so I better buy. So they're selling and buying and selling and buying. And then the person who just left their money there, didn't sell or buy, just lazy, Zen laziness, they actually didn't sell when it was losing money and didn't buy when it was a higher price, so they actually end up making more. So we can observe Zen laziness in our business, in our work, and in our lives. Zen laziness is the way to go. So, there's got to be in Zen a tremendous engagement of attention. You have to be very focused. So this is one of the powers of Zen, right? Zen meditation and focus. Zen walking meditation observing every detail of Walking, so there's there's in Zen intrinsically is a deep focus and we need to develop this Impeccable focus in our work and every task in our work So in our work and the things that we do we want to draw out a greater truth. We want to use the tasks of our work as meditations. And when we do that, then there's a greater strength. We really unlock the Dorja spirit with focus There was a time where a man came to a Zen master and said, I want to learn Zen. And the Zen master said, OK. He took out a teapot. He said, make me tea and bring it to me. I'll be over on the other side of the river.

0:42:14
There's a river by them.

0:42:15
And the river wasn't too, it wasn't a deep river. It was pretty shallow, just up to the knees or something. And the Zen Master walks across the river, but you know, it's kind of a strong river, so you have to kind of balance yourself where you could slip and fall. And so the man goes, oh, okay. So he makes a tea, and then he's like, whoa, you know, the water's pushing him and then he spills and then the Zen master goes, go back! And he's like, get more tea, fill it to the top, come across, don't spill a drop. And then Nan goes across, or goes back, gets it. And he's holding it, focusing on it, trying, balancing, keeps on making a mistake and then he does this over and over and over and over and finally he's totally focused and he does it just perfectly and comes over and gives the Zen Master the teacup and then the Zen Master says, is that? So it's just focus. You have a task to do, and you have to bring your full attention to the task. And then when you bring your full attention to the task, then you're able to really, really have a profound, strong mind. Now, there's a consideration that they say in Zen, do every task as if it was your last. So, it's like, if this is the last task that you're gonna do, then do it perfectly. In Tokyo, there's an espresso, a guy who specializes in espresso, but he does it as a Zen practice. So he brings his full attention to making espresso. So when he does it, he does, and he says, he says, if this is the last espresso that I make, it's going to be the best espresso that I make. So he really really tries to make every single one the best one. And it's really funny because he only makes 20 beverages a day because he's so focused. You know it takes some time for him to make the perfect perfect espresso. So if you know you go to work, your boss says, why are you two hours late? Oh, I stopped off to get some coffee. You went to, but you had the perfect coffee. So, yeah, so, but if you have that consideration, I mean, try it, right? Try a task at work, and you say, what if this task is my last?

0:45:40
Right?

0:45:41
And bring your best attention to it. And then you'll see that it shifts the way that you look at things. The way that you look at things is different when you say, this is my last task, my last effort. So this is a very, very powerful teaching. It's very important to have focus, strong focus. And Dojin Zenji, famous Zen master, he said, there are no rules, work for awakening. So there's no gimmick to Zen. There's no trick. There's just practice. So when you have strong focus, strong practice, then you experience Zen. And when you experience Zen, then there is a lot of energy. It's very powerful, very beautiful, there's a lot of success, spiritual awareness. Now, to practice then, to practice all these things, you have to actually practice. Do it in your work. Now, a lot of people, when they read a book about mindfulness or hear a Zen talk or something like that, they go, okay, I'm going to try it. And then they try it for a little while, and then they go, oh, there's way too much to do, and I can't be mindful all the time, or I can't do my task as if it was the last task all the time. This is too much. So what you should do is you should practice one minute, one minute zen. So that means that you decide, it might be the same task that you do every day, or you might have a certain time where you practice, but just choose a task or a time where you spend one minute practicing Zen. Total focus, as if it's the last task of your life. Introspective, looking into it as deeply as you can. So if you do that one minute of practice every single day, then what you do is you bring a consistency, and that one minute opens a door in your attention, in your awareness to Zen. If you try to do Zen eight hours a day and it's not focused, then you open the door. Then power and light comes through it, and then you'll see that you are learning Zen. But you have to be consistent in your practice. And then the time grows, and your awareness changes, and then everything that you do is Zen. So Zen is its energy flow, flowing with life, its focus, its higher energy, its satisfaction, its a strength, there's a beautiful spirit to it. Now, a lot of times when we think of Zen, we think of people being very stoic and philosophical and quirky, but it's more like if you're dancing and you just become the movement. Or it's more like kids playing. Sometimes you see kids playing and they are totally into it. Playing with dinosaurs or cars and they're just like, playing, playing, playing, playing. And they're not thinking of themselves or anything. They're just totally focused. They're experiencing fun, higher energy, and they're absorbed in what they're doing. That is more Zen. And that reminds me of a story of Suzuki Roshi, a Zen master who founded the San Francisco Zen Center. He was giving a workshop, and everybody, they have a big center in San Francisco, and everybody's working, right? They're all sitting there talking about the sutras, you know, they had done meditation session and now they're figuring things out. So I think that, you know, Zen is this and that. And he's sitting there listening to them. They're all focusing on trying to figure out the whole universe. And they were very ponderous and heavy. So he snuck out, he sneaks out while they're talking and thinking about important spiritual things. And downstairs they had a place where people who had kids, there was like a little daycare. So he goes down with the kids and then he starts playing with the kids. And then later on they're like, why did you leave? You were supposed to teach us Zen and then you just left and you're playing with the kids And he said while you were talking about Zen I was experiencing Zen so Then I like to say that Zen is play or Zen is dance or Zen is Zen is play. It's something where you you you get into it, it's fun, and it has like good energy, and it makes you happy. And if you're just philosophical about Zen, and if you're heavy about it, then that's not Zen. So try to have play. Because, you know, the world is pretty heavy. The working world is stressful. There's a lot of pressure, obligations, difficult things, mean bosses, commutes, and all sorts of things that are difficult. You have to make it into play. It could become something that makes you out of balance. It could be something that's so difficult for your feelings or your awareness. A lot of people get pushed down in work. So you have to turn all of the heaviness of work into Zen, into play. And a big way to do that is to see things differently. Look at your life in a different way. You have to be able to shift your attention from saying, okay, life is this way, work is like this, because after a while it can get very routine, very heavy, and work then becomes kind of like meaningless, soulless. But Zen shows you that there is magic in your work. Now there was a, this is not too long, this is recently, a man who was a construction manager and he built big buildings and all sorts of things. He got so stressed out from the demands of his work and he didn't like his work anymore, it wasn't fun. He was very good at it, but had just done it for so long and just got burnt out. So he quits his job and then he joins the Zen community. And as soon as he joins the Zen community, they came into a large donation and they said, okay, we're going to build all of these buildings in our in our in our ashram. So we're going to build a library, we're going to build a new Zen hall, and things like that. And then the Zen master says, you're a construction manager, and can you help? Can you do it? And he just came off of being burned out and not wanting to do construction, and now he's being asked to do actually more than he's done on his last jobs. And he says, I'll do it. And when he started to do the building for his spiritual community, he looked at it very differently. It wasn't just a job anymore. Now it was a spiritual practice and supporting his spiritual community. So he just looked at it differently. And then he had no stress, even though he was doing much more work, and he was happy doing it. So, when you look at things differently, then there's many more possibilities. In Zen, they say that, look to what is unborn. And that means, what is unborn, what is unmanifest then there's endless possibilities there now I remember I was visiting with my Zen master Sunim and he came back to the ashram from shopping with one of the lay Buddhists. And then after meditation, then they were having a big lunch. And in the middle of the table is a big salad bowl,

0:55:48
with salad.

0:55:49
And then he comes, he says, oh, I got something new when I was shopping. And he comes out with this thing that's about, it's like a kind of a stick that's three feet long, and kind of the squeezing trigger thing that makes this little thing go like that. And he's all like, and so he takes it and then he goes to the salad, grabs some, puts it on people's plates, right? And I'm like, oh, that's kind of a weird thing. But he liked it because he was like, oh, it's easy because I can reach everybody's plate. So I was like, huh, okay, cool. So later on, I was in the kitchen and I saw the packaging for it. And it was a, you call it a pooper, a poop scooper. So what it was, it's something to clean up after your dog. It's just really easy, pick it up, throw it in the garbage. But I thought it was so funny because he's just wandering through some store and he sees it and he doesn't, probably doesn't read English and he just sees it and goes, oh that's what it is. It'll help for the salad. I'm just glad that he didn't get a secondhand one. So this is what they say in Zen, look for the unmanifest. And then there's many possibilities. Possibility of a Hooper Scooper, just sort of valid. But this is where you get creative, or you see possibilities where you were unable to see possibilities before. So, Canon, they were working on their printer for a while, and they had a problem with the printer. It would break. So their printers were breaking faster than their competition and so they started losing out on the market. So the team lead was making the engineering team stay late at night. They're like, we have to solve this problem. And so they're talking all these different ideas, all these different ideas. And then the team lead says, okay, we're gonna get some food. We're gonna get some food and we're gonna keep talking. We're gonna work late. So they get some food. He also gets beer, because why not? And then they're talking and he's drinking a beer and he says, you know, this beer looks like the metal cylinder drum in our printers that is the thing that breaks the most. It's like, yeah, so what breaks is actually that part. Then he's drinking the beer. And it's all like, hmm. Finishes his beer, crumbles it up, throws it in the garbage, he picks up a new beer. And he goes, aha! And he says, I know, he says, we just have to design it so that this one part is replaceable, because that's what breaks most of the time. So he was able to see an opportunity in a funny way. He was able to see, from looking at a beer can, a way to fix his printer problem. So there's always ways, there's always possibilities. And when you can see, look at things in a different way, when you can see the unborn, then you have many, many more options for success. And that's what Zen is. Zen is a way to see a bigger picture. Zen is a way for you to see greater dimensionality in your work. So when you're looking at your work and you just see it in a very fixed way, a very physical, finite way, then you're missing the dimensions of possibility. So in Zen, during the 17th century, a lot of Zen masters would do these haikus. So a haiku is a poem. It's a very short poem. And in this very short poem of like three phrases or three sentences, the Zen master would try to capture something So they would use words to direct your attention beyond words to show a state of mind or to show a truth of nature. And this is so exemplary of Zen. It's taking something, seeing a bigger way. One haiku is from Zen Master is, Long night, sound of water, says my thoughts. And I really like this one. It's very beautiful. When you say long night, it sets a mood. and then sound of water, and then says my thoughts. So it's like the water is saying his thoughts, which is some balance of nature. But it just, it opens up a bigger understanding, a bigger awareness than just the words. So it's very beautiful. I have another one.

1:02:00
Yesterday, it worked. Today, it doesn't work. Wi-Fi is like that.

1:02:06
So that's mine. They can be funny too. So, why don't you write a haiku about your work? Write a haiku. Write a haiku. Try to write a serious, profound haiku about your work. And then try to write a funny one. These are ways for you to see a bigger dimension in your work. And this is what we do in Zen. In Zen, we go beyond, beyond the physical finite way of looking at things. We see magic. So we'll take an ordinary thing and then we'll see the magic in it. And when you do that, then everything is wondrous in your work. It's all fun. And that's the play of Zen. In Zen, they have this reflection, this consideration. They say, the bridge is running and the river is not. And I remember I was considering that. I'm like, where would the bridge be running to? So I was looking at the bridge. I said, I don't see a bridge running anywhere. Then I got on top of the bridge. Then I looked down and I saw the posts of the bridge standing in the river and I see the river flowing down. And then I'm still considering this. The bridge is running but the river is not. And then all of a sudden I changed my view. It just happened automatically from it looking like the water was running and it started looking like the posts of the bridge were running up and then it got really exhilarating. So this is what we do in Zen. So now I'm going to give the transmission teaching. This is the esoteric teaching of Zen. Zen in the art of work. This is a way of seeing a greater dimensionality of spirit and magic in your work. So we're going to sit for one song, sit up nice and straight. You're going to bring the focus to the third eye, and you're going to look up here towards me. I'm just going to do this transmission. So even though, you know, I know the Americans are like, wait, he's not here. Even though I'm not there, and I'm not there for Paris, Munich, Vienna, Budapest, or Iceland either. But I'm able to transmit the Kundalini. So I'm transmitting it and it's it's something that doesn't have to do with my physical body being there and able to transmit it right to your spirit. There's no separation in spirit. So we will meditate for one song. Eyes open, look to me, focus on the third eye, and just try to still your mind. Okay, let's begin.

1:05:59
so the the the So So so you Very nice. So Zen and the art of work is seeing that your work is sacred. Seeing the deeper dimensions and the wonder and the magic in your work, no matter what work you do.

1:07:24
A lot of spiritual people start to think, well, if I'm going to do work, it has to be spiritual work, or it has to be helping people, or something like that. It has to be like I'm a caregiver, or a nurse, or I work for an NGO, or a non-profit. And those are fine, but Zen, in the art of work, can be done in any work. It doesn't have to be one particular kind. It's paying attention to the magic in everything. Enlightenment is everything, everywhere. There's no place where enlightenment does not exist. There's no place that Zen does not exist. So if you say, oh no, this is good and that you, in any work that you do, are being your highest self, then you're doing Zen. Then you're doing Zen and the art of work. So when your work is meditation, when your work is mindfulness, it's your practice, then that is Zen and the art of work. So there was once a Zen master and he moved out of the monastery and then he became a butcher. And he was a great Zen master and people started to say, wow, this is very strange. One day one of the monks came to him and said, Zen Master, why have you left the monastery? He's like, oh, because I'm doing spiritual work. He says, Zen Master, you're not doing spiritual work. You're just killing animals and that's not spiritual. And the Zen Master says, oh yes, this is the highest dharma for me. This is the greatest expression of compassion. And the monk says, how is this? And Zen master says, well, all of these animals are raised to be killed. They're going to go to some butcher, right? And he says, so I am a butcher who kills the animals lovingly. So my work as a butcher is done as an expression of compassion. Plus, the filet mignon is not so bad. So we would say, oh my gosh, this guy is a butcher, and he's killing animals. And that can't be spiritual. But he actually was a Zen master, and he did it as an act of compassion. A lot of times, we think that we have to do something else next to be able to do Zen in the art of work. But you have to see that whatever your work is now, there's power in your work. So you can do Zen in the art of work now, no matter what you do. there was a cobblestone cutter. He was taking rocks and he would go to a quarry, break rocks out and then he would make them into little stones for the street, and to paint, yeah, to cobblestone the street. He was like, oh, my work is so difficult and it's just, you know, it's not, you know, I don't get paid a lot and it's a powerless job. That's what he thought. And then one day a merchant went by, you know, with a beautiful carriage and this merchant had lots of money and he said, That's such a higher position, it's more powerful. And then, poof, he becomes a merchant. And all of a sudden he's wealthy, and he's strong. He's like, oh, this is great, I'm the wealthiest merchant in the world. And then he's like, but the king, the king is more powerful than me. So I really want to be the king. And then, poof, he's the king. And he's like, ah, yes, I'm the most powerful man in the whole country. More riches than any merchant. And then the king looks up at the sun. And he says, ah, the sun is so powerful. It's so, you know, it's the most powerful thing. It's what makes life here on earth. So he's like, I want to be the sun. So he becomes the sun. And he's shining down on the planet Earth. And he's like, this is the most powerful position. But then a cloud comes over and covers the kingdom under him. And he's like, I can't even get through this cloud. So the cloud is more powerful.

1:15:31
I want to be the cloud.

1:15:33
Poof, he's a cloud. And then the cloud is floating along. And he's like, ha, this is great, I can cover the sun. Then he comes to this rocky mountain and then the cloud gets split by the mountain. And then he, as the cloud, says, I wanna be the mountain because the mountain's strong enough to split the cloud. And then he becomes the mountain. And he says, yes, there's nothing stronger than me. And then a man comes over, cuts out the rocks, pulls them over, starts setting them into the street. And then he goes, that's the job for me. So, boom, again, he becomes a rock cutter. So, we can always look at, you know, oh, I want to do this, oh, I want to do this. This is more powerful. This is more powerful." But you have to see that no matter what you do, no matter where you are, that you can practice Zen in your work now. Your work now is powerful.

1:16:38
All right. So thank you all very much.

1:16:40
As I travel around Japan learning and teaching my students about Zen and the art of work, I will send you guys some more videos so you can follow our journey. Very nice. And next we're going to have yoga presentations. So these are presentations of our existing yoga projects. These are our existing yoga businesses. And some of these businesses we've been running for 10 years, some of them started recently, somewhat recently, but you will have an opportunity to see the things that we've been working on as yoga. And I think we have eight or nine presentations. They'll be about ten minutes each. So when we come back, we will get right into these presentations. It's important for you to understand, to see what we have been doing for the, you know, what this sangha has been doing for the past year as yoga. Okay, so if you're, you know, if you're in Europe and you want to sign off and watch this part later, that's totally fine. If you're in America, don't leave. Don't leave the theater. Don't leave the theater.

1:18:28
Okay, so thank you all very much.

1:18:30
you you you




Transcribed with Cockatoo
