0:00:00
Welcome to Satsang with Sambhara. Let's begin with meditation. So we'll sit for three songs. First song on the navel chakra, the second on the heart, third song on the third eye. Let's begin.

0:00:20
You. You you So, you So You So, So You So, Yeah. You. you Yeah. You. So, you you you you You. you So, you. So, Thank you. So today I'd like to speak to you about self-compassion. You're a wonderful person.

0:13:17
You have to know that. We all have Buddha nature. Our nature is enlightenment. So when we have bad ideas about ourselves, limited ideas, when we suffer disturbing thoughts and emotions, that's not who we really, really, really are. Enlightenment is within you. So at the same time, we suffer. We have difficulties if pain with hardships

0:14:06
And

0:14:08
Since you're such a great person and yet you suffer We start with bodhisitta for the self Bodhisitta for yourself. There was a man who learned the teachings of Bodhicitta, and he was in the supermarket, and he saw this example of compassion that was very moving to him. a toddler and the toddler was, you know, in the cart and was just making a mess. So, first, you know, he's walking down the cereal aisle and the toddler opens up some, like, box of juice and spills it all over himself. And then the woman, you know, takes out a napkin, cleans them off, and then says, oh, it's a she, he's like, there, there, Jan, it's okay. You're gonna be all right. Cleans her off, caring for her. Then they go down a little bit further, and then the toddler starts screaming, making all, like, crying and all this noise. And then she says, there, there Jan, it's okay. We're almost done. We'll be out of here soon. It's going to be all right. And then the toddler becomes a little bit more quiet. Then a little bit later, the toddler picks up, you know, a jar of pickles that's in the cart and throws it on the ground. It breaks and clean up on aisle three. And then she's like, it's okay Jan, we'll get through this. Just one more thing to get and then we'll go. And then they go to the checkout. And then at the checkout, the toddler starts screaming, making a mess, going crazy. And she says, there, there, Jan, it's okay. We're done now, and we can go home and take a nap. And then, after the checkout, this man goes over to her and says, I just have to say, I'm so impressed. You're so compassionate. It's a little Jan here. And then she says, oh, this is Jennifer. I'm Jan. That is self-compassion and we're like, isn't that selfish? Like sitting there going, worrying about myself? I'm worrying about myself, worrying about my needs, worrying about my pain. Isn't that? No. When you're compassionate to yourself, you're relieving your suffering so that you can help another. So when you're learning bodhicitta, when you're learning compassion, you have to begin with compassion for yourself. If you're not compassionate to yourself, then you're not in a proper foundation for being compassionate to another.

0:17:58
It's funny.

0:18:00
There, there, Jan. It's okay, we can go home and take a nap. But it's often that we're horrible to ourselves sometimes. We're not compassionate. We say horrible things to ourselves. Like, if you have a friend, and your friend has a breakup, and they're suffering, you'll say, hey, it's okay, you know, you're gonna find the right guy and he'll love you for who you are. And if you break up and have a bad breakup, you sit there and tell yourself, I'll never be loved. I'm horrible, it's terrible, I'm cursed." If your friend loses their job or something, you'll say, you're really good. You know, you get back out there. You're going to do it. But if you lose your job, you'll be like, I'm never going to get a job again. You know, you're like, you like sit there telling yourself horrible things, nasty judgments, horrible ideas. Even your worst enemy wouldn't come up with a lot of what you tell yourself. Your worst enemy is all like, you're better at it than me. So you have to tell yourself good things. Chuang-Tzu was a Taoist master and he observed monkeys. He talked about monkeys a lot. Anyway, he saw this monkey and the monkey went to a beehive because it wanted to get some honey and it puts his hand in and then he gets stuck. He goes, ouch! Then he puts his hand in again and he gets stung again. Ouch! And he keeps doing it. And Chuang-Tzu says, that's just like people, people's thoughts. You do something that doesn't work and it hurts, and you do it over and over and over. That was his judgment of people's bad thoughts. The monkey, you know, climbs down from the tree, gets away from the honey. And then another monkey comes over and starts taking, you know, the little stingers out and taking care. And he says, this is just like enlightened action. of someone, something that works and creates healing. So, you have to be aware of what you're saying to yourself. Don't say to yourself things that hurt you and are dysfunctional. These things that are helpful, constructive, and that cause healing. Yeah, also, sometimes we do things for others that we kind of wouldn't even do for ourselves. But you've got to do stuff for yourself. Like, I was visiting this one student and we were in his kitchen. I hadn't been to his place before, but he was telling me that he was at his mother's, and his mother wanted to take some things out of the office and put it in storage in the garage. So she said, hey, can you help me with this? And he's like, yeah, sure. And he did all this work and put things in boxes, put it in the garage. And he's like, yeah, I was just like, it was great. I felt very selfless helping my mother. And I said, good. And I noticed there was a box in the corner, and I said, well, what's in that box? And he goes, oh, yeah, I haven't fully unpacked yet. I'm like, oh, like, how long have you lived here? And he's like, four years. So you have to take care of yourself. You got to do things for yourself and others. We're going to get to the others, but we're talking about self-compassion. You have to be compassionate to yourself. Say good things to yourself. You're worth it. Go love yourself. And take action. Make sure that your life is good. Self-compassion. Yeah, so in Bodhicitta, you know, we really have to start with having compassion for ourselves. You can't go around doing everything for everybody else. It's not balanced. And then if you're only focused on compassion for others, then you suffer. You end up getting out of balance. You're like, I'm always helping everybody else. I'm always... I just give and I give. They take and they take. Right? I'm suffering. And that's what happens if you don't have self-compassion as a foundation for your practice. So, you have to consider the things that cause you suffering, and you have to have compassion for yourself, because it gives you space, gives you understanding, gives you peace. And then from there, you can have compassion for others. So for this next month, I want you to practice bodhicitta after your meditation. I want you to practice compassion for yourself. We're going to do a little practice of compassion for ourselves. First of all, we recognize that no matter what our thoughts are, what our feelings are, stuff going on in our lives, that deep down inside we have Buddha nature, that the true essence of our being is good. And then, go ahead and sit up nice and straight, I want of suffering, of pain, of difficulty, something that you suffer from, a situation, a relationship. And I want you to, when you practice self-compassion, I want you to put your hands over your heart, This is compassion for you. So you bring this thing to mind, and you recognize that this is suffering for you. We don't go into the story, we just see that this is suffering. It's hard, it's difficult, it's painful. We can't get out of it. It's suffering. And then we recognize that there are others who suffer the same thing, and sometimes a lot worse. And then we practice Tonglen for ourselves, taking and sending with the breath. So when we inhale, we take away our suffering and we see that we are a Buddha. We see our Buddha nature, that we're happy and free. So we're going to sit in silence for just about a minute, where we're going to practice that exchange, taking our suffering so that we're free of it and giving ourselves light.

0:26:55
Let's begin. Okay. We're going to go ahead and get started. Very nice. So, for the month to come, after your meditation practice, spend some time in Bodhicitta for yourself. Bodhicitta is not indulging. fancy way of kind of jumping into your pain and just, you know, having a pity party and

0:28:49
getting some fancy party hat. Bodhicitta is relief of suffering. It's not reinforcing, oh yeah, I'm really bad, I can't get out of it. Bodhicitta is a way beyond the self, beyond suffering. You know, Buddha said, there is suffering in life. That's the first noble truth, the first thing he taught. So when you suffer, you have to realize, wow, this is, Buddha was right. Wait a second. And then that gives you suffering. You know, all Buddhas, all enlightened beings, have suffered. They have the same, you know, difficulties, hardships, bad thoughts, bad feelings, bad situations, and by following I remember myself when I was early on in the study, I was really bad at meditation. I was like, everyone else can meditate, but I can't. I was really bad at technology. I was like learning to program and I was like, I'm not learning this stuff. So I sat there and I was like, oh, poor me. I'm trying to learn meditation, but it's not working. I'm trying to learn computer programming, but I can't. So I had to have compassion for myself. And I said, I'm just going to, you know, have compassion for myself, taking and sending, and I'm just going to sit here and try and meditate. Just give it my best effort. Because if I said, I'm bad at meditation, it's never never going to work and I just give up, then I would never have learned to meditate, which is the greatest thing in the world. Meditation is a beautiful way for you to have compassion for yourself, because when you have all those thoughts and feelings going on, you just torment Slowly learn to still your mind and then there's no thoughts. I remember

0:32:29
I was learning to meditate and You know up and before I meditated

0:32:34
I was just thinking all these bad thoughts and having all these bad feelings Then I'd sit and try and meditate and at least while I was trying to meditate, I felt a little better. So I started calling meditation damage control. And for a long time in the study, I really felt that I was very bad at meditation. But eventually, I mastered meditation. So it can happen to you. You can find your Buddha nature. And then, of course, in job yoga I was trying to learn computer programming. I was horrible at it. I went to a special computer school. I guess you call them boot camps. And I flunked out. And I was like, oh gosh, I'll never learn computers. And then I just kept working on it and working on it, and then I learned it. Then I became a good computer programmer. I was doing artificial intelligence systems on Wall Street. So, all Buddhas, all enlightened beings, started in a condition of suffering. But when you follow the teachings, it leads you to mastery, and it leads you out of suffering, which is a good thing. So you have to start caring for yourself and developing yourself. That's self-compassion. That's what Buddha said. He said, hey, you want to help people? Master your mind. Once you master your mind, you will naturally be a force of compassion and support for others. But when your mind is turbulent, then your help for others might not be help. You might think it's help, but it might not be help. So he said, master your mind first. There was a student who was working at a non-profit, and he was miserable. I think his non-profit was like saving the world or feeding the hungry or something like that. And he's like, I'm passionate about saving the world, so that's why I work at this non-profit. And then he's like, but I don't make a lot of money, you know, I'm suffering all of these things for having no money and stress for bills and things like that. And having a really hard time. And also at work, I'm struggling. I don't like this, I don't like that. Everything's really hard, everything's difficult. And the world isn't saved, so what? You know? And so he says, what should I do? And I said, well, your problem is that you're trying to save everybody else, but you're not saving yourself. So I said, get a job. I mean, a real job. So I said, you know, learn programming, get a computer programming job. So he did. And he became, you know, more successful and wealthy and all those stresses of money were gone. And then he was able to create a website for his cause that had far more impact than him slugging it out on a nine-to-five. So when you give yourself compassion, take care of yourself, make sure that you're strong, balanced, not stressed, then you're able to help in much more profound ways. I have an example of that in the Enlightenment workbook. I'm like, if you see someone, there's a first rule of rescue. If you see someone drowning, you've got to be a good swimmer if you want to help them. Because if you go over and you're not a good swimmer, they're going to grab you and you're both going to go down. So you have to make sure you're a good swimmer in order to help someone else. And taking the time to become strong, focusing on yourself, is something that then makes you powerful, a force of compassion. Compassion is elevating always. Compassion is constructive always. So yeah, if you just go over to someone and say, oh, you're sad. Well, I'm sad too. There was this, there were were three people who went and learned Bodhicitta. Then after learning about Bodhicitta, they're walking through the town and the first one comes upon this poor old woman who's hungry and cold. And then he goes, okay, you know, oh, what a poor lady, what a terrible thing. And then he ends up sitting down next to her and just crying.

0:39:02
Oh, poor lady.

0:39:05
The second one comes over and sees her, and he says, wow, this poor lady, she needs a lot of help. And then, like, there's just people walking down the street, and he's like, why won't you help her? You're an asshole, you should go and help her. Why are you guys not helping her? Then he sits down next to her, and he's just like, people aren't helping. What's wrong with humanity?

0:39:28
That's what we do.

0:39:29
And then the third person comes over and he goes, gives her some food and a warm blanket. He did something constructive

0:39:43
from his recognition of her suffering.

0:39:45
So you gotta do things that are constructive for yourself, that are positive for yourself. Yeah. Compassion – you have to look at it.

0:39:59
Compassion is always constructive.

0:40:03
Now compassion is – it's a bigger thing than when we're talking about self-compassion. It's more than self-esteem is the way of the ego, and self-compassion is a way of selflessness. Self-esteem has problems. There could be suffering in self-esteem. There could be personal power goes up and down. There's always obstacles. There's always difficulties, hardships, limitations. With self-esteem, there's win and loss. So, if you do something good, you go, da-da-da-da-da-da, I'm happier. And then something bad happens to you, and then you're all like, oh. Self-esteem is kind of that overall judgment of I'm good or I'm bad. And it goes up and down depending on your experiences. Yeah, you could be doing something really good, you're all, I'm great, I'm great, and then something bad happens and you're all, oh, it's horrible. There was this businessman named Peter Castle An English fellow Good friends with Prince Charles really is or was and He um, he hadn't met he was, you know, very wealthy businessman very successful did a lot of real estate deals had an oil company, and he just had all of these great wins, and he was like, yay, I'm happy, yeah, this is great. And then a big multi-million dollar property, you know, he lost the deal or something like that, and then he kept on having other bad things. His oil company went out of business, and then he did some more real estate deals that went bad. So he had like four or five or six bad things happen. And he was miserable. He was like in a crisis. Who am I? Why is everything going bad? And he got so upset he walked into the London Underground and threw himself in front of a train. And I'm all like, no, he did have some bad real estate deals and stuff, but he was still a multimillionaire. It's just that he tied his sense of self, Another one, Dyson, I think his name is Richard Dyson. Dyson, another English chap, he came up with this idea to make a better vacuum cleaner. You guys have one? He was working on it for years and he made this vacuum cleaner that didn't have a bag.

0:43:34
Remember those vacuums?

0:43:35
You could fit a little bag in there? And this was bagless. Now when he's kept on trying to sell it in England, people are like, it doesn't have a bag. So they didn't get it. And he was just trying and trying and trying, and it wasn't working.

0:43:57
And he was just miserable for years.

0:44:00
And he just was like living with his wife, who was an art teacher, and they were just scraping by. He kept on going out door to door, sales with his vacuum cleaner. It's a better vacuum cleaner. People are all, well, it doesn't have a bloody bag. And he's like, I know, that's actually good. And then some contact of his said, you know, I'm going to Japan, maybe I'll bring some of your vacuum cleaners and see if we can sell it there. And he's like, okay. And so they sold in Japan. And then they sold, and then he kept selling grew the Japanese market. It was huge and then he won this international Prize for invention and then the English were like, oh, let's take another look at this And then they were like, oh, it's great. So he was sitting there being miserable with his vacuum cleaner because it sucked He made the first Buddhist vacuum cleaner with no attachments. But then after he had that win, so he was very, very sad and miserable, then after he had that success, then he started inventing new things. He made many, he made 5,000 inventions. And my favorite one is the air blade. You know, when you wash your hands, you go to that thing. Because we used to have that thing, this little white thing with a, you push the button and it kind of like, little worms were used in your foot, and they're going. I'm going to miss my flight, but my hands will be dry in like an hour. And then the Dyson Airblade comes out because of Dyson, and then whoosh, whoa, it's like magic. But you know, he too, he was like, he had a losing streak and he felt bad, and then he had a winning streak, and then he felt good. So there's always the ups and downs. Or there was a three Michelin star chef in France. And then he got the first star, the second star, the third star, and he was like, yeah! And then after a few years, Michelin said, where can I take one star away? And he's all, oh! And he was horribly upset, he killed himself. Yeah. And that's what happens when you pin your self-worth to what happens in your life. See, that's why self-compassion is different. If horrible things happen to you, there's more reason to practice compassion. You're like, oh, I can practice more. Just kidding. I'm looking for bad things so I can practice compassion. No, you've got enough. You don't have to look for more.

0:47:30
Yeah.

0:47:31
But with self-compassion, you get the personal power of self-esteem, but you don't have the pitfalls of self-esteem. When bad things happen, we practice compassion. When good things happen, we practice compassion. We're always, anywhere where we find suffering, we do taking and sending. It's a profoundly more wholesome experience. And it's a way where there's no obstacles and limitations, because when we have obstacles and limitations, we use them as a practice of compassion. It's funny, when we suffer, we're like, oh, I'm suffering. We're thinking, oh my god, something's wrong with me. I'm cursed. There's a major malfunction.

0:48:29
And then we go, no, no.

0:48:30
The truth of life is that there's suffering. And I practice compassion. This is the way to go beyond suffering. There is suffering, but then the pathway of enlightenment, the dharma, bodhicitta, is that way through. Very bright. So, you have to practice self-compassionate mindfulness. So you all have gone through the Enlightenment workbook. You've identified your mind, your thoughts, your patterns, and this is basic mindfulness. But now we're moving to a new mindfulness practice, which is self-compassion, bodhicitta. So from now on, when you're practicing mindfulness, when you see yourself hurting, you start to have compassion for yourself.

0:49:38
It's very powerful.

0:49:39
So Buddha said,

0:49:40
he was sitting there one day, before he was enlightened,

0:49:42
and he saw, hmm, guess what?

0:49:44
Sometimes I have thoughts that are good, and make me feel good. Sometimes I have thoughts that are just, don't make me feel anything. But then I have thoughts that hurt, make me feel bad. And he said, thoughts that hurt, make me feel bad. And he said, I'm gonna stop having thoughts that make me feel bad. Then he did it, right? He was pretty advanced to just decide that. But we're going to start observing our thoughts in terms of does this make me suffer or not suffer? So, when you have a thought, like you might have a desire, I gotta get a red sports car, and you might say, hmm, this thought actually creates something in me that hurts, I feel like I'm missing something, that I need it to be happy, and that thought makes me suffer. So you have to say, oh, okay, let me give myself compassion for that thought. So look at your thoughts, and when you find suffering, have compassion for yourself. Yeah, you don't get caught in the karma, you just have compassion for yourself. So, if you're at work and your boss yells at you, and you start feeling bad, I'm not a good employee, I'm going to get fired. You start looking at that story and those thoughts and you say, well, these thoughts are making me suffer. And you go, look, I feel worthless and I feel stupid. And then you say, okay, so I'm feeling these things. This is suffering. You've got to get out of the story and just understand what you're feeling. And then say, besides this whole story, I'm just going to have compassion for myself. The difficult things that occur to you, occur because you're having a bad relationship with what's happening. But compassion is a healthy relationship with what's happening. It's very powerful. I had a student who was a consultant at some health care company, project manager, and was there for, you know, five or six months, there was a meeting with the CEO and the COO, my students' boss, and they went into this meeting and the CEO was yelling at the students' boss, you made this mistake, this mistake, this mistake, and then the boss said, It was the consultant. I hired this guy to do all that stuff, but he made a mess out of everything. And so then the CEO yelled at him, and the COO yelled at him, and everybody in the executive team was all like, oh, you're a jerk, man. You messed up everything. And then the CEO fired him on the spot, had security come up, walk him out. He had to walk out in front of the team He was leading for six months, you know with his little box security is walking him out. So during that time He's sitting there like you know, he's like You liar I Didn't do that. It's your fault. You're throwing me under the bus. You know, he was thinking all of these thoughts and he was upset and he was hurt. And then he went, wait, wait, I got to do self-compassion. So when he would think, you liar, he would be hurt. So he would say, I'm going to give myself space, compassion for that. Yeah, I feel hurt, but I'm going to give myself compassion for that. And then he was able to go through this humiliating experience just evenly. He didn't lose energy, he didn't suffer, he was just like, well, these things happen, I suppose, and I care for myself. And he was able to rebound and a week later had another great job. See, but if you go get so mad and point fingers and blame and you're angry and everything's horrible, it brings your attention and your awareness down, your personal power goes down. So, observe your thoughts because when you're thinking, it's that person's problem, then you start to suffer because of what you're judging, what you're seeing, what you're thinking, your relationship with what's going on. If your relationship is even, I'm hurt, then I have compassion for my hurt. Not, he did this wrong, she did that wrong. It's a much better way to be. It's a kind of detachment. Because if you're all stuck in the story, the thoughts, blaming, cause and effect, and all caught up in that, you're caught up in your karma. But compassion gives you space. It frees you from the ups and downs of the karmas of the mind.

0:56:07
There's another one.

0:56:08
A student was at a company and he was the best programmer on the team and then a tech lead position opened up and he didn't get the promotion. Another guy got the promotion. But he was a better tech lead. He would have been a better tech lead. He was the right guy. He had the right skills. But he didn't get the promotion. And he got mad. And then he was like blaming and story and all this stuff. Then he was like, OK, wait, compassion for myself. So he did a sitting session, and then he was able to be detached from the karma and look at the situation. And he was like, you know, I am a better programmer, and I would be a better tech lead, but the other guy who got the promotion is a better communicator. He speaks up in meetings, and I'm just kind of quiet. And management appreciates that. So he said, if I want to move up in the organization, I need to communicate. So he started going to meetings, speaking up and communicating well. Then a higher position opened up, like director of technology. And then he got that position over the other guy because he was a better developer, he's a better technologist. But it's because he had the ability to detach from the karma of thoughts, to have compassion for himself, that he was able to see what was really going on. Because when you're sitting there thinking, bad, bad, bad, him, that, this, this, when you're thinking that your awareness narrows, when you have compassion, your awareness opens. And you can see more. And there's always a way for enlightenment and success. So observe your thoughts. When a thought arises and you say, does this make me suffer? Yeah, this doesn't make me feel good. Have compassion. Your awareness will open and you'll see that that little problem is a huge problem. It isn't such a huge problem and that you're able to go beyond it. Compassion for the self. People, when they're practicing mindfulness, have to detach from personal history. The past, we have a powerful saying, the past is dust, just let it go. Because a lot of people sit there and think horrible thoughts over and over. It's just the same thoughts. It's like the monkey and the honey. So, you have to let the past go. Thoughts of pain of the past. Like, there was this one woman who was talking to me about a bad relationship and her boyfriend was, he said horrible things to her, and she's just like, I keep thinking about him yelling at me and saying these things, and is it true, and all this stuff. And I'm like, well, whether it's true or not, stop thinking about it. It's a horrible thing. You waste so much energy holding on to this pain of the past that you can just say, what does it mean? Nothing. The past is dust. Don't beat yourself up. Give yourself a chance to grow. I had another student. He was taking an advanced mathematics course and he flunked. And he was like, I can't do it. I can't do it. And then he, I guess it was the summer, he had like weeks before retaking the class, and he was just sitting there telling himself, this is too hard, I can't do it. When you're thinking of pain and trouble of the past, you start creating limitations that you really believe in. And I told him, just have compassion for yourself, but stop thinking that thought. Start thinking, how can I do this? And then, of course, he succeeded. He passed the course. And then there's worrying about the future. So a lot of time we're sitting there going, I've got to bill to pay, or I've got to do this thing at work, or I'm going to have to talk to this person about something unpleasant. And when we're thinking about the future, there's a we're bringing our attention into a place of kind of fear, anxiety, concern, and it wastes energy. So when you start thinking about the future, you have to say, no, no, no, just be here and give yourself compassion for that worry.

1:02:28
So there's this girl and

1:02:30
she was sitting there, when's my boyfriend gonna text me? Why hasn't he texted me? She's sitting there just dressing out and waiting for a text and then she finally gets, she's like, I know what's going on. He's seeing another girl. That's why he's not texting me. He's with her right now." And she's just making this whole worry up in her head. And then she found out later, well first she texted him and said, you're an asshole. And then she broke up with him on Facebook. And then later she finds out that he was in a car accident and he was unconscious. And then she was all, oh. Now, if she had compassion for herself, she would be like, why hasn't he texted me? I'm thinking he's with another girl. Okay, wait, wait. Give myself compassion. Don't worry about things. You know, maybe he's not with in a horrible car accident and everything's fine. When you're going through the thoughts of the past and the thoughts of the future, you miss the moment, the opportunities of the moment. And a lot of people do this all the time, though. They go in from the past to the future, past to the future. It's funny. They do it a lot while they're driving.

1:04:18
I'm all time travelers!

1:04:23
It's true. It's like you're sitting at your desk, going over an argument you had with your boyfriend or girlfriend, and then you knock your glass of water down, and then it's your favorite glass, and it breaks in half. You're like, oh man, why did I do that? I'm so sad, that's my favorite glass. I wonder if I'm going to be able to glue it together. And then you stand up to get it and you're all, maybe I can glue it. And then there's a banana peel. And you're like, maybe I can glue it. You slip and you fall. Boom. You're like, you know, next time I'm going to take this banana peel and throw it in the garbage. I should have seen this banana peel. Why didn't I see it? And then you put your hands on the glass and cut yourself. And then you stand up and hit your head on the desk. When your attention is caught in the past and the future, you're not aware Just a comedy. Could be a romantic comedy. You're like, hey! For me, it would be like a horror comedy. Or sci-fi comedy. Because they're out there. So, be in the moment. Hey, let's be in the moment together. Sit up nice and straight. We're going to sit for a meditation, focus on the heart. We'll sit for one song, and And I like you to just be aware, aware of yourself, your thoughts, your feelings, and have a disposition of compassion for yourself. Just be present in this moment. Be aware of yourself and be open. Don't give yourself a hard time have compassion have a feeling of compassion So we'll just sit with focus on the heart just for one song Let's begin

1:06:57
the the the the So, so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so So So It's a beautiful way. Compassion. Always have only a joyful mind. This is the 21st aphorism of the Pith teachings of Bodhicitta and mind training. Always have only a joyful mind. You're like, oh, that sounds cool. That's cool in a world like this We got wars. We got politics. We got no We got the job in the morning Got all these stresses. How can you have a joyful mind? Got mean people How can you have only a joyful mind?

1:09:14
By fostering only a joyful mind. You know, even if you didn't have the mean person who you blame, you would still make the world a misery. Even if you didn't have the job in the morning, you would still make the world a misery. So when you're like, oh, the world's so crazy. No, you're crazy. It's not the world that's crazy. It's your mind. Your mind will make a misery out of any situation. So therefore, we take every situation and bring a joyful mind. Even if it's difficult, a joyful mind. And it's difficult, a joyful mind. positive because beneath this thin surface of pleasure and pain there's endless ecstasy. Stop thought and you'll see what I mean.

1:13:02
Always have a joyful mind.

1:13:04
Give yourself the opportunity. Give yourself a chance. This is a part of the practice, this is one of the teachings. You have to foster a joyful mind. When you go into a tough situation, you've got to be like, okay, I have to be joyful. How can I be joyful? Practice taking and sending, and look at things in a positive way. There's a lot to do. You've got to learn meditation. You've got to get a better job. You've got to learn computer programming. I don't know. Whatever you've got to do. You've got to do your stuff. But do it joyfully. That's the Buddhist way. Start really, you know, you have to make a practice of looking at things with a joyful mind. I remember early on when Mandala started teaching my students computer programming, Parvati was there. I didn't know Java, and Mandala was teaching Java, and Parvati says, I'm gonna learn Java and I'm like, oh, that's that's pretty intense Like that's a big language to learn and she goes well, I already learned this part And I was like, there's a lot more than that. She's all Yeah

1:14:38
She's all and I'm gonna learn it

1:14:40
Is it she she was you know going into like, you know really learning an intense thing and She learned it and she had a positive mind. And then she became the CTO of a Silicon Valley success story. Yay! Yeah, and there might be a lot to do, and the path is long and goes on and on, but you want to be joyful about it. I remember when I was trekking in the Himalayas, I did a six-week trek from Jiri up to Kalapatra. And, you know, every day I would like hike ten miles. And so it's like, okay, wake up, climb up some mountain, and then down some mountain, and up another mountain, and down mountain. And it was like, you know, tiring. But every day, you know, I would wake up and I'd be like, let's go explore the Himalayas, the Himalayas. And I was like, wow. I mean, there was a lot to do. It was hard work. It was exhausting. But I was always excited about action. When you're in a position, a disposition of a joyful mind, then you're like, you're happy, even if you have to do a lot of work, even if there's hardships and obstacles and difficulties, you're happy to go through it. And even if there are obstacles, then those obstacles become a reason to get stronger. You look at the things that stop you and hurt you and you say you're a lesson for me in compassion. This hurts me so I'm going to be compassionate because of this. I had a student who had this This boss was mean, demanding, yelled at him all the time, and was just a difficult person to work with. But he practiced compassion for himself. So his boss would yell at him, and then he would just be like... His boss would say, do more, do more, do more, and he's all... And then he said, I became a much stronger computer programmer because I was getting pushed. And I also was much stronger in my compassion because I was always practicing it. So even obstacles can come up. But when they do, we practice compassion for ourselves. And when we have compassion for ourselves, no matter what we're going through, it creates an opening from the self-karmas that limit you to a way through the self. This is the path of selflessness, compassion for yourself. So I'd like to do the transmission of only having a joyful mind. So sit nice and straight. You can focus lightly on the third eye and look up here towards me and we're going to sit for one song. Let's begin.

1:18:34
so so so So So So so I Love my students. That's why I'm here Because I see your Buddha nature. And I'm very happy to give you these teachings so that you can let go of suffering and to see enlightenment within you. Have compassion for yourself. Don't be so hard on yourself. See enlightenment within you. Use humor. So, there was this one student who was learning compassion for himself. And he, um, the way that he did it was he got a joke book.

1:20:06
This was before he can go on his phone and Google things. They didn't have phones back then, just kidding. This was in the 90s, before the internet. Okay, so he had this big joke book that had categories of jokes. So he would bring it around his briefcase and then anytime something bad happened and he would use the joke book. So, one day he lost his job. I don't know why, but he lost it. And so he's like, ah, I lost my job, and it's a bummer. He's like, so I took out my joke book and went to like work jokes, and he found one. And the joke was, my brother got fired from his job as a road worker. And I didn't believe it at first because he was such a good worker at working on the road. And then I asked him, why did they fire you? And he said, they were telling me, or they fired me because they said I was stealing. And he's like, oh wow, that's terrible. He's like, I don't believe it. But then he went home and all the signs were there. Okay, there's another one. He was at the office at his next job and he was going into a conference room that had a glass door, and he didn't notice there was a glass door. So he walked right into the glass door, bonk, right? And then he goes, oh, you idiot, you walked into a door. And he got frustrated, and he goes, wait, wait, wait, the joke book. Opened it up, doo-doo-doo-doo-doo, found a joke. Okay, so Winnie the Pooh comes over to Piglet. And he goes, how you doing Piglet? Piglet goes, bad. He goes, why? What happened? I got kicked by a camel. Oh, that's terrible. Where did the camel kick you? Where else? In the frickin desert. And here ends my little terrain of humor, but I like this, you know, now we now we have Smartphones and you can have like something bad happening immediately go. I need a joke about this So you can have a sense of humor about your life Like here so please have compassion for yourself

1:26:09
foster this practice of

1:26:11
Always only keeping a joyful mind, learn to do this, and your mindfulness practice is this month compassion for yourself. And when you do your sitting practice, compassion for yourself. Okay, thank you all so much. Now, we're going to practice a beautiful seeing exercise because it is the time. Always in October, we do a past life seeing practice where we learn to see our past lives. You're like, oh, did I have one?

1:27:23
Yeah.

1:27:25
Well, some people don't believe in reincarnation, in which case, um, you see something else. But just keep an open mind, even if you don't believe in reincarnation. If you see something, maybe it's an aspect of yourself on your journey, or maybe it's that past life coming back. practice, we focus on the third eye. And this is with eyes closed, and you focus on the third eye, and it's like with your third eye, you're kind of like trying to look to the left. Try to look to the left with your third eye. That's the practice. Now, when we are seeing past lives, we're just open to it. We say, I'm open to seeing whatever comes. And you might have visualization, you might see pictures, it might look like a movie or nothing. You might feel things, you know, just trying to get a picture or something like that. What we're actually doing is we're looking to the awareness and attention of past lives. So let's say in a past life, then maybe you have no visualization, but what happens is the awareness of that time and that experience and who you were, it comes into your awareness. So it's like, wow, I had a kind of power then. And then when I look for it, I connect with that power again. And then you feel that power If in a past life, let's say you were a strong meditator When you look for the past life, it's not that you'll just see yourself Meditating you might but what you'll but you're what we're looking at like it's a spiritual seeing we're seeing the attention but the awareness of that lifetime where you had 40 years meditation practice and that awareness comes to you now. So those powers and awarenesses are things that you reconnect with and then it makes you stronger now. So we're going to do a scene where we're looking to our past lives, to very high powerful powerful lives and We're connecting with the energy the attention the awareness of ourself Well, let's just do it and see what happens No judgments

1:30:32
Sit up nice and straight

1:30:34
going to sit for one song focusing on the third eye, eyes closed, and have that intention to look through the third eye to the left and just be open to your experience. Let's begin. the the

1:31:03
the so so So so So so so so so so so So you Wonderful. So, this was the seeing, the second attention, awareness of a very high past life. But there's a first attention part and that is well, you know Halloween's coming up so I'd like you to get a costume of that past life So if you saw yourself doing Tai Chi get a little Tai Chi outfit That's the first attention part. If you didn't have any vision or understanding of what you were, then get that. Just kidding. You might just have to reflect on it. You're like, well, it's all blue. I wonder what that means. But the first attention part to bring the second attention awareness into balance is fairness, to balance, is to get a costume of your past life. And for the Americans, we're going to have a past life costume party next Saturday in Bodewood. It's going to be So this is great. And the Hungarian sangha, at the next sangha meeting, you guys should all come in your costume. And if you're in Paris, Munich, Vienna, Iceland, you can just put your costume on and sit by yourself in your room. Throw yourself a party. All right. So, thank you all very much. We're going to have a break, 30-minute break, and then we're going to reassemble.

1:34:51
Only students, because we're going to have an adult conversation if Only students, because we're going to have an adult conversation if you want to know what's going on. And guests, thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
