0:00:00
Today I'd like to talk about going on a power trip. Going on a power trip. Because for a lot of us we're going to be going on a power trip soon. Power Power trips are a very fundamental part of our practice. places of power. And during these retreats, we have very significant spiritual experiences. You might say that they're powerful spiritual experiences. great intensity that lead us to see the deeper aspects of our being, the greater dimensions of our spirit. It's a wonderful thing. And these are practices that we work on, we develop our ability to have strong power trips. Although the lucky thing is if it's your first one, the first ones are always the best ones. And it gets better and better and better. Okay, so, there are certain times of power. There are times where it's, let's just say, easier to meditate, easier to connect to your eternal spirit. And there's many different times. There's the most powerful times, the equinoxes and the solstices. This is generally when we take our trips, our sojourns into nirvana. We go to places, sacred places, places that have energy, power, dimensions. But then there's other times. Every month, there's the new moon, the full moon. Those are times, too. Every day, there's times of power. Sunset. So some of you guys might notice, if you're sitting around at sunset, things get a little bit magical. Sunrise has its magic. Different times. Three in the morning is a good time. There's all sorts of good times. Every time is a good time, but there are certain times, like a sunset, a little bit magical, or a solstice, time of power. So during these times of power, the greatest times of power, the solstices, the equinoxes, these are times where we might go on our spiritual retreat and we call them of funny. Like, the first time I heard power trip, it was like because somebody was full of themselves and he had access or stuff that other people didn't. So he was on a power trip. He's like, oh, different dimension of power. It's not self. It's the power that brings you beyond self. So these times of power, these places of power, there's something that bring us beyond the self. And that's why it's tremendously useful. So it's very necessary to prepare. Preparation is essential. If you walk onto a dojo mat to do sparring unprepared, then you can get hurt. But if you walk onto the mat prepared, then you can gain power, awareness and strength. If you go scuba diving unprepared, you could drown. then you have amazing experiences in the underwater world. So going to these spiritual retreats, these things we call power trips, to places of power, at times of power, are opportunities for great transformation. Now, I remember when I first started attending power trips, I was a mess, like you. Very confused with my thoughts, desiring things that drew me in one way and made me unhappy in every way. An idea of myself that was very limited, but I grasped to it because me. And when I went to these power trips, I noticed that I changed. These are the markers of transformation. Just like a black belt test. You go to a black belt test, you walk in, a bow down, a brown belt, a candidate, and then you win, you succeed, you pass. In our school to get a black belt in martial arts you got to beat a black belt from another school. That's how you get your black belt. Someone different style you don't know what they got but all you have is your skill skill, development, and power. And you walk in and you fight. If you win, you get a black belt. If you lose, not a black belt. Things have to be real. But when you win, when you get that black belt, it means something. It tells you something. It's very, very, very strong, very real. So we need these moments of reality. And when we go to these places of power, it is as real as getting on the mat facing the next rank up. And when we face that, we grow from that We're going to these power trips to get stronger

0:08:32
To go higher and

0:08:34
It's the real deal. So you got to be ready. You got to be at your best bring your best If you bring your best you'll do well He'll do great. So, I remember when I was, you know, in a very, very, like, difficult position in my life. I was weak and whiny and poor and everything was against me. But then I went to these places of power and had these tremendous teachings that transformed my life. And it works. I saw it with a fellow student. I had known her for about six or seven months and she just seemed really whiny and everything that she brought up about spirituality was a limitation. Fear, I can't because of this, because of my boyfriend, because of my job is too difficult, my boss is too mean, possible. I can't learn this. Never ending excuses. What holds you back? She named about a thousand things. I only had 478. So this is true. This is what this is what the self does. Comes up with excuses, why I cannot do this here, there, everywhere. But guess what, you can. And at these times of power, these places of power, what we call a power trip is a time where you can. Your spirit can achieve every limitation that you think you have melts, dissolves, goes away. And we find in those moments a way, a way forward, a way higher, a way beyond that deep, deep, deep, deep, deep, heavy, heavy, heavy, heavy tethers, weights that hold you down. Those things dissolve, then you go up. You get higher.

0:11:18
But you got to do the work.

0:11:20
You got to get ready. You got to be ready for flying. You got to be ready for going beyond this world. Of limitation, of self, of things that you can do, can't do. The description, the personal history. You got to be ready to go beyond it. So, clean up your life before the trip. Smile! Clean it up and be positive. Clean up your life, you get ready for transformation.

0:12:05
Clean up your life.

0:12:06
That means clean your room. Clean your closets. My teacher used to say, you want to have a better meditation? Clean your closet and then meditate. And just by cleaning your closet, your meditation will be better. But he assumed that you had a clean room. I don't assume that in any way. I think your room looks like your closet. So, clean your life, clean your room, clean your closet. Clean up the physical aspect of your being. And then, settle your affairs. Do you have someone in your life that you need to apologize to, even if it's their fault? Apologize. Apologize. Okay. This is going to be all inside jokes from now on. Okay, so apologize. And is there anyone who did you wrong, is doing you wrong? Anyone who is giving you a hard time or did the worst thing to you ever and totally threw you down, stepped on you, beat you, robbed you, took away the best thing, etc, etc. Right? It's time to let it go. Forgive it. If you drag that into the desert, it'll be dragging a fucking dead horse. I'm gonna drag this dead horse into the desert with me. And I'll be like, huh, that's cool. Thanks. Come on, let it go. Forgive, don't care, and let it go. Because we're going on a journey, a place away from that. That's drama, that's karma. Cut it, and let's go somewhere better. We're going to go to a place that's magic. A place that lifts you up. But if you're hanging on to that dead horse, it's too heavy. So you need So that you can elevate spiritually into a higher place. Because all those pains, he did me this way, she said that at me, whatever, right? All of those things are just such heavy earthly karmas. When we go on a spiritual pilgrimage to these places of power, we are going beyond the normal daily world. We're going beyond the description of the self. We're going beyond your regular experiences of I'm in traffic, I'm in society, I'm at my job. We take these moments as very powerful moments in spiritual places of great power, sacredness, energy. And in these places, we are able to totally transform our lives. filled with complaints, with dissatisfactions, with limitations, obstacles. And I could look at you right now and I see you put forth, this is my obstacle, this is my doubt, this is my state of awareness where I think things are impossible and I'm only a limited self, your Buddha nature? I understand. But she went on this trip and at the time I was just like, wow, she's so full of negativity, complaints, it's impossible, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. She just goes on and on with negativity and impossibility. Okay, so she didn't even do a good job, but she went on this trip and it was powerful and she transformed and then after that trip I was like inspired by her I thought she was amazing I never ever ever ever I I was like I can't believe I thought a negative thought about her or a limited thought about her. I was like, why did I think that? She totally is this amazing rocket ship of spirituality. And guess what? You all are. You all are. We all are. And we have to see that in each other. If you see someone in their difficult time, you'll think they're the biggest loser. And I guarantee that I was studying with my teacher and I was going through my hardest times and everyone thought I was the biggest, worstest loser in the universe. And they were like, oh, Sinfar is a jerk.

0:18:29
Yeah, they were.

0:18:30
I'm not kidding.

0:18:31
And by the way, I guess I was. But it's transient. I identified with the transient self that went through ups and downs and I had hardships. Guess what? We all do.

0:18:46
We all do.

0:18:47
We should forgive each other our difficulties and our hardships even if it hurts us. Because everyone has Buddha nature. Enlightenment is in with all of you. So that's what we want to see. That's what we want to come to. When we go on these places of power, there's great transformation and enlightenment is in all of us. When we come back, we want to see that in all of us, there's enlightenment. Let everyone grow. Let everybody change. Don't hang on to, that guy yelled at me once, so I don't like him. She looked at me weird, so I don't like her. We want transform and let everyone transform. And then it's allowing a greater elevation for everyone. When you can go and see that some grumpy person goes into the desert and they smile, you can see a light in them. And then you say, wow, that guy was grumpy, but now he's smiling and I see something bright and guess what that's inspiring to you and be inspired Don't be resentful We are a sangha of inspiration to each other every inspirational thought feeling awareness Every win that everyone gets here is something that elevates everybody else else. That is the truth. That's what a sangha is for. So we're here to transform, to grow, to go beyond where we've been before, our karmas and religions, all just go. Let it When we go to these places of power we feel higher awareness I was called these Buddhist holidays My teacher called them places of power, but it's holiday Yeah, so When we do this, it's a time of growth, transformation of ourselves and also the whole group. So let everyone be a new being. If we go to this place of power and everyone changes, energies, dimensions, higher dharma, higher awareness, well then let that be the way and look at everyone in a higher way. You are all students of enlightenment. You all have Buddha nature. You are all practicing the high Buddha dharma. It doesn't come easy to be sitting in this group. And it's a beautiful thing in every one of you. So recognize that in yourself and in each other. Because when we go on places of power, we go together, in a group. And when we go, there's a beautiful ease to it. While I was driving down the coast here, I saw a beautiful omen. of birds and they were just floating, floating by. They weren't even flapping their wings. The winds were coming and they would ride the winds. And that's what we do. It is wu-wei, the way of flying without exertion, the way of transcending the gravity of self to be in a high spiritual awareness. So these were pelicans, and these pelicans were flying together without waving their wings. This is the way of a sangha. We come together, and when we're together, we ride these waves, the winds, the winds of energy, the winds of time, the winds of places of power. And by being together, it's a beautiful thing. So you can transform. Everyone can transform. And it's a time where we have a recognition We change, we grow and everyone else does too. And let them be. Everyone's your greatest friend. Everyone's your greatest ally. Everyone can be. I love it. I've seen it. Many, many, many, many times. When I was a new student, I saw people grow and change and transform. I was inspired by them and it helped me grow and change and transform because I saw them change and transform. That's the law. So be that way. Do that. And we all change and grow and transform. That's the way. Everyone fights, no one quits. So we fight for enlightenment. We don't fight, but we're all together. Everyone fights. We're all together. We're all reaching to a higher enlightenment. Everyone fights. No one quits. Isn't this beautiful? Now, we're going to a place of power. Now once you enter into a place of power with me, you enter into a different world, a different dimension. Everything turns from regular to magical. I often like It's like scuba diving. That's my analogy so when you scuba dive you go from yeah I'm on the land in my hotel and I walk on the dock and I go to a boat and it's all above water Everything is above water world And then you jump off the boat with your scuba equipment with your air tank turned on, having done a buddy check. Okay, all that first attention has to be there. All that awareness has to be there. Perfection. And then you go into this world where it's totally different. You jump off that boat from the dock, from the beach, from the hotel, and you enter into a totally different world. It's a world where we're normally not there, where people usually can't breathe, but people are there with scuba, looking around and seeing fish and corals and the currents and the dangers, the dangers of the deep and the raptures of the deep. Just so many wonderful things in a different world. So when we go to the desert, it's like a totally different experience, but a good one. When you're scuba diving, it's very freeing and you're floating. You have neutral buoyancy and you feel like you're flying. You can fly upside down. You can do so many things that you can't do in this atmosphere, in this world, in this

0:27:58
dimension.

0:27:59
Ah, the ocean.

0:28:00
It's our great friend and ally. We learn the ways of the ocean. That's Mystic Scuba. However, when you're in the ocean, you gotta do it right. Oh, come on, I got a big smile for you. I'm just bringing you positivity. So in the ocean, you have to do things right because there are different dangers in the ocean than in your normal course of karma. The normal awareness of this world that you think is the only world. So in the ocean, it's like, okay, where am I at? Oh, guess what? There's tiger sharks here. If there are tiger sharks here, when we dive in Hawaii, there's tiger sharks. You got to be careful. You have to look around. There has to be an for the shark. Because if you don't see it coming, it might bite you. But if you see it coming, it won't bite you. It knows when you see. When you're diving, a lot of times you are interested in something and you are being a little bit desirous or interested in exploring, getting a little bit out there. And then when you do that, you could put yourself in a place of danger. So this is where curiosity killed the cat. So don't get curious, but I would say don't get desirous. Don't be drawn by a certain energy. Keep it tight. Keep focused. So if you're diving, you might be looking down at a scorpionfish and you might be like wow it's really interesting colors but it's just sitting there maybe I'll just pet it and they call them scorpion fish for a reason so at this point you don't know what a scorpion fish looks like so I say don't touch anything. But also when we go to places of power, don't have this feeling of, that's interesting, I want to reach out to it because I feel it's interesting. Okay, so same with lionfish. If you see a lionfish, they're like these floating, beautiful things. They're just like, they have these wonderful wings and they look so slow and beautiful, beautiful things. Now, if you try to touch that beautiful thing, it moves extremely fast and it takes those wings and those wings have like porcupine prongs that just look like beautiful wings. And those wings, those prongs shoot into your hand and are venomous and kill people or just hurt them. But it kills people. When we are underwater in scuba, we respect that world. We respect that there are great white sharks out there. There are tiger sharks over there, bull sharks over there. And we respect that there's powers that are greater than us. And we also respect that there are things that look neat to us and interesting and we might want to go, meow. We might want to grab it. And if we grab certain things, they're not good for us. So, that is a powerful etiquette. We're going into a place of power. You go into the ocean here, you can meditate, you can have amazing experiences, and then you can come across a shark. There's a lot of opportunity. Where the light shines brightest, there are also shadows. So if you go to a place of power, there's great things, just like the ocean here. Kelp forests, seals, whales, dolphins, amazing things to experience. Don't grab the uni. Don't grab the sea urchins. Watch out. There's sharks. And if you work with the place properly, you're going to be okay. This is what we do. We live powerful lives. We go into places of power. We go into the ocean. We go into deserts. In deserts, there's scorpions, tarantulas, coyotes and monkeys. I'm pretty sure. Desert monkeys. So you have to be careful. So it's very important that when we go to these places that we have a great respect. When you go into the ocean, great respect for that place. When we go into the deserts, great respect for that place. Deserts are places where not a lot of things live. It's kind of like the ocean. A couple trips ago we were out in the Anza Borrego desert, one of our great places of power. We were out in a very, very special place, Fonce Point. on the point. And when we walked out there as a big group, all of a sudden, a police car came. And he said, What are you guys doing? And we said, We're going to go out and meditate. And he's like, Cool. We did not get arrested for meditation. But he said, Okay, I just wanted to check because there was a person who came out here today and he parked and he hiked and then he didn't come back to his hotel. His family was wondering where he was and he had died that day. They said we found his body just an hour ago. When you go into places of power, it's intense. The ocean is intense. The deserts are intense, the Himalayas are intense. Now, any place of power that we go, we want to have a really strong awareness that there are powers there. The powers can uplift you if you handle them correctly. Or, they can be very deadly. If you go swimming in this ocean behind me, if your attention is up to it, you can have an enlightening experience. This is a very beautiful place, very good energy. And those waves don't look menacing. missing. But do you know the currents? Do you know the depth? 30 feet out, it goes deep. 30 feet out you can see a whale jump straight out of the ocean. Yeah, so this is a place that has great strength, great power. That's why we're meeting here. You can swim there with great power, awareness, focus, attention, impeccability, and you can have a magical time. But you can also swim out there and die within minutes. When we go to places of power, we have a respect for that place, any place, even if it's a field of poppies. If it's a place of power, we respect it. We open up to it. We listen to it. We hear from it. We connect to it. And we connect on a level of spirituality. But no matter what place it is, the ocean, the desert, the mountains, or sitting safely on the beach, or in the forest, in a meadow, we have tremendous respect, tremendous respect for the place. We honor the place. And that's how we transform. So we have a way that we approach places when we go to these places of power. We walk in and we feel a place, the first thing that we do is we make an offering. It's called torma. When we walk to a sacred place, when we feel a natural divine energy, we create an offering. It's called Torma. And this offering is powerful. Torma. Torma. So, we come to a place of power. A place where we feel some spirit. And we say, I recognize you, and I honor you, and I want to give to you something to help you, to support you, to strengthen you. I realize that I'm on this beach, this place of power, and I'm just a visitor and I'm coming to this place to give, to care. I want this place to be better, to be honored for all beings to see this place and say, wow, this place is a beautiful place. And in this place people can receive teachings of Dharma, people can feel the nature of the being of the universe and feel the ocean and feel everything and be uplifted. No? Yeah. Come on. A little bit, yeah. You're like, is it that big? Yeah, it's that big. And that's what we have to care for. You can't just go into a place and be all, it's this It's just weird that way, whatever.

0:40:50
Bleh!

0:40:52
That's a deadening of attention of people.

0:40:55
Come on, wake up!

0:40:57
We want to be the spiritual bringers of light. And guess what? Light is everywhere. Light is everywhere. It's in trash. So I'm going to teach you guys eventually how to bring enlightenment in trash.

0:41:13
Sure.

0:41:15
Sure, but we start off with good places that are strong and spiritual, but eventually, eventually you have to be so strong in all these amazing dimensions of light and power and beautiful dimensions of purity and energy. And then you have to be able to say, all right, I'll bring it to trash. Yeah, okay. You guys are like, I don't know, trash. Yes, enlightenment is in trash. If you can be a master of enlightenment in the most pure places, the most powerful places, the most sacred places, you can bring that sacredness and that power to anywhere you go. Even to the worst places of your mind, the greatest places of your suffering. Even to hell, the hells of your mind, the hells, the greatest pain. Bring enlightenment there. That's what we do. So step one, go to good places, places with obvious good power. Step two, bring it everywhere else. Anywhere and everywhere. This is the essence of Buddhist mysticism. So we're here in a beautiful place and we can feel amazing, powerful energies. These are very, very, very good things. We want to be able to bring these things to uplift you. Oh, it's happening. It uplifts you. And when we go to places of great power, at times of power, these are things where we make tremendous transformations. Okay, so, Torma is an offering. Torma. Make an offering. Torma, often in Buddhism, is you make like a cake, or you bring a cake, and you say, here's a cake, and then you go to a place and you go, here's a cake. And you put it down. And you're like, that's my torma. But that's just the physical aspect. And that's cool if you do it the right way. Making a cake and bringing a cake and giving a cake is a special thing. But you don't need a cake. And you can just bring an offering from your heart. This is what we do. I'm teaching you this. When we go to a place of power, a place of nature, any place, if you want to know the truth about the place, bring an offering from your heart. And I offer light. The highest, brightest, most wonderful thing that I've learned is that there's 10,000 dimensions of light. And if I can bring that light, the highest light of spiritual experience, of awareness, of realization, anything that you think is a good thing from your spiritual practice. Anything that is the best thing, I say, Oh, I know this, I give this to this place. And what it does is it opens up a connection to the place. A place can be quite closed. But if you open your heart and give, the place can open. This is what mystics do. This is mysticism. You want to open up the power of a place? Give it something. Selflessly, give it the highest, brightest, greatest light that you know of. And it goes, oh! It wakes up. It energizes the place. If there was anything there, the best stuff, your giving opens the door to that. So give. Give to the place. So I remember I was in Japan with some of my students and wonderful temple called King Kakuji. There was like, I don't know how many thousands of people there. It was just a big line of many, many, many people and it was just crowded and crowded. Yet, you get pushed forward to seeing the pond and a big temple, golden temple. And we got pushed and said, hey everyone let's get pushed in front of the pond where there's just a little fence. And then when we get to that fence, we've been in line for 45 minutes, crowded, you know, shoulder to shoulder with a bunch of people, and what is there to do spiritual here? And I said, spiritual, watch. And then the first thing that I did was I did Torma. And I was I don't see anything. And I said, I give to this place, I make an offering of the greatest power in life that I know from my heart, and I give it to this place. Now the moment that happened, all of a sudden, these ancient dimensions that were completely closed and covered over by a billion, no sorry, some million, I think five million tourists a year. This was a very famous place. I think it's five million tourists a year go there. tourists behind us pushing us against the fence and I said this is my true heart offering of the highest brightest light that I know and then what happened there's a connection there was a light that was open just from my selflessness of giving to the place, offering to the place. And that offering opened magic. That place was a place where a Zen master lived, an enlightened Zen master. And that opened up all of that Zen Master's teachings, light, awareness for us while we were standing there. And we had a great spiritual blessing where everyone was elevated. And there's 10,000 people standing behind us, pushing us, saying, I'm going to get a selfie, get out of the way. And we were in a totally different higher awareness. There are places, even that are dormant, covered over, that if you bring higher awareness, your highest spiritual awareness and connect to the place, it could be a place where an enlightened teacher, a Zen master, a Buddha, a Rinpoche, has been. That's why we go to places of power. Places where powerful beings of being-ed have been. So, Japan, there's places like that, totally covered over by people who are tourists who just walk through there because of social conditioning, but the powerful lines of energy and the attention of the Zen masters totally different. Nepal, totally different. Or Bhutan, totally different. I see amazing dimensions open in Ladakh. I'm going to explore that with Tenzin. We're going to do many adventurous adventures. But this is in the future. Because Tenzin and Tzu-Wang, while they were Buddhist monks for many years, now they're here. And here they have to develop their personal power and do this thing that all you Americans do and Hungarians, and Hungarian, which has become powerful in this way. This is a different dimension of power than the Far East. And that's why Tenzin and so on are super amazing, They're able to come here into this different dimension. And they've been monks their whole lives. And they're able to be strong here in this weirdness, with this strange samvara telling them strange things, which is truth. And they're going to be great. You're all going to be great. Anyone who follows these teachings are great. Okay, so relax. Okay, wait. Okay, maybe stand up.

0:54:03
All right, everyone.

0:54:04
You guys are doing great.

0:54:05
This is a very powerful and elevated time.

0:54:06
And the fact that you guys are here is very, very, very, very, very strong. Whether you're coming to the desert trip this time or not, this is a very powerful time.

0:54:08
And I want to thank you for being here. I want to thank you for being here. I want to thank you for being here.

0:54:11
I want to thank you for being here. I want to thank you for being here.

0:54:13
I want to thank you for being here. I want to thank you for being here. I want to thank you for being here.

0:54:16
I want to thank you for being here. I want to thank you for being here. I want to thank you for being here.

0:54:19
I want to thank you for being here. I want to thank you for being here. I want to thank you for being here. I want to thank you for being here. I want to thank you for being here. I want to thank you for being here. I want to thank you for being here. I want to thank you for being here. I want to thank you for being here. I want to thank you for being here. Whether you're coming to the desert trip this time or not, this is a very powerful experience.

0:54:38
You're all doing very well.

0:54:41
Okay, have a seat. I just am keeping going, so I'm going to keep going. What we call a place of power, what we call a time of power and our intersection with it, we call it a power trip. But it is a spiritual pilgrimage. And a spiritual pilgrimage is a very powerful thing. It doesn't start when you get there. Pilgrimage means the way of getting there. It's a journey, right? If you're about to go on a pilgrimage, it starts now. It's a journey. And the journey matters. The way that you do it matters. Your preparation, like a samurai going into battle. The samurai is like, I better say, hey, mom, that rice you made was pretty good. Thanks. Solved the bad karma. And then you go, hey, to your friends. Remember when we used to play around? Well, that time that I accidentally got mad and hurt you, please forgive me. Whether it happens or not, at least you asked. And remember that time you went a little too hard and you hurt me? I forgive you. Let it go. Let it go. Let it go. Something something anymore.

0:56:55
Where's my Lorne Anderson?

0:56:59
Something something anymore. Can't hold it back anymore. Don't even start with that. Well, yeah, so...

0:57:14
What hurts, let it go.

0:57:16
Don't hang on to the past. But forgive everyone. Especially everyone. Laughter

0:57:24
So...

0:57:26
So these are times of great power. I look at the older students who have been through it here and there and before and after. And they are experienced and strong. And each power trip elevates you, makes you strong, gives you so much power. You're like, I don't know. Yeah. Every experience. There's this really good martial arts training. It's called Shotokan karate special training and like twice a year they get together and they have these powerful trainings for at least a weekend or four days where they train all day and they train and train and train and train basics advanced standing in Chibu Dachi You know things that are difficult things that are easy things that are hard and then at the end It's such an intense experience of amazingness You guys are awesome. Thank you for coming by yeah, thank you It's such an amazing powerful experience that it is spiritually transforming in martial arts. Come on! Why not? A few days of martial arts can change your life. Martial arts transformation. Martial arts transformation. Enlightenment, transformation, meditation, transformation. Place of power, transformation. Job yoga, transformation. Everything leads to transformation. Everything that we do. If you do it with your whole heart, you change. So, we're a bunch of friends going on a great adventure. An adventure into positivity, possibility, beyond anything that you can think of. Because if you can think of it, that's where it ends. And we need to go beyond that. And that's what this place of power, time of power, what we call a power trip, brings us to beyond our dissatisfaction, our self. The person who goes like this, I don't know, I think blah, blah, blah. Guess what? That's just super karma mind, super heaviness self. And I see it in you guys. You guys are all, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh. Okay, I appreciate that. But I also know for sure there's a way in everyone's case, in everyone's situation, to break free from that self. That self command, if that's what you think the world is and that's what you want and that's what you fear, come on. Then you're dead. You're fucking dead. It's true. I mean, it's true. So I'm telling you, there's a way beyond that. I know that you might cherish those things. And I teach that beyond that cherishing is your suffering. And I would that. I know you have your beautiful self, your beautiful ideas, and your desires and attachments and worries and concerns. I know that. And I never point to those teachings. I point the way out. And I know it's hard and it's scary. But that's what we do. And And we're coming up to a Buddhist holiday. What's a Buddhist holiday? It's a day of enlightenment. It's a day where you let those things go, where you can go past them. You can relinquish your cherishing self, your cherishing of the ideas, and your cherishing of your fears and Everything ouches. Alright. We're coming around. A little bit. So, when we go on power trips. on a pilgrimage. It's called a pilgrimage. Tenzin and Tsawang, Buddhist monks, know what No idea.

1:04:12
It's a spiritual journey

1:04:14
that brings you to spiritual realization and on that way of that spiritual journey you let go of things of self. You change, you transform, you grow, and then when you reach the place that you go, you are a different person.

1:04:46
This is the essence and truth.

1:04:51
So we are pilgrims going to a sacred place, a place of power, a place of spirituality, a sacred place of enlightenment. And when we get to that place, in those moments we're together, they are moments of liberation, of transformation, of letting everything that's created your suffering fall away and letting everything in the universe in your heart and to recognize the greatest truth of your being. Pilgrimage. You're a bunch of pilgrims. A pilgrim says, I am weak. I'm not strong. I'm not an ego. I'm not the biggest thing and everything that I think and I like and I don't like, that's my world. What I like and what I don't like, I've just realized brings me suffering. I want beyond that. I want beyond what I suffer. I want beyond what I like. I like food. I like money. I like sex. No? No jokes? I like money. I like sex. No? That's an inside joke, I guess. I'm going to tell you. It's a movie. And it's called, I know what it's called! Idiocracy! You guys have got to see this movie, Idiocracy. Idiocracy. I like money. I like sex. Okay, so this is what the self likes. Mediocrity, idiot, Chrissy. This is what the self likes. The self likes things that are not elevated. follow desires and fears, but if you follow higher dharma, it brings you to more beautiful places. When you're a pilgrim, you've had enough. It's true. You know, because you're ancient beings, you know that that doesn't bring happiness. suffering. That's what everyone's chasing. Gold and women and men and silver. Men and platinum. Men and bitcoin. Gold and women. Men and bitcoin. That's what everyone's chasing. That's what the self wants to bring. But when you know that it doesn't work, that all your Bitcoin and it's gone.

1:09:24
Right?

1:09:26
That is the truth. And it's gone. of anything that you think is good that will bring you up and make you happy. What's going to bring you up and make you happy? Family, friends, money, house, and it's gone. Either in this lifetime or at the end of this lifetime. I'm telling you, I'm telling you in a very happy California way We are We're walking out of that We've been there we've done that but we're walking out of that because it don't work and as pilgrims We can change we can transform. So, we say, whoa, I'm in this place of a certain karma, of everybody wants this or that, self, happiness, fear, difficulty, I like that person, I don't like this person, and that's the world of self. But here's what we do when we go to a place of power on a pilgrimage. We leave the place that we are at. We leave the place where we're stuck. The place of karma. The place of self. We leave it and we go somewhere. To a place of power. In a time of power. In a place of transformation. Where we can go past this self that suffers. It's an amazing thing. It's a very special opportunity to go on a power trip. We are pilgrims. The journey matters. So I talked about clean your room. You're a warrior. When When a samurai goes to battle, they say, well, I might die, I might be gone, but I'm going to go with the best. So they say, hey mom, thanks. Hey brother, yeah, we had a hard time, but I love you anyway. The Samurai says hey I Got that thing, but I didn't pay for it. Here's the rest of my money They settle their affairs They don't have any thank-yous sorry's forgiveness's debts And they go to battle ready For oblivion. That's beyond death. That's what a samurai does. I might single-handedly destroy the other army. That's power. That's oblivion. I might get killed with the first arrow. That's oblivion. It's complete selflessness, which creates the awareness of oblivion. We are not interested in life or death. In every juncture where we go into battle, where we go into a place of power, we are going for not good, bad, not ugly, but oblivion, that which is not good, not bad, not self, not life, not death, but that which transcends it. Oblivion. We call it oblivion nirvana. Oh, very good. We're pilgrims. And when we start, we start our journey. And our journey is what matters. So from the moment where you say I'm going to go on this mystical path, this journey, this pilgrimage, that's when you start. It's not getting to the desert and having a meditation there. It's not getting to the cave in the Himalayas and then getting there. It is the moment you say, I'm going. And the moment that you say you're going is where you start walking, getting over there. And that all matters. The intention matters. And the way matters. So, there was this really good story I heard in China about a monk in Wutai Shan. And that is a very sacred spiritual place. Many mountains, a beautiful valley, many, many, many Buddhist There was a monk who was struggling. He was like, I'm meditating, but I have these concerns, and I'm struggling, and I don't know about this, and maybe I shouldn't be a monk, and maybe I should go back to my family, everything. Anything you have in your head, he had it added his head. His worries, his concerns, his fears, his doubts. And his master said, up on that mountain, there's a hermitage. It's a little building. Go. Go there. When your suffering will be gone. And he said, his master was an enlightened master. And he said, thank you master. And he was so happy to know the way. To know the true way. And then, he walked way, way, way, way, way, way, way, way, way up. Up the mountains, up the mountains. And with every step he was happy. With every step he knew that he was following the pathway to enlightenment. With every step he knew that he was going to burn away his difficulties, his troubles, his confusions, all of his concerns, all of his difficulties were gone, because he was so happy with his walk, with his pilgrimage, with his, the way to the release, the way to the exit of the self. And then he got there, he was so happy because every step was a step of joy. And then he sat down, he meditated, and then he went into Samadhi, enlightenment, immediately. No more confusions, no more delusions, no more heaviness, no more heaviness. The heaviness of self that knows so many things, that thinks all these things, that are attached to spiritual ideas, that are attached to self ideas, personal history, it was gone. Every step that he took is a release. From this point forward, if you're preparing for a power trip, you can start to just let it go. To get to the place of power itself is the release of all karmas. You can let it go. That's the way. And on our experiences to these beautiful high states of selflessness with every step on the way, even when the step might be a click to buy an airplane ticket or a hotel. These are powerful steps. Every step brings you to a greater degree of selflessness and awareness. easy. You know, in Tibet, they're like, okay, okay, you want to go on a pilgrimage, go to Mount Kailas. Where are you? Oh, wait, you're only 5 feet tall. If you were like 6 foot 4, Americans would have an advantage. Seriously they take it. They will from the south of India or anywhere, they'll say, Hey when I hear about this, when there's this opportunity, I will do a full body prostration a practice. And when you have that intensity and that belief and in every step or every prostration that depth of commitment, then maybe you're a pilgrim. I see a lot of pilgrims who are just like, oh I'm supposed to do this so I do this. And they might put themselves through a lot of pain, but they don't have the heart. This is a teaching of the heart. It's not a teaching of difficulty. You don't have to have difficulty. There's a lot of people who will do full body prostration. On their knees, laying down, standing up, and then going one more. That doesn't create truth. That might just be an idea. It often is. We can look at people who do insanely crazy things. Definitely might not be the thing. They might just be really into hurting themselves. They don't get it. It should awaken their awareness to this is so important that I would be willing to go through this much difficulty and pain. And they might travel thousands of miles to get to the place. We are taking an airplane. We're running on a road and getting in cars. It's not that difficult. It all matters about your heart, your mind. There is so much dogma about here is what it is to go on a pilgrimage in the east. A pilgrimage starts with a true intentionality in your heart. You could do a pilgrimage to Mount Tamil Pais. It's not very far. A pilgrimage starts in your heart. It could be a short distance. But if you do it in your heart the right way, it might take someone else a way to travel around the world, walking, praying, prostrating themselves. Or it might take a half an hour drive to join me for dinner. It could be a pilgrimage. So it comes from, the heart. It means, what's your intention? Where are you coming from? Are you coming to transform your life? Because it could be here on the beach. It could be joining me for dinner. It could be a meditation with me. But then there are places of power. And when we go to these places of power, it's great transformation. And even though we just have to drive there or fly there, if you come with selfless awareness, you transform. a student of my teacher. He was a wonderful fellow. His name was Arjuna. He was from New Delhi and he met my teacher and he loved my teacher. But he had this idea of, well you know, enlightenment has to be some Indian guy, because I'm from India. But he somehow My teacher was like, oh, you can know that, you can think that, but there is a greater

1:24:53
truth.

1:24:54
So one day, Arjuna's father became deathly ill and they called him and said, your father is going to die within a few days, you got to come back. So he dropped everything in New York and he flew back to New Delhi and right before flying back my teacher said to him, when you get back your father is going to be healed. And my teacher was a great healer, a magical, mystical healer, when he said, your father

1:25:32
is going to be healed.

1:25:33
He said, but you got to go. And then he said, you're going to go and find enlightenment on a mountain. So that's the thing. He said, if dad's going to be healed, you're going to find enlightenment on the mountain. Why not go? So he went. And he got there to New Delhi. And the day that he got there, his father who was going to die was healed. His father was totally fine. Now he took a lot of time off of work because he knew he was going to be there for at least three weeks. So then he's like, alright, so he hung out for a week with the family because that's what we got to do, at least a week. And then he was like, I took this much time off, what is it my teacher told me and what do I want to do? So he found a tour to Tibet. So he said, that would be cool. So he was in New Delhi, it's not too far from Nepal and the Himalayas. So he went to that. And he went on tour for a week and it was really cool and he had a good time. But then he found a guide that would take him to Kailash, which is a very, very, very holy place of spirituality in Tibet. And he said, all right, I want to go, he just said, I want to go to that mountain. And he said, my teacher told me if I go to a mountain, I'll see something about enlightenment. So he went. it. But it is very, very high in elevation. He wasn't used to it. So as he was climbing up the mountain, he got a little dizzy. I don't know if any of you have been up in the It alters your attention and it's physically difficult. So he went up and at one point somehow his guide left him and he was by himself. And he came across other pilgrims, Buddhist monks that were doing the full prostration, they were really into it. And then he kind of like walked with them. He couldn't do the full prostration, but he walked with them. And he had a burning desire to go to the top of the mountain to see the vision that he knew was there. And he just went. And he went past pain, and difficulty, and hardship. And he finally got to the top of the mountain. And then when he got to the top of the mountain, he just fell down with his arms open to the sky. Mount Kailash. And then in that experience, he had a transcendent spiritual awareness of luminosity and enlightenment. And what came to his mind. And it was the highest spiritual experience he had up to that moment. And then he came back and he told us this. Sometimes you got to go everywhere in a pilgrimage to transform, to grow, to go beyond, to come

1:29:59
back.

1:30:00
Because he always had this idea, he had a concept. As an Indian, he's like, I really think these things. And then he comes to America, and he's like, I really think these things. And then he's like, alright, this American guy can be enlightened. Why not? And in a pilgrimage, there's a very, very powerful thing that occurs. You transcend your karma. In a pilgrimage, it's definitely that you start off in a certain state, in a certain way and that by following those steps towards the pilgrimage location that you change, that you transform, that you grow. This happens because you open yourself up to the world, to the universe. And you say, I'm going forth, beyond this place, and I'm going to take a chance and go and grow, where there's an ability, a place, yonder, far away, for transformation, and I'm going to go follow that. And you do. There's a place where you leave your karma. And your karma is something that holds you back, limits you, folds you down, keeps you in negativity and weirdness. But when you are a pilgrim, you're on the road to transform beyond your karma. There is this great story of a yogi in southern Nepal. Southern Nepal is a place way below the Himalayas and there are jungles. It's hot. There's tigers and rhinos and elephants. And this guy says, Hey Master, what I gotta do? And this master's like, You got bad karma, man. Hanging out with me ain't gonna work. He's like, But there's a cave up in the Himalayas. We're at the bottom of, we're in the jungle, but very quickly you go to the foothills and up into the snowy mountains. There's a cave up in the snowy mountains. And he said, you go there, once you get to that cave, all of your karma will be burned off. So he says, thank you, Master. So the next day he sets out for that cave. He is walking through the jungle and he is attacked by a tiger. He barely makes it out alive. The tiger like scratches him in the face and scratches his body. And then he has to like, he got away. And then he had to like heal. After healing he said, okay I am going to go again. So he started going and then he got bit by a snake and the snake had venom and the venom was very very bad he almost died but he pulled through and kept going. He was like alright after he healed he goes again I know that place I got to get rid of this bad karma. He says I'm going so And then he's walking and walking and walking and then he runs into this gang of drunk guys and they beat him up. They don't steal from him because he doesn't have anything. They just decide to beat him up. He gets hurt, beaten. And then he recovers from that, says, I'm going to keep going. So he keeps going. He's walking and walking and walking. Then he comes across this group of four women and they're very enticing. And they're like, oh, you can help us. Oh, we're really lovely. And then he goes in with them because he wants to help them and they're very like attractive. And so he hangs out with them for a couple of weeks or so. They draw him way off course, bring him to where they want to go and he hangs out with them and they are very interesting and say fun things and sing songs. And then eventually he says, I got to get out of here. So eventually he gets out. And then he is going on and on and he comes across this farmer who falls down and hurts himself so he goes and helps the guy and the guy just reminds him of his father so he's like, let me help you you can't do the farming? I'll do the farming. So he spends a few weeks there helping that guy. And again and again and again things happen that draw him off from going forth to the cave. But he's a nice guy and gets caught up in all these dramas. But eventually, he keeps going. He gets through it, and he keeps going. The next thing comes, he keeps going. And then he gets up into the high Himalayas. And guess what happens to him there? The usual things. Yeah, Tenzin and Soong No. The usual things happen. So once he's going on this mountain pass and there's this yak running down. He gets trampled by a yak. Happens every day. He goes, oh, oh, then he recovers. Then he's hiking along the mountain pass and somehow there's like a little avalanche and he gets knocked off the path, falls off a cliff, gets really hurt, loses all his food, and it's cold. And everything happens, right? And he keeps going, keeps going, and keeps going. And then he gets to the cave. Now, once he gets to the cave, his master is there. And his master is just sitting in meditation. And he's like, Master, I've finally made it to the cave. It took me six months, but I did everything to get there. And this master says, OK, good, because it took me a week and I've been waiting for you. And you got all those karmas, they draw you off left and right. The pathway to enlightenment, we call it the fast path. That's the path where we can let go of karmas very quickly. What slows us down on the pathway to enlightenment is self-karma, desire, fear, self-description, I can, I can't. But if you let go of all that, you can go beyond all the dramas of the tiger, the snake, the farmer, the women, the cold, and you can go there Now the first time usually takes a while. But the master made it there quickly. Okay, so when we go on these pilgrimages, even if you have a lot of karma, an opposition that says, no I shouldn't go, or it's hard to go, it's difficult, go. Overcome the opposition, go on the pilgrimage, be strong, grow. That's the way where you can find how to get out of the trap itself. These are very significant times. But we go there for a very beautiful thing. We call it Buddhist magic. So when we go to places of power, I do Buddhist magic. And Buddhist magic is acts of awareness, feats of energy and ways that you can see power that are unlike anything that you see in this world. You see things with your eyes, you feel things with your heart, you have awarenesses that go beyond what is the normal description of life. And it's a miracle. So when we go to the places of power where I do Buddhist magic, I'm opening you to a world of magic. I remember one time, Dharma and I were in Japan together and we We told, we had very very very good close business partners in our yoga and then we were just doing business with them but then we finally told them Dharma needed this, it was important to them. He's like, we're Buddhists. And they're like, oh, cool, because we like that. And then they took us to their favorite Buddhist masters and we went to this one place where they were it was a Daigojo Buddhism they're really into the Amitabha Buddha Amitabha one ancient ancient Buddha and they're like oh look here's the five Dhyana Buddhas. And they said, this is a Dhyana Buddha. All five Buddhas that represents like all of them. I was like, okay, that's cool. And we're standing around and having a good time. And then he said, please, now that I know you're Buddhist, please worship as you would like. Please, worship them. So Dharma and I were like, okay. So I said, well why not? So we had one business partner and one Buddhist monk, me and Dharma. And I said, Dharma, we show them some Buddhist magic. And Dom was like, OK. So we're sitting there and I go, Buddhist magic. And then these standing Buddhas, they start to make smiles. They start to smile. They start to move their hands and their heads. And it's magical. And at first the Buddhist monk is like, you guys aren't like bowing and praying and chanting. And we're like, No, no, no, no. But then after he let that go, then you see a big smile on his face. And he was a very pure monk. A lot of monks are jaded monks. They let all of the dogma of practice cover awareness. But he was a pure monk. He also did yoga. He made clay buddhas and he said, this is my meditation. He wasn't just into ideas and thoughts, he was into action. He was a karma yogi. And he was able to see the power. And it was very, very beautiful. Magic is the way. The way of Buddhist mysticism. So when we go to the deserts, there's things that you will see in Buddhist magic. You will see energies, auras, the mystical awarenesses of the place. You'll see places where I open dimensions of power and light. And these things are very visual. They're visual, you see light, you see powers, you see all sorts of things, but you also feel these things. You feel the magic. are experiences of mysticism. And there are things that, it's like, once, to see is to believe in a way. And if you hear about spiritual things, you might have an idea, but once you see it, then you say, Oh, wow, I saw something. But sometimes you have a feeling that is undeniable and that's something too. So when we go to these places we have tremendous visions, feelings, awarenesses that are beyond doubt that are things that are powerful that we realize that we see truth in. So, these are our experiences. And when you see it, it opens the door to magic in your life. So when you see those dancing Buddhas, I open your awareness when we are together to seeing magic in everything. You can see in your Buddha at home, your little Buddha, or a statue of Buddha. And all of a sudden there's spiritual dimensions that you didn't see before. This is Buddhist magic. Brings you out of, it's just a picture, it's just an idea, into a real spiritual connection with all things, but especially the images of the divine.

1:47:43
Alright, so, it's getting dark. Couple more things.

1:47:48
In places of power, this is where I do empowerments. Empowerments are where I'm able to take a tremendous energy called Kundalini. I'm able to fashion it into a structure followed by these invisible teachings, we call the secret teachings, the esoteric teachings, and I'm able to take those teachings and that power and fashion it into a condition of awareness, a block of awareness, and I can transmit it to you. And empowerment isn't an idea or a thought. It isn't something that has words. It is a transference of a kind of power. And it's a power that enables you to do great things in your lives. There's power for meditation, there's power for disciplined practice, there's power for developing your career, for developing martial arts, for developing even music, for developing your yoga projects. There's different empowerments. And these the navel chakra, powers that enable you to have greater ability to fashion your lives in ways of dharma. These are empowerments. The other thing that I do in the deserts is Sometimes. And these are tremendously transforming experiences that put you on the right track. They are bigger than empowerment. So if I do an initiation for yoga, an initiation of the navel to put you on the pathway to enlightenment, the initiation of the heart to do the practices of compassion, the initiations of the third eye. These are things that create a creation, a formation, a structure within your being, in your heart, in your soul, where the light comes in more and you express the light in a powerful way. So let's say you wanted to learn martial arts on your own. You could be on the beach, punching and kicking and doing things that you saw in a karate movie. But if you were with a 5th degree black belt and they directed you, the way that you would learn would be much more powerful. If you were with a fifth degree black belt, they would teach you moves and awarenesses. Ways to control, ways to develop and ways to express power that you didn't know before. And would never come up with on your own. And that is something that is what an initiation is. It is from an ancient system built by a great master, a way to develop, a way to grow, in a structure that is powerful. There's different ways. Someone who had their personal liberation is a good thing. You might sit there with Eckhart Tolle and he has liberation. He's real. He's liberated. And he has a certain expression. Things that he can do and ways he can talk and show light in certain powerful profound ways and they're good ways. But if you go to like, you know, a system of Chinese Kung Fu where some grand master with great adept and acumen and skill, develop this system, they have so much more subtlety. They have 10,000 more dimensions of ability than someone who comes up with their own way. So initiations a lot more power and ways that train you in being developed to express that power. Finally, finally, finally in our pilgrimages to these places of power, at the end from From our meditations, from our transformations, from our experiences, we make a plan. We make a plan. From here, from this realization, from this empowerment, what do I want to do that's different? What do I want to change my job, learn something new, grow, do better job yoga? Do I want to succeed in my yoga practice? Again, write it down. Write your intention and write what you think you should do. Because this will guide you. It will help you to grow, to use that power and energy and enlighten transformation. And then you'll go, grow, develop and you'll follow the energy of that time. It'll push you and then we will orient it to the next time from the solstice to the equinox. From the equinox to the solstice. These are the pieces of our pilgrimages of power. Thank you so much. I know it got dark and it got late and he kept sitting there. But that was good. If you're coming on the trip, good, wonderful. And if you're not, then meditate when we're there. You can connect with us inwardly. You can connect with us inwardly. So thank you all very much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
