0:00:00
Hello and welcome to Kyoto, another Zen in the art of work teaching from Kyoto, Japan. So today I would like to talk about Kaizen is a Japanese term that means wise change. And it is the principle in Zen, in the art of work, that teaches us to have continuous improvement. So with Kaizen, we always do our work to the best of our ability, but we also have a mind to see how can we make our work better, how can we improve it. And when we can improve our work, of course, we work better, less defects, more productivity. But it also gives us peace of mind when we do our work better and better and better. This comes from an Zen story. The monks were working in the kitchen getting dinner ready and they would run into the pantry to get some food, bring it out, start preparing it, run over to another part of the kitchen to get pots or pans, come back, work on it. So they were running around here, running around there, bringing all the things together and working on it. So the Zen master comes and looks at them and says, no, no, no, bring everything at once. So they all brought everything that they needed and they put it on the big table. And then he said, and now cook. And then they just were right there cooking what they needed to. Everything was, you know, a hand's reach away. They didn't have to go running around. And then what they learned from that is that there's a greater Dharma to improved process and it also brings you into a greater spiritual peace. So as job yogis we continually refine our minds by improving our work. And this is a very powerful way to develop personal power and develop a stronger attention where you can succeed better in your work. Now a good Japanese example of kaizen is the shinkansen. Shinkansen is a bullet train. It's one of Japan's greatest engineering feats, but it has also been a product of Kaizen, Kaizen, Kaizen. So over the years, they've made these trains faster and better and more comfortable and new locations. And they've truly been able to make improvements because of this practice of kaizen. So back in 1997, they were looking at, they make a new train, an improved train about every seven years. And it was time to make the new train. The engineers were working on it. And they noticed that when the train was going into a tunnel, that you're going into a little bit of a pressurized area, so there's pushback from the wind. So there was pushback from the wind, but there's also a lot of noise that would bother the people who lived around. For hundreds of meters, you could hear this noise when the Shinkansen would go into the tunnel. And so the product managers decided, we're going to figure out this thing. So he thought of a day where he was bird watching. And he saw a kingfisher go from the sky into a pond and get a fish. But he went all the way underwater and left almost in a splash. So that reminded him of his problem, going from one atmosphere into a little bit of a denser atmosphere. And then he really looked at the Kingfisher, and the Kingfisher has a big beak. And then he said, it's probably that beak, the shape of the beak that cuts through the denser atmosphere, the water, and allows him to go in without a big splash. So he said if we can make a train that has a better quality for changing that atmosphere, we'll improve performance and it will be less noisy. So he got his engineers on it. They took a look at the Kingfisher and then they to design the train. Now the current model of the train has this King Fisher nose. It's this very, very, very, very long nose and it is for this reason that he was able to It's an improvement. And then you think they've done all that they can to Kaizen things, but there's always room for improvement. So the new Shinkansen that they're working on is called the Maglev, and that means magnetic levitation. So they have magnetic rails on the tracks, and they have magnetic wheels. One's Yin, one's Yang, one's North, one's South, and they're using the magnetic force that repels, and this makes the train lighter, faster, and more efficient. So, you know, the Shinkansen is this one area where there's a lot of refinement, a lot of kaizen. So kaizen is something that Japanese businesses really, really work on. A lot of the great businesses, Sony, Toyota, NEC, really work on kaizen as a discipline to get ahead. They have kaizen consultants and they come in and they teach even the low-level employees Kaizen attention so that even the low-level employees in their menial tasks can do better work. When we were at the Tokyo train station I saw that there were managers like high-up executives who came to work with the people working around the train, maybe the train engineers. And they were listening, trying, you know, they're really there looking for quality, looking for ways to improve, you know, the train and probably the train station experience. So this is something that Japanese businesses focus on a lot. And, you know, this has been something that they've done for a long time and you know you think they would come up with something better. That's my Kaizen joke because Kaizen is continuously coming up with something better. Yeah but Kaizen is really an eternal principle. It's an immutable attention to a changing world. How to have a certain focus that is eternal, dealing with change, and change in a positive, constructive way. So Kaizen doesn't change, but the world changes. So when you're looking at doing Kaizen, you have to stop looking at routine mind. Right? So if you're just doing stuff, it's always the same. It's always the same. Then you're not going to look, you're not going to be able to see a way for improvement. So you have to, you have to look at the routines that you do in a new way. And you have to ask, okay, so this is how to do this job perfectly, but how could it be better? And that's what we seek in Kaizen. Just an improvement. How could this be better? And often it's little improvements, little by little, but they, after a little while, make all the difference. So at Sony, they're making TVs. The manufacturing line, this one who was trained in Kaizen, he starts thinking about how can I improve this process? What he had to do was he had to take three different fasteners or screws and three different tools and you know, one at a time, but he did that. So he realized that he was putting the tool down, picking it up, going for screws, getting the next one, and he was doing a lot of effort. So his kaizen was to have the tools hanging, just the three tools hanging in front of him, so that, on kind of like something elastic, so he can just when he needs it, it's right there. And also he had a, he also made a dispenser for the, for the screws that he needed, because he needed a certain amount of screws. So it's like dispenser one, tool one. Dispenser two, tool two. So that actually improved his efficiency and made it easier for him. So these are the kinds of things that you can observe in your Kaizen. There's a funny story about IBM. When IBM first started working with NEC, a giant electronic company in Japan, NEC had been doing Kaizen for years, and they Kaizen their process. And IBM told them, okay, we need these parts. And they said, we will accept three irregularities per 10,000. So then eventually they got their order back. And then the Japanese NEC company says, okay, here's the 10,000 parts that you need, and we did a separate manufacturing process to have three per 10,000 that are defects. So because IBM said, we will accept three. Then, then, Eddie's like, okay, let's give them what they want. They want ten thousand, and they want three of them that have defects. That's really funny. Okay, so I'm gonna end, finally, with the cheesecake revolution. So, here Here in Kyoto, there's a good cheesecake. So there's this famous cheesecake maker named Sumoto. And Sumoto has worked on refining a cheesecake like always. He said that every day he would try to refine the recipe a little bit more and a little bit more and a little bit more. So when we have kaizen, So he was always thinking kaizen kaizen how can I make it better how can I make it better. Then one day he was at a steakhouse and then the chef says do you want your steak medium or well done and he said I want it medium rare and then he and then he had what he calls the Cheesecake Revolution. Yeah, because he's like, wait a minute, all cheesecakes are too dry. And then he said, I can use different kinds of cheese and a different kind of process. And he went to a completely different paradigm of looking at Kaizen. But but and so he says he created the Cheesecake Revolution. And now he makes amazing cheesecakes. And I have to say, I think it's the best cheesecake in the world. So when we're doing Kaizen, it's little things and little things, but then it really brings us to a cheesecake revolution in our mind, to see life in a whole new way and get to a much higher level of success. So to practice Kaizen, you begin with meditation. So meditation is an amazing practice of Kaizen. It's refining the mind, refining the mind, refining your attention, refining your awareness, getting rid of what doesn't work, and directing your mind to what does work. So, meditation is the essence of all practice, and it is the essence of Kaizen. So, first we begin with meditation. You know, in Zen Buddhism, they say that the mind is like a mirror. It's a mirror where you want to look and see yourself correctly and clearly. But it's a mirror that has a whole bunch of stuff on it, dirt, you know. And you have to clean that dirt away, clean that dirt away. So meditation, like Kaizen, is that improvement. It's cleaning away what is extraneous to truth. After you meditate, you also have to have some mindful practice. So like I said, try to practice at least a minute a day, or a minute a day, don't try to do too much. But bring Kaizen to mind once a day, maybe at a certain time, look at what you're doing and say, can this be done better? And then that brings you into that koan, that wondering, that inquiry of a better process of kaizen. But try to come up with three things that work. Look at your work, spend a little while to reflect on this. What are three things that you can change at work that would be an improvement? And if you can make that improvement, make that improvement, even if it's a little improvement. Because little improvements make a better balance. And little improvements over time become cheesecake revolutions. And also, take a look at your house or your life, your schedule, and see if you can come up with three ways to make a positive change. Even if it's a small thing. We start with the small things and grow to big things. Okay, so enjoy. Practice Kaizen at work and at home. Slowly change your life.

0:15:32
Thank you. Thank you. you




Transcribed with Cockatoo
