0:00:00
Hello everyone.

0:00:07
Alright. So, today I'd like to talk about going on a power trip soon. Power trips are a very fundamental part of our practice. During times of power, we take spiritual retreats and we go to places of power. And during these retreats, we have very significant spiritual experiences. You might say that they're powerful spiritual beings. They're experiences that have great transformation, great intensity, that lead us to see the deeper aspects of our being, the greater dimensions of our spirit. And these are practices that we work on. We develop our abilities to have strong, power-driven thinking. Although, the lucky thing is, this is the first one. I think it's better and better and better. Okay, so there's certain times in power. There are times where it is easier to meditate, easier to connect to your eternal spirit. And there are many different kinds. There is the most powerful kind. We can take our ships, our soldiers into the water. And there's a place, think of places, places that have energy, power, and space. But then there's other times. Every month, there's the new moon, the full moon. And then finally, too, every day, there's time to power.

0:03:38
Sunset.

0:03:39
Some of you guys might notice, if you're sitting around in sunset, things get a little bit anticipated. Sunrise, sunset, anticipated.

0:03:47
Different times.

0:03:48
Three in the morning.

0:03:49
It's a good time.

0:03:50
There's all sorts of good times. Every time is a good time, but there are certain times, like you know, sunset, or a solstice, time of power. So during these times of power, the reign of time of power, the solstices, the equinoxes, spiritual retreats and we call them power trips. I like that because it's kind of funny. Like, the first time I heard power trip it was like because somebody was full of himself and he had like accents or stuff and he was on power trips. He was like, oh, I'm better than you. That's a power term. But then, he took me to this mystical power crystal. And I was like, oh, if you can enter in power, there's something that bring us beyond the self. And that's why it's tremendously useful. So it's very necessary to prepare. Preparation is essential. If you walk onto a dojo mat to do sparring unprepared, then you can get hurt. But if you walk onto the mat prepared, then you can gain power, awareness, If you just do that and prepare, you could drown. But if you go prepared, then you have amazing experiences in underwater life. So, going to these spiritual retreats, these things we call the power trips, to places of power and times of power are opportunities for great transformation. Now I remember when I first started attending power trips. I was a mess, like you. Very confused with my thoughts. Desiring things that drew me in one way and made me unhappy in another way. An idea of myself that was very limited, but I grasped to it because Because me! And when I went to these power trips, I noticed that I changed. These are the markers of transhumanism. Just like a black belt test. You go to a black belt test, you walk in, a bone on, a brown vote, a candidate. And then you win, you succeed, you pass. In our school, to get a black vote, you learn first. You got to beat a black vote from another school. That's how you get your back. Someone different style, you don't know what they got. But all you have is your skills, your own different qualities. And you walk in, and you fight.

0:08:11
You win, you get a black belt.

0:08:12
Lose, not a black belt.

0:08:14
Things have to be real.

0:08:15
But when you win, when you get that black hole, it means something. It tells you something. It's very, very, very strong, very real. It means moments of reality. And when we go to these places of power, it is as real as getting on a map to see the next rank up. And when we face that, we've grown from that. We're going to these power spaces to get stronger. To go higher.

0:09:06
And it's the real deal.

0:09:07
So you gotta be ready. You gotta be at your best. Bring your best. If you bring your best, you'll do well. It'll do great. very difficult position in my life. I was weak and whiny and poor and everything was against me. And I went to these places of power and had these tremendous teachings that transformed my life. And it works. I saw it with a fellow student. I had known her for about six or seven months, and she just seemed really whiny. And everything that she brought up about serous violence was a limitation. Limitations, fear, I can't because of this, because of my boyfriend, because of my job is too difficult, my boss is too mean, it's impossible, I can't learn this. Never ending excuses. What holds you back? She named about a thousand dates. I only have 470 days. So, this is true. This is what, this is what the self-service, and what excuses, why I cannot do this, here and there and everywhere.

0:11:04
But guess what, you can.

0:11:06
And at these times of power, these places of power, what we call the power trip is a time where you can your spirit can achieve every limitation that you think you have melts dissolves goes in and we find in those moments a way a way forward beyond the deep, deep, deep, deep, deep, heavy, heavy, heavy, heavy tethers, weights, that hold you down. Those things fall. They go up. You get higher. But you gotta do the work. You gotta get ready. You gotta be ready for a while. You gotta be ready for going beyond this world. A limitation is all that you can do, can't do. The description, the personal history. You gotta be ready to go beyond it. So, clean up your life before the trip. Smile! Smile. Clean it up and be positive. Because when you clean up your mind you get ready for transformation. Clean up your life. That means clean your room. Clean your closet and then meditate. And just by cleaning your closet, your meditation will be better. But he assumed that you had a clean room. I don't assume that in any way. I think your room looks like your closet. So clean your life, clean your room, clean your closet. Clean up the physical aspect of your being. And then, settle your affairs. Do you have someone in your life that you need to apologize to, even if it's their fault? Apologize. Apologize. This is going to be all inside jokes now. So, apologize. And is there anyone who did you wrong? Is doing you wrong. Anyone who's giving you a hard time or going to take the worst thing to you ever and told you, bring you down, stepped on you, beat you, robbed you, took away the best thing, etc. etc. right? It's time to let it go. Forgive it and drop it. If you drag that into the desert, you'll be dragging a fucking dead horse. I'll be like, uh, that's good, thanks. No dead weight. Come on, let it go. For kids, don't care, let it go. Because we're going on a journey, a place away from that. That's drama, that's karma. Cut it and let's go somewhere better. We're gonna go to a place of magic, a place that lifts you up. But if you're hanging on to that dead horse, So you need to let go of the pains of the past so that you can elevate spiritually to a higher place. Because all those pains, he didn't say, she's a back-at-me, whatever, right? Whatever. All of these things are just such heavy earthly karmas. When we go on spiritual pilgrimages to these places of power, we are going beyond the descriptions themselves. We're going beyond your regular experiences of iron traffic, iron society, and iron God. We take these moments as very powerful moments. Because here is the place of great power, sacredness, energy, and in these places, we are able to totally transform our lives. So this gal comes to me. She was filled with complaints, with dissatisfactions, with limitations, obstacles. And I can look at you right now and I can see you click forward. This is my obstacle, this is my doubt, this is my state of awareness where I think things are impossible and I'm only a little bit self when you don't really recognize what you're doing correctly.

0:17:24
I'm just self.

0:17:26
But she went on this trip and at the time I was just like, wow, she's so full of negativity, complains it's impossible, blah blah blah blah blah she just kept on and on with negativity and impossibility. Okay, so she didn't even do a good job, but she went on this trip and it was powerful and she transformed. And then after that trip I was like I can't believe I've got a negative thought about her or a limited thought about her. I'm like why did I think that? She totally is made in hardship spirituality. And guess what? You all are. You all are. We all are. And we have to see that in each other.

0:18:30
If you've seen someone in their difficult times,

0:18:33
you'll think they're the biggest loser. And I guarantee you that I have. I was studying to be a teacher, and I was going through my hardest times and everyone thought I was the biggest, worstest loser in the universe and they were like oh Sinfar is a jerk. Yeah they were and by the way, because it was, but it's transient. I identified with the transient self that went through ups and downs and I had hardships. Guess what? We all do. We all do. But we should forgive each other our difficulties and our hardships, even if it hurts us. Because everyone has food and enlightenment to do with all of it. So that's what we want to see. That's what we want to come to when we go on these places there's great transformation and enlightenment is in all of us when we come back we want to see that in all of us there's enlightenment let everyone grow let everybody change don't like him. She looked at me weird, so I don't like her. We wanna let ourselves transform, let everyone transform. And then it's allowing a greater elevation for everyone. When you can go and see that some grumpy person goes in the desert and they smile, you can see a light in them. And then you say, wow, that guy was grumpy, but now he's smiling and I see something bright. And guess what? That's inspiring to you. Be inspired. Don't be resentful. We are a saga of inspiration to each other. inspirational thought, feeling, awareness, every win that everyone gets here is something that elevates everybody else. That is the truth. That's what the song is about. So we're here to transform, to grow, to go beyond where we've been before, our karmas and religions, all just go, let them stop. And when we go to these places of power, we feel higher awareness. I always call these religions the fallen beings. When people come down, this is the power. Who can tell you that? Yeah, so, what we need is a time of growth, transformation of ourselves, and also of who we are. Let everyone be a new being. If you go to this place of power, and everyone sees tremendous changes, energies, dimensions, higher dharma, higher awareness, well then let that be the way. And look at everyone in a higher way. You are all students of enlightenment. You all have Buddha nature. You are all practicing the high Buddha dharma. It doesn't come easy to be sitting in this room. And it's a beautiful thing in every one of you. So, recognize that in yourself and in each other. Because when we go on places of power, we go together in a group. And when we go, there's a beautiful omen. It was a small flock of birds. And they were just floating, floating there. They weren't even flapping their wings. The winds were coming and they were taking the mind of the winds. And that's what we do. It is the way, the way of flying without exertion. transcending the gravity of self to be in a high spiritual state. So these were skeletons. These skeletons were flying together without leaving their wings. We come together and when we're together, we rise these waves, the winds, the winds of energy, the winds of time, the winds of places of power. And by being together, it's beautiful. So, you can transform. Everyone can transform. And in the time where we have a recognition of transformation, be changed. Be grown.

0:24:57
And everyone else can too.

0:24:58
And let them be. Everyone's your greatest friend. Everyone's your greatest ally. Everyone can be a mother, a sister, many, many, many, many times. When I was a new student, I saw people grow and change and transform. I was inspired by it. And it helped me grow and change and transform because I saw them change and transform. That's the law. Connect. And we all change and grow and transform. That's the way. That's the way.

0:25:42
Everyone fights, no one quits.

0:25:44
But we fight to enlighten.

0:25:46
We don't fight. But we're all together. Everyone fights. We're all together. We're all one shape of higher enlightenment. Everyone fights, no one quits. It's true. Now, we're going to a place of power. Now once you enter into a place of power with Everything turns from regular to magical. I often say it's like scuba diving, that's my analogy. So when you scuba dive, you go from, yeah, I'm on the land in my hotel and I walk on the dock and I go to a boat and it's all above water. Everything is above water world. And then you jump off the boat with your super equipment, with your air tank turned on. Having done a money check, all that first attention comes together. All that awareness comes together, perfection. And then you go into this world where it's totally different. You jump off that boat from the dock, from the beach, from the hotel, and you enter a totally different world. It's a world where we normally aren't there, where people used to think it was crazy, but people are there, we're still looking around and seeing fish and birds. And the walls, and the sea mounds, and the currents, and the tides, the changes of the sea, and the raptures of the deep. There's so many wonderful things in a different world. So when we go into the desert, it's like a totally different experience. But a good one. When you're scuba diving, it's very freeing, and you're floating. And you have beautiful buoyancy. And you feel like you're flying. You can fly upside down. You can do so many things that you can't do in this atmosphere, in this world, in this dimension. Oh, the ocean. A great friend of ours. And we learn the ways of the ocean. That's what it takes to do. However, when you're in the ocean, you gotta do it right. Oh come on, I got a big smile there. I'm just bringing you positivity. So in the ocean, you have to do Jim Frank.

0:28:58
Because there are different dangers in the ocean

0:29:02
ocean than in your normal course of karma, the normal awareness of this world that you think is the only world. So in the ocean, it's like, okay, where am I at? Oh, guess what? There's tiger sharks here. If there are tiger sharks here, when we dive in Hawaii, there's a tiger shark. You've got to be careful. You have to look around. There has to be an awareness and a feeling for the shark. Because if you don't see it coming, it might bite you. But if you see it coming, it won't bite you.

0:29:55
It knows when you see it.

0:29:57
When you're diving a lot of times you're interested in something

0:30:03
and you're like being a little bit

0:30:06
environs I guess? Interested in exploring? Getting a little bit out there, and then when you do that you that you could put yourself in a place of danger. So this is where curiosity feels intact. So don't get curious, but I would say don't get desirous. Don't be drawn by a certain When you're diving, you might be looking down at a scorpionfish. And you might be like, wow, really interesting colors. But it's just sitting there. Maybe I'll just pet it. And they call them scorpionfish looks like. So I say don't touch anything. So in diving, don't touch anything. But also when we go to places of power, don't have this feeling of, that's interesting, I'm going to reach out to it because I feel it's interesting. So, same with lionfish. If you see a lionfish, they're like these floating, beautiful things. They're just like, they have these wonderful wings, and they look so slow and beautiful. beautiful thing. Now, if you try to touch that beautiful thing, it moves really fast and it takes those wings and those wings have like porcupine prongs that just look like beautiful wings. And those wings, those prongs shoot into your hands and are venomous and kill people or just for fun. But it kills people. So, when we are underwater, in the sea, we respect that world. We respect that there are great white sharks out there. There are tiger sharks over there, bull sharks over there. And we respect that there's powers that are greater than us. And we also respect that there are things that are going to mean to us and into things. And we might want to go, meow. We might want to grab it. And if you grab certain things, you can have a feel for it. So, that is a powerful energy. You go into the ocean here, you can meditate, you can have amazing experiences, and then you can come across a turtle. There's a lot of opportunities. But where the light shines brightest, there are also shadows. So if you go to a place of power, there are great things. Don't forage seals, whales, dolphins, amazing things to experience. But there's also, don't grab the weed. Don't grab the sea urchin. Watch out, there's sharks. And if you work with the place properly, you're going to be okay. We live powerfully.

0:34:26
We go into places with power.

0:34:27
We go into the ocean. We go into deserts. In deserts, there's scorpions, sharan shalas, coyotes, and monkeys. We kill sharks. We kill monkeys.

0:34:32
We kill sharks.

0:34:33
We kill monkeys. We kill sharks.

0:34:35
We kill monkeys.

0:34:36
We kill sharks.

0:34:37
We kill monkeys.

0:34:38
We kill sharks. We kill monkeys.

0:34:40
We kill sharks.

0:34:41
We kill monkeys.

0:34:42
We kill sharks.

0:34:43
We kill monkeys.

0:34:44
We kill sharks.

0:34:45
We kill monkeys.

0:34:46
We kill sharks. We kill monkeys.

0:34:48
We kill sharks.

0:34:49
We kill monkeys.

0:34:50
We kill sharks.

0:34:51
We kill monkeys.

0:34:52
We kill sharks.

0:34:53
We kill monkeys. It's very important that when we go to these places that the great dispense, practice. When we go into the deserts, great dispense, practice. Deserts are a place where not a one or two live. It's kind of like the ocean. and we were out in a very very central place, on this place, and when we walked down there with a big group, all of a sudden, a police car came. And he said, cool. We did not get a run through for meditation. But he said, okay, I just wanted to tell you that there was a person who came out here today, and he parked, and he hiked, and then he didn't come back from St. Paul, more involved, to meet God. That's it. He said, because his body is just an hour away. When you go to places of power, it's intense. The ocean is intense, the deserts are intense, the Himalayas are intense. Yeah. Any place of power that we go, we want to have a really strong awareness that there are powers in the world. The powers can uplift you if you handle it in a friendly way. Or, they can be very gentle. If you go swimming in this ocean behind me, if your intention is up to it, you can have an enlightening experience. This is a very beautiful place, very good energy. And those waves don't look menacing.

0:37:22
But do you know the current?

0:37:24
Do you know the depth? 30 feet out, it is deep. 30 feet out, you can see a whale jump straight out of the ocean.

0:37:35
great out.

0:37:36
This is a place with a great strength.

0:37:37
That's why we're meeting here.

0:37:38
You can swim there with great power, awareness, focus, patience, and flexibility, and you

0:37:39
can have a magical time.

0:37:40
But you can also swim out there and dive into the water. You can dive into the water and you can have a magical time.

0:37:42
You can dive into the water and you can have a magical time. You can dive into the water and you can have a magical time. You can dive into the water and you can have a magical time.

0:37:45
You can dive into the water and you can have a magical time. You can dive into the water and you can have a magical time.

0:37:47
You can dive into the water and you can have a magical time. You can dive into the water and you can have a magical time. You can dive into the water and you can have a magical time. You can dive into the water and you can have a magical time.

0:37:51
You can dive into the water and you can have a magical time.

0:37:52
You can dive into the water and you can have a magical time.

0:37:53
You can dive into the water and you can have a magical time.

0:37:54
You can dive into the water and you can have a magical time.

0:37:55
You can dive into the water and you can have a magical time. You can dive into the water and you can have a magical time.

0:37:57
You can dive into the water and you can have a magical time.

0:37:58
You can dive into the water and you can have a magical time. You can dive into the water and you can have a magical time. You can dive into the water and you can have a magical time.

0:38:01
You can dive into the water and you can have a magical time.

0:38:02
You can dive into the water and you can have a magical time. You can dive into the water and you can have a magical time. But you don't go from out there and die within walls. When we get a place of power, we have no respect for that place. Any place. Even in the field of populism. Because it's a place of power where we resent it. We open up to it, we listen to it, we hear it, we connect to it. We connect on a level of spirituality, like no matter what we do, we can't do it. We can't do it. And nowadays, for things they feel reduced, for the force, for the place. We honor the place. And I'm sorry we can't do it. So, when you have a... The way that we approach places when we go to these places of power, we walk in and we feel the place. And when we feel a place, the first thing that we do is we make an offering. It's called Torma. And this offering is power.

0:39:51
Torma.

0:39:52
Torma. So, you come to a place of power, a place where you feel some spirit, and you say, I recognize you, and I'm honored by you, and I want to give to you something to help you, to support you, to strengthen you. I realize that I'm on this beach, this place of power, and I'm just a visitor. And I'm coming to this place to give, to care. I want this place to be better, to be honored. And all beings to see this place, to take, wow, this place, a beautiful place. And in this place, people can receive teachings of karma. People can feel the nature of the being and be numerous, and feel the ocean. And feel everything. And be unbreakable.

0:41:06
No? Yeah.

0:41:08
I'm gonna, I'm not going to go in there and say, oh, it's a scary night, whatever. That's a shattering attention, people. Come on, wake up!

0:41:24
We want to be spiritual bringers of light. And guess what?

0:41:29
Light is everywhere. Light is everywhere. It's in trash. So I'm going to teach you guys eventually how to bring lightning into the trash. Sure. But we start off with the basis of a strong spiritual. But eventually, eventually, you can be so strong in all these amazing dimensions of light and power and beautiful to mention things. The purity of energy exists. And then you have to be able to say, all right, I'll bring in some trash. Yeah, okay.

0:42:16
Here's a light.

0:42:18
I don't know. Yes, the lightning from the front. Could you give me a master of the mind in most pure places, in most powerful places, in most sacred places, you can be a sacred death knell to hell, depending on where you go. Time, the hells of the world, the hells, the greatest places of insolitude, difficulty, torture, the greatest pain, brain and mind to lose will. Step 1, go to good places, places with all this good life. Step 2, bring it into your life. Step 3, donate everything else, and more, and empties. This is the dancing stick. So we're here in a beautiful place. And this is healed amazing powerful energies. These are very very very good things. We want to be able to bring these things to the top. I believe so. You will never be taken with great power, the power of the power. You will be the smartest person in the world. Karma, when you come to a place of importance, it's many people or whatever, if you want to connect to the center of the soul, you can. Make an offering. in Buddhism is you make a, like a cage, where you bring a cage, and you say, here's a cage, and then you go to a place of power and you can just bring an offering from your heart. When I offer light, the highest status of 1 to 15 that I've learned is that there's 10,000 dimensions of light. And if I can bring that light, the highest light of spiritual experience, of awareness, of realization, anything that you think is a good thing from your spiritual practice, anything that is a good thing, I say, oh, I know this, I give this to this place. A place can be quite closed. But if you open your heart and your soul, the place can open. This is what mystics do. This is what mystics do. When I open up the towering place, Give it something, help them see. Give it the highest prize, greatest place that you know of. And it grows, it wakes up, it energizes the place. It provides energy and air. It does stuff. Your experience opens the doors now. So give. Give to the place. So I remember I was in Japan when the tsunami hit. And we went to this really wonderful temple, a cute temple. And there was like, I don't know, thousands of people there. And it was just a big, you know, a big line of many many people and it's crowded and crowded and yet you get pushed forward to seeing the pond and the big temple, the golden temple. And you get pushed, everyone just a little fence and then when you get to that fence you lock it now lets do something spiritual

0:48:04
laughing

0:48:06
uh you've been in line for 45 minutes

0:48:10
proud of it

0:48:12
shoulder to shoulder with a bunch of people

0:48:14
and what is there to do spiritual here and then and then And then the first thing that I did was I did karma. And I was like, I don't see anything. And I said, I give to this place, I make an offering of the greatest power in life. I know it from my heart and I give it to you. Now, the moment that happens, all of a sudden, these ancient dimensions that were completely closed and covered over by a billion, no, sorry, some billion, I think it's the 5 millionth trip to Europe and you're sitting there with us 5,000 people, of course, behind us, pushing us, and I'm so proud of us and I said, this is my true heart of gold I started this life and I know and then what happened? And then in heaven, there was a place where the light developed. Just from my selflessness, from the beauty of the offering of the grace, That place was a place where the Zen Master lived in enlightened awareness. And that opened up all of that Zen Master's teachings, light, awareness, for us while we were standing. And we had a great spiritual blessing where everyone was elevated. And there's 10,000 people standing behind us, pushing us, saying, I want to get a selfie, get out of the way. And we were in a totally different higher awareness. There are places, even in a doormat, coming over, that if you bring higher awareness, the highest spiritual awareness, the center of the place, it can be a natural place like this, but it can be a place where a enlightened person who then manifests in a human, a very pure person, has been.

0:51:07
We've got to replace the power.

0:51:09
Replace the what? Power? The power is being used to to keep the ship from sinking. So Japan

0:51:21
replaced the WiFi totally covered over by

0:51:27
uh by people who are tourists who just want to be there because of social conditions, but the powerful vines, the energy, and the attention of the zen masters go back home. That's Japan.

0:52:01
India? Totally different. Nepal? Totally different.

0:52:05
Or Bhutan?

0:52:06
Totally different.

0:52:07
I don't know.

0:52:08
I don't know. I don't know.

0:52:10
I don't know.

0:52:11
I don't know.

0:52:12
I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.

0:52:23
I've seen very powerful gardens that are open in Bhutan. I'm going to explore that in the morning. It's an amazing landscape. Open and well-docked. I'm going to explore that. We are going to view any intention to penetrate. But let's do it in the future. Because Tenzin and Soong, while they were good monks for many years, Now they're able to come here into this different dimension and they've been once their whole lives and they're able Samara, Calvin, where's your suit? You're going to be great. You're going to be great. Anyone can follow these teachings. Agreed. Okay, so relax. Okay, maybe stand up. Alright everyone, you guys are doing great.

0:54:44
This is a very powerful and elevated platform.

0:54:47
And the fact that you guys are here is very very very very very strong. Whether you're coming to the desert trip this time or not, this is a very powerful experience. You're all doing very well.

0:55:26
Okay. I'm thinking going to the speaker. So, what we call the place of power, what we call the time of power, and I, Lisa, thank And I am the person who is empowering. We call it empowering. But it is spiritual pilgrimage. And spiritual pilgrimage is a very powerful thing.

0:56:18
It doesn't start when you get there. Filgrimage means the way of getting there. It's a journey, right? So, this right now, if you're about to go on a pilgrimage, it's our time, it's a journey. And the journey matters, the way that you do it matters. Your preparation, like a samurai going into battle. A samurai is like, I'm going to go into battle. Well, a veteran says, hey, mom, that time that I, uh, accidentally got mad and hurt you? Please forgive me. Whether it happens or not, at least you have. And when you were in the hospital, I was in the hospital. I was in the hospital. I was in the hospital.

0:57:45
I was in the hospital.

0:57:46
I was in the hospital.

0:57:47
I was in the hospital. I was in the hospital. I was in the hospital. I was in the hospital. I was in the hospital.

0:57:52
I was in the hospital.

0:57:53
I was in the hospital.

0:57:54
I was in the hospital. I was in the hospital.

0:57:56
I was in the hospital.

0:57:57
I was in the hospital. I was in the hospital.

0:57:59
I was in the hospital.

0:58:00
I was in the hospital.

0:58:01
I was in the hospital.

0:58:02
I was in the hospital. I was in the hospital.

0:58:04
I was in the hospital.

0:58:05
Whether it happens or not.

0:58:07
At least you have. And the moment in time you went a little too hard and you hurt me. I'm pretty good too.

0:58:13
Letting go?

0:58:14
Letting go.

0:58:15
Letting go. Found things, can't see anymore. I'm not going to do that. I'm not doing something anymore. Can't hold it back anymore.

0:58:30
Can't hold it back anymore?

0:58:32
Don't even start with that.

0:58:34
Well, yeah. What? What? Letting go. So, Jesus Christ is a great power. I look at the oldest students who have been through it, here and there and at the conference,

0:59:00
and they are, this is great, they are strong.

0:59:06
And each power of the elderly too, is just strong. This is so empowering. So, I don't know. In every experience, this is a really great martial arts training. It's called Shotokan Karate Special Training.

0:59:34
And like twice a year, they get together.

0:59:38
together and they have these powerful trainings for at least a weekend or four days where they train all day and they train and train and train to basics, advanced, standing and shibarashi things that are difficult things that are easy things that are hard and then at the end, it's such an intense experience, I'm amazing this.

1:00:30
You guys are awesome, thank you for coming by. Yeah, thank you.

1:00:34
And such an amazing powerful experience that it is spiritually transforming to my soul.

1:00:42
Come on.

1:00:43
I know, right? Hehehehe I know! Two days of Marns Larns

1:00:51
to change your life

1:00:53
Marns Larns Transformation

1:00:57
Marns Larns Transformation

1:00:59
Enlightenment Transformation

1:01:01
Transformation Transformation

1:01:05
This is our custom-made bed. It's all made of this material. Everything is custom-made. Everything that we do. If you hear, this is a snow heart. You see. So. Here. An inventor is a positivity, a possibility. That's where it ends. And we need to go beyond that. And that is what this place of peace, of peace, will empower and empower you, bring you to. It brings us to beyond our dissatisfaction with ourselves. a self. A person can go like this I don't know

1:02:05
I think

1:02:07
blah blah blah and what? That's just

1:02:13
super karma mind

1:02:15
super heavy in self I see the light

1:02:19
and I

1:02:21
oh no I hate to see that but I really do know for sure there's a way in everyone's case, in everyone's situation to break free from that film. That's so fun. If that's what you think you are, and that's what you think the world really wants, and that's what you fear, then you're dead. You're fucking dead. It's true.

1:03:18
It's true. It's true. It's true.

1:03:24
It's true.

1:03:26
It's true.

1:03:28
It's true. So I'm telling you, there's a way beyond that. I know that you are not cherishing the self worth. I know you have your beautiful self, your beautiful views and desires and worries and

1:04:00
concerns.

1:04:01
I know that. And I never point to those teachings. I point to the Lord. And I know it's hard. And it's scary. But that's the way it is. And we're coming up to a Buddhist holiday. What's a Buddhist holiday? It's a day of enlightenment. A day when you let those things go, when you let go past them, you can relinquish your cherishing self, your cherishing of the ideas, your cherishing of your fears and ideas and difficulties.

1:04:39
Ouch!

1:04:40
I'm thinking ouches. Alright, we're coming around. So, we're going power trips. Alright, let me go on power first. We are going on a pilgrimage. It's called a pilgrimage. And then, and so on, Buddhist monks know what a pilgrim is. But, I can't.

1:05:36
I can't.

1:05:39
I can't. It's a spiritual journey that brings you to spiritual realization. And on that way, on that spiritual journey, you are a participant. This is the application stage. to a sacred place, a sacred tower, a sacred place of the United Nations. And when we get to that place, in those moments of together, they are moments of liberation, of letting everything that's created you suffer, fall away, and letting everything in the universe that's in you uplift you, come, be, your heart, and to recognize the greatest truth within. Children. You're a bunch of children. Children have a great deal of humility. A children says, I am weak. I'm not strong. I'm not even ego. I'm not the biggest thing and everything is I like money. I like money. I like money. I like money. I like money. I like money. I like money. I like money. I like money. I like money. I like money. I like money. I like money. I like money. I like money. I like money. I like money. I like money. I like money. I like money. I like money. I like money. I like money. I like money. I I'm going to call you. This is a movie. It's called... I know what they're called! Videography. Videography. Videography.

1:08:43
Videography.

1:08:45
Um...

1:08:47
I like that.

1:08:49
I really like that.

1:08:51
This is so...

1:08:53
This is...

1:08:55
This is what the self likes. The action to begin. Proceed. This is what the self likes. The self likes things that are not elevated. If you just follow, then higher is in view. But if you follow higher dharma, you can get to more beautiful places. When you were a children you had enough. You had the ups and downs of money and sex, the desire of fear. It's true.

1:10:04
You know.

1:10:06
You know. That's what you've been doing. You've been doing it five times. That's what everyone's chasing.

1:10:16
Gold and women

1:10:18
and men and silver.

1:10:20
And men and platinum. Men and big gold. And women and silver. And men and new coins. That's what everyone's changing. But when you know that it doesn't work, then and it's gone. laughter

1:10:49
laughter laughter

1:10:53
That is the truth.

1:10:55
and it's gone.

1:10:57
laughter In all the world of everything that you can consider that is real bring you up and make you happy what's going to bring you up and make you happy? Family, friends, money, house, and it's gone!

1:11:11
Either in this lifetime or at the end of this lifetime, I'm telling you,

1:11:16
I'm telling you in a very happy California way, this is the truth of life. So I tell you in a way that you can understand. But we are, we're walking out of that. We've been there, we've done that, but we're walking out of that because it don't work. And as children, we can change, we can transform. So we say, whoa, I'm in this place of a certain karma. Everybody wants this or that. Self, happiness, fear, difficulty. I like that person, I like this person. And that's a world of self. But here's what we do when we go to a place of power on a pilgrimage. We leave the place where we self. The place of karma. The place of self. We need it. And we go somewhere. To a place of power. The entirety of power. The place of transformation. Where we can go past this self and progress.

1:12:46
It's an amazing thing.

1:12:48
It's a very special opportunity to go on a power trip. We are pilgrims. The journey matters. So I talked about clean your room. You're a warrior. But a Samurai goes back. They say, well, I might go. I might get gone. But I'm going to go with the best. So they say, hey, mom. Thanks. Hey, brother. Yeah, we had hard times, but I love you. Samurai says, hey, I'm contacting you guys in Cape Cod. Here's the rest of my money. They will settle their affairs. They don't have any patience. They are sorry. They give me this death.

1:13:46
You go to town, ready?

1:13:48
For oblivion. Not ready for death. Ready for oblivion. That's what it's time for. I might not come back, but I'm not just going out to be killed. I'm going out to find a key open to whatever happens. I might single-handedly destroy the other army. That's power. That's a privilege. I might get killed in the first battle. That's a privilege. It's a complete health system. It's to create the awareness and safety. We are not interested in life or death. In every juncture, whether we go into battle, whether we go into the prison tower, we are going for not good, bad, not ugly, but oblivion. That which is not good, not bad, not good, not like, not good, but... We are children and when we start, we start our journey. So from the moment when you say I'm going to this journey, this pilgrimage, that's when you start. It's not getting to the desert and having a meditation there. It's not getting to the cave and the hill and then getting there. It is the moment when you say I'm going. And the moment that you say you're going is where you start walking, getting, over it. And I don't know the intention behind it, in the way that it is. There was a really good story I heard in China about a monk in Wuhan. And that is a very sacred spiritual place. Many mountains, a beautiful valley, many many many beautiful temples. There was a monk who was struggling. I'm struggling, I don't know about this, maybe I shouldn't be a mom, maybe I shouldn't have

1:16:48
kids, everything.

1:16:49
Anything you have in your head, he had it in his head.

1:16:50
His words, his comforts, his fears, he got it.

1:16:51
And he said, I'll go to my aunt's house, I'll go to my aunt's house, I'll go to my aunt's

1:16:52
house, I'll go to my aunt's house, I'll go to my aunt's house, I'll go to my aunt's house,

1:16:53
I'll go to my aunt's house, I'll go to my aunt's house, I'll go to my aunt's house, I'll go

1:16:54
to my aunt's house, I'll go to my aunt's house, I'll go to my aunt's house, I'll go to my

1:16:55
aunt's house, I'll go to my aunt's house, I'll go to my aunt's house, I'll go to my aunt's

1:16:56
house, I'll go to my aunt's house, I'll go to my aunt's house, I'll go to my aunt's house,

1:16:57
I'll go to my aunt's house, I'll go to my aunt's house, I'll go to my aunt's house, I'll go to my aunt's house, I'll go to my aunt's house, I'll go to my aunt's house, I'll go to my aunt's house,

1:16:59
I'll go to my aunt's house, I'll go to my aunt's house, I'll go to my aunt's house, I'll go to my aunt's

1:17:00
house, I'll go to my aunt's house, I'll go to my aunt's house, I'll go to my aunt's house, I'll go to my aunt's house, I'll go to my aunt's house, I'll go to my aunt's house, I'll go to my aunt's

1:17:02
And the Master said,

1:17:06
I'll go to my uncle.

1:17:08
There's a honey-tree. If you want to build it, go.

1:17:14
Go there.

1:17:16
When you get there, your suffering will be gone. And he said, I'll go to my uncle. And he said, thank you master. And he was on. But every step he knew that he was going to burn away his difficulties, his problems, his confusions. And his whole journey, the journey of joy, continues in the mountains. And then, while he's walking, all the temptations, all the frustrations, all the difficulties, And by the time he got there, he was so happy because every step was a step to the cross. Then he sat down, he met his guru, and then he went into Samadhi, enlightenment, immediately. No more confusions, no more delusions, no more heaviness, no more heaviness, the heaviness of self, and those so many things, those things so many things, are attached to your cell phone, your personal history, is gone. Every step that you take will be released. From this point forward, if you're preparing for a power break, you can restart the situation. To get to the place of power itself, you can release all power. You can write it down. I mean, it's strange, it's a strange power to talk to people. The best steps, they can be all the way. Even when the steps might be a place to buy an air conditioner, or a hotel. These are powerful steps. Every step can lead to a better, more healthy future. We are the youth. You know, in Spain, they're like, okay, okay, you want to go on a pilgrimage? Go to Mount Kailas. Where are you? Oh wait, you're in Jarmung Thal? In India. Okay. Go to Mount Kailas. But you have to do a full body prostration every step of the way. And you're only five feet tall. And you're like six or four Americans would have an Indiana washer over there so this series they will from the south of India or anywhere hey when I hear about this, when there's this opportunity, I will do full body prostration. To go to a place of power, a sacred place. And I will make the whole journey a practice. and in every step or every frustration, step, step, step, to commitment. Then, maybe, there are pilgrims. I see a lot of pain, but they don't have the heart. This, they're teaching the heart. It's not to teach the weak people. You don't have to do this. There's a lot of people who do full body prostration. on their knees, laying down, standing up, and then going one more. That doesn't create truth. That might just be an idea. It often is. We can look at people who do insanely crazy things, definitely might not be a thing unless you can really influence them. They don't do it. They should awaken their awareness to this is so important that I would be willing to go through this much difficulty and pain. And they might travel thousands of miles to get to the place. We are taking an airplane. We're living on a road and getting in cars. It's not that difficult. It all matters about your heart, your mind. what we use to go on pilgrimage in the east. A pilgrimage starts with a true intentionality in your heart. You don't have to like do crazy stuff. You can fly and drive for two and a half hours. You can do a... We can do a pilgrimage to Mount Tamung Highest, not very far.

1:24:22
to Mantel Monjai is one of those ones.

1:24:24
Pilgrimage starts in your heart.

1:24:26
To be short-distance.

1:24:27
But if you do it in your heart the right way, it might take someone else a way to have their body move,

1:24:37
walking, praying,

1:24:39
comforting themselves.

1:24:41
Yay! Prompting film. Or, it might take a half an hour drive to get to the movie theater. So, it comes from the heart. I'm sure it comes from the heart. I mean, what's your intention? Where are you coming from? Are you coming to transform your life? To become your own being. To be your own being today. To be a manifestation of that. To be a place of power.

1:25:24
And when those three places power,

1:25:26
the same kind of solutions. And even though we sometimes have to drive down and fly low, if you come with helpless awareness,

1:25:43
you can't go.

1:25:45
So I remember a student of my teacher, he's a wonderful fellow, his name is Arjun. He was from New Delhi, and he met my teacher, and he loved my teacher. He had this idea of, well you might even have to be a comedian guy. So I'm a comedian. But he somehow really loved my teacher. And then my teacher was like, oh, you can know that, you can sing that, but there's a greater truth. So one day, Arjuna's father became deathly ill. And they called him and said, your father is going to die within two days. And that he'd come back. So he dropped everything in New York and he came back to New Delhi. And right before flying back, my teacher said to him, when you get back, your father is going to be here. And my teacher was a great healer. Now he's still here. And he said, your father is coming to get you. And then he said, you gotta go. And then he said, you're going to go and find enlightenment on a mountain. So that's the thing. He's asking me, where are we going to find enlightenment on a mountain? Why not Delhi? And he got there in Delhi. The day that he got there, his father was totally fine. And he took a lot of time off to work. He continued to be in the camp for at least three weeks. So then he's like, alright, so he hung out for a week with his family. And that's what we got to do. At least a week. And then he's like, what? I took the time to ask him, hey, what is it my teacher told me? And what do I want to do? So he found a tour to Tibet. He said, oh, that'd be cool. That was in New Delhi, not too far from Nepal and India. And he went to Tlaxi. And he went on tour for a week and was really cool. He had a good time. But then he found a Bible that he had taken to Kailash. Mount Kailash. Which is a very, very, very holy place of spirituality in Tibet. And he said, alright, I want to go to that mountain. And he said, I don't see the mountain. I know the mountain. I will see something. I like it. So he went. But it's very, very high and elevated. He wasn't used to it. So as he's climbing up the mountain, he thought, you know, a little to me, yeah, I don't know if any of you have been up to high elevations, but it's all through your intentions. And it's physically difficult. And at one point, somehow, his guide left him, by himself. And he came across other pilgrims, Buddhist monks, that were doing the full prostration. They were really into it. And then he kind of like walked with them. He couldn't do it on purpose. And he had a strong desire to go to the top of Mount Everest. To see the mountains. And he knew it was there. And he didn't plan it. And he went past pain, difficulty, and hardship and he finally got to the top of the mountain and then when he got to the top of the mountain he just fell down with his arms open to the sky and then in that experience he had a transcendent spiritual awareness of luminosity and enlightenment. And what came to his mind was his teacher from Los Angeles. I want to say thank you. He was fully aware and in one. And it was the highest spiritual strength he had up to that moment. And then he came back and he told us this.

1:31:16
Sometimes you gotta go everywhere,

1:31:18
and a pilgrimage, to transform, to grow, to go beyond, to come back. Because he always had this idea, he had a concept. And so, in the Indian, he's like, I really think these things. And then he comes to America, and he's like, I believe in these things. And then he comes to America, and he's like, I believe in Jesus. And then he had a spiritual experience, and then he transcended the thing that he taught. So he's like, alright, this American guy could be a Michael. Why not? And in pilgrimage, there's a very very powerful thing that occurs. You transcend your karma. And in pilgrimage, it's definitely a certain state, in a certain way and then by following those steps, you can transform, you grow. This happens because you open yourself up to the world, to the universe. You say, I'm going forth, beyond this place, and I'm going to take a chance and go and grow. Where there's an ability, a place, yonder, far away for transformation and I'm going to go follow that. Can you do it? There's transformation, there's a place where you need your karma. Your karma is something that holds you back, releases you, holds you down. This way, maybe it can be in weirdness, but when you are in totem, you're on the road to transform, you're on the way. Well, there's a great story of a yogi in southern Nepal. Southern Nepal is a place way below the Himalayas and there is jungle. It is hot. There are tigers and rhinos and elephants. And this guy says, hey master, what I gotta do? And the man says, you got to find a common man. And I'm like, what? That would be the worst. He's like, but there's a cave up in the Himalayas. We're at the bottom of, we're in the jungle, but very quickly, we go to the foothills and up into the snowy mountains. There's a cave up in the snowy mountains. He said, you go there, once you get to that cave, all of your karma will be burned off. So he says, thank you Master. So the next day he sets out for that cave. He walks into the jungle and is attacked by a tiger. He barely makes it out alive. The tiger like scratches him in the face, scratches his body. And then he has to like, he got away. And then he had to like heal. After healing, he started going. And then he got bit by a snake. And the snake had venom. And the venom was very, very bad. He almost died but he kept going after he healed he goes to the nightclub and in that place, he got a good friend, a friend called him and he said, I'm going, so he kept going and then he's walking and walking and walking and then he runs into this gang of drunk guys and they beat him up. They don't steal from him because he doesn't have anything. They just decide to beat him up. He gets hurt. And then he recovers from that. And he keeps going. So he keeps going. Walking, walking, walking. Then he comes across this group of four women. And they're very enticing. And they're like, oh, you can help us. Oh, we're really lovely. And then he goes in with them, and he wants to help them. And they're very, like, excited. So he hangs out with them for a couple weeks or so. They draw him way up for him to bring him to where they want to go. And he hangs out with them. that were found and they were interesting and they would sing songs and then eventually he says I gotta get out of here. So eventually he gets out of here. And then he keeps going on and on and he comes across this farmer who falls down and hurts himself so he doesn't help him and the guy just reminds him that he's his father so he says let me help you. Oh, you can't do the farming? I'll do the farming. So you come to do the farm. I'll do my farm.

1:36:58
And again and again and again,

1:37:00
things happen that draw him off from going for the cake. But he's a nice guy and gets caught up in all these problems. Eventually, he gets up. He gets up and he sees God. The next thing he does, he sees God. And then he gets up into the high Himalayas. And guess what happens in there? The usual things. Yeah. Tenzin and Solangdo. The usual things happen. So once he's going on this mountain pass and there's this yak running down, he's trampled by a yak. Happens every day. Then he recovers. Then he's hiking along the mountain pass and somehow there's like a little avalanche and he gets knocked off the path, falls off a cliff, He gets really hurt, loses all his food, and is cold. And he keeps going. Then he gets attacked by a Yeti. Because why not? And everything happens, right? And he keeps going, and he keeps going, and he keeps going. And then he gets to the cave. Now, once he gets in the cave, his master says, and his master is taking a meditation, and he's like, Master, I've finally made it to the cave. It took me six months, but I did everything to get there. And his master says, OK, good, because it took me a week, and I've been waiting for you.

1:38:50
And he said,

1:38:52
you burn off your karma on the way. That's what a pilgrimage is. We burn off our karma on the way.

1:39:03
With no karma, you just walk and get there in a week.

1:39:07
And you got all those karmas, they draw you on left and right. The pathway to enlightenment, we call it the fast path. karma. Very quickly. What slows us down on the path of enlightenment is self-confidence. I am here, self-description, I can, I can't. But if you let go of all that. You can go beyond all the drama of the tiger, the snake, the farmer, the wind, the cold, and you can go there completely free. And the first time, usually takes about So when we go on these pill positions, even if you have a lot of karma and opposition and say no I shouldn't go or it's hard to go, it's difficult, go, overcome the opposition, be strong, that's the way to be strong. How do you get it out of the sun? The sun is a very significant item. But we go there for a very beautiful thing. We call it Buddhist magic. And Buddhist magic is acts of awareness, feats of energy, and ways that you see in this world. You go beyond the physical perception of the lightness to higher awarenesses of power. You see things with your eyes, you feel things with your heart, you have awarenesses that go beyond what is the normal essential life. And it's a very simple thing, a very beautiful thing, a very normal thing, and it's a miracle. So when we go to the places of power, where I teach Buddhist magic, I'm opening you to world magic. I remember one time Dharma and I were in Japan together and we told, we had very very very good close business partners in our yoga and then we were just doing business with them. And then we finally told them, Darwin needed to be in the importance of this. He's like, we're Buddhists. And they're like, oh, you're so cool. We like that. And then they took us to their favorite Buddhist masses. And we went to this one place where they were... It was a Daigo-jū Buddhism. And it was a very, very beautiful Buddhist temple. And Daigo-jū Buddhism, they're really into the Amitabha Buddha, one ancient, ancient Buddha. And they're like, oh look, here's the five jnana buddhas. But we didn't really like this one. So then, they said, this is the Dhyana Buddha, all five Buddhas that represent like all of them. And we're standing around, having a good time. And then he said, please, now that I know you're Buddhas, please worship as you would like. Please, worship as you would like. So Dharma and I were like, well why not? So we have one business partner and one Buddhist monk, me and Dharma, and I'm like, Dharma, you should understand this. Dharma's like, okay. So, we're sitting there, and I go, who is that? And then, everything becomes extremely bright. Everything is glowing with gold light. And then, these standing Buddhas, they start to smile. They start to smile, they start to move their hands and their heads and you have to bow and at first the Buddha's function is like you guys aren't like bowing and praying and chanting we're like oh no no no no no no but then after he let that go they need to do a big smile on their face he's a very pure monk. A lot of monks are jaded monks. They let all of the dogma of practice cover awareness. But he was a pure monk. He also did yoga. And you may want to see how he was very, very good at it. So, bliss, magic is the way. The way to bliss and to peace. So when we get to the desert, there is a thing that you will see in Buddhist practice. You will see energies, auras, the mystical awarenesses of the place. You'll see places where I know the dimensions of power and light. And these things are very visual. They're visual, you see light, you see powers, you see all sorts of things, but you also feel the things. You feel the matter. And these are experiences of vintage life. It's like, once to see is to believe in a way, and if you hear about spiritual things, you might have an idea, but once you see it, then you say, oh wow, I saw something. But sometimes you have a feeling that is undeniable, and that's something too. So when we go to these places we have tremendous visions, feelings, awarenesses that are beyond doubt. That are things that are powerful, that we realize that are the truth. So, these are our experiences. They open the door to magic in your life. So when you see those dancing Buddhas, I am opening, I open your awareness when you are You can see in the world Gula at home, the world Gula. Look at that. It opens the lantern. You can see a picture of Queen Bara. You can see a picture of Gula. Those unscratched buildings. And all of a sudden there is spirits in the lanterns that you didn't see before. Isn't this fantastic? It brings you out of the pictures, the ideal, into a real spiritual connection when all things are expressly the images of the God. Alright, so, getting dark. A couple more things. In places of power, this is where I do empowerments. I'm able to take the tremendous energy of Kundalini, I'm able to fashion it into a structure followed by these invisible teachings of the secret teachings of the Superior Teachings And I'm able to take those teachings and that power and fashion it into a condition of awareness, a process of awareness, and I'm instantly committed to it. that has words, it is a transference of a kind of power. And it's a power that enables you to do great things in life. There's power for meditation, there's power for discipline practice is powerful for developing your career, for developing martial arts, for developing even music, for developing your yoga practice. Different in power. These are of the Niyamu practice. Powers that enable you to have greater ability to take your life, to pass your life in the Take your lives, compassion your lives in order to follow it. The other thing that I do in the deserts is I do initiations. Sometimes. These are tremendously transforming experiences that put you on the right path. They are bigger than a tongue. So if I do an initiation for to the Light Field, the initiation of the heart, to do the practices of compassion, the initiations of the Third Eye. These are things that create a creation, a formation, in your heart, in your soul, where the light comes in more and you express the light in a powerful way. So, let's say you wanted to like learn martial arts on your own. You can be on the beach, punching, kicking, and doing things that you saw in the karate movies. But, if you were with a fifth degree lifestyle, and they directed you, the way that you would learn would be much more powerful. If you were with a fifth degree lifestyle, it would teach you mood and awareness. ways to control, ways to develop, and ways to express power that you didn't know before and will never come up with on your own. And that is something that is what a initiation is. built by the great master, the way to develop, the way to grow, the structure of power. There's different ways. the personal liberation

1:53:48
to be a human and like

1:53:52
to go

1:53:54
he has

1:53:56
liberation he reveals he liberates and he has certain expressions things that he can do ways he can talk and show like in certain powerful sound ways, very good ways um in a very good way.

1:54:16
But, if you go to like

1:54:18
a piece of Chinese Kung Fu where some grand masters with great adept and accurate and skilled develop a system they have so much more subtlety they have 10,000 more dimensions of ability and come to a concept of their own will. So initiations bring you into a way that exposes you to new worlds, a lot more powerful, in ways that shame you to be developed to accept them. Finally, finally, finally in our pilgrimage to this place of power, at the end, from our Make a plan. Make a plan. From here, from this realization, from this empowerment, what do I want to do? What do I want to do to grow? Do I want to succeed in my yoga practice. Make a plan, write it down, write your intention and write what you think you should do. Because this will guide you, will help you to grow, to use that power and energy to promote your transformation. And then you go, grow, develop, and you swallow the energy of that time, that push through. And then you will orientate to the next step. And then focus to equal. And the e-tron is still perfect. These are the pages of our children's book of life. Thank you so much. I know I'm going to go.

1:57:00
You're not late.

1:57:01
You're still standing there.

1:57:02
But that was good.

1:57:03
And you coming on the church, doing wonderful things and not diminishing the greater. You do wonderful things. Thank you all very much. And if you are a Baptist buddy or if you are on a walk over to India, you are welcome to join me at the Summer Home. Because... What? I got more to say. I'm going to go down and...

1:57:47
Thank you.

1:57:48
And then I'll go into the forest. Well, you can't send me in and then you'll come out. I'm a friend. Call me into the forest. Oh, did you notice her skin was pink? Oh, did you notice her skin was pink? Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
