0:00:00
Welcome to Satsang with Sambara. I'm so happy you can all make it today. Looks like a couple people are just sitting, which is very good for meditation.

0:00:17
All right, looking good. All right, so let's begin with meditation.

0:00:24
We will sit for three songs. The first song on the navel chakra, the second song on the heart, and the third song on the third eye. Let's begin. You

0:00:40
so so So So You Oh So So You So, So Thank you. you so So the the the the the the the the You Thank you. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so So so the So you You So today I'd like to talk to you about having to believe. Having to believe is using your intent to create a liberating outlook.

0:13:47
It is being deliberate in seeing life and experiencing life. It is what Buddha called right view. It's seeing beyond any limited models, any limited mental models of the universe. Or it's what Krishna called spiritual discrimination. being able to discern in life the essential truths that which leads to enlightenment. So having to believe is a Buddhist mystic technique of using your will and intent to create right view, to have that spiritual discernment. It is one of the great secret spiritual powers that job yogis use to expand their consciousness. So, a long time ago in China, there was a gal who attended a Taoist dharma talk on compassion. And she was very moved and wanted to be compassionate from then on. So after the dharma talk, she was walking home, walking through the village, and she was coming up to the butcher's place. And the butcher, she could see, had two pigs. Both of them were tied up next to the chopping block. And as she neared the butcher's, he picked up one of the pigs, put it on the chopping block, and cut its head off. And she was like, oh my gosh, this is horrible. That poor pig. And then the butcher takes the pig's body inside to cut it up. So the second pig is sitting there, and it knows what's coming. looking really distraught. So she goes over to the pig and she looks at the pig. She looks at the pig in the eye and it was a really cute pig because it's a little pot-bellied pig and it was all black but it had a funny mark, it had a triangle mark right on its third eye. And she said, that's suspicious. And she looked that pig in the eye and she had compassion. So she untied the pig, and the pig ran for it. The pig ran into the forest and was gone. So then she was happy. Then she felt very free. She felt like freeing the pig was freeing her, herself. and she was just very blissful. And then she went home, and she told her brother about her experience. And her brother said, You know, that was a domesticated pig. That pig doesn't know how to live in the forest. That pig is probably going to die a horrible death. You probably, you know, set that pig up for way more suffering than if he had just gotten executed by the butcher. And then she was like, oh no, I was trying to be compassionate to the pig. So she was very, very, very distressed. She couldn't sleep. She was very, very bothered. So then the next day she went to the Taoist master. And she said, Dallas Master, I'm very confused. And she told him the story of the pig. And then the Dallas Master says, Okay, I'm going to do some powerful magic. I'm going to let you decide. And whatever you decide, I will make happen. So, I want you to say, the pig lives or the pig dies. And say it, and believe it, and mean it. And whatever you say, then all the Taoist powers in the world will come and make that the case. So she says, okay, and she thinks about it, reflects on it, finds in her heart and says, the pig lives! And then the Taoist master says, so mote it be. And she immediately is filled with happiness and bliss and joy and feels free. And then she walks out, thanking the Master. Now there was a senior monk hanging out watching this happen, and then the monk says, Master, I saw you do no mantras, no incantations, like what magic did you do? And So this is the Master teaching her having to believe. Now, having to believe isn't just believing. If you just believe, you ask, hey, why is the sky blue? Because a star fairy flew down and painted it blue. Where do babies come from? Oh, a stork comes over and drops them on your doorstep. You know? Or like Santa Claus. This guy has got a book, and he's got the naughty or nice thing, and he knows you better than Facebook. So there's so many things that if you just believe, you'll stay completely ignorant. So having to believe isn't believing. A lot of times, people think having to believe is like setting a mission, a goal, and it's desire-based, and they go, I'm going to go get this thing that I want. There's something out there, I want to get it, some stuff. And then you work for it coming from desire. And coming from desire is not having to believe. So, when you're coming from desire, you're increasing definition of self. So, if you want to succeed in your career because you want power, position, money, cars, houses, you know, if that's your drive, the desire for those things, then maybe you'll achieve them, but you're going to be really narrowing your awareness field into a very fixed place where there's not spiritual awareness, peace, balance, satisfaction. But if you have to believe that you will succeed in your career, then you'll succeed in your career and you'll have all of the same things, but since you do it without desire, then there's spiritual unfoldment as you succeed in your career. So your awareness field opens. So when you pursue something with desire, you close yourself into the thing. So desire is not the path for the job yogi. And having to believe is not faith. Faith is Maya. Faith is always associated with self. Faith is self-description. It's an attachment to an idea. So faith definitely is not having to believe. When people have faith, they can really believe something, right? Really get fired up about it, but do horrible things. People of great faith have, in our world, usurped property and lands. They have prosecuted the innocent. They have created wars in the name of their faith, coming from that deep faith. So that is something that doesn't expose Dharma, and that faith is a self-belief. So people, if you look at the history of this planet, people have done horrible things in the name of faith. There was once a Sikh general, and the Sikhs are in northern India a warrior caste, and this Sikh general went to see the Sikh enlightened master. And this master said, to have enlightenment, you must strike down what is below. And then the Sikh general ponders that, and he says, hmm, he's like, down to the south, there's an enemy village. And then he raises his army and goes and destroys it, strikes it down. Then he comes to the master and he's like, yes, I've learned something. And then the master says, more importantly, to find enlightenment, you must strike down that which is above. And then the Sikh general reflects on it, thinks about it, and he's like, I must do this, I must, I must have enlightenment, I must do what my enlightened teacher tells me. And he says, hmm, up in the foothills of the Himalayas, north of here, there's an enemy village. And he goes, raises his army, goes and attacks, and they strike it down. And then he comes back to the Sikh master, and the Sikh master says, when you strike down your lower thoughts and you strike down your higher thoughts, then you have enlightenment. And then the Sikh general saw, oh, thoughts.

0:25:57
Okay, got it.

0:25:58
So, he had faith in the teachings, he just misunderstood them. And then he took action. And that's what people do. You know, people will have faith in something and they'll get an idea and then they'll act upon it. But they're acting upon an idea and not truth. That's what faith is. Faith is Maya, it is illusion, it is not spiritual discernment, it is a self-view, and therefore it's a obfuscated view. And when you are acting in this way, things. You have blind spots. So take for example the Spanish Inquisition. Many people who had great faith were prosecuted and killed. They had great position. Don't know why that's so funny. So with faith, there could be blind spots. Also when you have faith, you get really revved up on an idea of some higher power that you're connected to, which you may not actually be connected to. You might just think it, you totally like make up some idea, right? You're like, yes, I will walk through this horrible neighborhood and be protected by angels. That's not a good idea. So yeah, it's important that if you have an understanding of a higher power that it's solid and not just an idea or self-concept, because then your idea will fail you. There was a Portuguese priest when Christianity was just to Japan and he was preaching. And he got some converts and then he went to this big assembly near the capital and he was preaching about having faith in God. And he's all like, if you have faith in God, all these good things will happen. All these bad things won't happen. And there's this influential samurai sitting kind of in the back of the audience, and he gets up and he says, is your faith that powerful? And the priest says, yes. And he says, then let's test it. He pulls up his bow and he says, I will close my eyes and shoot an arrow at you. And if your faith protects you, then I will compel everyone here to become a Christian. And then the priest says, of course, you know, he's like, there's, you know, there's no way you're so far away, you're going to close your eyes. And of course, my God is going to protect me because I have faith. So the priest just stands there. The samurai shoots, he closes his eyes, points, shoots, and then something amazing happens. None of them become Christian. So, though you have faith, you think it's to a higher power, a lot of times it might not work out. And faith has little utility. What can you do with a faith? Well, yeah, it can motivate you for things, but besides motivating you to probably go out and cause bad karma for yourself, it doesn't do a lot for you. So, there was this young boy and every night he had to, he had this chore. His father says, okay, now you have to go out to the shed and fetch the wood for the fireplace. So he goes out, you know, every night for a few nights and he's crying and wetting his pants, and picking up wood, and running home, and screaming. So he's really afraid. And then Sunday comes, and he goes and talks to the priest. And he says, Father, when I go out to the shed, I'm so afraid. Just the dark makes me scared. I don't know what's gonna happen to me. There might be ghosts or werewolves or something and Then the father says let's pray on it So they pray he says, you know Heavenly Father Jesus Christ Please protect this boy so that when he's out there in the dark nothing happens to him and then amen So that then the priest says now you have nothing to worry about because when you go out to that woodshed, Jesus will be there. Then he says, really? He's like, yep. Really, for sure? Totally. So he's like, oh wow, all right, great, fantastic. Thanks, Father. So that night when he has to go and get the firewood, he opens the door and he goes, hey Jesus, can you bring me some firewood?" And of course, he doesn't get any firewood. Faith is a hope, and having to know, having to believe is knowing. So having to believe immediately sets you into knowing something. And then if you're just having faith all the time, you're just hoping for things. So that way, having to believe starts showing you the truth. So it's kind of like one guy says, I have faith in God. The other guy says, oh, I know God. Yeah, we go way back. We were roommates in college. It's like one guy is making up ideas about, I have faith in God. But if the other guy knows God, he's like, oh, I actually know him. It's the same with enlightenment. knows God, he's like, oh, I actually know him. It's the same with enlightenment. If you hope for enlightenment, then you are separating yourself from the truth of the essence of who you are. But if you have to believe in enlightenment, then that sets you immediately into awakening. It immediately opens this experience of awakening. So, desire, belief, and faith are all limited, all self. And they, they're just too easy. It's just too easy to say, yeah, okay, I believe that. Okay, I'll trust my feeling of faith. Oh, I'll definitely follow my desire. Right? And it exonerates you from having to take responsibility. In having to believe, you have to take responsibility. You have to consider the situation fully, you have to reflect on it deeply, you have to find the way of truth, something that is at least a step in higher elevation, evolution, and then you take responsibility for it. You take responsibility for your life, for your mind, for your actions. And in having to believe, you really follow the path of Dharma, the path of truth. Not just the path of self. You transcend the self by having to believe, by taking responsibility. When you have to believe, then you're really choosing an outcome. You're saying, I am choosing a way of life. I'm choosing a destination. But at the same time, that determines your experience immediately. So the moment you say, I want this, you start to experience it. You take a step in that direction. It's like when you choose a theater, you're going to experience whatever film is in there. So there might be one theater that is playing a horror film. So you go, ah, choose that. Then you have this horror film. And there might be another theater with a boring drama, a sad boring drama. And there might be a theater with a heroic action film or something, a noble movie. So the moment you choose a theater, you're going into that experience. So choosing a Ooh, creepy. Yeah, so when I met my teacher, I had to believe. I had to believe in enlightenment. And the moment I had to believe in enlightenment, my life completely changed and I experienced things completely differently. My life became an experience of spiritual study, philosophical understanding, meditation practice, discipline, mindfulness, places of power, experiences of light and enlightenment. I experienced higher knowledge and awakening. It just kept going more and more and more and more. The moment I had to believe is the moment that I stepped into that experience. So, having to believe, it not only changes your outlook, but it changes your whole universe. It changes not only what you think in your mind, but it changes what's outside the world. The thing that you see is outside of yourself. So remember our friend the pig with the special triangular third eye white mark? Mark. Okay, so the monk goes over to the Taoist master sometime later, probably months later, and he's still pondering this thing, and he says, but master, if she believes that the pig is alive, that might not be true. Just because she believes it, that pig might have run into the jungle and been eaten by a tiger, right? Or that pig might have starved to death. And even though she thinks it, it might be different. And then he's like, so isn't that the case, Master? And then the Master says, no. He says, when you believe, it changes karma. And then the monk ponders this, and ponders this, and ponders this. So one day, the Master sends the monk out into the forest to find some herbs. So the monk is out there, you know, finding herbs, looking for things, and then he comes across a pack of pigs. And they're all just, you know, playing in the mud, and a bunch of happy pigs. Reminds me of some good friends. Happy pigs playing in mud. And he sees that there's this one pig that has a triangle white mark on his third eye. And he's like, that must be that pig. And he ponders this and he says, oh, she believed, the master says it changes karma, and that pig is alive and happy in the mud. And then by understanding this, he has an epiphany, a spiritual realization. So when you have to believe, it changes your mind and your consciousness But it also changes everything it changes the universe So We don't just believe we have to believe You know Buddha when he was teaching He always said don't take my teachings on faith. He said, try them out, put them to use, understand them, see them for yourself, see if I'm right, see if this is real. Because then you have to believe. If they just take it on faith, then nothing happens. They go, yeah, Buddha's really cool, I believe him. Yeah, it's like if I tell you how to go into Samadhi and you just say, okay, sounds good, that sounds right, then nothing happens. But if I tell you how to go into Samadhi and you have to believe, then you have to explore it, you have to experience it, and then you will. And then you'll know something profound, something amazing. When you have to believe, you enter into great power, an endless and ultimate power, something that propels you beyond the self and something that can do anything. If you have to believe anything, then you can access that power that makes it happen. So a long time ago in Thailand, there was a village next to a river and once every generation a dragon would emerge from the river and attack the village. So for a couple hundred years the villagers found a way to fend off this dragon because the dragon would come in and destroy half the village and eat people, Thai food, and then they would have a hard time and rebuild and stuff. So they went to this magician who gave them a stick and they said, you have to find the protector. Every generation there will be a protector who can wield this stick to defend the village. And so they always would choose a great warrior. They'd say, okay, this is the great warrior, and the great warrior will get the stick, and then the great warrior would fend off the dragon. And then the next generation came, and the wise man of the village had the warriors lined up. They were ready to choose the protector, the sacred protector. And the wise man had each of these great warriors hold the stick, and he's all, no, no, no, no, no. Then he went through all the warriors of the village, and he's all, no, no, no. And then they said, well, elder, who is it then? And he looks, and he sees this man in the crowd, and he goes over to him and says, hold the stick, and he holds the stick and it's like he says yes this is it you're powerful and this and the man says I am but a fisherman I don't know how to fight and he says you are the sacred protector so once the elder says you are the sacred protector then the fisherman says okay and at that moment he had to believe that he was the sacred protector and that the village would only be safe if he could fight the dragon. So that's when he started to train. He started to learn to use the stick as a weapon, and he became a warrior. And then on the appointed night that the dragon came, he was there to defend the village, and then he beat the dragon off and it jumped back into the river in retreat. So he was a sacred protector, then he completely transformed. He was able to access a great power, a vast power, an infinite power. So when you have to believe, infinite source of energy and power where you can transform, where you can grow, where you can be anything that you have to believe that you can be. So now I'm going to do a transmission, a transmission of that power, of that possibility. It is the doorway to that transcending power. So to do this, you just sit up nice and straight. You can look up here towards me, have a soft focus on the third eye, and then just try to still your thoughts and see this power that I'm speaking of. So we're going to sit for one song, and just try to still your thoughts and see. Okay, let's begin.

0:47:26
so so so so so You So, when you enter into this power, then your whole life transforms.

0:52:05
You change. You start flowing with life. And then all of these kind of magical things fall into place. There's a lot of serendipity. I remember I was living in New York, but we were going to have an Anza Borrego trip. And this is when I just moved there, so I was pretty broke. And I was like, I have to go to that trip in Anza Borrego. And I had to believe that it was possible, even though I didn't have the money for it. And then one day I'm taking the train to work and I bump into this guy. He's sitting across from me and we just start talking about stuff. He's like, yeah, it's like I'm starting my own business. I need a database for customers. I'm like, really? Because I make databases. And he's like, oh, really? So then he hired me. And then I had, from doing that work for him, I had enough money to go on that trip. Just kind of magical. Or I remember another time, I was working for Cadbury Schweppes, and I was an architect at their headquarters. And I was planning out, this was the early days of email, right? And at the time, Cadbury only had an email system from Dallas to Connecticut and Connecticut to London. And they had worldwide offices. So I was architecting the email system and the existing emails that email networks that we had set up, they cost millions of dollars and we didn't have the budget to hook up everything. So I was pondering this and I'm like well this is my job I have to figure it out. And I was sharing a taxi with a guy from the airport coming to Westchester. And this guy worked for Sprint, and we were just talking, I was telling him what I was working on, and he said, you know, Sprint is just now opening up their network so that you can have data go across it and you can do emails. And so I was like, okay, let's look into that. And then I was able to find this solution that all of a sudden we could flick on and every single one of the Cadbury offices around the world would be able to be on that network. So, very simple. So that was like, that was really amazing. And it was because I had to believe. When you're doing your job, when you're doing your yoga, you have to believe that you can get the job done. You have to believe that you can get the job. You have to believe, it's really, in our school, it's a very structured process. I mean, first of all, you have to believe that you could learn meditation. And when you believe that you can meditate, then what happens is you enter into great power. When you practice job yoga and you have to believe in your yogic success, then you open up to great power. It brings you higher and higher. It gives you personal power and flow and changes your consciousness of the universe. And when you have to believe that you can learn the yoga of compassion, then that transforms your life. When you have to believe you can be enlightened, it transforms your life. All of It builds this spiritual power. And then you can access what we call the centimeter of chance. And that means that in all the world there's Maya, but somewhere there's a centimeter of chance. And that means there's a little spot in every moment where you can see power and enlightenment. And you can see this in your work, you can see this in your meditation, in any moment you can see beyond the veil of maya and you can see truth. And we put this to work in our yoga. So there was Jack Ma. He's the CEO of Alibaba. And if you don't know what Alibaba is, it's like Amazon, but ten times bigger. It's the Chinese Amazon. And when he started Alibaba, only 5% of China had internet access. And he was just like, I have to somehow make my business grow. And he's like, looking at trends of networking and how the internet was gonna grow, and it was very slow. And he was like, hmm, how am I gonna make my business grow? He had an e-commerce site, right? And he's like, how am I gonna get this out to people so people can buy stuff? And then he was having dinner at a nice restaurant and his young daughter took out her new flip phone and she's all like, oh look, a picture of my kittens. And he was like, hmm, and he was just pondering, how can I make my business grow? And then he looked outside the window and this busy street and he saw lots of people on these flip phones. And then he said, aha, he saw eventually on the phone network people will be able to access the internet. So then he started to develop a payment system. And then he started making his e-commerce site ready for phones. And then the smartphone revolution happened. And then his company grew really fast. Alibaba had the biggest IPO on the Wall Street market, New York Exchange market, in history. So that was a very successful seeing. That seeing came from the centimeter of chance. I often talk about Mark Zuckerberg and his seeing of Facebook. He just, he had this lucky moment or this powerful moment where he had that centimeter of chance and he saw something. So, when you have to believe, then you're drawn to seek that centimeter of chance. And you have to be fluid. You have to be flexible in the first attention and in the second attention. Things change. And if you're fixed, then you leave having to believe and you enter into believing or having faith. So having to believe is also very, a Zen master in China, and his disciples said, where's the best place to meditate? And he said, oh, down by the river. Let's go. So he takes his students down by the river, and then they sit and meditate. And then the monks say, well, master, I didn't have such a great meditation. So is this really the best place to meditate?" And the Master says, Oh no, no, it's the mountain. We've got to go to the mountain. That's the best place to meditate. And then they go, All right, let's go to the mountain then. They go all the way up the mountain. They sit, they meditate. Then afterwards, the monks say, Well, Master, I didn't have the most amazing meditation here. Is this the best place to meditate, and he goes, oh no, no, no, it's down by the river. And they go right back down by the river, and then they meditate, and they're all, what's going on? And then he goes, no, no, no, it's the mountain, for sure. And then they go, okay, let's do it. They go up to the mountain, have a meditation, and they're all, uh. And then they're all, Master, this isn't working. And then the Master says, it's definitely down by the river. So the master was very fluid because for him it was the best meditation. He had to believe it was there, then he had to believe it was there, then there again, then there again, but the monks didn't believe enough. Yeah, so you have to be fluid. to having to believe is not believing. Because believing is a concept. Having to believe is very fluid. It changes. Nintendo started off selling cards for games, card games. And that was what they were into. They wanted to be the best at it. And that was their business. And they made a lot of money, and they were doing really well, until sometime, I think in the late 60s, where for some reason, people stopped really playing the card games, and they moved on to other toys and things, and then their And the CEO, he was like, he's like, we are a card game company, and we have to succeed, but all our sales are going down. So then, just to increase revenues, he starts selling the Magnavox Odyssey, which was the very first video game console. And so they go, oh, let's get this American thing and sell it in Japan just so that we can get some money and figure out how to do the cards. So they start selling this thing in Japan and it starts selling like crazy. So, and they're sitting there struggling with the card game. So they say, let's check out this console thing. And then they Japanese-ed it, they Kaizen-ed it, they opened the thing up, saw how it worked, and said, let's make our own. And they went from cards to video game consoles. So in having to believe, you know, you've got to have the big picture, because it can change one way, another way, on the surface, on the outside, in what you do, but your big picture is, you know, yogic success, business success. Yeah, so having to believe is very fluid. And having to believe brings you beyond the self. And otherwise, through desire, belief, and faith, you're going to remain in self. So, you've got to go in. Ramakrishna said, a salt doll went to test the depths of the ocean. And when you go all in you dissolve. This is having to believe. So this reminds me of Elon Musk. He created this little company called PayPal and then he made billions of last cent of it into creating SpaceX. I didn't say space sex. It's not that kind of tantra. SpaceX. And then he put everything into it to the point where in starting the company All that money disappeared and he couldn't even make payroll. And then he got this multi-billion dollar deal. And then that's when they started to bounce back up. But he put everything into it and never pulled out. He was like, I'm going all the way. So this is what we've got to do. That's having to believe. You've got to take great chances when you believe. You say, okay, this is my only chance, I'm going to take it. Yeah, Fred Smith, the CEO of FedEx. So when FedEx started, now they're a multi-billion dollar company, but when they started, they didn't do so well, right? On their first day, they delivered one package, right? And then it was a bumpy road in the beginning. And they had this one opportunity to have a corporate client that needed to move a lot of things overnight. And in order to get that, they would have to pay a $24,000 fuel bill up front. And at that point, they had done so poorly, they only had $5,000 in the company. So Fred took that $5,000, gone on a plane to Las Vegas, and went to the blackjack table, and he won that money. And then he goes back, pays that bill, and it launched them into this multi-million dollar deal. That's taking chances. So job yogis live a life of challenge. We're not trying to run away from things that are difficult and trying to run to things that are pleasant. We have to believe and whatever comes our way, whether it's good or bad for us, is a challenge. Most people think if something bad happens to them, it's a curse, and if something good happens to them, it's a blessing, and then they live in these ups and downs. They live in limitation, in desire and aversion. But, job yogis live for challenge. We're not afraid of being challenged. We see that we can grow even in challenge. So what most people say, oh, that's a horrible obstacle. We say, no, that's an opportunity for growth. So the Zen koan, right, the Zen koan is a question like, what is the sound of one hand clapping? And then, you know, the master, you go to the master, I want to be enlightened. And he goes, okay, answer this. What is the sound of one hand clapping? And then you go, oh, you're not taking me seriously. You're not helping me out here. You're making up weird riddles that don't mean anything. So you can see that as an obstacle. It's like, oh, this is something that stops me because there's no way to handle this. There's no way to come up with a real answer, a true answer, unless you take it as a challenge. And when you take it as a challenge, then you go beyond the self. When you have to believe that you can answer it, then you transcend the self ways where we can grow. Kodak had a difficult obstacle. See, they sold film for cameras, and then there was this thing that happened called digital cameras. And then their sales took a nosedive, and the company was heading straight for bankruptcy. They were just going right out of business. Then the CEO, Anthony Perez, he was like, no, Kodak has to succeed. He had to believe in their success. So he realized that 90% of their revenue was gone. And so he said, all right, instead of that killing us, he had to say, what is next? What can we do? And then he diverted all of the attention from trying to fight to get this, you know, film sales up to finding a new path. And they found specialized electronic systems for businesses and things like that, and then they bounced back. So we can see something that seems like, you know, it's impossible. And if you have to believe, you can transcend it. Transcend it. So, a job yogi takes on every challenge, even the things that seem impossible and tough, and we take it on and face it, and we go into that action of dealing with it. We go into that as if we're going into battle like a warrior, as if we could die. We're throwing ourselves into it. So we have an awareness of death. We use death as an advisor, if you don't say, hmm, let me compare now to death, what really matters? What I'm doing has to be the highest, most powerful thing. If you don't do that, then life is very trivial. So if life is trivial, then you cannot focus on what matters. So if life is trivial, someone might say, oh, enlightenment sounds pretty good. Oh, but so does that ham sandwich. It doesn't matter, right? But when you say, whoa, you know, I could die any moment. Maybe I better start to connect with that eternal aspect of my spirit, try to spiritually evolve and wake up, then you choose enlightenment. So, being aware of death, when we have to believe, we have to be aware of death. And It clarifies our purpose. Now, I remember one time, I took some students scuba diving in Monterey Bay, and I was standing there with Savitri. Savitri had been learning for a number of years Yama Yoga with me. This is the teachings of the Bardo's, what happens after death. And these are very, very esoteric teachings and you can only understand them in the second attention. So she had been struggling for a year or so with a teaching that I had given her. And while we were, you know, on the surface outside on the beach, we saw this boat come in. It was a rescue boat, and then an ambulance pulls up, and they're pulling a guy off of the boat. He was a diver, and they were, you know, doing compressions and rescue breaths. And then she asked, do you think he's gonna make it? And I said, no, he's already dead. His spirit, I see him, his spirit has left his body, he's floating there, watching what's happening. And in seeing that, in her realizing that death, she had to believe, and something in her second attention was able to understand this very powerful teaching of the bardas, of what happens after death. So when you have to believe, you have very powerful spiritual understandings. It opens you to understand your most essential spiritual choices. You know, Buddha said, sit in the world, sit in the dark. Sit in meditation, sit in light. we have to believe we choose an outcome. When we have to believe we choose the meaning of life. And when you choose the meaning of life, you experience life from that moment in that meaning. There is no meaning of life, but if you choose a meaning of life, then that's what you experience. So we have to believe. We have to believe that this world is not as fixed as it appears, that the universe is unfathomable, that we can overcome any karma, any obstacle. We have to believe in enlightenment. And when you have to believe, you have to attain. This is the law of Dharma, ancient and inexhaustible. This is the law of Dharma, ancient and inexhaustible. All right. Thank you all very much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
