0:00:00
All right, welcome. Is my mic working? Oh yeah, we can close the windows. Yes. Let's close the windows before a pigeon lands and hears the teachings. Yeah, I like the idea of, you know, making everybody really cold so that they're awake. It's been a long day, you know. And be like, oh, meditation, it's nap time. Some people practice that way. I mean, we do too sometimes. Let's go take a nap. All right, so just close your eyes. And we're going to meditate together. So we're going to start off with a three-song meditation. First song on the heart. Second song on the third eye. Fifth song, navel. You got to mix it up. All right, no, our traditional practice. Nable, heart, third eye. All right, let's begin. So, thank you.

0:01:27
the the the the the the the the the the the the So, So Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, So, You you So, I'm going to go ahead and get my stuff. So so You're my hero You're my hero You're my hero You're my hero So You're my hero You So the the the So, so so so you Well, you know, it's really wonderful to have you all here tonight.

0:16:05
In the back, we are not hearing, but we're listening. Can you hear me in the back now? But also, I get like this, a little bit of ohm going on under my voice. Hey DJ, um, you know, this thing, yeah. Ohm.

0:16:30
Don't you guys get that?

0:16:31
There's a little bit of ohm going on. Ohm.

0:16:37
Should I, I should, uh, like this? No, okay. Oh, you.

0:16:41
Oh, okay. Ohm. So I'm so happy that you're all here. This is our third night of Equinox teachings. So tonight we're taking it up to 11. It's going to get worse from here on. In terms of the humor. Alright, so but tonight I'd like to talk to you about something very, very, very powerful. It's taking the last two teachings and mixing them together, scrambling them, till they're totally confused. Like you. So tonight I'd like to talk about ruthful compassion. So in the first teaching on compassion, I was like, they're super intense. You gotta be super intense. You had to cut through all the garbage. You gotta just go for it. And then, as I'm talking, you kind of conjure up these images of these crazy Tibetan yogis who say, Oh no, I'm leaving this, going away from that. No people. There's a cave. I'm gonna sit in the cave. And then, you know, I'm gonna sit there until enlightenment. They're really hardcore. So it's like, yeah, you gotta know that. You have to have that vision of that intense yogi. But then there's another way to look at it. the Bodhisattva. So, like in Romeo's paintings in the Tongas, he's showing the Bodhisattva. And the Bodhisattva is ruthless with compassion. So, when you look at, like, he showed us this tremendous power that will just diffuse all negativity and show all sentient beings the way to liberation. And it's very powerful. You can feel it when you look at that thangka. So Romeo's really So, Romeo is really good at bringing the actual divine energy, the energy of compassion into the painting so that it's accessible for people. Because if we just sit there and talk about it, you guys will get all confused. But when there's a clear image where the power is there. Anytime you look at it, you see it, you feel it, you connect with it. So, the Bodhisattva, serene, beautiful, you just say, wow, but they are There's no self that stops them from aiding someone in need. That's ruthless compassion. I often think of Manjushri because he's sitting there, you know, in full lotus. I just crossed one leg. And you look at him and he's like, aha That sword is what Will cut through any illusion any self delusion So that you can see truth So that is to me It's a way that you can see it. This wonderfully beautiful fellow, totally spiritual, and a flaming sword. So I remember we went and had lunch with the monks. And, you know, it's like the monks in that school would just eat once a day they would just eat lunch and that was their meal. And so we just walk in and sit down with them. There's a big dining room. And they just come and feed whoever's there. And it was mostly monks. And there was my group. And then there was a few other people randomly found their way in. And I said, hmm, that's kind of cool of them. But then they have this whole story of why they do that. Because you can't usually just walk into a Buddhist monastery and say, yeah, I'm hungry. What do you guys got in the kitchen? My voice is booming still. Okay. So, um, I think it was like 200 years ago. Uh, the, the Abbott of the monastery was praying and praying and praying to learn compassion to be a compassion bringer to the world and one day they were having their meal and this old lady walks in and she sits down at the table with the monks to have their meal. And then he says, you gotta go. What are you doing here? This is a monastery. This is for monks. And you know that this food is dedicated for us. And then she says, Well, yeah, I work on compassion all the time. I'm praying for compassion, but rules are rules. Get out. I mean, you're not a monk and you're and actually women aren't even supposed to be in here. So go. And then her body dissolves in light and then reforms as Manjushri says, you should have compassion for all beings, not just, you know, who you think and the, the Abbott, you know, really this elevated by this lesson. I was looking at things in a certain way and cut this lady off and of course she would deserve compassion and so from that time on and the Abbott considered everybody he considered them to be Manjushri. And as a result, he's created a new policy. Anybody who comes to lunch, we feed them. So I had lunch with those guys. Yeah, so Manjushri is well-known for helping seekers of enlightenment. It's a powerful blessing in his way. All different bodhisattvas and buddhas have their special way of sharing with you how to be enlightened. So like the Abbot, you gotta question the rules. We are just like zombies following other zombies. Very often, not thinking, not questioning, not being awake. We're not just asleep, because we're walking. We're doing stuff, but we're dead. We're like walking around doing stuff, but there's no life to it. There's no awareness. So you got to wake up. You got to look at the rules that people give you the ideas of how things should be and you have to say is this truth is this truth I remember I think in the 60s or 70s they did a they did some experiment in Stanford University where they took a person paid them like $50 and they said, okay, you're going to participate in this experiment. And then there was a person wearing a white lab coat who was authority, like I'm the one running this and this is how it should be. And what they were supposed to do is they're supposed to push a button that electrically zapped a person in a different room. And then they would turn it up, zap, turn it up, zap. And then they had this recording in the other room, and there wasn't anyone getting zapped. But little by little, you would start hearing this guy scream, ah, ah. And the more you turn up the electricity, the more he's screaming. And then you're turning up the electricity to some crazy amount, and then the guy's screaming like crazy, and then you turn it up more, and then he stopped. You don't hear anything. And then you turn it up more, and you also don't hear anything. And the majority of people who did this would always just do whatever the guy with the white lab coat would say. He's an authority figure. He must know what he's talking about. But let me tell you, authority figures in this world may know nothing and may be very harmful and may do terrible things. And if we follow them because they say so, then we might not be following the Dharma. You also have to look at life and what you think is right and what you think is wrong, the way that you judge things, because you might be just maybe wrong. It's going to happen. But if you get so bothered by what you see, then I would have to say there's something wrong. You can see someone do something that is against Dharma, against truth, against life, and that could be the way it is. But if you get so bothered that you're mad, what your reaction is, is not Dharma. So you have to look at your own mind, especially when you get bothered by something, when you get mad about something, when you get sad about something, and say, is this dharma what my reaction is? Because if it's making me feel worse, maybe my reaction ain't so good. Lots of spiritual people like to have reactions of,

0:30:29
oh, that's bad.

0:30:31
I'm angry.

0:30:32
That's not the spiritual teachings, but people do that. Good people get angry at the bad people. So you know what we got to do? We got to go kill the killers. That's what you do when you judge something. And you say, the killers are bad. But then when you say, I'm so angry, I got to go kill the killers. That's a lot. Then you're in with the killers. You find yourself with one of them. So you got to look at it. There's this great film, you should all see, Mary Magdalene. It's the story of Mary Magdalene. And in the beginning, she's in a regular place with her family, people, her village, and everything is just, you know, normal, normal, normal. And then it gets to this point where her father's like, it's time for you to get married. And she's like, Whoa, I don't know if I want that. And then she she starts going to the synagogue more often. She's going to the synagogue again and again and again. And her father, he's like, hmm, there's something weird going on with her. And so then he pulls her out to the sea and has her, but they're like, let's get rid of this demon in her, because she doesn't want to do what everybody does, what I think she should do. But a really interesting thing is her father, when you look at this actor, he definitely, truly loves her, cares for her completely. But his outlook of how he sees the world is something that is very limiting for her. She cannot be happy and they found a husband, they said, okay, you're going to marry him again have lots of babies and she just got up and ran to the synagogue. She's like this, this, this is not for me. Yet most people's outlook would really squash her spirit. And then, even her father, who had good intent, who wished well for her, it would squash her. And he's so close to her, she's like, oh, dad, can you help me out? No, he couldn't. He couldn't see that his outlook, his judgments, the way that he thought life was, was just, that alone squashing her. So, how about you? Look at your outlook on things. Look at the things that you judge and the way you think things should be right and wrong. You're bound in karma, Men are like her father. We're just conditioned by society to look at a woman in a lesser way. And so in a school of enlightenment for women, we have to be extremely mindful about that. watch me become enlightened. But when you're with women on the pathway to enlightenment

0:34:23
through all the beginning, middle and end,

0:34:25
men, we have to be very careful, mindful, aware. We have to see those little places where you just go, well, I'm going to do it better because I like doing things better. What did you just go, well, I'm going to do it better because I like doing things better. And what did you just do? You exerted yourself and pushed the woman down because of your view of what better is. And that's societal conditioning. So whenever you have an anger, a doubt, frustration, when you're dealing with other people, you need to start to say, really, what is Dharma? Because for Mary, the Dharma was to leave. It's like, No, no, JC. Okay, so, um, this is, this is a very important responsibility that we all take to look at our likes and dislikes. I think this is right and I think that's wrong. Am I going to follow the rules or am I not going to follow the rules? You got to find the Dharma. There's this time in China where a young boy, well not young, young man, 16, 17, 18, something like that, he robbed somebody. So like right outside of town there was some merchant and he like robs him. But then he gets caught in the he is pulled into the town square and everybody thought that you're so bad you this nice guy and you know your jerk and we do something bad to then there's a monk sitting there and he's all and everyone's pissed at this guy. And then the monk walks over and says, Why did you sister, who I think was like 10 or something, is very ill, and we're very poor, and I don't have enough... I don't have food or medicine for her. So he says, I have I was given alms because I'm spiritual and someone wanted to support that. But I think that what you have done is bad, but you need help. And then the other people in the plaza who are sitting there going, you're bad, you broke the law, you're evil, don't like you. And they all said, wow, this monk makes sense. He's right. more food, they gave medicine. So what he did was wrong. But then the monk looked deeper.

0:38:29
Where's the dharma?

0:38:31
Ruthless compassion. To begin with ruthless compassion, you have to be compassionate to yourself. So funny. A lot of times we learn compassion. Oh, another person, I'm trying to help them, and oh, there's so many people, and you know, this is like, this is what happened to people who are passionate about nonprofits. I'm going to help all these people in the world, and those people, and then after like a career of doing that they go, I didn't help anybody, and this sucks. It's because you've got to first compassionatize yourself. I mean, doesn't that make sense? I mean, you're sitting there, you, you're like, I'm so concerned about another. That's good, but you're suffering. So you should say, wow, if I was, if I was a Buddha, I could probably do a little bit more, right? Who knows? Maybe not. Just kidding. Whatever. So, you say, you say, hey, if I care about myself, if I want to do better, if I want to be free, if I want to be enlightened, if I want to help enlighten other people, the whole best thing would be for me to be compassionate to myself so I can get out of suffering faster so that I can be enlightened faster. Enlightenment now. We're going to get a board. So then if you have compassion for yourself, you're going to wake up as soon as possible so that you can be out of suffering. Sounds like a good idea to me. Okay, then when you are ruthlessly compassionate, you do not accept anything but enlightenment. You don't accept anger. So here's the thing. A lot of people say, yeah, I want to be enlightened, that sounds cool. And then they go, man, that guy pissed me off. And then they dwell in that. I'm like, you know what I thought was the enlightenment part because no, because there's this all this anger. I'm like, remember that whole idea of the enlightenment. But now I'm here. Compassion takes any state of mind, any difficulty that you're in, and it says, No! I'm not going to sit here and be that way. I'm going to transcend this. I'm going past this. I'm going higher. I'm not going to let my mind just be stuck in something. You know, you have a choice. You can be stuck in our anger. When someone bumped into me at the Starbucks line, you could sit there and be mad about it. Or, you know, politics or real things, things that affect you. Someone hurt you, someone did the worst thing to you, you could get mad. You can be so upset. You just sit there and spiritually be stuck or something bad can happen to you and the world and the guy in the Starbucks line and you can let it go or you could use compassion to go higher. You can use practices of Dharma to expand your view, your consciousness, let go of the suffering.

0:42:51
Yeah, when someone wrongs you or you see wrong,

0:42:53
you need to start seeing right. You need to start seeing enlightenment. Wrong things are wrong. But you have to see the way out of the wrong to the right to the Dharma. Otherwise, you're just dwelling in the wrongness. Karma, right? The world ain't so fun. And if we just dwell in the ups and downs of the world, then we're going to not have fun. We're not going to be very high or bright. But when we could look at all the hardships in the world and see enlightenment and see the way for compassion for all beings and for ourselves, then it's good. Yeah, you got to be bright. Always be positive. Everything that seems horrible, wrong, impossible, that is all transient. Transient. When you see someone do something bad, you gotta have compassion and see how within compassion it can stop the thing that is bad. You can't just sit there and blame people and suffer whatever you determine to suffer from people's difficulties.

0:44:35
Someone punches you.

0:44:36
Okay, you're going to suffer. But then it'll go away. Someone kills you. You're going to suffer. And then you'll reincarnate. But I'm serious, but what I'm talking about is something that is eternal of your being, eternal to your awareness. If you're just so focused on every little thing being good or bad, someone did you right, someone did you wrong, if you're just suffering. You gotta let it go. You gotta see eternity. I mean, that's what enlightenment is. It's seeing eternity. And then bad things happen to enlightened people. Check Jesus. But I'd rather be up on the cross. I'd rather be a of Jesus than a rich, well-off, easy-going, whatever anyone in the world wants. Because he was spiritually free. He was able to, you know, be brutally murdered on the cross. And His words were words of compassion. And maybe powerful compassion. He's like, father, they don't know what they're doing. Don't don't give them a hard time. And as a, you know, a very, very, very powerful enlightened being, there's things that can happen. He could have been mitigating their karmas, creating lessons, dharmic lessons for them to learn.

0:46:48
So just from the words we don't know, but these things happen.

0:46:53
Buddha said, hate has never yet dispelled hate. So when you get mad and you see yourself acting mad, you gotta say, whoa, is this gonna fix it? Because I can guarantee you it doesn't. But it makes it worse for you. Buddha said, only love dispels hate. This is the law. Ancient and inexhaustible. According to that translation. Yeah, but it's like, if you're mad, stop being mad. If you're mad, look to having Find a better way. Don't just sit there and be mad. It's interesting when you sit there, and you find yourself reacting, you find yourself doing this, doing that, and you say, that's where I'm at. But ruthless compassion is about transcending that. If you're dwelling in it, you're dwelling in karma. But here's a simple little trick. You can just go, I really want enlightenment. I really want it, you're going to be ruthless and compassionate. You'll see your way through. If you really want it, then you'll see it. The gift of the universe is if you want it, if you want it, truth, you'll get it. Otherwise, there's no ruthlessness. Ruthlessness means working hard, trying, going for it. When you have ruthless compassion, you go beyond pity. Move your assemblage point there and then you're all like, fuck all, but like in a good way. A place beyond pity. In Tibetan Buddhism, we would call it ego-cherishing. A place beyond ego-cherishing. We cherish our egos. We're like, oh, when I was six, someone kicked me in the knee.

0:50:13
I don't like it when people look at me weird.

0:50:15
Oh, I remember this beautiful being I knew in high school. His name was Taco, but he was Samoan. And, you know, in 11th grade, he was this like bothered, hurt person. And then I remember in 11th grade and 12th grade, he just became an angry fighter. He would be like, he would go over to little, like just a little person, and he'd be like, why are you looking at me like that? And punch them. So So he was obviously stronger and bigger than anyone and everyone's afraid of it. But something happened to him where he got hurt and then anybody who looked at him it hurt him. And we can all be like that. Hurt people who go beating up other people because we devise they did something wrong to us. Or ruthless compassion. When you're stuck in something like that, it's a difficult thing. You don't want to just be all mad and hurt and hit people. It's just that you do that because you're mad and hurt and you hit people. So we, as Buddhists, we need to really look at the places where we are mad and hurt and hit people. We need to stop hitting people. We need to have ruthless compassion to get over our anger and and why and how to understand it. Understanding is powerful. Once you understand something, a little thing that you're stuck on, it can just let go. I see this a lot with communications. Like there'll be somebody in the sangha and another person in the sangha, and then they'll have a miscommunication, and then they'll both get mad. And then, when they get together again, and they say their crazy things at each other, and then they actually see where they were both coming from, then all that madness, all that anger, goes away. It's funny though, I mean, observe those times where it's happened, right? It's happened for you guys once or twice? So it's like, oh, well, once I knew where they were coming from, then I wasn't so mad. Yeah, you have to have ruthless compassion. It brings you to a place beyond pity. Pity being pitying yourself. You're like, oh, look what happened to me, how sad.

0:54:03
Look what happened to me,

0:54:04
it didn't work out the way I wanted, I didn't get the thing I want. Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. So, ruthless compassion is where you get to the point where you say, I know my sad story, my personal history, and that person just did that to me and I'm going to go on forever. That's karma. Ruthless compassion is going beyond that self cherishing and identification. It's transcending that. free, free in powerful ways. There is a really wonderful story when we went to India, a lot of you guys. Yogi Ramsurat Kumar had this American student who was working with him for a long time and this American student loved him so much, so devotional. And then one day, and you know every year he would come and the American guy would bring his students and see you know your arms are up and then one day he shows up at the ashram or the house or whatever and Yogi Ram sir. Kumar's all who are you? He's all like it's me man. You know he studied with him for many years. I'm back from America I emailed you and you know and everything and then he's all I Don't know who you are, so I'm gonna close the door. Then he comes back the next day, hey, it's me again, I'm here to do devotion. And then he gets dissed again. And then finally, Yogi Ram Sarakumar lets his students come and visit him, but he's like, I don't know who you are, you go away. Gives him a hard time. And then he goes through craziness for years, right? Where he's like so hurt, so sad, standing out there in the Indian sun, you know, just like, oh. And he's going through what we call self-pity. And then finally, one day he goes and brings the students and he's standing out there and he doesn't get it. And then finally, he got to a place of no pity, where he's just like, Alright, I guess that's the way it is. But it before that he had all the story of this attachment. All this. I got to get this from the guru. And then finally, when he let that go, then guess what? All these banners come up and there's a big party that the gurus throwing for him. He's all like finally. You got to do that. So for him, it was very powerful because that was his spirit. You know, he he was a good meditator. He's a teacher. He fell into this self-pity. When you go beyond this ego grasping, it's very powerful. And the ego is very elusive. It's like... The ego's tricky. And once you're, it's funny because it kind of like in a funny way encircles you and once you're in it, you're stuck. And you're like, oh man, how did that happen? You're like, okay, I know the way to enlightenment. And then all of a sudden your ego just goes, oh yeah, well it's through the toilet. And you're like, oh wait, I thought it was going to heaven, it ended up going to the toilet. So this happens. It's very tricky. But when you are like, awake, honest, and in your heart, all you want is enlightenment, when you are seeking to get beyond the self all limitations, when you're ruthless and compassionate with yourself and others. You just keep moving. You don't get stuck. You don't get stagnant. Even if even if the way to heaven turns into the way to depending on the consistency. So, so, yeah, you have to, you have to be ruthless and that is powerful. Very powerful. I heard Ross laughter just a moment ago and reminds me of a story he told me. When he was with his guru

0:59:42
he was

0:59:44
able to go into Samadhi. Just let the self go away, merge into the light, merge into truth completely and had powerful transformative experiences. And then he got back to home in Bangalore, which ain't so bad, and then compared to America, and I mean, there's traffic, there's traffic, but San Francisco has less traffic. And then he, he was like meditating and it wasn't the same as when he was with his guru. But then he got got ruthless. He's like, I'm not coming out of my room until I go merge with eternity. And then for some time, it was hard thinking, trying effort self. But then eventually, he That's ruthless. I'll give you another ruthless story. Tara on her first technical architect job, she's a technical architect of some computer thing that these people do these days, and she was trying to architect something big so it would work and they needed this to happen and then all of a sudden there was a problem in the web server it didn't have a certain function that she needed and she was like wow I was so close with this awesome architecture and but the web server doesn't do it. And then one day she's like, hey, you know, in this Java world, web servers are open source. So she's like, give me that code. She would never have thought of that but she got ruthless. She wanted to have her success and so she built herself the thing that she needed in the web server. I might be saying this technically wrong Although she made the thing in the computer for the computer that was right, okay Yeah, so that's and yeah in technology we could be ruthless can't learn technology? Be ruthless. Want to get your first job? Be ruthless. So all the teachings of right livelihood, of job yoga, ruthlessness makes it better. Makes it happen. Makes powerful transitions. Yeah, so when we are practicing our basic practices, meditation, mindfulness, career, yoga, success, martial arts, all of these places we want to practice ruthlessness. Yeah, so when we do, so we've gone through many considerations of job yoga. Now, we want to bring compassion into our job yoga. We got to the last chapter called Love Works. sleeves and looks, it's a new dimension. You say, hmm, okay, so I love my work, so I'm passionate, it's powerful for me. And then you say, how can I help others? When you ask that question, everything transforms. But you got to have your, you got to have love, love. You gotta love your work. You gotta love the struggle, the hardships, the limitations, or whatever, and be powerful and develop yourself. But you also have to say, well, how can I help someone else here? Because guess what? Lots of people suffer at work. And as job Yeah, so how does it happen that we all of a sudden decide to be ruthless? You got to look at what's at stake. An early business deal with JW Marriott. He was in Manhattan. He was bidding on this one property and he probably underbid a little bit and didn't do it right. And then one night he woke up in the middle of the night totally stressed out and he realized that he made a mistake and that was pivotal for his success and he was so upset he felt so bad and he said that he felt like he was being drowned got his energy and his interest, his awareness, right? And he's like, I did the wrong thing. I made a mistake. I didn't see what I see now. And he's like, everything's never going to work out. But then because he was awake and cared and being ruthless, he he he saw another opportunity. He said, if I mess this up, there's nothing else. And they struggled with it. And then he's like, wait, there is something else. So that's one of the beautiful things about being ruthless in your compassion. If you come to the end. It's just that we accept the end. So he accepted the end of this deal that he'd been working on for so long and thought would be the thing that launches his business. So waking up is important. We have this sense of continuity. We're like, yeah Today was like yesterday tomorrow's for me like today And we're shocked with when intense things change in our lives but You know be comforted you're all gonna die And If we're just thinking that everything just goes on like this moment Then we're not awake. We have to be awake to what's going on. So that this idea of everything's continuous, it's just the same, how it is right now is going to be how it's going to be. It's not true. We accept how it is right now, but we can't just have an idea, a fixed idea of, well, it's always going to be this way. And then you die. A thousand years ago, they thought the same thing. And there's only a few of them still alive. I don't know, probably. So we have to understand that when we break our idea of continuity, then all of a sudden we're flooded with light, power. Yeah, it's like when you meditate. The continuity of self perpetuates thoughts. And when you meditate, you stop thought. When you stop thought, there's no self, there's no what I got to do at work tomorrow. There's no the beef with me and my friend. It's an Italian beef. That's Chicago thing. You know, like the whole world stops your whole universe, all the all the things that you are self and think self and think and be stops. So when you meditate, you work, you concentrate, you focus, because that's what gets you to the point where you stop that, and then everything's gone. You gotta be ruthless in meditation to get to that point. In meditation, you're faced with it directly. You say, okay, I'm worried about this frustrated about this. And then you go, Am I being ruthless and compassionate? No, I'm just indulging in garbage, indulging in my karma, which is going to make your karma continue. When you stop thought, let it all go away. Nothing. No thought of thought. Can talk without thought. Can walk without thought. Can do computer programming without thought. then there's no self.

1:09:57
This is our practice.

1:09:59
It's so cool how we built it up. I mean, that's just interesting to me. Because some people already start at the top. I'm like, oh, we've got to build it down. We're always starting at the top and the bottom. So we have to do the work at the bottom and the not work at the top. So when we consider the direness of our situation, we wake up and we find other options. That's what Marriott did. He's like, all of a sudden, he's psychically new. He's losing the deal and he did it wrong. And then he woke up and found another deal. And guess what? The universe is filled with opportunities. Whatever the worst thing that you messed up and it's over, then there's something else. conclude with transmission it is the transmission of compassion the Shasta song from Canyons of Life. We're just going to sit for one song, relax. And you don't even have to try. Don't try to think about being ruthless or compassionate. Just sit. Just be. If you look up to me, you'll see the transmission in the spirit. Okay, let's begin. the the the

1:12:35
the the the the the the the the the the Thank you. the the the so you you Thank you. Very nice. Thank you all. I do that with my hands. I was just kidding. Somehow it's going to work out. Very beautiful to meditate with you. This is very nice. I'm When we had satsang on Saturday, we started to learn bodhicitta. And for the new students, it is a big thing. It's a complete change. Because at first we were all sitting there going, I'm going to meditate on myself. I'm going to enlighten myself.

1:15:43
And you develop yourself that way for a while, but then it got so stuck where I was like, oh my gosh. And then we did bodhisitta and it just was like the slingshot, you're pulling back and then I was like, wow, you guys did such a good job. And the older students, of course, very nice. So this is very wonderful. Very happy to see you all. Very happy to sit And the older students, of course, very nice. So this is very wonderful. Very happy to see you all. Very happy to sit with you. And have a good night.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
