0:00:00
All right, hello and welcome to Satsang with Sambara. We're going to begin with meditation. We will meditate for three songs. First song on the navel chakra, second on the heart, third on the third eye.

0:00:19
All right, let's begin. You so So so the the the So so so You so so so you you the the the you You you so Thank you. So You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone you Was the music a little scratchy? No? Well, I did that on purpose. You see, when it's scratchy music, it forces you to focus more.

0:13:18
You're like, ah! You have to go beyond the scratchiness. It's like with the Zen master, right? When you're sitting there and he starts slumping over, he sneaks up behind you with a stick, he hits you to wake you up. And that makes you meditate better, obviously. Getting hit with sticks, meditation. Or maybe he just thought you were a piñata. I think that's the original intent. Yeah, but no, I gave the... Good job, audio guys, they fixed it, because I gave them a screechy audio track with a buzz going through it. And I said, you got to stay on your toes. So, while we were meditating, it got better and better and better. They corrected it. See? Everything could be practice. There's refinement and awareness for making everything better. But you got to stay on your toes. At any moment, anything can go wrong or go right. I remember I was scuba diving off the coast of Bali, and there was a dive master candidate, and one of the older dive masters wanted to make sure that he was ready for all things that could happen underwater. So we were just kind of sitting there in the sand, looking at some coral. And then the older divemaster snuck up behind him and turned off his air tank. And then he moved away just to watch. And I was like, oh my goodness. So I was getting prepared to give him my alternate air source. I was just watching to see what he would do. And he, you know, after a while he's all, hmm, hmm, hmm, looks at his gauge. And then he reaches back and turns it back on. So he was good. He, you know, he realized that there was something wrong. When you're not breathing, realizing that something's wrong is very important.

0:15:33
So he realized something's wrong

0:15:35
and then he was able to go and fix it. So, you've always got to stay on your toes. All sorts of things can happen wrong and then happen right. Maybe they happen wrong and then you pick them right or the other way around. But either way, we learn. Either way, there's of attention. All right, so today I would like to talk to you about finding enlightenment in your work. So in job yoga we are empowered by our work. In job yoga, we gain spiritual balance in our work. And in job yoga, we gain spiritual insight from our work. So, from the practices, the observations of job yoga, we find enlightenment in our work. Now, this is a school of finding. So, a lot of schools are schools of spiritual seeking. There's a bunch of spiritual seekers out there seeking. And being a spiritual seeker is a terrible thing. You know, you're like, oh, I'm interested in spirituality, I'm going to be a spiritual seeker. But then after a while, that becomes horrible. Because when you're seeking, you're constantly looking. There's a lot of desire. You want some state, some condition. There's constant dissatisfaction. Where you're at right now just isn't good enough. You're not finding anything useful. You're always bothered. And there's great frustration. Because gosh darn it, you want it, it's not there, so everything's terrible. So seeking isn't so great. So instead of spiritual seeking, this is a school of spiritual finding. It's a very important difference because when you're a spiritual seeker, you never see enlightenment in your work. Spiritual seekers are always like, Oh, this is my work, but I want to be at a vipassana retreat, napping. So, they are always like, Oh, this is my work, but something else is spiritual. But in job yoga, we find enlightenment in our work. It's a very important difference. we find enlightenment in our work. It's a very important difference. Yeah, so there's a very, very important mystical practice that we use in job yoga for finding truth. And that is the mystical practice of stalking. Now, stalking or hunting is a way to target, focus on, approach, track down, and get your spiritual goals. Now, I like to call it hunting rather than stalking, because stalking has a strange connotation. Because if someone asked you today, where are you going off to today? And you'd say, oh, I'm going to a seminar on stalking. They might unfriend you from the Facebook. So, unfortunately, this is not a class on how to secretly follow your favorite movie star. And be like, no officer, I wasn't stalking her. I was just walking down the same street as her. And then when she sped up, I sped up. And then when she ran, I ran. When she screamed, I screamed. I don't even know what we were running from. So it's not that kind of stalking.

0:20:07
That's why I call it hunting.

0:20:10
Or a guy says to a girl, I'm not stalking you. That's ridiculous. Absurd. By the way, next time we're at the store, you better pick up some soy coffee creamer because you're almost out. Stalking. This is why we call it hunting. awareness, an approach of intention for getting things that support your happiness, your power, your life, for your life. Clenching is essential. I mean, it is what the spiritual path is about. So if you say, hmm, I want to know how to find inner peace, how do you find it? It's not something easy to find. A lot of people lack inner peace. So how do you find it? It's something inner. Peace. Or what if you say, I want to find those spiritual goals that you seek. So it's a very important practice and it's a practice that we use to to also find enlightenment in our work. So, this man climbs to the peak of a mountain and finds a master sitting there. And he says, Master, what is enlightenment? And then the master says, Oh, this is the make me one with everything peak. The what is enlightenment peak is over there. Way over there there's another master sitting on top of the mountain. You got to find the right places, right? I mean, both are probably good. Now, in Zen Buddhism there was a very, very powerful teaching. It's called Ox Herding and it's a teaching about finding, about finding enlightenment. So, Ox Herding was turned into these 10 different panels, these pictures of someone looking for an ox. The monk looking for an ox. And I guess this See, it comes from enlightened roots. But it begins with hearing about the ox. So, this might sound very basic to you guys, but this is the essence of hunting. Hearing about the ox. And then, just from being introduced to the concept of ox, you start searching for the ox. Then you find a footprint, a hoofprint. You go, oh, there's a sign that this ox is real. And then you hear the ox. I heard it just a moment ago. Yeah, then you hear the ox. And then you finally see the ox and you grab it and you say, there's my ox. And then once you grab that thing, it's a big, big animal. So you start struggling with it and it's a big struggle. And then you use a whip and a rope to tame the ox. And finally, you're riding the ox. And the ox is not fighting. You have the ox and you are riding it wherever you want to go. So, this is a very, very profound teaching. It sounds very basic, but it is the way of hunting. And this method, this Zen method of ox herding, searching for the ox, is really essential for job yogis because it is the way that we approach our work so that we can be successful in our work, in our careers, but also we are able to gain enlightened awareness. So one of my students, she was like a stem cell researcher. something in stem cells. And you know, she wasn't so happy with her career. And then she just started to hear about working as a computer programmer. And it sounded interesting to her. And then she went online and read about the technologies, read about computer programming careers, and then she decided to take a class. And then in the class she struggled. Some of you may understand that. That's the part where you're struggling with the ox. But once you develop your tools, your whip and your rope, then you're able to tame the ox. So that means that you learn your technology. And then she was able to get a computer programming job and then launch her new successful career. So this is how we approach our careers by hunting. Hunting is very important. Now, in hunting, there's outer qualities and inner qualities. And the outer qualities are very, very impeccable, very detail-oriented. You have to hassle the details about everything. The details make everything work. If you're just kind of like, I don't know, just kind of try a little bit, then you're not going to be successful in hunting. You have to focus on every little detail, and you have to put your full attention into it, see what's important, see how it works. So a lot of successful business men and women use the outer forms of hunting. They use tools, you know, whips and ropes, like to-do lists, you know, goal planning, project planning, different, you know, forms of, you know, software for management and things like that. These are all outer forms of hunting, but they're essential. So even the outer forms, you can have tremendous success. But it's gotta be very focused, cover every detail, and you've gotta do it completely correctly. You gotta do it right. Right intention, right action, and then it all comes together. Then there's great success. So, there's this famous chef, probably the most famous chef in America, Thomas Keller. He's a restaurateur of many restaurants, many Michelin stars. And when he decided to open up his first restaurant, he had to have a plan. And he didn't know how to write a business plan, but he knew how to write a recipe. So he decided to write his business plan just like a recipe. And he knew that to make a really good recipe, you had to have so much detail. You had to say what it is, how much, but also how to prepare it. So if he was gonna give one of his sous chefs a recipe, he would not just say, yeah, put some salt and some onions on it. He would tell him, oh, the onions have to be done this way, you know, every little detail. So he went out and wrote a recipe for how to open a restaurant. And then it worked. He was very successful. And then from there, grew into many, many more restaurants. Now, Thomas Keller did something that we see in stocking very often. It is detail, but it's also pattern matching. So a hunter will say, hmm, I kind of want to do this. And then you say, well, what's something similar? How can I approach it? Well, there's that, and I could put it here and do it differently. So he took his knowledge and put it into a different form. Is it Howard Schultz, the Starbucks guy? Yeah, he did something similar. So he understood coffee in America and then he went to Milan, Italy and he observed how coffee was done over there, the culture of coffee. And he saw something there that he thought would work over here. So in Milan, it's like there's an espresso cafe and right across the street, there's another one. They have tons of tiny little cafes and things everywhere, just sprinkled around. So he had a relationship with Starbucks founders and they made good coffee. So he said, okay, so good coffee and throw Starbucks everywhere and better things like lattes instead of just, you know, cream and sugar in your coffee. So he came back to the US after pattern matching and he created Starbucks and Starbucks is everywhere. There's one here and across the street. So I think what he did was good. I mean, I know some people don't like Starbucks, but I was living in New York at the time and New York had horrible coffee. It was horrible. So it's like, you know, you're going to work and you go over and you go, yeah, give me a regular. And you get this little blue cup and you're like, oh, huh. So it was like, it was really uninspired coffee and the cafes were not very good. And then when Starbucks showed up, I was like, oh, wow, this is way better. So for me, it was a good thing. So, you know, and now what? Howard Schultz is running for president? Or did he give up on that already? Because I think he could have won because he did something. He solved the coffee problem in this country. And that's more than what most politicians do. I mean, I think that's a really good thing. So, yeah, coffee. I think that coffee is really good. I mean, it's an important issue. Fixing our coffee culture. I think he made America more productive. I think, and also that's, I mean, you know, that's important. It's like, if you ask me, what do you think about the trade war with China? I'm like, whatever. But if my barista says, you know, how do you take your coffee? And I say, very, very seriously. I think he could have won on the coffee platform. Yeah. So, you know, but I don't drink coffee anymore. I mean, it's just not my cup of tea. But I had a friend, I had a friend who, he was a computer programmer, and he would sit there just all day coding and just drinking like espresso, cappuccino, coffee,

0:34:58
just he would have like 10 espressos a day.

0:35:01
Yeah, I know.

0:35:02
Yeah, and then his doctor was like, don't you think you have a problem with this coffee? And he's like, are you kidding? He's like, I have a problem without coffee. It was like very serious. So yeah, coffee is important. Yeah, I really don't drink coffee anymore. I respect coffee. It's good, you know, you drink coffee and then you kind of wake up. So it used to be every morning before I could meditate, I'd have to have coffee. Because I wasn't a morning person. I would wake up and I'd be like, oh my gosh. I would do some push-ups, take a shower. I would still be like, I want to go back to sleep. Then I would drink coffee, then I remember when I learned Mahayana Buddhism, I started to practice compassion. And my first act of compassion was, I wouldn't talk to anyone before my first cup of coffee in the morning. So my roommate's like, what, what, what, what? I'm like, you don't want me to talk before I have my coffee. So yeah, coffee.

0:36:34
Yeah, I respect coffee.

0:36:35
Yeah, so, but besides coffee. This is pattern matching. Then there's another important aspect of hunting and it's called stalking people. Oh wait, didn't I say we're not doing that? Well, we do in a way. So stalking people. We're not actually stalking physical persons. That's my legal disclaimer. But what we're doing is we're really stalking their attention. We're stalking their power. We're stalking their mind. So if we see someone who's done something great, something that we admire, we focus on how did they figure that out? What is it in their attention that allowed them to do that, that enabled them to do a great thing? And we see that. We read about them, and we look at their picture and we start to just put our mind into that attention Because so many people have learned Just by we call it being inspired by somebody But like they really really really really get into that person into their attention to figure out To see how they were successful So for example, Mark Benioff, the CEO of Salesforce, he, when he was creating his company, he got to have like a one hour meeting once a month with Steve Jobs. And in that meeting, he wrote down every single word that Steve Jobs would say, and then he would read it over and over and over afterwards, and then he would reflect on it. He said he would meditate on it. And then he was like, I'm not going to do what he said my way. He said, I'm going to do it the Steve Jobs way. And then he saw that by following what Steve Jobs said, following his attention and doing it the jobs way that he had great success. So that is definitely, definitely stalking, stalking a person, stalking the attention of a person, stalking the success of a person, stalking the power of a person. So that's the way we do that. Yeah, it's funny. When you learn these mystical practices, how sometimes people get confused. Don't follow people down the street. Okay, I just have to make sure that you have the right focus. You have to be deliberate, you have to be intentional, you have to be going for the power that you seek. You can't be like, oh, I want that, and then I'll kind of put my attention in the wrong places. Because if you have a goal and then you start seeing yourself spending time doing other things, you're like, I really want a good job after I watch this series on Amazon Prime. So that'll just be eight hours from now I'll start looking for a job. So if you find yourself hanging out with friends, doing other weird things, and not focusing on your goal, then you will not attain your goal. So you really have to focus, focus on the right thing. It's very important. Like a falcon focusing on its prey. So I met this old chap, retired guy, and he was telling me about, he was a construction manager for a number of years. And he was telling me that there was this one point in his career where he became completely frustrated. He was just overworked and, you know, just the same routine all the time and he was on a job and everything was behind and he was just really upset one day and he he goes over to his workers and he's like just god darn it I'm really mad and what are you guys doing here you know like you guys aren't putting in the work or behind so he says the one guy what what are you here for and the guy says I'm here for $15 an hour and he goes, and what are you here for? To another guy. And then that guy says, well, you know, you said that you need me to, you know, put these bricks over here and, you know, do something. So that's what I'm here for. And he's all, okay, well, look lively then. Then there's another guy. And he says, what are you here for? And that guy says, I am here to create a space of wellness. I am here to create a structure where the ill will come and be healed. And I am here And then this manager, he was totally transformed. He was like, wow, this is amazing. He was like, this perspective shows me what we're really doing here. I never will look at a construction job the same again. And all of his frustration just went away. Yeah, so he said that that was just a very transformative time in his life. Then he said, well, it's too bad we had to fire the guy because we were making a gas station. Focus on the right thing.

0:43:35
You got a guy building a hospital, when you're building a gas station, it's not going to

0:43:43
work. of hunting is mastering your whip and your ropes. So this is where you have to have great impeccability. This is where you have to develop your skill sets and use them in an effective way. So, you know, for every different career, there's different whips and ropes. For a samurai, that's a career. Don't go into that career. For a samurai, it would be the sword. That's a very important tool. So if a samurai shows up at a battle without their sword, they'll be like, oops, I knew I forgot something. But the summary has to, you know, use that tool in an impactful way. That is such an important tool to get the job done. And it's very, very important that we identify what the tools are, what the whips and ropes are, are the ways and the means, those tools and our skills with those tools. That's how we go from struggling with trying to get something to being able to effectively like grab those things so that we can master it and have the power that we seek. So this is very important. A very excellent tool these days is Google. Google. Yeah. So there was one time where there were two students who wanted to learn spirituality. And they endeavored to learn it through technology. So one of my strongest technology teachers worked with them. And the way that he taught them was he said, okay, here's what we're gonna do. We're gonna set up your environment. And they said, okay, what do we do? And then he says, Google it. And they were like, what? And he said, yeah, yeah, Google it and have it done by next week. And so, I don't know if they got it done. I think they got partially through it and then they ran into problems they didn't know. And then they were like, oh, what do I do? And then he says, Google it. And he shows them how. And then they Google it and they go, oh, okay. And then they get it set up and then he goes teaching them and teaching them and they'll spend like hours trying to do something and they go I just couldn't figure it out and then he'll show them here's how you Google it and then they go oh there's a solution and then they go wow so he really taught them how to use Google, but how to hunt, how to hunt technical solutions, how to hunt to learn computer programming using Google. Because there's tons of information out there. And if you know how to ask the right questions, if you know how to hunt, then you can put it together, then you can learn. So they ended up becoming extremely strong technologists. They became very strong hunters of technology through learning with the primary ways, Google. So when you're taking technology classes, you have to develop this ability to hunt. You can't just sit there and go, I don't know what's going on, it didn't work. You have to start thinking, okay, so it doesn't work, so how am I gonna hunt a solution? And then you start thinking in a broader sense, you start thinking with a greater awareness, and then you start to hunt answers. So Mandala taught a class some years ago called Becoming a Programmer, and it wasn't a class on how to code any specific language, it was how to hunt, how to learn what computer programming is, and also how to learn how to find the answers. So if you learn what computer programming is, then you have this mindset. And then when you learn how to hunt, then you can learn any technology. You know, that's the great thing about technology. It always gives you, keeps you in this beginner's mind, because it's always changing. So you're constantly hunting new information, hunting new technologies, hunting new solutions. So it's very important that you identify the whips, the ropes, the tools of your trade, and that you are very, very impeccable at using them. Now, these are the outer aspects of hunting, but we also focus on the inner aspects of hunting. And this is where we find great satisfaction. Because just the outer stuff, it's functional, and you can be successful. But the inner aspects are where we start to gain spiritual insight. And we do this by doing our impeccable work with also an intention of finding enlightenment. So you're like, oh, I have this task to do at work, whatever it is. You know, it could be doing dishes. And you say, I'm gonna do this work with the intention of finding enlightenment. So then, by doing your task, whether it's menial or technical or whatever, when you're doing a task and you have that intent for enlightenment, then you start to see deeper dimensions to the task. You're not just mindlessly doing something. You're not going into some routine. You're actually expanding your consciousness by looking at your work in a deeper way. So, this is what we do as job yogis. We have that intent for enlightenment in our work. And then we start to see deeper things. We start to see the secrets of life. We start to see things that are more powerful. In any work, in any job, you can find these really, really profound secrets. You get spiritual insight. And then you say, whoa, you know, I'm just doing this task, but boy, there's this whole universe of fantastic awesomeness in there that I didn't see before until I put my intention in there for enlightenment. So there's a story of these Taoists who lived in the mountains and they had different hermitages and different temples at the mountain peaks and so you know to get from one little temple to another temple, they had to walk down the mountain, go through the valley, up to the top of the other mountain. And so it was a little bit of work. And one day, the Taoist master went to one of his students and gave him a little box. And he said, in this box is something really powerful and magical. And it gives you the ability to jump from peak to peak. So you can jump from here to the temple over there to the hermitage over there. And then the monk says, thank you master. And so he takes the box and he jumps over to another peak. And then all the other Taoist monks are like, wow, this is great. And so they see him from time to time jumping around. And they think, wow, he's got that magic box. So one day he's back at the temple with most of the monks. And he's, I think he's asleep or something. And one of the monks goes over and he says, I wanna see what's in that box. So he looks in the box and there's nothing in there. And then he's like, okay, then he closes it. And then the next day, he sees a guy jump to a mountain peak. And he says, Master, he said, what is it that really helps him to jump? And then the master says, oh, the box. And he said, but there's nothing in the box. I looked. And then the master said, his faith is in the box. So, he had faith and belief in what his master told him, and then he was able to perform a miracle. So, these are the things that one can see deeper dimensions from having the intention for enlightenment in your work. You can perform miracles in your work, no matter what job you do. You can see beautiful, enlightened insights. So, this is important. Now, hunting is what I call practical magic. It's very practical. It has to do with the physical world, with your job, every task that you these deeper dimensions of enlightened ecstasy and awareness. So, the great thing, why it's so practical, is because you can use hunting for getting anything. Hunting is kind of like zen in the art of getting stuff. Anything that you identify as being helpful and constructive for your life, for your work, you can use hunting to get these things. So you can hunt a technical solution, you can hunt a higher paying job, you can hunt a toaster oven. There was this Frenchman, Jean-Georges, also a famous chef, very successful chef. One day he decided he wanted to hunt a ham sandwich. Now, this sounds funny, but to the French, a croissant is like a big thing. A ham and cheese sandwich is just a big thing. And a tartatin, this apple tart, it's a big thing. Those are like the three things to the French, the three basic staples of life with a glass of wine. So ham sandwich. So he goes throughout France looking for the best pigs. I know, it's sad. Cute little pigs. And the best cheeses and the best bread. So he goes and finds the best ingredients. And then he makes this famous ham sandwich and he sells it today. But he went through a big effort, a big effort

0:56:19
to seek the best, to hunt for the best ham sandwich.

0:56:24
So you can hunt anything. And that was something that made him more successful because it's like such a basic French thing, that ham and cheese sandwich. So then when he came out with it, then everyone's like, oh, he's a cheese sandwich, it is magnifique. So, you can hunt anything. And so we practice, we identify the things that are helpful, the things that we need in our lives to be successful, the things that we need in our career to be successful and then we start to apply this hunting, these inner reflections, these inner focuses. Now when you start hunting, things start to come together. Sometimes like you'll meet someone, you start focusing on hunting and then you'll just meet this person who comes out of nowhere and then they you. So let's see. An example of that would be one time I was in India, I guess it was our first trip to India, and we were at kind of the dusk. It was starting to get dark and we just decided we're going to climb up Arunachala and we're going to go to one of Ramana Maharishi's caves. And we had never been to this mountain and we had no idea where the caves were. But we decided we were going and we were hoping to get there before it got dark. But that didn't make any sense. But we were like, all right, let's go find it. So we're like, we're stalking it. And then all of a sudden, we bump into this guy. First, he started talking to us and we're like, I don't wanna buy anything. But finally, he explained to us, he said, what are you guys doing? This is crazy. He's like, there's nothing up there. I mean, you guys are never gonna find these caves. He said, but I know where they are. He said, come with me. So he took us to one of the caves, the mango cave, and we found some mangoes. Just kidding. It was a really very, very sacred cave where Ramana Maharshi spent two years in meditation. And we met this guy, his name is Jyoti. And so then he took us to the top of the mountain. He's the yogi of the mountain. And ever since then, he's been a great ally for that place of power. So when you're stalking something, when you're focused on doing something, sometimes people appear. There's all sorts of serendipity. Things come together, and they come together in amazing ways. So you have to allow yourself to experience the miracle. Be open. Don't let yourself be closed down with your small thinking. Let life show you new ways. So, there was a time where my teacher said, OK, we are going to do businesses as yoga. He said, so go out there and come up with a business idea, and then come back and tell me next month or something. And so a friend of mine was like, oh, it's impossible, and there's no way I'm gonna find a business idea, I've never come up with one. And then he's like, okay, but I'm gonna stock it, and I'm not gonna let my thoughts get in the way. And then the next day at work, he was working on an interface between Lotus application platform and Oracle, and then something broke and then he was like, okay, I could fix this. And then he said, I bet a lot of people have this problem. And he was like, this could be a product. So something that just happened at work, just one day something broke. And then he was like, hey, I can make a product that fixes this, which he did, and he was very, very successful. So when you let, when you stalk, when you have that intention to find that ox, when you're hunting, you have to let your intuition just lead you, and you don't let your thoughts stop you. And then magical people in places and oxes will show up. Yeah, so that's very, very important. Now, the outer aspect of hunting is very different from job to job, from task to task. But the inner part is always the same. So whether we're talking about Ox's or a tech company, the inner part is the same. So if you're like stocking, getting a new job, you're gonna be, you know, posting your resume, you're gonna be going to recruiters, you know, you're gonna be interviewing in companies. So that's the outer part. If you're stocking a vegan diet, you'll be standing out in a kale field or something, right? So you're doing different things outwardly, but inwardly everything is ox-herding. It's the same energy. to teach you the inner part. The inner part cannot be said in words. So the inner teaching is a transmission. It's a transmission of that essential aspect. It's a feeling, an awareness, a way. It's a palette of dimensions. So this is going to be an esoteric teaching. It is the transmission of hunting. So to do this, you're going to sit up nice and straight. You're going to focus lightly on the third eye, and you're going to look up here to me. We're going to sit for one song. It might be screechy, but remember, that makes you need to focus more. And then I'll do the transmission, and you just try to still your mind and relax. Okay, let's begin.

1:03:19
We're just going to sit for a few minutes then, okay? Okay, no music. We're just going to sit for a few minutes. In silence. Let's begin. You...

1:03:43
Okay.

1:04:11
. you Thank you. Okay. All right, very nice. So, now you know something of tracking. And with the transmission, it's an inner knowledge. And it opens your awareness to a new way, an enlightened way to hunt. Hunt. So you you should put it to practice, this way, this feeling. And a good way to put it to practice is to identify something that you want to hunt. So you should say, what is something that's good for my life that I want to hunt, but especially work on hunting something for your career. You can hunt anything you need to. You can hunt an apartment building, an apartment that you need, or an apartment building. Or you can hunt whatever you need, but choose something work-related.

1:05:59
So maybe you're working on something, a big project, and there's something difficult, an obstacle, you can hunt a solution. Maybe this is the time where you say, okay, I want to go for a promotion. Hunt a promotion. If you want to start a new career path, hunt that. So choose something about your career and decide to hunt it. And when you decide to hunt it, then learn all about it. Follow those steps. Start looking for the hoof print. Start listening for it. Get into the struggle. Develop your tools. And then if you follow this approach, especially this inner approach, then you'll succeed. Now, let me give you a very, very clear method for hunting. Okay.

1:10:40
Wake up an hour early.

1:10:44
And then it'll work. Really. Yeah. You have to put a little discipline in. I call it discipline. Some people call it sacrifice. You've got to pay something to the universe to get something. So that means like, you know, if you want to get strong, you got to go through the work and there's some pain when you're exercising, but then you become strong because of it. So, you know, a real strong way is to say, I'm going to wake up an hour early. That changes your life and your attention. And if you can't, like, wake up an hour early, if you don't have the discipline to do that, then you're probably not going to have the discipline to actually do hunting. So if you really, really want this thing to come true, then put in that. Wake up an hour early, care. That's a very important thing. But meditate first, right? Wake up in the morning, have your coffee, meditate, right? Because when you meditate, your mind is still and clear, and you're able to see things a lot more properly. So first meditation, and then right after meditation, start thinking and planning and hunting what you seek. It might just be, oh, let me do some five minutes of planning. If that's it, then that's it. Right after your meditation, when your mind is clear, before you get into texting and emails, even if it's just five minutes, spend that five minutes focusing on what you're hunting. This is really important. So if you do that, if you wake up an hour early, meditate, and then right after meditation, focus on what you want to hunt, you will succeed. What else do I like to do? You have to also identify your whips and ropes.

1:13:04
That's important.

1:13:06
And I think one of the most important tools is not just a project plan and a to-do list, but a not-to-do list. It's like, what am I doing that, what do I do in my daily routine that takes me, away from the goal I seek? And then you go, okay, I do all these weird things. I'm gonna put those on my not to do list and then that'll cut out a lot of distraction. But if you focus on this simple, the simple steps of ox herding with this inner feeling and reflection from this transmission, if you wake up an hour early, meditate and start working on it, you will succeed. So I would like you to start stocking something successful in your career, and I look forward to hearing all the stories of your success. And after the break, we're going to come back.

1:14:18
Guests are welcome.

1:14:20
And we're going to hear some stories of our last pilgrimage to India. And I've already heard these stories, and they were so bright and so beautiful. I wanted the people on that pilgrimage to share the stories with everyone.

1:14:38
So you're welcome to come back, and thank you very much.

1:14:55
Hey everybody. Welcome to our India sharing. For those of you who don't know me, my name is Chi. And I was going to share a couple of small experiences in India that for me were really profound. Because we talk about concepts here a lot, but the whole point of

1:15:13
this school is to experience on a deep level something that's beyond a concept, that experience in India was an experience of Shiva is everything. And what Shiva is everything means, it's a nice concept, it's like saying enlightenment is everything. Oh, that sounds so lovely, like how do I incorporate that into my life? But India gave us a bunch of experiences that actually let us feel that at a very profound level. So, a couple of just logistical things. If you guys aren't familiar with Shiva, it's the Hindu god of destruction. So it's like a very cool, destructive, awesome energy. But as we experience in India, I experience it time and time again like the destruction of separation. So there's almost this feeling of unity. The other thing about Shiva that's really important is that in India, Shiva is like Jesus is in the South. Every time you see a church and a cross that you'd see in Tennessee, that's like Shiva in India. There's Shiva temples, there's Shiva statues, there's like a four story tall Shiva on the side of the river. It's just Shiva, Shiva, Shiva everywhere. So it's this very persistent energy. And the thing that was very surprising is that it was an energy that was very real. So being in India, it was almost like having access to a new radio station that Shiva was just broadcasting on. So, what do I mean by this? So, a couple of experiences. So, we got there, our first night in India, we just spent 24 hours on a plane, and it's actually a big celebration in India, it's called Shiva Ratri. It's like a whole celebration around Shiva. So, it was our first night there, we're super jet lagged, it happened to be my birthday, a nice time of power, and we went to the Temple of Success. So, you guys who have done the healing teachings Guru Raghunath. That's his dojo. And it was cool because I always knew he was the healing guy but we ended up doing a meditation. I was like oh this guy does meditation too. That's awesome. And what he told us is he was going to accentuate and bring out the energy of Shiva in Shiva Ratri already time when Shiva energy is very present. We're just gonna sit silently and he was just gonna open the dimension to Shiva. And for those of you who've never been to India, it's really loud. And we're meditating, there's no music, and you hear cows, rickshaws, there's cars honking, there's people yelling at the Shiva temple next door, and there's, at any given point, there's six or seven or eight sounds that are all going on at the same time. It's very distracting, very disorienting. And what happened when Guru Aragnath opened the dimensions of Shivaratri, it's like I heard all these separate sounds and then it felt almost like a crack of lightning and then all the spaces between the sounds got filled in. And it was just very still, very whole, very complete. I was like, whoa, that's cool. So, a couple days later, we're in a temple in North India, and this is pretty high up in North India, so you're getting into where the Himalayas are. You can actually see the crescents of the Himalaya from the Himalayas, from this temple that we were at. And this is one of the places, there's 37 temples in India where Shiva left a piece of his energy that's just more present and more available there. And we were sitting there doing an open-eye meditation and for, you know, sometimes people will share scenes here. I'm not much of a seer, much more of a feeler. So, you know, people were like, seeing Shiva and all this awesome stuff. And I was like, okay, I'm just gonna sit here, focus, connect to what I can. And it felt like there was all of a sudden just this rumbling, like almost like tribal drums, like an earthquake was about to start. And it was kind of like this energy of Shiva just opening up. And Shiva has this mantra, and you'll hear people do this in India a lot. It goes, Om Namah Shivaya. So we're sitting there meditating, and in my mind I'm just, Om Namah Shivaya, Om Namah Shivaya, Om Namah Shivaya. And it felt like, almost like it started, it spiraled out, it was just in my head, me saying this mantra, but all of a sudden it started spiraling out and you'd hear almost this reverberation or echo to the mantra. Shen described it later, it's like you're dialing the phone and Shiva answers. So you hear this rumbling and it feels like an earthquake's gonna start and all of a sudden it was just like coming from the mountains, from the Himalayas, was just this waft of stillness and peace and silence, the destruction of separation. So I was like, wow, this is pretty cool. So then fast forward to the last day of the trip. And we've done two and a half days just going, going, going, going, going, hardly ever a break. And I had bought a bunch of mala beads for my team, for my yoga project, for my meditation students. Many of you guys got them this week. And I just wanted to do a meditation at the river and really just put some nice intent into these mala beads and just dunk them in the Ganga River, which is a very holy, sacred river in India. And again, not much of a seer, so I'm dunking these beads, and I look up, and I just see Shiva sitting over the river. And for those of you who aren't seers, it's unusual, it feels like you're kind of halfway in between a daydream, a hallucination, and the real world, but at the time it feels totally normal. You're like, oh, there's Shiva sitting there, I'm dunking my mala beads. And Shiva gave, you know, what I understood to be a blessing to these mala beads and just a nice shine of meditative intent and dunked the mala beads and I left. And it wasn't until like 20 minutes later that I'm walking back to the hotel and I was like, wait, did I just see Shiva standing over the river? So the point of all these stories, Shiva is everything, but like everything Zimbara talks about, there's an experience to that and there's a completeness and there's a really deep wholeness to that. And for me, that's what India brought out. Thank you.

1:21:29
Hello, my name is Christine. I'm going to just be reading some notes from my phone,

1:21:36
so that's why I'm holding it. I joined the study in November of 2017, so I'm relatively new. And I signed up to speak, and then yesterday I immediately regretted it. And then I was like, I'm just going to take my name off. And then I was like, no, because I think, I hope that maybe my story will inspire other new students. So I'm sure that people maybe new and maybe some older ones as well have felt a feeling of being an imposter. I didn't come to the study already spiritual and looking for enlightenment. I just wanted to be happier. So this is all relatively new to me, and I almost feel like, oh, I don't really belong here. Everyone has these amazing experiences, and it's just like black on the inside for me. So I'm like, okay, but I'm open. Like, I wanna try everything and do all these things. But yeah, that feeling still lingered with me. So I wanna talk about my experiences, kind of not really overcoming, but starting to overcome those feelings and growing out of it. So we went to this ashram called the Jiva Samadhi Pundi Ashram. And it's a very special place where this I'm not sure of the exact details but Pundi went into Jiva Samadhi and he's like still on like there and is able to give his teaching still while he's out of the body. So it's a very special place. And so when Ganga was giving a speech about it, I saw Asana out of the corner of my eye and he was just really feeling the energy there and he was like, wow, like, so interesting, like, okay, I wonder if I feel anything and so I put my hands out like crazy energy in my hands and so I was going like like this to try to catch the energy and I was like oh it feels like more right here and I was like wow like I've never like felt anything like this before so that was like one of the first signs that I got another thing that happened was we were meditating with this Swami called Swami, named Swami Saswat. And we meditated for about 45 minutes in silence and then he slowly started chanting Om and we joined him in the Om chanting and I saw a ripple of energy with my eyes closed. Like if you can imagine like throwing a rock in a river in that ripple. So I saw like that ripple. And then another student asked this question that really struck a chord in me, and it felt like my heart exploded, and somebody threw a giant boulder into a river, and it was just like, boom, like ripples and ripples of energy coming from my heart. And if you can imagine, when you have fear, you get that sinking feeling in your chest. Well, it was the same kind of energy, but there was no fear, it was all heart, and my heart chakra was super open. So I was like, wow, this is so cool. Still feeling like an imposter though. So, in my mind, I know, it's like, the mind is so interesting. So then we had another meditation on the Ganga. And so the day before I had just been really distracted and I was like, this is hard, like I can't focus. And then the next day I was like, Okay, like, let it go. Just just let everything go. So I'm sitting there like trying to meditate. And I felt a finger go up my back. And it made me sit up super straight. And that was, I think, the most intense thing that I've ever felt. And Shen reminded me that that was an experience similar to what Lila experienced in Iceland, if anyone was there. And I was like, wow, like somebody so advanced. Like, I felt that too. Like that's amazing and somebody else told me that it's possible that you know there's lots of Saints in the area and so they are just like giving me a sign like you're not an imposter you can feel stuff too and so don't worry you know like keep going like just keep your mind open and you know even if you don't feel anything yet like just don't give up and someday it will be brighter for you too. Hi everybody, my name is Danielle. Some of you may know me, some of you may not. I'm going to try and keep this quick, as quick as I can because there's a lot of us. Thanks for that, Rima. Okay, so I'm gonna try and keep this as quick as I can, even though a lot of stuff happened, because there's a bunch of us who want to share. So I was super, super stoked to go on this trip. I've always wanted to go to India. I always felt called to go to India. And I was like, this is gonna be great. And everyone else who went on the previous ships, like, it's gonna change your life. And I'm like, yeah, and he's gonna rock my life. It's gonna be great. And then we take a 24 hour flight there and I drink the whole time. So I knew that was a mistake. And we finally get in Bangalore. And I was like, okay, I'm gonna sleep. It's gonna be in 10 to 2 weeks. I've got to sleep. So I closed my door, forgot to deadbolt it, whatever. Have my little eye mask on. It's gonna be great. And I'm sleeping and then something pulls me out of my REM cycle because I hear some noise in my room and I was like, God damn it. I'm just gonna sleep, I'm just gonna sleep. And then I felt this really strong presence come into my room and it's a masculine presence and I'm like, okay, well India's gonna India, I'm gonna sleep. I'm just gonna ignore this and I'm just gonna sleep because I have a very busy couple of weeks in front of me and I don't have time for India to India right now. And then I felt this presence sit on my bed and I was like, oh God, just let me ignore this. God, please. And then the presence got stronger. So I finally took off my eye mask. I was like, fine, here, this is what you want. Didn't see anything. I was like, God, going back to sleep. Promptly forgot about that. And then the next day at breakfast, Gabrielle had a similar experience and I was like, oh yeah, that happened, huh? So then I asked Ajahn what it was and it was an ally and I was like, oh, I got an ally, y'all. I was like, oh, cool. And then I was like, okay, I'm going to keep it mindful. It's going to be great. And then we had like two days of bus travel and everything went wrong that could have gone wrong. Mercury was in retrograde during our trip. So it was a comedy of errors with 25 people, which is the largest trip we've ever done for these Indian pilgrimages. So I am full, crusty, resisting everything.

1:28:56
Fuck this shit. Fuck this cow. Fuck that dog. Fuck this brick shawl. If someone honks at me, I'm going to kill them. Like, full, angry, unmindful crust. Crust, crust, crust. And we finally get to Tapasraji's ashram, who who's a saint who lived for 185 years, give or take. Obviously. And so we have this beautiful meditation, and as a group, and I'm still crusty,

1:29:27
I'm like, okay, I'm sitting next to Ajahn,

1:29:29
let's suck it up a little bit.

1:29:30
And then we go into Tapasraji's room, where he sat and meditated and had visits with other saints for years. And so it's a third eye meditation. We're sitting down, lightly focusing, and then I feel him try and open my third eye and I start fighting him. And I'm like, you're not going to open shit! Don't you dare! Because I was so angry. And the whole time he's just like trying and I was like, don't you dare! And then I finally let it, like finally just had a crust explosion and tapasha juice went off and I was like, fine, let me be crusty. And then we go further south and we have Darshan with this woman named Shiva Shakti. And I had heard about her, I'd been warned by other trips that she does some stuff to your heart that's really intense and powerful. And I was like, you're not gonna get me, old lady. Cute little lady in your kilos, sorry. I know about you. And then immediately she made eye contact and pulled all of the crust out of my heart and I couldn't grab it. Like, before this trip, if I was angry about something and maybe I had like a breakthrough for five minutes and I was mindful, I can go back to being angry about that guy in traffic, right? But after seeing Shiva Shakti, I couldn't get angry anymore. I couldn't get crusty. And her dissolving the crust from the massive travel opened these doors of submission for me. And then I learned that it's about trusting in my teacher and submitting to the experience and letting go of expectations. When we were up north, the temple that she described where Shiva left a part of himself, I also don't see anything, usually. And I started giving Shiva everything good I've ever gotten in my life. So I thought of all my high meditations and like a picture showed in my mind and I said, take it Shiva, all the love I've ever gotten, all the joy. And there are pictures of these very specific experiences that represented those things. And I said, just take it all. And then I was flooded in my heart with this dissolving feeling of love. And it was so beautiful and so profound. I started crying and then I realized I was sobbing and I was like, get your shit together, there's other people here. So I'm like looking around, I'm like, oh, they're all blissed out, let's not ruin it for them. And then this all, the cherry on top, like it kind of all exploded for me when we had one of our final meditations on the river banks of the Ganga, and I could feel my heart dissolving into light. And I had heard people mention dissolving into light for years. And I was like, this is what they're talking about. This shit is awesome. So that's my story that I wanted to share about just admitting and trusting and letting go of your ego and your expectations and having trust in your teacher and in your sangha.

1:32:13
And that's it.

1:32:15
That was awesome. So hello, everyone. For those of you who don't know me, my name is Divya, and it was an honor to be on this trip, and it's an honor to hear everyone's sharing. It's like being there again, it's really cool. I hope it brings you there as well. Different from Danielle, I never necessarily wanted to go to India, even though my background, I've done yoga, and I understood it to be a very special place. I didn't feel pulled to go there. But it was at my first seminar ever, meeting Sambara, meeting the Sangha, meeting the Dharma. I met also Ganga and Tara, who lead these trips as well. So, for those of you who don't know Ganga and Tara, they are teachers, friends of this lineage, and have stalked India for years, living there and doing exactly what Sambara has taught us about today, which is finding these things, not just seeking them, but finding them and finding these people and these masters and siddhas that exist in India and that are off the beaten path, so to speak. So going on this trip is an epic journey and I want to share about moments of finding enlightenment in this journey. So there were many moments, many experiences. It was a long two and a half weeks in a lot of ways. But also in this first seminar, again, as I mentioned that I met Ganga and Tara, they were presenting about these siddhas and masters of spirituality meditation. And the one that stood out the most in that first presentation was a man named Maha Ananda Siddha and I mean, seeing a picture, I wish I had like a flow chart, I could just like pop up an image of him right now, but he is a tall Indian man who was very wealthy in a time of his life. He had a tumeric business and he was highly successful, highly educated. And then that darn Shiva came around and gave him what's called Darshan, which is where he had a vision and a dream where Shiva came to him very powerfully and told him to leave all that and to go meditate in a cave, and this is close to the town, you know, outside of Bangalore, not quite on the way to Tiruvannamalai, where we went. And to only speak Tamil, which is a language of India, he knew many languages, so he got very clear orders on what to do. So he's done that, and for the past many years, he's lived in this cave, meditates, he doesn't eat food, he bathes in milk like once a year as a celebration and a beautiful experience, and then he lays on coals to receive the energy and life force and prana to sustain him. So you can imagine learning about this being at my first seminar, I was a little like, wait a minute, what kind of a place is this and you know is this what's in my future? But I again it wasn't that I mean not my personal future but meaning like is this what this path really leads to? I mean wow. But again I didn't want to go on the trip. It wasn't until it was actually and I'll get to talking about the actual trip in a minute but it wasn't until actually Samar's birthday two years ago when Atman shared about his experience in India and he was speaking about somebody named Aya who we didn't meet on this trip but who was Jyoti's teacher. So you heard about Jyoti a little earlier today, the yogi of Arunachala, the mountain. So Aya was a very high being and one of the trips got to go near him and kind of get a glimpse of him. But anyway, Atman was sharing about the experience and there was this gold light filling the room of the Ritz-Carlton in a way that I was like, oh my gosh, this is the most beautiful gold light I've ever seen. I hadn't seen much until that moment. So I was like, okay, I think I kind of want to go on this India trip. And then now, fast forward, so I think these were like steps or hoofprints of seeing enlightenment start to be around in my experience here. So it was clear that I was going to go on this trip. And so now on the trip, going and now meeting Maha Anandasiddhas. This is day two. We're taking the bus and we're arriving to his cave. But you know, what's not mentioned is that this cave is now the backdrop to what he's creating all around him, which is this massive manifestation of a temple. And I mean, is a ornate, awe-striking creation that is still in the process, but that is in so many ways perfect as it is right now. And then he kind of comes out, you never know if you'll see him or not, and again, he's got this dreaded white hair, he's ashen, and he doesn't wear many clothes, so he's kind of like hobbling out of wherever he was, and we luckily, I don't know if we cornered him or he just graciously stopped. But he stopped long enough that we were able to approach him and offer flowers and bow at his feet, which was amazing, right? And quite surreal given that not very many years ago I was hearing Ganga and Tara talk about him and they hadn't even been leading these trips yet. They were like, oh, I'd love to get back. And now I'm watching this moment of Maha Anandasita honoring them after it's been there several time back, watching Maha Anandasita see Sambara. I feel like the moment of seeing that being see Sambara and see Ganga and Tara and see us, it was the same. It was quite a powerful moment. And then we went and had a beautiful meditation. And there was monkeys and there was a lot of other exciting things that happened. But it was like the moment that was so brief but yet so full of seeing that recognition of enlightenment in each other. A similar experience was now we're like many days later, and we meet a woman named Devaki, or Devaki, I don't know if I'm saying her name quite properly, but she is the living student and the person that takes care of the ashram of a man named Yogi Ram Surat Kumar. And this is one of the three ashrams in a town called Tiruvannamalai, which is at the foot of Arunachala, the Shiva Mountain. And it's kind of a lesser known ashram, but we were there and she was sitting there and we were sitting in chairs just around her and she was speaking of her teacher. And the light that surrounded her as she spoke was very beautiful and profound and it's like the middle of the day. But she was talking about us realizing the enlightenment that is within us and that, you know, she really asked us, she's like, where are you in the configuration of yourself? She's like, did you make your body? Did you breathe life into your body to move and breathe and function? So it was quite a humbling moment of recognizing like we are divine beings in a physical body. And we might know that conceptually, as she said, but like hearing her talk about how her teacher helped her realize that in herself and then through his teachings. I felt a very strong love and appreciation for this path of enlightenment and for our teacher and the awareness of finding it was that sense of finding and we were in India but it was every moment of meeting these masters was showing me what was already very present and what we are I and we are very blessed to be a part of in this Sangha. So there's another one, I think that's really the theme is the, there's another thing I could share because it was really the theme that kept happening. Every person we would meet, they would be awestruck. You know, I would feel all and like humbled to be meeting them. And they were reflected, they reflected such the enlightenment that is present as we are here together as a sangha. It is the same light and it's very beautiful. And seeing those people meet Sambara and have those moments of like suspended time and energy where they were seeing enlightenment before them and then we were present and a part of that was just very moving and profound. profound and I'm grateful to have the song that really India is here and that's what I feel really grateful for.

1:40:57
Thanks.

1:41:00
Hello everyone. Very fortunate to have this opportunity to share with you the lessons that the Ganga River has taught me while we were meditating there. As Divya said, there were a lot of amazing experiences with these enlightened sages. I remember Swamiji Sashwa, one of the enlightened beings in India, came to Ajahn's birthday party in India and they were just holding hands and looking at each other and just laughing for 10 minutes without saying anything. And moments like that is really amazing. And today I want to share with you what the place of power, the Ganga River, has taught So, in Rishikesh, it's a very magical town, it's like a spiritual Disney world. And the Ganga River runs through it every day, tirelessly, day and night. And this Ganga River is very beautiful. It's like this jade-like water. While we were in Rishikesh, we would go to the river and meditate there every morning. And one morning, it's an early morning and the whole city is just waking up, so the air is very still. And while we were meditating there, Ajahn asked us to gaze at the river with a very soft focus on the third eye. So we were all starting to gaze at the river. And then, after a while, something magical happened. Something very amazing was shown to me. And I realized that the Ganga River, the river is like, waaaaa, waaaaa, waaaaa, just running and running. And I realized the river is like the Tao, is like the way and we are all like the waves on the river and sometimes you see the waves become like ripples and They interact with each other. They dance. They have fun with each other and sometimes You'll see that this ripples become Like swirl like the I said, when God is trying to show you something and you're like, don't open shit. And you're like, you feel like you're stuck and you're resisting things. But no matter what the ripples are doing, they are swirling with the Ganga River, with the mother, with the source. No matter what the ripples are doing, they're always flowing along with the river. And you can see that the physical world is reflected on the bubbles on the river. You know, like when children blow a bubble and you can see the surrounding world reflected on the deepest level nothing really matters because we are always flowing with the Tao no matter what we are doing, who we are, no matter what our project is, no matter what we can achieve, in the end we are always flowing with the Tao. And from the Tao's perspective, nothing really exists, because in the end, the physical world is just as ephemeral and vulnerable as this bubble. It's an illusory and we'll be gone and only Tao matters and only the mother matters and so on this deepest level, we are always flowing with the river with the river of life and She will take care of us no matter what we are doing No matter what project are we engaged in. But on another level, everything matters because the mother manifests herself through everything, through everything, every job, every work, every duty that's presented to us, every responsibility, every small task. So we can approach life with 100% ownership because the decisions have already been made for us by life, by the mother. I can hear you saying, if we'll be gone one day, what's the purpose? Why are we here? Here's a koan for you. How do you keep a drop of water from drying up? Since I only have 30 seconds left, I'll share with you an answer. So, one way you can keep it from drying up is to drop it into the river. And in meditation just now, when you sink deep into stillness, let your thoughts be very still. You can be attuned to the Tao's melody. You can actually hear its dynamic, blissful vibration. And you can hear it, you can feel it, you can touch it. And once you hear it, please don't forget it. Thank you.

1:47:14
Hi, my name is Deanna. I will be speaking about Vishistha's Cave, which is on the outskirts of Rishikesh in northern India. We visited on the 12th during our second week of the pilgrimage. So Visishta was one of the seven great rishis of ancient India. He's also credited as being one of the authors of the Rig Veda, Mandala Seven, if anyone knows about it. So the cave is about a five minute walk from the banks of the Ganges. And you might expect a cave that sees like thousands of visits from spiritual seekers every year. Like in the throes of the Kali Yuga, you would expect it to be pretty lined out and like heavy with like the thoughts and emotions of the spiritual seekers that go there bring with them. But that was not the feeling that I got from the cave at all. It was as though it had its own atmosphere and it was strong enough to push off the visitors' patterns of self. I found it difficult to even try to have thoughts there. So I happened to not even be sitting near any of my sangha mates or asan. I was next to strangers, but even so, I just felt this profound peace and well-being almost immediately upon entering. And then after a few minutes, my third ear could faintly hear the sacred syllable, OM. It was similar to an experience that I had over 7,000 miles away. I was meditating in the Kamana Caves, which is on the big island of Hawaii. And it just reverberates at a cellular level, like throughout your whole being. And to experience that, to have a chance to experience that once again in India was awesome. I would also like to say how inspired I was to hear about the beautiful experiences and visions of light that we were all integrating in these different places that we were visiting, and all these different conscious beings that we were encountering, like meeting Shiva, as she mentioned. I think it was literally the same day, like later on that same day, after Vashistha's cave, that around sunset we all met and had darshan with Lord Shiva himself. Yeah, it's just very mind-blowing. I just want to say that this was a great group to be traveling with, and I thank you all for that. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.

1:50:35
Thank you.

1:50:36
Thank you.

1:50:37
Thank you.

1:50:38
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.

1:50:48
Hello, my name is Lauren and it was such an honor to be able to take this pilgrimage with this group and with our teacher. So my story, it is about selflessness and it is about unity. And it's kind of hard to put what I want to express into words. So, it might be a little easier for me to show you.

1:51:18
I got, I got shivers, when you touch that plate I'll make you hot, get all you got, I'll make you wanna say Jai Ho! Jai Ho! I got, I got fever, burnin' like a fire For you I will go all the way, I'm gonna take you higher Jai Ho! I keep it steady, steady, that's how I feel it This beat is heavy, so heavy You're gonna feel it You are the reason that I breathe You are the reason that I still believe You are my destiny Say oh, oh, oh, oh, oh No, there is nothing that can stop us Nothing can ever come between us So come and dance with me J-Hope Catch me, catch me, catch me, come on, catch me I want you now I know you can save me, come and save me I need you now I am yours forever, yes forever I will follow Anywhere, any way Never gonna let go I'll take you to a place, this fantasy of you and me, I'll never lose that chase I can feel you rushing through my veins, there's an ocean in my heart, I will never be the same Just keep it burning, yeah baby, just keep it coming You're gonna find out baby, I'm one in a million You are the reason that I breathe You are the reason that I still believe You are my destiny Stay home No, there is nothing that can stop us Nothing can ever come between us Come come and dance with me, J-Hope Feel me, this is me Catch me, catch me, catch me, come on, catch me I want you now I know you can save me, come and save me I will give it all, I am yours forever Yes, forever, I will follow Anywhere, anywhere, never gonna let go. Let go, let go, let go. I need you. Thank you very much. Some of you may be thinking, well, what just happened? So, Zimbara talks a lot about selflessness.

1:54:22
And this can take many forms. So selflessness can be being humble when the time is right.

1:54:31
Selflessness can be

1:54:33
setting aside self-doubt and asking for that raise or getting that new job. Selflessness can also be as someone who may not be a dancer or who has ever been on stage, jump on stage and dance in front of 200 people. So I want to thank everyone here for shining in selflessness and unity and the context behind this, for those of you who are wondering, Divya here had a wonderful idea to do a surprise dance for Ajahn on his birthday. So when we were sitting in India on the last night sharing stories, we choreographed this and we made this surprise for him. And throughout the trip, we were doing all these travels, we were driving up these windy roads, bus drives, and we're a big group, so it was kind of hard to coordinate. But we were sometimes stuck in these situations that may be seen as challenging or difficult, such as being stuck on the side of a cliff in the Himalayas during a road closure. But what we decided to do was all jump out of our cars, because our cars had all stopped for about five, 10 minutes, and we all jumped out of our cars and started practicing the dance. And so, we were being filmed by Indians and stuff. But, you know, to take a situation that may be challenging or difficult and turn it into a chance for unity and joy and selflessness and to give a gift that was simply an act of joy from our hearts as a present to our teacher and to work together in unity as a sangha was really special. So we performed this for him. We did not imagine we would be doing it for you, so surprise for us too. But thank you very much for having us.

1:56:36
Thank you. Thank you.

1:56:39
All right.

1:56:41
So thank you all so much. I'm really happy to see that you all got up on stage in front of everybody and did that amazing birthday dance for me. It was so fun. I thought that would be a very nice surprise for you all. It was so fun. I thought that would be a very nice surprise for you all. So, thank you all so much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
