0:00:00
How about we start with meditation. We're going to sit in silence for the first meditation. Might be ten minutes or so. For this meditation, I want you to focus on the heart center. Let's

0:00:14
Let's begin.

0:00:15
Okay.

0:00:38
Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay, very good. So long ago, in a galaxy far, far away, that means India 300 years ago, there was a man who had been studying with a great swami.

0:06:54
And he was really practicing and learning and cultivating his awareness of the dharma. And he was a merchant. He had taken over his father's business, and things were going pretty well. And he came to this decision. He's like, you know what I think I want to do? I think I want to give up my dad's business. I'll give it to my uncle. Get a bigger business. He can take it. And I want to become a sannyasi. I want to become a monk. And so he had this idea. And then the next day, his uncle came to him and said, you know, like your father, I'm retiring, and I want to give you the family business. Big business, lots of money, just huge. So he says, oh wow, that's great. I mean, I live very well and everything, but I was really thinking of becoming a monk and going for my spiritual practice. So he says, what do I do? So he goes to the Swami and he says, Swami, what do I do? I was kind of thinking of doing this, but then I have this great opportunity, so which way should I go? You know, this big, powerful, awesome business path, or this whatever spiritual path that I'm interested in. And the Swami says,

0:08:30
He says,

0:08:32
Do either the path of the merchant or the path of the spiritualist. And he said, Either way, if you put your heart into it completely, it's fine.

0:08:53
I don't remember the end of the story. I don't know which way he went.

0:08:58
But the teaching is important. Because the teaching is real. Whether you choose the path of the world, or the spiritual path, if you put your heart into it completely, it is enlightening. And if you follow the spiritual path and you don't put your heart into it completely, it's not enlightening. And if you follow the way of the world, it's pretty easy not to put your heart into it, then it's not enlightening. But if you put your heart into the world or into the spirit, then there's spirit. There's spirit in spirit and there's spirit in the world. It's just the way it is. So tonight I'd like to talk about controlled folly. Folly means foolishness. And spirituality is the art of practicing foolishness. It's the art of fooling around, but in a controlled way. So job yogis practice the art of foolishness by doing jobs, by working. So a job yogi will do their work as if it matters the most. I'm doing my work like it's the most important thing in the world. But at the same time, they know deep down in their heart that it doesn't matter at all. So we practice it through these actions, So it's working impeccably, working with great care. But knowing deep down in your heart that whatever you're doing really doesn't matter. At all. Now this doesn't mean that a job yogi is disingenuous. It doesn't mean that a job yogi is false. A job yogi has great care and great concern for their work. And they have such great care because they know it doesn't matter. See if they thought that it mattered then they wouldn't have care. They would have worry. Right? Care is attention. Attention to detail, attention to success. When you have self mixed up in there. There's worry. Worry and fear and anxiety, confusion. So a job yogi has a very strong clarity in their work. They have an honesty in their work. A lot of people care about their work and then they're afraid of their manager. They have so many things in the way that confuse them. But a job yogi cares fearlessly, clearly. So even though they do their work really like it's important, and they also know that it's not important. They're more authentic because they're more selfless.

0:13:40
So as job yogis, we do our work as it's presented to us, whatever it is.

0:13:48
we're given an easy task like you know dig this ditch maybe that's easy sometimes we're giving a more we're given tasks that we have no inclination to do. We don't want to do it. Like sell aerospace fasteners. And you're like, what? Yeah, I did this to the Hungarian Fonda. And well, hey, guess what? So we have this company in America, we're an aerospace company. We sell aerospace fasteners for airplanes, and space shuttles, and submarines, and a ride in Disneyland. And then the Hungarians were like, so what? And I was like, yeah. And then they said screw that

0:15:15
so they so that they ended up doing the work and then in the end they got

0:15:19
fastened

0:15:22
Sorry.

0:15:24
You thought that the intermediate teachings were

0:15:27
going to get better with the jokes.

0:15:28
Yeah.

0:15:29
Yeah.

0:15:29
Yeah.

0:15:30
Yeah.

0:15:30
Yeah. Yeah.

0:15:31
Yeah.

0:15:32
Yeah.

0:15:32
Yeah.

0:15:33
Yeah.

0:15:33
Yeah. Yeah.

0:15:34
Yeah.

0:15:35
So no matter what life presents you, like you might have a job where your boss says, do this.

0:15:43
And that's what life presents you. You might be an entrepreneur and have your own business

0:15:47
and say, I want to go in this direction. And then guess what? Life will present you with the work that you must do. In any case and in anywhere, and even if you don't have a job, life presents you with your work, what you have to do. In any case, we do it with controlled folly. We do it where we have abandon of the self, with a go of the self. And by doing that, we're able to get out of suffering, we're able to be more successful, we're able Control Folly is the great secret of job yoga. It's the great secret of living and working in the world. So this is a powerful practice. And it's one that we bring great care for. It's so funny because like we're working in our jobs we're working in our yoga projects and we're like oh something went wrong oh right you get mad or out of balance or stressed out or something but when you can have controlled quality you're like it's okay. Whatever task we're given we do it in a way where I'm going to do this my best, whether I like it or not, and if my work is bad, I remember one time when I was a kid, somehow, the fly, somehow there was some circumstance where I went to feed the homeless. And I don't remember what organization I was with. But I was feeding the homeless happily. At first, we start cooking things and preparing things, and then we start feeding them. And so I was feeding them beans. Here's some beans. Everyone loves beans. And then I remember there was this girl who came to the organization. I don't know. I don't know what organization. But she was there because her father wanted her to come. So he was there. He's happy feeding beans. And she was cooking fish and then serving it to people. So she's pan frying a fish and serving it. And she didn't want to be there. She was a teenager. And she was just like, oh my god. And she was making comments even before we started service. And she was just like, oh my god. My dad totally made me come today and would totally rather be in the mall with Cindy and Amber. And then I'm like, yeah, but we're here, so. I was cool with being there. I wasn't really excited, but the beans. And then she, I remember she served this one guy a burnt fish. She put it on that pan and left it there. And then I remember seeing it go on the plate and I was all, it's really burnt. I mean, even I noticed that. And then, you know, the homeless guy just takes it. And then there was the head chef, the guy in charge, the cook, I'm all, should I call him the sous chef? Executive chef. He was way in the back. And he's going around helping all of us, because we're all volunteers. And he's getting us to do the right things. And he sees that burned fish. And he runs over, and then he takes it out of the hands of the homeless guy. He goes over to the girls.

0:20:41
And he's like, what is this?

0:20:43
She's all, I could have lifted on the pan or whatever, because I wasn't with Cindy and Amber in the mall. And then he said, no, no, no, we don't do this. He said, why would you serve someone burnt fish? I mean, she's all, it's just free for him anyway. What does it matter? It's like a homeless guy, so why can't he eat a burnt fish? And he said, I don't care if we're in a soup kitchen or a five-star French restaurant. He's like, we do our best for everyone. I was like, wow, interesting. Interesting. That was fascinating to me. That's control poly. If I tell you in Vodafone, you've got to go and dig in dirt. And you're like, but I'm a technical architect. I make a billion dollars a year programming Google. Why should I go out and dig in dirt? Why not? Because it's controlled folly. Any task that we get is yoga. Anything that we do we can do It's very beautiful. So in job yoga, we throw ourselves into our work, into our jobs, into our yoga, into our tasks. And by throwing ourselves in, we commit. We jump into the volcano. We're like, let's just jump and see what happens. And And the spirit emerges. It's our next movie, Joe vs. Volcanoes.

0:23:17
You jump in, you gotta jump.

0:23:20
And if you take that leap, you let it all go. You let the self go. And then the new self emerges, the higher self emerges. So, we dissolve in our work. We let the work And the older yogis here know what that means. Because we have to burn away our sharp edges. We have to burn away our laziness, our inclination to fall into self-ideas. You gotta just work. This is what Marpa taught Milarepa. Milarepa had, like, hey, I'm coming here to learn enlightenment and all this stuff. Amarapazal. OK, really? OK, so start stacking stones over here. Build me a tower with stones.

0:24:34
But I have all these fancy ideas.

0:24:37
Just work. When you work, especially doing a task that you don't want to do, and not for yourself, then you start to wash away the self-karma. Because I want this, I want this, I think this is good, I think that's good. There's things that are hard, I don't want things that are easy, whatever. You know, desire is an aversion, is the operating system of an ego. But when you start to just say, hmm, I'm proposed with a task that the universe gave me, or Sambara said dig in dirt, or whatever, or my manager told me to do, and you do it without any reaction, you just say, I'm doing this, that's controlled folly. I'm just doing the task before me. And then that's where the self relinquishes the control. Most people act from self all the time. I don't like this so I don't want to do it. I like this, so I'm going to do it. And then whatever they do stinks. Because there's self involved. When you're selfless, you see a friend in the sangha who needs help, you help them. Then Jasmine. You come to the work day, dig in dirt, because why? I don't know why. Come over and let's work on stuff and spend six hours just working really hard. And you're like, why would I do that? I can go see a movie. I can sit there and binge watch Netflix. Like the whole Netflix. Everything from Netflix. Why would I do that? the greater selflessness and then you'll see there's this brightness that comes from it. Brightness. Yeah, so when you act selflessly, it's like, when you act selflessly, there's something to help another person, something to help your spiritual community. Then it's a way of building this great, beautiful awareness. It starts making connections. When you're acting in self, you're like, no, no, I just want that. So I just just need my thoughts, me, myself and I. And you're going to be in that realm. So we. We do our tasks. To dissolve the. We we come to our tasks with all sorts of ideas. Like, you come to a yoga project, right? And you're like, oh, okay, we're gonna do this. And you're like, here's how it's gonna be, here's what I'm gonna do, and it's gonna have this outcome. And then, when you get into it, you realize that your first desires and your first ideas don't work out the way you thought it would. I think that's very consistent. And then what happens? Hardship, difficulty, obstacles, struggle. This is the intermediate path. And as you work through those things, you change. When you work through all that difficulty in your yoga project, trying to do something in the physical world, that's when you transform. The world does not transform for you. You transform to follow the path of the world. And at first you had this great idea and a lot of energy and a lot of momentum and everything was great. That was cute. That's the novice monk, and it is very beautiful. But the intermediate student faces the challenges. The intermediate student is a spiritual warrior. That's where you go into battle. and the intermediate student faces great difficulty, impossible odds. And do they succeed in the end? Yeah, well if they succeed and they don't succeed, it doesn't matter It's because a warrior shows up to battle. You can lose every battle and be the greatest warrior in the universe.

0:30:56
A warrior just shows up to battle.

0:30:59
I kind of want to win. When at loss, it doesn't matter when you have controlled falling. Good and bad doesn't matter when you have controlled falling. When you have controlled falling, any task that you do, Win or loss brings you enlightenment. So I remember with AppBuddy. We were working on this very strong yoga project. People were very dedicated. They were working very, very, very hard. They came to AppBuddy with cool ideas, really cool goals, and then they hit hardship, difficulty, and the most difficult confusing things. And I remember even at one point, Dara and Parvati and I were talking, we were in Ojo, and they're like, oh, yeah, so we've grown the business to this size, but we're hitting these struggles. And then they're like, maybe we should just quit and just stop

0:32:33
it.

0:32:35
And then they say, what do you think? And I was like, yeah, OK. I was giving them the, ow. And then I think it was a week later, they're like, now we're going for it. But why? We have all these pains, all these problems, and they're just yogis. So they're like, we just have to do yoga. What else are we going to do?

0:33:04
That's good.

0:33:06
See, the self dissolves into the work. You come to the work, you come to karma, yoga,

0:33:11
with every idea, every problem. I don't like this, this is hard, you know, I'd rather be doing this. Whatever, whatever it is, even if it's your dream job, you're going to start coming up with all the ego things. Anyone who's gotten their dream job, excited, and then complaints. So it's not about anything. Working out the perfect way, because for the self there is no perfect way. For the self there is no satisfaction. And in yoga, we seek to dissolve the self. We throw ourselves into the work. We go, ow! This is hard. Like, how am I going to? I mean, these are serious things. Oh my gosh. I'm not making sales. I can't keep up with the competition.

0:34:15
What do I do?

0:34:17
I've got to do something. I've got to be real. It's got to work. We don't really seek to win as much as we seek to surrender. You got to dig a ditch in the dirt. You know, it's hard, I don't like it, Surrender yourself to work. Let yourself go. And let the work take over. That reminds me of Donald Trump teaching or giving jobs to coal miners. I'm all surrender yourself to work. And then I saw this thing on CNN where Donald Trump's all like, you're going to have so many jobs in Virginia,

0:35:17
you're going to be like.

0:35:18
I'm not dissing because he got some more jobs.

0:35:23
And I'm apolitical. I'm apolitical person who thinks that Donald Trump's an idiot. He's very powerful. He's been one of the greatest rulers continuously reincarnating on this planet. Great in terms of being powerful.

0:35:52
But I like him.

0:35:54
I met him. Not in America.

0:36:01
Somewhere else.

0:36:03
Um. Oh wait, I shouldn't talk about Donald Trump anymore. Donald Trump America, in August, all you go. It's just perfect. Yeah, so, the full-time App Buddy team, they threw themselves into the work. And they went through great hardship. Lots of you guys have had hardship in yoga, but the the app buddies push it all the way and they pushed it through. Because if they let the self stop them, they would have stopped. They're like, I can't figure out sales. So then we would stop. So then they figure out sales. You know, like, oh, I'm having all these problems with hiring and the resources and people who don't work out. We have to fire them. If we can't figure that out, then the company doesn't succeed. But they committed themselves to succeed. They said, we're all in. And by going through all of the trials, all of the difficulties, all of the self. We had some very strong people and they pushed so hard to the most intense intensity where the barriers were so intense they tried self-power, willpower. And facing that with willpower as much as they could muster didn't work. And all it did was create stress because they had ideas, they had worries and fears, and all it did was create stress and difficulty. And then they're like, oh my god, I'm so stressed out. I got to take time off.

0:38:57
I got so much stress.

0:38:58
I'm going to take time off. They were like, ah, it's so hard. And what did they do? Every time they took time off, they got perspective. This doesn't matter. This doesn't matter. All this stress, all my ideas, I think this and I'm struggling with this and like good yogis, they're like, I can let it go and come back and then they push the business forward. And then it's really hard. They're like, ah. And then we get to this place where they were beyond stress. I mean, it's stressful, but their spirit was beyond stress. That's controlled folly. And that's why they had success in their yoga, because they had controlled folly. I mean, in the end, it was extremely intense and hard. and heart. And then full-time at-buddies, they were like, let go. And they told me this a lot. They're like, there's no reason why I'm doing this. If this was any other reason besides yoga, if there's a reason of self, I'd have quit. I would have quit a thousand times over. Ten thousand times over. That's the truth. And ten thousand times they were like, controlled folly. They did the work perfectly, powerfully, impeccably. And they were like, if it was up to the self, 10,000 times I'd be gone. The self hates this. What compels them into the torture of this work? With controlled folly, it's like you go beyond the self. The self burns in that fire. Most people don't want to do it. But these are yogis that show the way. The way is controlled falling. And you know, they got black eyes and scars. There ain't no easy way through the fight. I know. Enlightenment must be a sit-in to the tree and then all of a sudden golden petals fall upon you. On the way there, you deal with the greatest hardships that you can imagine. The greatest hardships that you can imagine. And you have to let those things go to attain your goal. So that the app buddies, I'm talking mostly the full-time app buddies, but there's also some app buddies who are part-time who are in it with their heart. The app buddies practiced controlled folly because they kept letting that go, the self-go. They're like, they worked so hard. They worked impeccably. It was extremely important. There were times where, oh, the business might destroy, oh, the competition might kill us, everything. You know, like, missiles coming from everywhere. And then they were like, we're just going to carry on. We're just going to work. Do it. Past the self, past all the pain, past all the obstacles, and all the opposition, all the difficulty. We're just going to keep going. We're just going to work, do our best. I remember sometimes when the competition dropped their price to a fraction of what we were charging. And all these customers were like, well, they're charging way less. Why should we go with you? And we're like, because we're the best. Like usually when, you know, people are selling tacos, you get the $40 taco and they're like, wow, that's a $40 taco. I don't think there's such thing as a $40 taco. But let's go to burgers. bigger thing. I know this really great restaurant in San Francisco. They sell a thousand dollar burger. But you can get a burger here. You can get a dollar burger. I haven't had a thousand dollar burger. But they sell them. So it's like, this is a special burger. So when I was talking, when we were talking about the problems of like, whoa, our competition just totally, they're trying to kill us. Because they have way more capital and funding. So they're trying to kill us by dropping that $1,000 burger to the dollar burger.

0:45:04
What are we going to do?

0:45:06
And everybody's like, our $1,000 burger is better. $40 taco is not as good as a $1,000 burger.

0:45:23
Business model.

0:45:24
OK.

0:45:24
So then, I mean, yeah, we faced impossible odds. I remember one time we had a competitor who who got like seven seventy million dollars of funding yeah 36 36 okay half that 36 million dollars of funding and there what did they do they threw all that money into development and sales did they make it yeah they like we are

0:46:01
We are the strongest one in the universe!

0:46:03
And then they were all... BWAAAAA!

0:46:07
And we...

0:46:08
And they got acquired for a worse multiple believer.

0:46:10
Oh!

0:46:11
Shaza!

0:46:12
And we, with our bootstrapped means, focused, built value. We faced Goliath, and let Goliath fall on his own. We didn't touch them. We just worked through it. We worked with controlled folly. Controlled folly is the way to work, the way to be.

0:46:47
Yeah.

0:46:48
And it's the way through obstacles and stress. Like, the AppBuddies had the highest levels of obstacles that I've ever seen. Even watching, you know, even before this sangha, like, watching my sangha. Back in the 90s, it was so easy to sell software. That's why I think it's important. And then watching them go through this work, ever, you know, really from the beginning, it's amazing. It's a place where through the work you have to have total commitment, but you also have to let go. If you don't let go, then everything goes sideways. So, it's very amazing to see a very successful yoga in our sangha practice controlled folly. And there's a powerful thing that you learn. It's a very deep spiritual patience. Because at first you're like, I want to do this, I want to do that. And then things don't go the way that you want in the beginning. Maybe, hopefully they do. But usually not. And when you think, you're like, I'm going to do this and it doesn't work out, then you're like, you can have frustration, you can get angry, you can get sad, because things don't work out the way that you want them to work out. But what it teaches your spirit, you're like, oh, I had this vision, I tried to do it, it didn't work. You gain patience from that. You're like, oh, well then I have to be patient. And the other thing that you get out of control, Folly, is I guess a sense of humor about yourself. I remember the last time I was talking to Dharma and Ijeya before the acquisition, they were cracking jokes. They were facing, oh, there's these difficulties, and if these difficulties don't work out, then we do something else.

0:50:08
Sell a thousand dollar burgers.

0:50:10
Yeah, they're like, hey, if this software thing doesn't work, we can do a thousand dollar Oh, God.

0:50:22
You can sell it 10,000 years.

0:50:24
You can sell it 10,000 days. That's the ticket to the new internet express.

0:50:34
OK, so yeah, but they were like, you know, really like, I remember our last meeting, we were laughing about the difficulties, the hardships. So you have to laugh. Now with patients, I learned this in doing intermediate job yoga. And then towards the end, I started to really understand yoga more. At first I was just developing my skills, building personal power, but then I finally started to learn, you know, controlled quality. And so I was on a project where they were like, this is so important. Every two weeks, they were pushing me and pushing me and pushing me to build, build, build, build an application. And then after like 4 and 1 1⁄2 months, they lost funding. And they're like, OK, it's over.

0:52:01
It's done.

0:52:02
There's no more. We're not doing this." And I was like, I was like 90% done. And then they're like, okay, and I was like, but I was, you guys told me to do this. And I was trying to do it to build something for your company, General Electric. And then at that moment I realized, I'm a Ronin. A Ronin is a free agent samurai. It's a powerful samurai who can walk to one side or the other or another and whichever side they walk to they dedicate themselves they say I will do I'll give it all for you and then they say oh let's do something silly that like the Emperor will say hey this is something service but this show gun will say hey let's go and do something silly. And the samurai, the ronin, who elects to join that force, practices controlled folly. I will do it. I will do everything. I'm committed, not to your cause, but I'm committed to my service. I'm completely committed to my service. You might be good you might be bad. See when you have controlled folly it blocks you from karma. If you have complete selflessness in the work that you do, then there's no self to catch a karma. It's true. If you have complete selflessness in your work, there's no karma. But when you So I learned through working on something, we're building this great thing for General Electric, and then all of a sudden funding's lost, so job's done. Some executive said no, and then, and I was like, should I feel bad? I'm like, no, I got so powerful. I learned so much. I put so much energy into building this. this I'm not going to be attached to the outcome, I'm going to be attached to a result. And then, little echo, and then I was like, I am powerful! I'm a Ronin! And I'm going to go Ronin for someone else! So I started Roninnin. I went to my interviews after that, and I was like, when they saw me, I had different energy. I was like, I'm not attached to doing the work for myself. I had a strong presence of, I'm here for you. And then I was able to raise me, consulting me. I don't know if you guys can see it, but I went from 125 an hour there to 250 an hour because of that realization. And it is that I was present. And I got the right meeting, and I told them what I'm telling you. That I am here for you. And they felt that and total controlled folly, selflessness, impeccability. It mattered the most and it made me the most authentic because I wasn't there. It's not for me. And when I'm not there, then enlightenment fills everything that I do. Let's have a little meditation upon this.

0:57:05
I feel like it's the right time. Okay, so again we're going to focus on the heart. We're going to just sit for a few minutes. I just want you to feel the heart.

0:57:17
Let's begin. I'm going to go ahead and turn off the camera.

0:57:50
Okay. Okay. Okay. A lot of times people build a lot of self-importance into their work. or a janitor, which means that I'm good or I'm bad. I can do this, I can't do that.

0:58:41
And that's just building a lot of self-definition. But I can take a janitor and make them selfless and enlightened and a janitor. Well, hey, clean that up. Yeah. Anything that we do, look at the greatest CEOs, the greatest companies on the planet. It's completely transient. An interesting thing in the Job Yoga book, I was like, what's the oldest company in the world? And it's like, oh, there was this Japanese temple building company that lasted like 1400 years. It's kind of huge. And most companies last, like most big companies, last less than 100 years. They might be, you might have your Google and your Twitter and they're huge right now and then a hundred years are they gonna be there? Google. But yeah, like you can look at most companies grow and disappear, grow and disappear. It's totally funky like that. So, success in business is a complete transient thing. You catch a dream, you create it, you're attached to the coral rock and the wave comes and you don't ride the wave. You're like, no, no, no, can't. Wave comes and goes. Got to go with the wave. If you go with the wave, it's exhilarating. And then the wave ends. We're all riding the wave, riding the wave of enlightenment. And the wave is always fresh in the moment. And every job that we have, career path that we have, every job yoga project that we're working on, it's not forever. It's not forever. You might have gone to school for a certain career path, and that's what you're doing. Cool. I have no problem with it.

1:05:14
but

1:05:16
Have an eternal view. It's not forever You're not gonna be you know, I don't know

1:05:24
a dentist forever.

1:05:26
A dentist in my this lifetime and the next and the previous one You're like what's wrong with you? Good sir, your tooth hurts. Let me take it out. Oops, I took out too many. I mean, yeah. Don't get so attached to what you do.

1:05:52
It's kind of what it goes.

1:05:54
It goes what you do. And especially you, who have the most defined path. You're so committed to your project. You're so committed because you got this education that brought you to this project. Who cares? I mean, there's been lots of like, you know, people at the highest level of education who then ended up starting a business.

1:06:36
There's nothing that defines you.

1:06:38
Wherever your path has been before, doesn't mean that that's the only path. In fact, it's a path of karma, unless you transform it. And we transform it through controlled folly, controlled silliness. If you're a doctor, you're like, oh, like American doctor, oh look, you've got a problem. I'm gonna saw this off. Right? And you're like, you do it at the best awareness that you have, education, the best ideas that you have, because if you're Jesus you can probably just go, but you can't do that, so And yet, be open. Instead of sawing things off, you might be able to build computers, build machines. I will build machines. Oh, interesting thing. I heard of this just recently. there have been two patents filed just in the last month that are patents that were created by artificial intelligence. So AI was all, hmm, why don't we make one of these? those are the first two. And then, yeah, but that's that's really interesting. Yeah. Artificial therefore artificial intelligence just can do that through control folly do humans still grant the patents? Yeah, humans are going to grant the patents. And then it will be too late. Did you hear that there's life on the moon? Yeah. And we put it there. But not for a reason. The Israel Space Agency, they shot these, what are those things called? Tarducans? Tardigrades. Tardigrades are these teeny little, like half a millimeter long animals that live in, even in the Antarctic. sick and and they I don't think they die I think they take a nap and then they reincarnate and then we trust them to the moon and then the thing was like we're gonna land on the moon and then it crashed and so now they're not crawling. They're in their dehydrated state. If we go and add water...

1:10:34
They're on the moon and they're like, I'm cool if you give me water and I'll crawl around. Or...

1:10:41
So, this brings us on to the subject of transients.

1:10:54
Because they don't seem to be very transient. Well, I guess so.

1:10:58
They're like asleep and then they're awake. I've never heard anyone talk about them dying, but I guess if you step on them.

1:11:20
No.

1:11:21
No.

1:11:21
No.

1:11:22
No. No.

1:11:23
No.

1:11:23
No.

1:11:24
So any work that you do, everyone here, you could say, my work's important to me. My work's important because I pull out molars that have cavities. My work's important to me because I fix somebody by cutting out their gallbladder when it's bad. That's a surgeon, a doctor. I mean, not just someone with an eye. My work's important because it makes the Google search. So it's like, we all have these ideas in our work that our work is important. And some people say, my work's not important? It just goes to the ego. So self-importance in our work is self. We have to recognize that whatever work we do, whether we're building the biggest building in New York, building the biggest website on the planet, or if we're just doing a very menial job of cleaning up at McDonald's, nothing is more important than anything else. And when you can lose that self-importance and just do your cleaning up, cleaning up old french fries on the ground, or building the best tech company in the universe, that neither thing are important. let go of self, you can practice controlled folly. If you think what you're doing is important, there's self there. And as the AppBuddies can tell you, eventually ain't no self there. We're like, yeah, we're gonna build this big self-encumbrance uni super cool, and everyone's gonna want to love us. And then you're like, at the end, you're like, there's no big grandiose ideas anymore. They go away. Those dreams vanish. These ideas pass. It comes down to your personal power, your focus, your selflessness. That's what works in yoga. But like ideas and schemes, I'm better than this and that, doesn't matter. Sri, Parvati, Sanyata, Lakshman, Padma, for sure. Who else?

1:14:51
But you, Chi.

1:14:53
Chi. Chi's the D's knees. Like all of them. It didn't matter. It didn't matter what's important anymore. They let go. Everything's transient. If you're building a software company, if you're building a burger, if you're building a building, all of these things will be gone. The software company before the burger, these things come and go. We've seen it. We've seen companies come and go, come and go. We've seen burgers last longer. Now I'm not eating beef. Okay, now I am. And the building and anything, anything that you can do through your work is transient. People are like, I'm very proud because I worked on something that did something. Don't be proud. Be selfless. Whatever you do, will come and go. Use it as controlled quality. Don't be like, I built this and it will last throughout the centuries. Even if it lasts throughout the centuries, it's not going to last through the yuga or the loka. And 10,000 universes from now, what did it matter? Time doesn't matter. All these little stories that we have doesn't matter. The thing that you can think that matters that someone did a long time ago, it's kind of cool for right now, but it doesn't matter to you. And if you build something that lasts for a thousand years, who cares? You're gone. So what does it matter? It doesn't matter to you at all. When you're dead, I promise you, you know, that mango tree you planted, doesn't matter.

1:17:05
But I wanted to grow big.

1:17:08
And then you're dead and then who cares? The Svetans have a really beautiful way of showing this. They create this sand mandala. They sit there for weeks putting these beautiful colored sands together to make a beautiful

1:17:34
mandala.

1:17:35
You're like, wow, that's really gorgeous. And then at the end, once they made it perfect, and they meditate by it, then they wipe it all away. All these yellows and whites and pinks and greens and coconuts. Clads. They all, they take this whole big beautiful thing that's been so much focus doing perfectly and then they just smoosh it up into one big brown lump of dirt. And then they say, that's it. That's what we do. We don't do this for a physical reason. Our yoga comes and goes. Comes and goes. It's totally transient. But we do it with perfection. Because that's controlled So, when we understand transience, we start to advise our death. We say, our business is transient. And guess what? So am I, a transient person. I'm alive right now, but I know I'm going to die.

1:19:11
Isn't that the truth?

1:19:12
We all know that. Are we aware of that? If you reflect on your death, then you gain power. So when we reflect on our death, it helps us to have controlled quality. Like, I'm working on this, I'm working on this, I'm working on this. And you're like, you know what? I'm going to die in a few short years, hopefully centuries, if you eat your broccoli.

1:19:46
Yeah.

1:19:46
Yeah.

1:19:47
Yeah.

1:19:47
Yeah. Yeah.

1:19:48
Yeah.

1:19:50
But it's like, we're not going to live forever. And we're working on something. And then you say, well, I better bring the best I have to what I'm working on, if that's the case. If I'm going to spend these few moments of my life, these precious moments of my short life, because I could die tomorrow or right now. Okay, okay. But you know, like we never know when we're going to die. So we respect from the awareness of death that what we're doing should demand the greatest effort and awareness of our heart. So then we say, I'm gonna, if this is what I'm doing, do what you want to do. And if that's what you're doing, then give it your best. And if you give it your best, then even if you die 14 seconds later, you die in a high place. And you're happy, and you're satisfied in your bath. You're like, oh, got struck by lightning. Oh, tree landed on me. Oh, UFO hit me in the head. And you're like, you know what? But that last 14 seconds, I in my heart committed myself to my work with love, with appreciation, with self-abandon. And guess what? That's good. I'm happy. That's uplifting. That's a win in a lifetime. So we do that in every moment. Well, sort of.

1:21:25
We do that in every moment.

1:21:27
We really look at our work, and we advise our death

1:21:29
on our work.

1:21:30
And we say, hey, if I'm going to sit here and spend the time, if I'm in this situation where I have to do this thing, or I have to do this thing, or I have to do this, I don't. Then, why am I going to be miserable, bothered, struggle? I'm going to do controlled follow through. I'm going to accept whatever difficulty. I'm going to throw my best into it. I'm going to see that the uselessness of it and the crazy people I have to work with, that's the folly. But I'm going to control it with care, attention, awareness of my own death. And then it transforms a foolish situation into the pathway to awakening. I remember a time, a beautiful time, with some of my students where we were working And it was a really pivotal time. And I remember it was for Dharma, a big thing, a very big thing, and for Kanna, a very big thing. So for Kanna, he was running the aerospace company. And he's like, I must be there, and I must correct every little thing that everyone is doing wrong and he was getting so stressed out from it. I was like your controlled folly is controlling other people's folly but it's not your personal control folly. He's like no no no he's like if I don't fix it then the whole business will go sideways. I was like, I doubt that. So I said, I have this idea. I said, you come with me. I'm like, I'm going to Europe for a month. So you come with me. And then I have to go do something else for two weeks later. You come with me. And he's like, my business will dissolve. It will evaporate. And I was like, let's just take that chance together. So I took this guy, a CEO out of his business.

1:24:08
He was there. Shen was there.

1:24:10
And I actually knew that his yogis were good. They were strong. But he had attachment. Now, attachment is this clinging. And it's the wrong kind of control. Control is impeccability. It's just perfect action to the best of your awareness. But then if you go a little bit over, you start to grab on. And you're like, that's where the self starts to say, I'm clinging to an idea, a thing, a business, a practice, a worry, a fear, right? And so with Kana, he had all these things, and I said, we're going to go away, and you can't check email, you can't text them, you can't call them. You've just got to go on my Euro tour. And he's like, okay. And then we had this wonderful Euro tour, and then I took him somewhere else for two weeks after. And then we come back. So six weeks later, the day before we come back and the day before he saw it, I'm so worried my business might be gone. We walk in, business is rolling. Business is picking up. And the employees are happier than ever.

1:25:42
Yeah.

1:25:48
And it was because he was able to let go. See, he starts to strangle the business when you become attached. It hurts the business. You think, but that's the only way it's going to operate. That was really pivotal. It was a big teaching when EJ had got here. He's like, guys, look at this. He's like, this is what we're doing. We are being, if we create a business, we're being these little tyrants that are thinking we can only do the business. So jumping to the place where we let other people do the business is a huge process of letting go of self. We did that with Dharma too. It was a really cool, powerful moment. So we're sitting there and I said, okay Dharma, write down everything that you have to do and then prioritize it from 1 to 72. And then he writes down all these things, all these initiatives that he has to do, and like 97% of them were priority one. I said, that can't be. And he's all, no, they are. They're all so important. And that's why he's like, I'm so stressed because I have to do all these things and they're all the highest priority. And then he's all, even these priority two things are pretty high priority. And then there's this really great story that EJ had. And I'm not going to tell it to you. But it was about detachment. And then I was like, yeah, man, we have to let go. Let go of these things that we hold so precious. And then Dharma was like, no, it's impossible. So then I said to Dharma, I have this cool idea. You're not CEO anymore. And then he's like, okay. And that was controlled quality. And he was like, okay, I'll work on whatever I have to work on. But I don't have to be CEO. And then from there, he was able to let go of a lot of stress, shift a little bit, let go of those big intensities, and then come back. And so then he came back and then he was beyond that level of karma where he was stuck before he reincarnated

1:28:52
It's pretty amazing

1:28:54
Yeah, you know when you let go of The self and your work and enlightenment fills your work

1:29:02
When you have worries, desires, expectations, fears, then that fills your work.

1:29:04
But when you just let go of the self, you work impeccably and selflessly, then your work is filled with light. Another time, I have a lot of App Buddy stories. App Buddy is a yogic success. Another time where we were close to getting a deal, like we had been many times before. And the deal was like struggling, like it might not happen, kind of talking to Dharma. And then Dharma's like, oh, I'm struggling.

1:29:42
It hurts.

1:29:43
Oh, it's difficult. Oh, it might not work. And I just had to remind him of control phali. I was like, whether it happens or not, all you do is do your best. Bring your best to this and let go of all expectations. And Dharma in reflecting on controlled folly, in the middle of the biggest like clinch, like there's lawyers and companies and all people and all this intense stuff, he's like this is really really hard but in reflecting on it he had that what we call that the center, the centimeter of opportunity, the centimeter of chance, and even though there was 100 tons of, is that another measurement? There was 100 tons, 100 elephants of stress on him. He was able to get that centimeter of opening of selflessness, where the power can come through. And it made it succeed.

1:31:23
This is what we do.

1:31:26
I mean, me too. Like, my work is filled with light because I practice control. So, my teachings, I do them very carefully, very aware, very impeccably. I teach in a very deliberate manner to everybody in the room. And I know that the teachings are very powerful, that they can bring enlightenment and empowerment, that they bring you out of suffering. But I also know that my teachings don't matter. I know that my teachings completely don't matter. Because if I thought that they mattered, there would be no light. My teachings are my controlled volume. My teachings don't matter. Enlightenment matters.

1:32:50
My teachings

1:32:52
don't matter, but enlightenment matters. If I didn't have my teachings, well, doing martial arts with me is enlightenment. Shopping with me is enlightenment, traveling somewhere, movies, virtual reality, anything that I do is an expression of enlightenment. But every single way that I do it is controlled folly. So if If I'm in a martial arts class teaching you, it's controlled falling.

1:33:40
But it's an expression of enlightened teachings.

1:33:42
Yeah, it's funny, because we're like, okay, these teachings, I should hear something and get enlightened. But sometimes people have very enlightened experiences you know having a club soda because everything that I do is my control but then one starts to think, wait a minute, there are things that are important. There are things that are intense, that are real, that actually matter. Like a war. A war, that's going to sound like a good thing. War is bad. People die. People get hurt. Suffering. Yeah, OK, that's true. But, at the same time, there could be liberation. Look at Saint Francis of Assisi. He was like all hanging out with his boys. He's like, hey, there's a war, let's go fight in the war, because that's what we do. We're young men and there's a war, so we go. And he went to this war, I don't know where, probably in Italy, fighting somebody else with some pizza or spaghetti.

1:35:21
And then he's like,

1:35:23
it was a pizza against a spaghetti.

1:35:25
And he saw the war, and he saw people get killed, and he just withdrew. And that shocked him into liberation. He advised death. He said, what the heck am I doing, caught up in all this karma, and wanting to participate in it. He advised his death and he became liberated. So war is bad, but it can also be liberating. And then from that experience and his liberation, it was a catalyst that created so many teachings. And he created a very powerful inner wave of Dharma and Christianity that was very, very spiritual, that has been spiritual support and increasing awareness and care from so many people for hundreds of years. So war is bad, but that happens. Or, you know, if we think of the battle of Kurukshetra, Krishna and Arjuna. So there's this battle in India, this war that's happening, this one big battle. It gave Krishna the opportunity to teach Arjuna a great empowering teaching, the Bhagavad Gita. So things are bad, but in bad they're still. In intensity, we have to be strong. You have to be responsible. You have to have impeccability. So it can't be just like, what's that Queen song? Nothing really matters, anyone can see. Nothing really matters. Nothing really matters to me. Yeah, war, whatever, it doesn't matter. I shot someone who cares. That's folly, foolishness, without control and responsibility. So a lot of Western people are spacey. They're like, yeah, folly is cool. They have no responsibility, no personal power, no control. And that kind of thing doesn't work. That's what doesn't work. That's what happens to the new age, spaced out weirdos. But the reason I'm stressing so much acceptance and selflessness is because you guys have personal power. You guys have structure, you have focus, and that's why we're here. I remember I was talking to one of my students in Hungary about controlled folly, and she said, this is a cool idea. She's like, but how do I have controlled folly about something that's very intense to me? six years ago my daughter got

1:38:58
So she was

1:39:00
Struggling with suffering and lamenting for six years and she said so how do I have controlled folly about that? and I said Yeah, I let go. Controlled folly is when we have our family, our relations, the job we go to, the store we shop in, that we do it with impeccability, And when the guy at the coffee shop who gives you your latte quits and goes somewhere else, and some other ladies there giving it to you, you let that go. And then you take that latte from someone else. You don't have to be all like, but you don't do it the way she did. You accept the new situation. So when you have your daughter or your dog, you fulfill that obligation. You do that with all your heart. And then when your dog or your dog goes away, you're not going to sit there and pretend your dog's still there. I'm bouncing a ball. Here's a bone That would be what we call that crazy So You have to treat the people in your lives with proper etiquette And then when things change, you let everything go and not becoming everything or anything and we're able to be like Krishna to meet the world where Krishna, this great, high enlightened saint, is talking to a guy on a battlefield. He should be sitting on silk pillows. And he's doing the dharma where the world is. He has to meet the world. It would be great if everyone came to Krishna and didn't want to fight.

1:42:04
That's the folly of the world.

1:42:05
So Krishna is there. That's controlled folly. And in doing controlled folly, we huff and we puff and we work.

1:42:16
It means everything.

1:42:18
We're impeccable.

1:42:19
We're strong. We're doing the best.

1:42:22
And at the same time, in our heart, we know it doesn't matter. And that's what brings us peace, joy, happiness, and liberation.

1:42:32
So we'll meditate together, but I thought I have my oculus there, so

1:42:38
I'm going to oculus meditate. We're like sitting there and I'm like virtually virtually it's virtually Buddywood's work day was really good and it created a very beautiful teaching, which is the teaching of right from wrong. And what we learned at the top of the hour was this yogi's like, what's right for me? What's wrong for me? And the master says either way is fine if you put your heart into it. But you have to put your heart into it. And if you put your heart into it, then you do controlled folly. And controlled folly, whatever task comes in front of you, is enlightenment.

1:44:20
So I'd like to sit for a little while.

1:44:24
How about we play a song?

1:44:26
A new song.

1:44:27
A canyon sort of like...

1:44:29
Monument Valley.

1:44:31
Monument Valley makes me happy

1:44:35
Because I remember a time where I saw my teacher meditating with us.

1:44:42
And he said, do an open-eye meditation. Look at me. And he meditated to Monument Valley. And I saw in that meditation a really amazing thing. I saw so many patterns of opposition of the world, so many karmas, all of them. And I saw him just go through them. It's like those things hit, and that would normally stop someone in a state of mind, that thought, in something. But those karmas hit him and he went through it and they disappeared and he went beyond, beyond, beyond, beyond, beyond, beyond, beyond, beyond all karma. So in the we start something very special. We start to go beyond the karma of the self in a very powerful way. This is where I say you become a warrior, a spiritual warrior. Before you're kind of doing your own thing. Then when you're an intermediate student, we're in a fight together, a fight for enlightenment. And that's where there's a lot more power. And by being able to work together, and go where we become highly elevated. So I'm going to do a transmission. This is the transmission of controlled folly. It's the transmission of impeccable action with complete detachment. speaker speaker of the house I mean the speaker of the year oh yeah let's do focus on the third eye and open eyes this way yeah impeccable control falling and just folks whatever I said is not that was just wishy-washy speechy spot It's pish-posh. Pish-posh. But what is of great importance is to sit up straight, to wake up out of your damp-up. By the way, I know you guys had a long day. And I know the energy is really intense.

1:48:15
And so you're like, oh.

1:48:16
Oh.

1:48:16
Oh.

1:48:17
Oh.

1:48:17
Oh. Oh.

1:48:18
That's OK.

1:48:19
The energy is very intense. So that's what happens. But it's because you've come up into it. Like, when you got out of your white belt, yellow belt,

1:48:29
orange belt class, it's a certain way.

1:48:32
But when you come up into green belt, purple belt, those medium belts, it's more intense. There's more workout, there's more techniques, there's more heart kind of thing. So, oh I felt it. It is possible. Or we can sit in silence.

1:49:22
I'm just playing it.

1:49:24
I'm just playing it.

1:49:26
I'm just playing it. Is that too late?

1:49:30
Yeah.

1:49:32
I don't know.

1:49:34
I don't know.

1:49:36
I'm the one you need most.

1:49:38
Today I hope it was broken away.

1:49:40
Can I call him directly?

1:49:42
Yeah, like, can't you connect it directly over there? No, it's impossible.

1:49:48
Everything is impossible. And thus, we must have football. Alright, we're going to flip the script. We're going to do a transmission. And this is a transmission of controlled falling. We're going to sit up nice and straight. Look up here towards me. And relax.

1:50:52
Relax.

1:50:52
We're going to sit to Monument Valley.

1:50:55
So, the the the So, the the the the So, thank you. So Oh, Thank you. You Now I'd like you to bring to mind your greatest suffering, your greatest obstacle. What is it for you?

1:56:06
In this moment, what do you feel? What comes to mind? Might be a friend, a boss, a situation. Might be very existential. Whatever it is, bring it to mind. Now we're going to take that, and we're going to let it dissolve. We're going to throw it in the waste bin of enlightenment. Enlightenment is a big waste bin.

1:57:01
It's a garbage can.

1:57:02
Perfect garbage.

1:57:03
But we're going to let it go together. So, we're going to take this difficulty, this hardship, this pain, and let it go into the universe, into enlightenment. Where in enlightenment, it doesn't mess up enlightenment, because enlightenment is everything. And you having trouble with this thing is just a confusion of enlightenment. But when you can just let it go back into enlightenment, it's natural, it's real. So, I'd like you to just release. Take this problem, this pain, this trouble, this suffering, and just from inside of your heart, just let it go. It will be cast into the waste bin of Nirvana, where nothing exists, where nothing is real, and it's gone. So just for Just for a minute, just feel from your heart, letting go of that pain.

1:58:35
Okay. Okay, very good. So, thank you all very much. It's very beautiful. Meditating tonight. This is the start of a good thing.

1:59:09
Thank you. And be well. Drive home safe. Most important thing. And then Yeah, for those of you who weren't here for the meditation and the Dharma talk for Bodhi Woods, that was a very powerful Dharma talk. I started the intermediate teachings, which I explained in the video. So I think we'll send the video out so that you guys can understand it as well. to the Bodhi-Wisdom Meditation. to the Bodhi-Wisdom Meditation. Thank you all.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
