0:00:00
We're going to start a series of Bodhi Woods workdays. And this is just for whoever wants to come and dig in dirt. We work on Bodhi Woods as a form of karma yoga, where we all get together, or a bunch of us get together, and we work on, you know, maintaining or fixing up our spiritual center, our spiritual retreat in the mountains. And that's kind of fun. You get the hang of it, Hank, after a while. I remember the very first time I had a Bodewoods work day, I just took Lakshman and I said, Lakshman, come here.

0:00:59
He said, here, paint these 200 boards or something. And he was like, what? And I'm like, yeah, yeah, yeah, you can get them all done today. And he was like, what? This is like hard labor. And it is. But then after a while, you know, like I see him coming to the Bodie Woods Workdays, just smiling and having a good time. So that's what we do. We learn to do hard labor and have And then at the Bodhi Woods workdays, at the end, we have a meditation together. And so that's a very special opportunity after that offering of your selfless work to have a high meditation.

0:01:52
So at Bodhi Woods workdays, I do a special meditation. And then after that, we like, you know, like have Chinese food and watch a movie, something like that, if you want to hang around that long. So I'm going to put it up on the next Saturday. So this will be a kickoff and it should be very fun, if you like that sort of thing. Okay, the second announcement is that I'm going to start doing intermediate teachings. Some of the new students here are excelling. They're excelling in the study and they're excelling in their job yoga. And usually I wait until everybody or the critical mass comes up and then I start the intermediate teachings.

0:03:00
But now I have a different way. And that different way is going to be just for whoever wants to do it. Whoever is ready, whoever has the tonal and the financial tonal to do it, can attend the intermediate teachings. In the intermediate teachings, we take your meditation practice from here to here. So meditation practice gets really, really bright, really, really powerful. Also at the intermediate teachings, I teach in a different way. So I have very, very, a very, very new way of teaching.

0:03:56
And when I'm presenting here, I present in a very formal way, a very structured way. It's kind of like karate. Ha! Ha! When I do the intermediate teachings, they're much more second attention. It's much more fluid. It's kind of like Tai Chi. So it is a completely different style of energy and attention and dimensions. And this has evolved from my spiritual transformation before the solstice.

0:04:52
And these dimensions are really fun and accessible to me. So in the intermediate teachings, I'm teaching in this really cool way. And the way is very similar to the last thought song that we had, the online thought song. So that time that you called in, this is where I was teaching those dimensions, but I was still keeping it at a beginning level. So what we're going to do is we're going to go up to the intermediate level, but with that style, because it's fun for me. Gotta have fun. Yeah, so that will be wonderful. Now, to attend the intermediate teachings, they will be once a month as well.

0:05:39
So we'll be doing a Bodhi Woods Workday, and then the next week will be the Intermediate Teachings, and the next week will be a Bodhi Woods Workday, and then the next week will be Satsang here, and we will go that way. So there's a lot of opportunity for teachings and meditation together. So we're able to bring it to a new level. But to attend the intermediate teachings, you have to pay tuition. So the tuition is $700 a month.

0:06:18
It is. Yeah, that's how we pay for stuff. The tuition is just a level of offering that shows that you have interest and selflessness and a strong enough financial tone-out. That tells me that you've developed your career properly. That tells me that you're doing good job yoga, and then you're welcome to come to the intermediate teachings. So currently, you know, all of the meditation teachers are at that level. And if you would like to come up to that level, then you're invited to. It's that simple. And here's the great thing, don't fret.

0:07:16
If you're not at that level of selflessness, interest, and income, you can come here for free. And these are the structured teachings. These will get you to the intermediate teachings as well. It's just that it will take a little bit longer, and some people are already ready. Some people are meditating every day, doing well in their job yoga, finished the Enlightenment workbook, read the job yoga book, and are really on fire to take it to the next level. And for you, it's just your choice if you want to or not.

0:07:55
And otherwise, we'll continue through another cycle of teachings here, we're coming to the end of the job yoga teachings and we're going to be going into the teachings on compassion, the yoga of compassion. So that's an amazing beautiful teaching and that's this is also a very a very fast path like we're getting to compassion pretty quickly. Usually, the job yoga thing will stretch out for a lot longer. But I trust you learn these lessons and you put them to use so that you can take the next step up to practicing the yoga of compassion. Because the yoga of compassion is just amazing. Amazing, beautiful experiences of compassion and transformation. So, we're heading towards that.

0:08:54
So, I think probably next satsang here will be the last satsang on job yoga. And then we're going to be working on the yoga of compassion. We're going to set sail in an ocean of compassion. It's very, very beautiful. It's a whole new world of light and enlightenment. So if you don't attend the intermediate teachings now, after the cycle of compassion, that's when you reach the intermediate level. So that's the path. And you can, you know, join Intermediate Teachings anytime you wish on the way there.

0:09:48
But it's just, if you want it and if you're ready, it's available. Because some people are, and I don't want to hold them back. Ta-da! Very good. All right. So, thank you all very much. It was a pleasure sitting with you today. And we're going to meet back here only for advanced students in half an hour. Advanced students, after a half hour break, we're gonna come back and talk about some advanced practices. And we'll be doing registration on the way back in so that we have to make sure it's only advanced students.

0:10:30
Because some people get confused. They're all, yeah, I was here, like, it's my second time. I get it. Okay, thank you all so much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
