0:00:00
So I thought I would talk about stuck more, to help you get unstuck. I guess there's two ways of getting unstuck. One way is the way of recognition. You say, whoa, I'm stuck, and then you just sit there, and then you recognize that you're not stuck. That's the preferred method, but it's hard to do. And then as karma yogis, there's the other way. You do something. And if you do something, then you can change the situation and realize that the stuck condition is also an impermanent condition. Buddhism is the remedy for being stuck. Really, the pathway to enlightenment is about getting unstuck, unstuck from the self. And the self is stuck. It's stuckness. And the pathway to enlightenment is that process in which we unstuck ourselves. So we get unstuck from our dissatisfactions, unstuck from our suffering, unstuck from our angers or sadnesses, disturbing thoughts. We get unstuck. Your nature is unstuck. And stuck is an illusion. Sometimes a very convincing illusion. But it's an illusion. Being stuck is seeing things incorrectly. It's a perception that is false. Looking at truth and reading it wrong. It's kind of like, let's say you look up at the sky and you see a giant moth. And you're like, Mothra's coming to destroy us! And then you go, oh wait, no, it's just a little moth that landed on my sunglasses.

0:02:51
Right?

0:02:54
So if you're like, oh my gosh, here comes Mothra,

0:02:57
this giant thing, calm down, then

0:02:59
you're not seeing the big picture or anything correctly. And then you start to do, if you don't see things right, then you do actions that don't serve truth, that are not the dharma, where you can lose energy and power because you're doing it wrong.

0:03:19
Yeah, what comes to mind is I remember

0:03:22
seeing some soccer game, football to you Europeans. The soccer game where these two guys were running for the ball. They crashed into each other. One guy got the ball, and somehow he got turned around. And he ran all the way to his goal and scored on his own team from midfield.

0:03:47
And they're like, what are you doing, foul?

0:03:50
I'm going for you.

0:03:51
Yeah, so when you don't see things correctly,

0:03:53
when you're not properly aware of the truth, then you start to do things that don't work. So being stuck, you might be like, oh, I'm stuck in my career, or something like that. Or I'm stuck in, yeah, it might look like a physical thing that you're stuck in. But being stuck is in your head. Then you can free yourself. Here, we'll do an envisioning. See yourself in a straight jacket, like you probably should be wearing sometimes. And also bound in chains and put in a box, sealed, double-chained. The box is put into a ditch, and then somebody starts pouring cement in, so they're covered in cement. So how do you get out of that? You stop imagining it. There, that's it. Liberation. Unstuck. whenever whenever we are stuck we're we're following illusions illusions that we can wake up from we could say hmm you know what I'm doing this because I I have a fear or I have a desire and I say ah this is not real and I should do something that is the Dharma, that's waking up, saying, I'm going to stop imagining why I'm stuck. So stuck is not a thing. So if stuck's not a thing, why do we get stuck? When we have a different idea of what life should be bringing us, we're like, hey, this is happening, but I have a different idea. I don't like this. I like something else. I want something else. And then you find yourself stuck, stuck in self. when you have concepts that conflict with how life is, the nature of life, what's actually true. So sometimes you're like, I want this. I must have this. I must do this. I should have this. I should do that. So when you're in the musts and shoulds and have tos, you're starting to overlay the truth of life with what the self thinks. And that's when you start to get stuck. You get stuck when you are trying to control life. You're like, oh life, go over here. No, no, no, no, come back. I want life here. I want this, I want that. When you're trying to control, then you're overlaying truth with what you want, what the self wants Reminds me of this little video I saw once somewhere this lady was at a wedding going around this big round banquet table and She had this platter of little chocolates or something and she was like putting a chocolate down just so on the plate And like really trying to do it nice and perfectly and pretty. And then there was this little eight-year-old boy walking behind her. And she would put it down perfectly. And she's all placing it, making sure it's perfect. Then she'd move to the next. And the little boy would be all, oh. And he'd go right behind her and just eat it. But she's going around, looking like she's stressing out about doing it perfectly. And the little boy's just following behind. So she's trying to control and do it all perfectly, just the way she wants it. She looks all stressed out. And then we find out that little boy's eating the chocolates. So the lack of control can be pretty sweet.

0:08:17
Control.

0:08:18
When we're overlaying our will, or our desires, or our fears, or our concepts over life, that's when we find ourselves stuck. And you say, oh, it can't be. Like, if this happened, if I got this thing that I wanted, or got to go away from this other stuff that I don't But it is that, that is the self. And when the self starts pulling life, life gets out of balance. And then you find yourself stuck, you're, I would say, leading a mediocre life. Mediocrity is being stuck. So a lot of people do mediocre meditation. They go, okay, I'm going to meditate, turn on some music and just kind of go hmmm, oh wait, touch the chakra, hmmm. And you're just like sitting there, kind of concentrating, kind of focusing, and a lot of people call that meditation. I mean, it's a step towards meditation. But that kind of meditation, you really don't get anywhere. So if you're doing mediocre meditation, I would say you're stuck because meditation is so powerful and bright that it transcends the self. You go out of your limited states of awareness. So don't be mediocre. There's a business story. It was a company called EcoCorp Landscaping. They did landscaping for corporations. And the CEO, I forgot what her name was, she was building this business, and she was a landscaper. So she would go, she had like three teams, and she would go to each project, and she would be like working on it. She'd be like doing most of the work, because she really loved, you know, her business. And she wanted to grow the company, but she found that she was just so immersed in the work. She worked so hard that she was just completely in it. But her business was mediocre, meaning it wasn't growing. She was not making the sales that she wanted. So life changed for her. What happened was one day she broke her arm

0:11:28
and she couldn't do the work.

0:11:29
She couldn't do the work. She couldn't do anything except for sit around and do sales. And then she got a lot more sales, and she had to hire new people. And then she grew her business. It went from like a million dollars to like $50 million in three years, because she stopped being mediocre. She had to have a change. Mediocre. Arby's roast beef sandwich.

0:12:10
Mediocre.

0:12:11
So I don't know if you've ever had one of those.

0:12:14
If you haven't, you don't. But if you have, then you know. So it's just like this very, very mediocre thing. So Wendy's bought Arby's.

0:12:28
And they're like, yeah, OK, we're

0:12:30
going to grow our business. And then the business just wasn't growing. And then so they started doing breakout sessions with the customers, surveys and things. And then we're like, all right, this is our signature sandwich, this roast beef sandwich. And what do you think about it? And everybody was just all, it's OK. I'd be good with a Taco Bell. If I'm hungry and I've got to eat something. So then Wendy's was like, whoa, the food here is flat. Sales are flat. So then they ended up selling it. Selling Arby's back to Arby's. So they were like, this is so mediocre. It's not worth carrying. That's what mediocre is. There was this boss, manager on Wall Street. And he's yelling at one of his employees, he's all like, your work is so mediocre. What's wrong with you? Are you stupid or just apathetic? And then the employee says, I don't know, and I don't care.

0:13:50
Or the IBM ThinkPad.

0:13:54
You guys remember that? Back in the 90s, IBM decided to go into creating PCs and they were like, okay, we're going to make really good laptops and we're going to have really great service. And then we're going to be able to charge a premium for our laptops. And then they found that Dell did the same thing for cheap. And so they're just like, wow, we have a, we don't have a premium product. We have a mediocre product. So then they stopped selling laptops. So in business, if you've got something mediocre, it's just okay, you gotta get out of that business. You got to sell those Arby's and those IBM ThinkPads. You got to get rid of them. If it's not something that's growing, you have to be growing and flowing. Otherwise, you're stuck. So in your Or just go fly Why not yeah, so what do you do when you find that you're stuck? You've got to change something. You've got to do something different. Because if you keep doing the same thing, you're going to get stuck again. People do this with their thoughts. They sit there and they go, oh, I'm angry, and now I'm suffering. Or I'm sad, and I'm suffering. And then they think the same thoughts that made them suffer. And then they do it again, and again, and again. And then you're like, huh, how about, what does that apple say? Think different? Think other? So yeah, it's like, you have to, you have to say, hmm, if this thought is causing me suffering, I have to change it. I can't just sit there going through the same ideas and the same thoughts. You have to start introducing the dharma. It's like in jujitsu. When somebody grabs you, they have force in one way. And if you push against it, they're ready to fight against that. So then we do force in a different way, like a circle. So if the force is this way, then we push it in a different way. You have to try something different. You can't go force against force. You have to use wise techniques of the Dharma to transcend those places where you're stuck.

0:17:07
It's brilliant.

0:17:11
And you've got to do it in the right way. Has to be a way.

0:17:18
Like, if you're doing something and it's not working

0:17:21
and you're stuck, if you decide to do something really stupid that doesn't work, it doesn't make the situation better. It gets worse. So you have to really do things that make sense, things that are actually constructive. Once a monk came over to Buddha and said, I was told, or I overheard some of the arhats talking about this practice that they're doing. So the monk says, so I'm going to do that practice. And then Buddha says, oh, OK. He's like, but maybe you should do the first basic things, because you're a new monk. And the monk's like, no, no, no, no.

0:18:13
I like that.

0:18:13
I'm going to do that. And then the Buddha says, OK, you can do that if you could build me the second floor of a building. And then he's like, OK. But Buddha says, just the second floor. So Buddha was saying, you know, do something in a way that works. Have a foundation, a first floor, then a second floor, then you can work on the second floor. So you got to do things that work, things that are balanced, things that make sense, and if sense that if you do something, then it's good. So it's really important to recognize that it's probably going to be hard. When we're expecting things to be easy, then we face hardship, and then we're like, oh my gosh, this isn't easy. Something must be wrong. Actually, when it's hard and it's not easy, then that's right. That's the way it is. Henry Ford said, he was having a hard time in his business. And at some point, he was talking to a friend. And he said, you know, this is really tough, but an airplane takes off going into the wind, against the wind, not with it.

0:19:47
It's true. Buddha said that, too.

0:19:49
Buddha said that Buddhism goes against the flow. The flow is the flow of karma, the flow of society, the flow of self. And Buddhism goes against the flow. So when you're meditating and it's hard, yeah, it's hard. But that's good, because you're going against the flow. The flow of thoughts, the flow of self, the flow of karma. And when you are not a mediocre meditator, to be a mediocre meditator you just have to sit there and just kind of think. To break out of mediocrity, you wake up. You can be a beginner and not be mediocre at meditation. It means that you're practicing awakened attention. So when it's hard, and there's thoughts and there's feelings, you say, I'm focusing on the light, I'm focusing on the chakra. you get your second attention to wake up. And then you transcend your suffering and your limited states of consciousness. Let's try meditation together. Where it's not a practice of mediocre meditation, but awakened meditation. And let's sit for just one song, any song.

0:21:37
just one song, any song. Oh. the the the the Thank you. Oh, the the the the the the the the the the the Ah, yes. ah yes quite a difference see this is how we learn to meditate by not being When you're experiencing being stuck, it kind of feels like it's impossible to get out. Like that stuck condition is going to last forever. But that's not true.

0:25:30
You have to remember Buddha's teaching, right? Buddha's teaching of the third noble truth, you know, that is that suffering ends. First noble truth, there's suffering. Second noble truth, there's a cause. The third noble truth, the suffering eventually ends. So what you do while you're suffering or you're stuck really matters, because if you have that perspective that this is transient, it will end. And if I follow the eightfold path, the Buddhist teachings, that's what brings me to the end of the suffering. really matters, because if you have that perspective that this is transient, it will end. And if I follow the eightfold path, the Buddhist teachings, that's what brings me to the end of the suffering. Voila! Okay. Thank you all very much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
