0:00:00
... with meditation. Okay? But for real, you guys are all like sleepy, fuzzy heads, which happens for a while, but at some point, you gotta wake up. Right? You guys are wishy-washy with your whole, you know, bleh, bleh, bleh, bleh, bleh, bleh.

0:01:09
And I understand that, and that happens for a while, but after a while it doesn't happen anymore, and I'm an example of that. So that's why I'm going to sit with you, just to give you a little bit of support. But, you know, I know that it happens for a while, so that's okay. But I'm here to be the baseline of practice, so that you can refer to me. And when we sit together, actually, you should just be fine. You can just be fine. You can just be like, whoosh, right? And that's great. But if you feel a little bit of like, August and difficulty and stuff like that, then the underlining feeling here is going to be that I'm going to do this perfectly. It's really hard for me because it's really cute when I started doing it with you, I'm all like, oh yeah, let's do that again. I'm all sweaty. And I'm like, wait, wait, wait, I've got to come back. I've got to come back to give you guys that doorway. So it's really funny to me but I'm happy to do it. It's cute. So if you have any confusion or delusion or feel August or like that, then don't worry. Just try to, because I guarantee you I'm not going to leave you. I'm going to be like right there and just and I'm very strong. So let everything go away and if you have a difficult feeling or uncertainty, try to come back to where I'm showing this and you'll feel it and you don't have to have the most amazing meditation in the universe. Just be in this and it's the right thing. All right, we're gonna sit for a little while, maybe 15, 20 minutes. We're just going to do the practice together. And as I love to say, let's begin.

0:05:05
Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay, very nice. So tonight I was talking about being stuck. And in the advanced teachings you can get stuck, as well as the beginning

0:13:48
teachings and the intermediate teachings, advanced teachings, and then when my teacher passed away, then I got stuck. I knew everything, got all the teachings, but I stopped believing that I could be enlightened, and I stopped letting nothing stop me to my enlightenment. I said, I don't know, I had all sorts of concerns, but my teacher died, so I should go somewhere else and try to find a teacher, all sorts of things. Whatever thoughts a self has, I had those thoughts. So I got stuck. And when I was stuck, I didn't move forward. But eventually, I recognized those teachings, that I can be enlightened, and that no matter what, even the absence of my teacher, I shouldn't stop for anything else. I shouldn't seek for anything else. That only enlightenment is what will be freeing for my spirit. So I was stuck for like seven months, and being stuck for seven months after the advanced teachings is, I call it negligence. It means that you're off.

0:16:02
Totally off.

0:16:04
And when you're off, you don't feel good. When you're on the advanced teachings, even if nothing happens for months, you feel very good. It's a nothing happening of happiness. It's a nothing of ecstasy. So you know when you're miserable. And if you're unstuck, then you're following the teachings and everything flows. Even if you're totally lame, everything flows. In the advanced teachings, you're given that opportunity to be a cockroach of enlightenment, but like a flowing cockroach, flowing down a river to a gutter to die, and it's bliss. Yeah, so, you have to let go of the self charge. The self wants an experience, it wants an awareness, it wants a level of attainment and it's wondering where it's at. of the self, you've got to get to a deeper connection in your spirit of being beyond desire and aversion and wanting enlightenment more than the self. And then when you want enlightenment more than the self and you meditate, you seek that, you go beyond self-awareness to a very deep place, and you go into, whether you have samadhi or not samadhi, you're happy. It's very beautiful. Whether it's the second dhyana or the fourth dhyana, it doesn't matter. all of the structures that we've talked about. And I know I've talked about, you know, the structures of the Dhyanas and Samadhis and stuff, and yeah, they're real and stuff, but this is just direct experience beyond any, if you start trying to classify where you're at, eh, eh, after the fact. But if you're like, I'm trying to get to this, and am I there? Don't do that. Doesn't matter. Just meditate the best you can. Go for enlightenment. Don't worry if you got to the fourth samadhi or to a, you know, I don't know, don't worry about what level you get to. Those are only ways of understanding. Don't try to grade yourself at this point. Just go for enlightenment. And then if you ask me, did I get to the third Dhyana or is that Samadhi? I'll be like, who cares? At this point, who gives a shit? Just go for enlightenment, and then you'll know. And if you're looking for markers on the way, there's markers on the way. But if you're looking for the markers, then you missed the way. Just go for enlightenment. You have the technique, and it's powerful. Just do that. And don't be so concerned about measuring where you're at. We'll talk more about the markers on the way, but don't be concerned with the markers. They're just acknowledgments. But if you want those, and if you're so concerned about them, then you'll miss everything. So just do the meditation. Just sit up straight. Just ah hum om, ah hum om. That's the grace of the universe and the special secret sauce of our lineage. It's so special. It's special. I mean, there might be a special sauce on a Big Mac, which is like ketchup, mayo, and relish, I think it is. And so it's like, yeah, that's a special sauce. Lettuce, cheese, pickled onion on a sesame seed bun. That's a special sauce. Lettuce, cheese, pickle, onion, sesame seed bun. And then they might have that in all the spiritual texts, but there's something very, very magical about this teaching that brings a radical truth that breaks out of every idea. We have these ideas. There's some mantras, and there's some chakras, and there's some meditation, but this is a radical truth that we can experience through this practice that is something extremely liberating, truly, authentically liberating. And I know that it's been an August, and I know that on the way in this practice that there's some hardship and some difficulty. And by doing this practice, it brings up your deepest samskaras. So it's like, an aspect of it is, now I can finally meditate, and now I go into deep dhyanas, and wow, after a while I go into samadhis, and then samadhis very often. But even after a lot of samadhis, and you're very close to enlightenment, then you hit, and on the way there, you hit some very, very, very deep samskaras. And on the edge of enlightenment, you hit the deepest, deepest of deepest samskaras. And you have a lot of momentum after going to samadhi a lot, and you're pretty blissed out, but you face the most intense stuff. And it's not easy, even after going into salvakappa samadhi a thousand times. It's the ultimate of the ultimate. But then, you're ready for it. But on the way there, you also face the ultimate of the ultimate. The advanced teachings is not shying away from reality. It's not saying, oh, now I got the secret magical abracadabra and I should be like all Shazam from here. Yeah it is that but it's that with responsibility. You say if I've got the Shazam then I have to face life and that Shazam has to work. That magic, that power, it has to be real. And I have to accept responsibility for that and make it real. And if you don't do that, if you conceptualize practice, if you don't believe in your enlightenment and you will settle for everything else, then that mantra doesn't liberate you. But if you recognize that that is a mantra for very magical liberation, and you know that you can be enlightened, and that you won't settle for anything else. I mean, it's powerful. Even in the hardest times, a difficult August, yeah, this August was pretty sucky. Or the or the difficult karmas that come up in your life. Take them, open to them, let them happen and practice. Maybe a little bodhicitta as well. you think very logically that the way that you see things is good and bad and that you know that there's these horrible things or these good things you don't like that person you like this person and if you look at life from that You are caught up in self and you are miserable.

0:26:54
And that's the way of self.

0:26:56
And I believe, I believe you with all my heart that you think your suffering is real. And you think the causes of your suffering is real. I know you believe it. I know it. I know it's very, very painful and that those things are real to you. You're like, Oh, but I've got all these reasons. I've got 99 reasons. It's true. I'm not kidding around for all of you. And those things are the definition of self and suffering, but it's the definition of self that causes suffering. So when you find yourself in the advanced teachings blaming and bothered, you got to really double-check yourself and say, is that for real? Is that anything Buddha taught? That that motherfucker's wrong and I hate his guts? No. And you didn't listen to the thousand times where I said, don't blame another person and look at your own outlook. Because if your outlook is an enlightened outlook, you're not going to blame another person. You're going to lift that other person up. If you're in the advanced teachings and you're still blaming other people,

0:28:45
press on.

0:28:47
It's not going to work. Might as well give up. I'll walk outside of the yurt, go hang out with those millennials and just see what happens.

0:29:04
I don't know.

0:29:07
She's a group. Go out and hang out with anyone. Donald Trump supporters. Follow a karma if you believe it. Or if you don't like the Donald Trump supporters because they're bad, then you have to fight against them. So it's like, oh, I'm a good person and they're bad, so So, let's kill the killers. That's where you end up when you believe one way or another. If someone's killing you, harming you, and you're a victim and you have to fight back, let's go kill the killers. Let's murder the killers. And guess what? You're the same as them. When you're the person hated on, and you hate back, then you're a hater yourself. You've joined them. Someone wants to fight you in the gutter, and you join them, you're in the gutter, fighting. There's a higher way. That's just the way of spiritual enlightenment. See, this is the self-dose. The self wants to go into so much self-reaction, to the point of hatred, rejection of truth. What are you going to do? If that's the way you want to follow, you want to go and kill the killers? You want to be a victim who has to fight back and murder the people who are suppressing you? That's a very low karma, but if that's what you want to do, you can do it. It's a low karma. Does that make you enlightened? Let's go kill the killers. Let's go wrong the people who've wronged us. You're playing in karma. You're not coming out of karma.

0:31:29
We do this in so many ways. Bothered by this person, bothered by that person.

0:31:36
Judgment of this person, judgment of that person. You cannot be so bothered by people. If you want to follow the advanced teachings, you're just going to practice compassion for people. You're not going to touch people, try to manipulate people, try to create structures for people to follow, try to push power for people. If that's what you're caught up in,

0:32:12
it's not enlightenment.

0:32:13
If that's what you do in a detached way, as your yoga, your expression, then that's powerful. If you're caught up in any of that, there's no enlightenment for you.

0:32:29
The most noble

0:32:31
yoga ideal, the most powerful yoga, if you're caught up in it, there's no enlightenment for you. Check yourself before you wreck yourself. Like really look at it, like, I've got a powerful yoga. How selfless am I? Even if I'm powerful, how selfless am I? I have a yoga where I really believe in this cause. Are you gonna believe in that cause until you burn in hell? It happens. People believe in the most noble causes until they find themselves reborn in hell. They think it's the most noble cause. They were saving their people. They were doing the most noble thing and then they incarnate in hell. Because the ego, the ego thought it was the most noble thing. Follow the ego. Just like there's people who blow themselves up in the name of the religion that they believe is the biggest thing. The people who go into wars for decades, who killed millions of people in the name of they think it's their religious thing, they think it's their social thing, they think it's their, I don't know, whatever the fuck they think it is. Right? Well, I'm this nationality, so I have to kill that one. I'm this nationality, so I'm oppressed by that one. So I must fight and kill and react.

0:34:30
Or let's just call it react.

0:34:32
Someone has to jihad us because of their reaction. But we're fucking assholes too. But just because the man puts it on you doesn't mean that you go and fight like crazy and react and go crazy because of the man. Did Obama do that? No. He's all, I'm a black man and the man in America pushes the black man down. Am I going to be like, I'm all complaining and shit? No. He has to be powerful. Did he sit there and go, I'm complaining? No. And that would be weak. And because someone, even in an intense cultural situation, hurts you, for you to be reactive, unharmful, and caught up in the karma is weak. You have to be elevated and successful. That's what's powerful. You can't be caught up in the push and shove. You have to be a leader to show away that's higher. You can't get boggled down in your karmas. I'm talking about like, you know, societal things. The Jews and the jihadis. I'm talking about you. You can't get caught up in small views, little ways of, oh I can't because I'm stuck this way or that way. There's no way of getting stuck. There's no stuck. That's what I was talking about. Fuck stuck. There's no stuck. Stuck is a limited way of viewing things. Like, let's say President Obama was like, I want to be president. But then he looked at everything in ways where he couldn't use his resources, his time, his energy, his awareness, his focus in the right way. If he spread it out over all these other attached concerns or social rules and limitations, he would never be president. But he was a black man in America who focused properly and highly intelligently to be successful. So we people who did something amazing and against the odds, like an underdog, and say, that was a noble way, a way where someone cast off all sorts of ideas and really went for the goal and declared themselves and exemplify themselves as a person of significance and power by doing that and not limitation. So whatever your limitations are, you're mad at someone, waste of energy. You feel limited by your situation in your job, in your society, with your friends, in your house, I don't care what. Limitation. You're going to suck up limitation and suck up, I don't like this, I feel weak. Then you're being an asshole.

0:39:16
You're like, it's really hard and I don't like it.

0:39:20
It should be better, it should be this way. Fuck you, asshole. You're being a fucking asshole. If you want enlightenment, that's not a question anymore. You've got to go beyond your wimpy prerogative. Fuck you.

0:39:42
Like, grow up and see the way it fucking is.

0:39:45
I don't like it when people put dishes in,

0:39:47
dirty dishes in the sink. So what? Fuck you. What are you going to do?

0:39:53
Waste your enlightenment on worrying about shit like that? Waste your enlightenment on, I don't like it because she said this to me. Fuck you. Like, if you're gonna be a bunch of petty bitch-ass niggers, then fuck you. If you can't get over your pettiness, you're not going to be enlightened. You'd rather have pettiness than enlightenment. And I guess, you know, I've been putting up with it for this long, so I'll still sit with you, but let's just be honest, you don't really want enlightenment. And that's cool. Just know that for yourself. Don't complain to me about bullshit. I'll say, okay, you come to me with a whole bunch of karma bullshit stories, and I'll be like, okay, what am I going to say? Fine, I guess you don't want to be enlightened, because you're complaining. Okay, fine. I accept that. Do you want me to solve it? Fuck you.

0:41:26
I might play a game with you for a little while, but

0:41:30
I'm just gonna tell you honestly, if you've got a problem in your head, fuck you. You're an asshole. And if that's the way you want to remain, I got lots of asshole students. I got you. I got the introduction students, the beginning students. I got brand new students. I got new intermediate students. I'm like, hey, um, yeah, I, I eat, dream and sleep and shit this all the time. And it used to be difficult for me, but now I'm fine with it. So it's up to you. I gave you the real teachings. You want it? You can have it. You don't want it? Keep bitching to me. And guess what? I don't give a shit. I really don't, and I never did. But I gave you the right teachings, and if you want enlightenment, you'll be...

0:42:49
You know what?

0:42:50
There's a lot of ST1s and ST2s who are not enlightened. And if you want to complain in your fucking mind about whatever you want to complain about, I will have no complaint about that. I gave you the chance and the opportunity. It's cool. It's cool with me.

0:43:07
You don't want enlightenment?

0:43:08
You don't have to have it. But enlightenment's real. And I gave you the real teachings. You want to, like, bitch, complain, blame me and everything? Fine, do it. I don't believe it for a second. But at the same time, enlightenment's real. And then the advanced teachings? It's glorious. It's amazing. Drop the bullshit.

0:43:47
Fuck rap.

0:43:52
I'm like an addict with a semi-automatic. So, yeah, man. It's like, wake up. That's what the advanced teachings is, it's to wake the fuck up. And when you see yourself bitching out and running into the old scenarios and finding yourself stuck, it's to wake up and say, I recognize I'm stuck. I recognize I'm stuck with this, this, this, and this, and in so many ways. And if you don't wake up to what's happening, you'll just remain there. You can get the most advanced teachings from Buddha and Pradmasambhava and everybody else, and the ones that you can Google on the Internet. If you don't practice it, if you don't live it, if you don't wake up and make the advanced teachings your life, then nothing is going to fucking happen. So I'm here as living proof, like Eric Cartman in that one, you know,

0:45:15
I'm living proof, you can live your dreams.

0:45:18
He started eating too much and he thought that he was becoming buff, but he just became big fat ass. Okay, if you don't know that, that's a joke. Okay, but I'm here as honest litmus test. I've done it and it's real. And other people have done it in our sangha and it's real. And other people have done it outside of our sangha and it's real. But you can't fuck around. If you want to fuck around and you come to me with all sorts of bullshit, and you will, you're gonna come to me... when you guys start to hit your like deep When you guys start to hit your deep samskaras, you have avocado and kale salad. At this point, I'm very dispassionate. If you don't give a shit, you don't want enlightenment, I don't give a shit either. But when you come to me with your deepest samskaras, I will tell you the truth. And it will happen. So the cool thing is that I get to hang around. My teacher, Ram, is all like, here's the EDS teachings. And he's all, fuck you guys. Which is good. And I'm all like, oh shit, I have to hang around for this. That's going to be a huge pain in the ass. Because one, you guys are just in baby steps, baby steps, just started. You got to really focus on meditation practice and go into high states of mind. But after you start going to Samadhi a lot, then that's when the intense, like some scars start to be like huge, you get to the deepest, deepest, deepest, deepest parts of the self. The big, the big fucking baby, my mommy didn't love me enough, you motherfucker. And the places where you guys have been hurt the deepest in your in your lives, you're robbed me. What did Buddha say? Abandon such thoughts and live in love. And you guys are gonna come up with every fucking, every single one of you, you motherfuckers, are gonna come up with like the biggest samskara and you're You're going to throw it on me because I'm still here. So, you know, the intermediate teaching is huge. Like, interesting beginners to me, I'm like, they're going crazy. Like the beginning students are all, oh, they're going crazy. And I'm like, it's cool, hammer. But then when someone becomes an intermediate student, it's very, very, very, very deep. And so it's like, oh, that was really hard for me for a long time. And in advanced teachings, you guys are going to come to me with the end of the world, the end of the universe as you know it. And I'm not fucking around in any way. And I'm going to tell you the truth, and I don't give a shit what you do with it. You want to fuck it up. They had this enlightened master, gave them the teachings of enlightenment, told them exactly how to become enlightened, and they go, no, I have a different idea. And you guys are going to do that to me, and I'm going to tell you the truth, and I'll say, you want to go think your thought, do your thing, suffer what you want to suffer, do it. I'm fine with whatever you want to do. But if you want to listen, I'm pointing the way to enlightenment. And I teach you enlightenment. And if you follow the teachings that I've already given you, you'll be enlightened. I don't even have to do anything else. It's like if I disappear, if you believe my teachings, if you follow the teachings, you'll be enlightened. But it's helpful if I'm here, because there's some difficulties. You come to me and you'll say, oh, how about this? And I'll be like, yeah, yeah, yeah. And if you listen to me, yeah. But then, you know, I'm just anticipating a shitload of everybody's full samskara coming at me. And I'm like, yeah, okay, whatever. I'll do it. But I'm doing it for real. When you guys are in introductory students, I'm all, oh look, if you do a little push push on the computer and a kick kick with the feet and you do do do do do right and then intermediate students I'm all like oh it's powerful to do powerful things and then when you're an advanced student I'm like yeah all those things from the beginning and the intermediate they're good but now we're just down to the real, which is very simple. Rule number one, believe you can be enlightened. Rule number two, don't settle for anything else. And if you do those two things, and this meditation practice, you will be enlightened. It's as easy as that. But when you come to me and you go, well, I have this other idea that I can't meditate because of this or I don't like that person and or whatever you keep coming up with stuff I'm like okay so where where do you not believe you can be enlightened where where do you want to stop you want to stop being angry at somebody okay you want to stop there we can stop there you can stop there I didn't stop there and I was angry as motherfucker at people. I was angrier at people than you. But I moved beyond it. I didn't let that stop me. I was the... some of you are a little bit angry. I was an angry motherfucker. My anger level was higher than anyone in this room. Just karmically and shit. Like I was fucking pissed off. Just to say, I mean just to say like I had a bigger anger problem than anyone here. Some of you have, everyone's got their big ego problem in their way, but I had a big problem.

0:53:08
When the advanced teachings came,

0:53:10
I was like, thank you, I never want to go back. But you assholes love to go back. So, you want to be an asshole and go back into suffering? You don't want enlightenment? It's cool, you don't have to have it. Just know what you're choosing. That's cool. Just agree when you choose it that that's what you want. When you get pissed off, say, yeah I guess I'm experiencing that so I guess I'd rather have that. Am I listening to the teachings of enlightenment? No, because I'd rather be pissed off. So is that going to create my enlightenment? Not according to the teachings, but I'm happy being pissed off, or I'm allowing myself to be pissed off. I'm settling for being pissed off. That's what you want to do. awareness, your mind. So, once you become an advanced student, I'll let you, I have nothing to say. You want to ask me, why I'm so mad about this person? What's that person doing to me? I don't care, it's just karma. That person could hit you over the head with a sledgehammer and you could be out but they did that to me and I'm all like well what are you doing? Are you enlightened? They could strike your body down and I'll be like I don't care about causality. Are you finding enmity, blaming them, or you become enlightened. You can get hit in the head with an axe and decide to become enlightened. It's true. So it's like, what do you want to do? You want to stay in karma and complain to me about karma? Are you kidding? I don't give a fuck. You're going to continue to do this with me, I know. You're going to come to me with your biggest amscaras. You're going to try to paint it in all sorts of pictures of how it should make sense. And this is a game I play with you as an intermediate student. But as an advanced student, I don't give a fuck. And I'll still play games with you, because you'll forget. But I don't give a fuck. You don't want enlightenment, you don't want enlightenment. And so, then I'll play games with you. And try to help you out. Try to see. I'm laser-focused on enlightenment for you. Shiva was here for the past three weeks. We were doing a big cleanse for him. We did a liver cleanse and we did vegetables and stuff like that. He's trying to be healthy. He's like, I only have three or four years left. He's like, I need to be healthy to be able to spread the Dharma. So, we've been meeting every day and doing this cleansing. It's very beautiful and very amazing. And he's just all like, Tamar, you've got to kick these motherfuckers out. And I'm playing through your games and that I honestly and deeply are showing you the truth so I'm capable of that like you guys will forget. You'll be like, hey what about this drama? And I'll be like, okay well let's look at it logically. But honestly, knowing that you can become enlightened and wanting enlightenment more than anything else should be the prime directive of your existence. And if you judge everything by those two things, you shouldn't have a lot of confusion. You should have a lot of enlightened direction that I don't need to give you. You shouldn't be all, hey, tomorrow at work, what should I do? Hey, that person pisses me off. Hey, I'm suffering here. I'm suffering there like That just tells me two things. You don't believe you can be enlightened and you're and you're settling for everything else Think about that because that's the only way for liberation if you Are stopping for anything then you're not going to get there. You don't believe, you're not going to get there. And if you... It'd be really good for you to be self-honest and look at your complaints and say, I have all this shit going on, all this reaction, and what am I doing? Am I believing I can be enlightened? Am I settling for anger, enmity, confusion, delusion. No. If I want it, I can have it. And the greatest difficulties, Buddha sitting under the Bodhi tree, had the greatest difficulties. It's not your story. Before enlightenment, you get hit with 10,000 universes of the most and greatest intensity, not just self-karmas. He had this army, these warriors shooting arrows at him, and he had the women who were trying to attract him, the fires and the demons and all this stuff going on. That's what happens. And the ego will fight to the death, which will trick you into going into self, unless you go beyond the ego. So everything that you complain about, yeah that happens. But you got to get past self-complaints, you got to get to the archetypal complaints, the intensities of life, like in the Bardo's. So it's like you're all like, oh I think this, I don't like this person, mew mew mew. That's all bullshit, that's all self. Get past that shit. And then when you get past that, then deeper archetypes of shit happens. Like in the bardos, it's like you go into the third bardo and life is like, and you're like, if you can't handle it, you've run off into karma. But if you want enlightenment, you're like, then the next it's Buddha sitting under the tree. He was beyond his personal predilections and personal I like this and this hurts me and I don't like that person and she said this to me. He was beyond that and then all of a sudden it's like war, sexual desire, like the most intense primal things happen to you before liberation. So you gotta get over your petty bullshit because that's karma. And then you get to the most intense realities of existence. And then you have to be so beyond that. And that comes from Sava Kapha Samadhi. from Salva Kamsa Mati. But if you're sitting there arguing your baby bullshit with me, you're never fucking close. You're totally choosing that and you're never gonna get there. You're gonna be like, I don't like it because of her. I don't like it because of him. He said that to me and I think this about that. I'm all like, fuck you. That's the best you can do? That's what you're gonna do with the advanced teachings? Then I'll play with you like a kid. That's my controlled folly. I'll be like, okay, let me talk to you this way, help you out that way. You're never gonna be enlightened. Let me talk to you this way, help you out that way. You're never gonna be enlightened. You're gonna be a pampered child where we're just coming up to things where you can be a little bit balanced with your ego, with your gentle sensitivities. And you'll grow and learn. You won't be enlightened, but it helps you. It definitely elevates you, teaches you. And many people get the advanced teachings, even in this school, and they don't achieve enlightenment. That's okay. They learn things. They got the chance once. They weren't up to it. So, if that's what you want to do, And I'm apparently going to be here either way, but I'm going to tell you the truth, and I'll play with you like a baby, if that's what you want to be played like. But I will also say, hey, this is what's real. Thank you. Thank you. a storm. But you guys keep it cool. Oh, did I have this on the whole time? Oops.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
