0:00:00
This decision is final. We have awarenesses of times, places, inner worlds, different different dimensions, different transits occur. And we are in a time of a powerful transit. It's been a miracle in the 19th century. So, with awareness of this time and inner dimensions, and the upcoming ends of my trip, I'm able to leave a beautiful tapestry of Dharma. It's really fun. Or, if my mother was here, she'd be knitting, getting a good sock of Dharma. So it's really beautiful, what's happening. So it's really beautiful what's happening.

0:01:17
And so I wanted to offer support for that. Support for your enlightenment. To share this time. When the center door opens, it's more like a building of a wave. It's like if you're a surfer, somehow you have this amazing ability to say, that's a wave. Anybody else will look at it and go, see, it's very flat. But you're like, but that's a wave. You're like, great, he's not coming. Right now, it's in the beginning. We've already been surfing, but this is a very, very, very, very beautiful place.

0:02:15
So, to support you in your paddling, you can catch the sliders, because that's what you have to do. and paddling is tiring. I remember when I was in Hawaii and I was learning surfing for the first time. I was out, yeah, this is fun. And then after a while, I'm like, ow! I never knew I had muscles there. I was like, afterwards I'm all sore. So, we're exercising some muscles, spiritual muscles. It's painful, difficult, but it's beautiful. And it helps you to catch this wave. So, tonight I'm going to offer a teaching. It's called the teaching of the great perception. And this is a tantra teaching.

0:03:24
I'm like edging you guys towards more interesting teachings. But we'll see. I'll make it useful. There's many dimensions to teaching. There's many dimensions to teaching. I can always teach the four double truths, but I can teach it in many dimensions. For the beginner and for the advanced. So, many dimensions. So, to begin in the tantra of the pre-perception, we have to have a proper recognition of the We have to have a proper recognition of ourselves. We get caught up in a lot of confusions and illusions, and we suffer from that. our true nature, that all of the dramas and experiences of the transient world are very small compared to our greater awareness. In Tibetan Buddhism, they say that this is mirror-like This is mirror-like wisdom.

0:05:20
And the lesson in that is to be the mirror and not the reflection. If you hold a mirror up to a war, a battle, in that mirror you can see a whole battle happening. In that mirror, you can see a whole battle happening. You hold that mirror up to a beautiful beach where people are partying, and in the reflection of that situation, that's what you'll see. Everything in the universe can be reflected through that mirror. So the teaching is to recognize that you are the mirror and not the reflection.

0:06:11
And when you look at the reflection it seems so real, like that's what's going on. But the truth is that you're the mirror that reflects everything in the universe. I got a better idea. I got a better idea. This is an antiquate mirror thing. I'm going to send this out and they're like, this is a mirror. I've got more up to date. You are the Oculus. Not the virtual reality.

0:06:48
Not the virtual reality. It works better. If you guys haven't tried virtual reality, it is so fun. I stay and play with my Oculus. And the thing is, you put the Oculus on, and then all of a sudden, you're in a totally different reality. And it's completely immersive. and it's completely immersive. And when you're in that reality, you believe it. You're like, wow.

0:07:26
It really, really puts your awareness into that place, whatever place it is. Even if it's like really like silly, weird world where things are like clunky and simple, you're like, oh, I'm really here. for things that are clunky and simple, you're like, oh, I'm really here. You transcend this physical reality, and your mind goes into a different dimension. So in VR, I have done a racing game.

0:07:58
Satori. Satori beat me. We were racing together. Tori P. Ealy. We were all reading together. And I was all like, this virtual reality is too fake. And it was like, the guy at the virtual reality playground said, do that game after a few others. He's all, I'm telling you from experience. I'm telling you from experience.

0:08:26
Because it's like you're racing down this track really fast. You go, whoa! It's so wild. And they didn't have a roller coaster there, but I hear the roller coaster. It's so wild. And it's just really immersive. And you could be going down a roller coaster going, ah! You can be driving on a racetrack going, ah! You can be driving on a racetrack going, ah, ah, ah, crashing and stuff.

0:08:52
And you're like, how am I gonna run into that thing here? Ah, ah, ah. Okay, so then you're like, but you don't get hurt, but you're still like, I'm in there, give me that. So, the truth of your being is that you're the oculus and not the myriad of virtual realities the myriad of virtual realities that totally absorb your attention and awareness. So, if you truly are aware that you're the occulence, and not those things that come in front of you, then you have some peace and separation.

0:09:37
But if you're immersed in what you're seeing and hearing, But if you're immersed in what you're seeing and hearing, then you're in the transition life. Transition life. So we look at our lives and we say, oh, I've got to pay this bill, I've got this trouble at work, I've got this trouble with this person, I've got this trouble. I've got this trouble with this person. I've got this trouble. I've got all these things that are difficult. And we believe it.

0:10:10
We're like, oh, this is real. I really don't like the way that person talks to me. I really am scared of this. I really, you know, want that. I want that money in the virtual world. Yeah. Right? We really believe that. Right? We really believe that.

0:10:29
But the truth is that all of that is an illusion, Mike. A useless reflection on the mirror. Like virtual reality. You really, really, really believe it. It's very compelling. This, knock on wood, is very compelling. This is as a virtual reality. This is something that our minds believe. But if you really are aware of your eternal being, then you see that this is transient. And you see that this is transient.

0:11:17
It's a reflection in the mirror. It's a virtual reality, an experience that's immersive, but can change, you know, okay, I'm gonna go from a race car to a haunted house. I like the haunted house. I'm like, oh, somebody's sneaking up behind me. It's really cool. It's really cool. This is such an immersive experience, this reality, that we think it's real. And it is real, just a little bit.

0:11:54
But when you're that mirror that can respect every single thing in life, when you're that oculus that can have 10,000 different virtual realities, in different virtual realities, then you say, oh, these realities are so immersive and never end. They just go on forever. They are transient. But that oculus that shows everything that contains everything, that accommodates everything. That's real. That's you. You have an observer that observes everything that you do.

0:12:47
You are the observer that observes everything that you do. You are the observer who observes everything that exists. An observer that is separate from thought. An observer that is not tied to any incarnational condition, any karma. It observes all karmas. It observes all phenomena. The beach, the war, every Oculus game, every VR. game, every VR. It observes everything. So you're the octopus. All of those dramas, all of those games, those are transient. So, if you get stuck in a game that is war, you're not the war. If you get stuck in a game that is a beach party, You're not the war. If you get stuck in a game that is a beach party, you're not the beach party.

0:13:44
If you get stuck in a haunted house, you're not a haunted house. And when you see yourself go, Oh, I'm afraid! Oh, I don't want to get hurt! Oh, I want to party! You're not that either. You're not your reactions to this stimulus. reactions to this stimulus. You're just the oculus itself. So the oculus has no judgment. The oculus can experience a haunted house or a beach park.

0:14:38
For the oculus, it doesn't care. transients things don't matter. They're just transient. But if you're living in the transients, you're so focused on that being real and trying to get ahead in every one of the games that keeps changing, then you're caught up in, a little beach party game. And you don't, uh, you don't understand, you don't get to the essence of who you are. The awareness that observes all things in the universe.

0:15:32
When you cast your, your being into a game, and you think that your being into a game and you think that getting the gold coins is good, staying away from this is bad, doing this is good, then you're putting your being into transience. compared to your true nature, which is Oculus. So the Oculus accepts everything. There's nothing good or bad for the Oculus. Beach party game, haunted house game, doesn't matter.

0:16:21
The Oculus is beyond good and bad. good and bad. It's like if you're in an event hall. Saturday night, it's a big wedding party, wedding reception. Everyone's having a jolly time. On Sunday night, it's a funeral. The hall doesn't care. doesn't care. It lets everything come in and play out, go away, and the next thing comes in and plays out. See, when we are throwing ourselves, believing the game, then we are believing that there is good and there is bad.

0:17:12
And we have to kind of like, And we have to kind of like work with that. Because when that's only our reality, and we don't really know what it is to be the object, we have to start seeing through good and bad. We have to start seeing, oh wait, this is bad, I don't want it. But there's a way to understand that bad thing and see that it can lead to something good. thing and see that it can lead to something good.

0:17:41
And we also have to see that good things are also limitations. But bad things tend to be first and most important thing to get over. So there was a woman in South China. and she was just walking down the street and then there's this little old monk walking by and then she goes over to the monk and she brings him some food and he's like, well... and he says to her, I haven't done the teaching for you and she's like, okay Okay. He says to transcend that you have to go beyond. And so you're free from the harm karma. So she says, oh, okay, how do I go beyond the self? And then he teaches her meditation.

0:18:59
He says, focus on your third eye and forget everything else in the world. No matter what comes up, forget it. Just focus there. You know, so she's like, oh, okay. So she takes you know, so she's like, oh, okay. So she takes that in very deeply. Few days later, she's walking through a jungle because why not? I don't know why, but anyway, walking through a jungle and then she sees that a tiger is stalking her she sees that a tiger is stalking her and she sees that it's closing in on her, it tries to get away but it comes closer and then she picks up some rocks and throws the rocks at the tiger and yells at it, then it backs away a little bit and then she tries to get away but gets closer, then she picks up more rocks, yells at it, throws the rocks, and backs away a little bit And then she's like, I'm caught up in some bad karma.

0:20:07
And then she said, oh, that happy little Buddhist monk guy told me to wait now. Told me, focus on here, no matter what's going on. So she goes, got nothing to lose, except for to do that completely. Because at this rate, this tiger is going to get me eventually. So she sits down, and she meditates completely, totally focused. Completely forgets about the tiger and everything. And then she has a satori moment. She goes into samadhi. She sees everything. She realizes God consciousness.

0:20:48
She realizes God consciousness and is awakened. And then she opens her eyes and the tiger is gone. So that was a bad situation for her. That would be a bad situation for anyone. And it's a situation that is within karma. that is within karma. That you can transcend karma. When you see the truth. And what she did was she saw the truth. She transcended the karmas of this reality.

0:21:29
And somehow that magically makes things change in this reality. When you can see the truth, that vast truth, When you can see the truth, that vast truth, there is protection. You go from being a slave to the karmas of the physical world to somehow miracles happen. But you have to be able to see the truth. If you've got your VR on, and this is one of the things we did in New York, VR on, and this is one of the things we did in New York, and you go to the plank. You go up this elevator a thousand feet up, the door's open, and there's a plank just sticking up from the elevator into the air.

0:22:20
You're supposed to walk across it, and it's totally intense. it's totally intense. Because what you see, even me, I was looking at it and I'm just like, I totally forgot that there's a two inch tall, six inch wide plank of wood screwed down on the floor that you're supposed to walk across. And if you fall, you fall two inches. But when you're standing there and seeing it, But when you're standing there and seeing it, it is daunting.

0:22:57
I totally forgot that it's not ridiculous. Like my eyes were completely brain-tricked. Somehow. So then I remembered that story I told about here. Guess remember that one? There was like a wooden mountain and then there was a pool of acid, that's what the master said. He put the plank down and he goes, walk across it. The wooden mountain had really good balance, but while he was crossing it, he got scared.

0:23:30
And that made him fall into the acid, but it was just water. That's exactly what this was like. that's exactly what this was like so fortunately, it's a great fortune to me that I didn't have fear I used to have fear of death but I'm all like, I'm just fucking ready to die that's how I want to cross it but boy, but here's the thing But boy, here's the thing.

0:24:03
When you see that reality and you're facing that, you're caught in the transient world. You believe it. I saw so many people doing the plank and freaking out. People were like, oh, I can't do it. Taking that thing off. I closed my hands. I took that thing off and I called for him! Even though someone's holding their hand and walking them home. It's so intense. It's really intense.

0:24:41
It is facing a huge awareness of fear and death. so if that's what you look at life then you're always going to be like unbalanced turned upside down freaked out crazy but if you go I know I'm just I know I'm If I accidentally step off the plank, there's a fool. So if you know the truth, if you're aware of the truth, then walking across the plank is no big deal. But when that reality, that's what you're met with, oh my gosh. And I was totally brain-drained. and I was totally brain-tricked.

0:25:39
So, the good thing is that I figured that out. Inwardly, so that whatever I face in the transient, it's okay. Brain-tricked. Yeah. It's just an amazing thing. Yeah. It's just an amazing thing. So like the lady tiger, we have to see that bad things are not bad. We have to see when we face things that we call bad, when we face things that are opposition, When we say things that are opposition, that are difficult, that are hairy and dark and smelly, we should be able to see the enlightenment, the way through, the way that that can be a catalyst for awakening.

0:26:48
recently, one of the yogas was facing some difficulty. They were making a sale, and then a competitor came in. And then it was like, the customer's all, it's either going to be you or you. And then in the yoga, they looked at the competitor, in the yoga, they looked at the competitor, sized them up, said, I could beat you, but, hey competitor, if you join with me, I could give you more opportunity in these different dimensions than what you're currently doing.

0:27:30
And then I can get the job, and you make more money. Isn't that cool? Such a job yoga story. It's such a jobby of a story. It's taking something that's bad and making it good. Good for everyone. And then we always have our personal problems. problems. We've got all these grudges that we hold, skeletons in our closets. They call us enmity, that we hold against people, hold them in the ideas of who they are, We cherish this.

0:28:26
We're like, oh, I'm really angry at you, and I'm going to cherish that little anger. I'm not going to let it go. I'm going to grow this thing up. That's what we do. I see it all the time. I say it all the time. Anytime I hear someone say, it's that person's fault. I'm like, oh. It's so special to me. It's like you took something someone said, and then, oh, it's like you took something someone said, and you go, oh, okay, wait, this is important.

0:29:09
I'm gonna bottle this up, and fork it, and cherish it like a vintage watch. I'm going to cherish it like a vintage wine. I'm going to put it in each cellar with all my other wines. Oh yeah. Every time you blame and you put criticism, and you say, that person's bad, and that person's negative, and I don't like them, you're spoiled. Why? For everything they do, you put it in a bottle, For everything they do, you put it in a bottle.

0:29:41
You did another one, you know, like, I got a lot from this vineyard. I'm making your wine collection. Your wine, your, your wines of wine. And at some point, what you have to do is you have to open those bottles up and let that stuff out. You've got to get rid of that whining collection. I mean people collect all sorts of like enmities, negativities, and because this is Tantra, the best way to let it go is into a glass, and then you drink it, and then you get a and you learn from it. So everything that you harbor as illness or as others with the flame you need to experience it like take it in and say I can take it now and I can let it go.

0:31:04
Take it in like a musty fricking terrible sour French wine. French wine. And then after you drink too much of it, you actually start to like it. You're like, oh, that's so sour. But you learn a new palate. But, um, for truly, all those But, um, for truly, all those things that you're so negative about, you gotta take it in. Accept it. And not put it in, cherish it as a bottle of terrible-ness. You gotta just say, alright, I'm gonna accept it now.

0:31:51
Drink it. Drink all the things that you think are horrible and negative and wrong about other people. Take it in. This is just like Bodhicitta. It's taking in the dark. is taking in the dark. And when you have the courage to take in what you don't like, then you can understand that we've developed a wine palette for French wine. And then what happens is you gain wisdom. You let go of the negativity. You accept the difficulty. You gain awareness and wisdom.

0:32:24
awareness it was. And then once you see that the tiger that's going to kill you is a competent one, that a way for success for you and success for them. The greatest competitors, the greatest opposition to your business success is that tiger. And there's a way to deal with that tiger, and that opposition, position, I think that's going to shut you down, stop you, squash you, make it hard for you. There's a way to make that thing the pathway to the light. For you, and elevate it. So this is what we do. So this is what we do.

0:33:40
And seeing this, seeing that the bad thing isn't bad, but the bad thing is a tremendous challenge to enlightenment. It's a lesson from the universe to enlightenment. When you see that, that bad thing lifts you up. When you see that, that bad thing lifts you up. There's a way that it lifts you up more than anything else. Without that tiger, that lady would never be enlightened. She would never have some art. But that tiger was necessary. So, when you face that tiger, you face it with complete selfless abandon, You face it with complete selfless abandon, completely falling into dharma.

0:34:31
And whether you live or you die, you win. You elevate. But in most of my stories we live. I'm going to pieces! laughter Seeing that the bad things that really bother you, that hurt you, that squash you catalysts to your own liberation because you deal with selflessness, impeccability, and that's not a God. No self. No desire, no here, just abandon self and face it with whatever abandon self and face it with whatever perpeccability you have and no self then you're a yogi.

0:35:51
Being a yogi win, lose or draw. That realization is what we call the Great Perfection. is perfect. That the bad thing is not the bad thing. Only when we're in the virtual reality do we see all sorts of things. You might be in a zombie game. There's a whole bunch of bad zombies. They're trying to kill you. That's that game.

0:36:49
And when you're in the game, yeah, we play a game. Because it's fun. And when you're in the game, yeah, we play the game. Because it's fun. But we don't believe the game. The tank is fun. Zombies are fun when you're not afraid of zombies. a recognition of the horrible things that we see, difficulties in the opposition. We have a recognition that they're all perfection too. It's not that there's some bad saint out there separate from you, causing you suffering.

0:37:36
That's when you're in the game. That's when you're in the game. When you recognize that the bad thing out there, it's difficult. But, the recognition that we're one with all things. We have a connection to everything. So you can look at the worst thing that's the most negative thing, the most negative person, the worst thing that's the most negative thing, the most negative person, and you can say, Where, where's my connection? It's not this one thing that's just outside of yourself making you suffer. We're connected with all things. And because of that connection, there's a way to enlighten you through all things.

0:38:24
There's a way to enlighten us through all of this. Seeing that is the great perfection. And the great perfection is great. It's seeing that what we see as being bad, hurts us, is perfect. as being bad, it's perfect. It brings us from the view of everything being out there, transient, something's bad, something's good, it brings us back into the awareness of unity, which wisdom of the mirror-like mind. And this is true. It's a very, very, very profound truth.

0:39:36
when we start to see that we are the Brad. Oh, I heart Huckabees. I heart Huckabees, yeah. So, definitely, but he has this big enmity with this one guy, he's screwing him over. But then once he realizes that he's one with this guy, then all that, And all that stuff that's screwed over, he transcends it. And he still gets screwed over. Just kidding. He doesn't. It's a good point. But see, that's the thing.

0:40:45
We really, really start to see that the evil thing, the bad thing, the horrible thing, The evil thing, the bad thing, the horrible thing, is not separate from us. So there's the story about Milarepa. Milarepa walked out of his cave one day, even though Marcus said, No, too late. Marcus, I'll stay in the cave. So he walks out of his cave, gets some water or something, comes back in his cave and it's filled with demons. He's like, Oh man. filled with demons.

0:41:14
I'm very cult-y. I like to sleep in this place. It's filled with demons. So, he uses his powers of enlightenment, because at this point, he's a cinemaster. He's knocking the demons out, left and right. And some are a little difficult, pushing them out. And some are really difficult. Pushy, pow.

0:41:40
And then there's this one big demon. And he just, he can hit him with everything he's got. He needs to up his, all the powers in the universe, because he's so powerful at this moment. Demon won't go. There's no beating this demon, and this demon is staying here. So then, he goes over to the demon. So then, he goes over to the demon, and he jumps into the demon's mouth and he says to her, The demons are in our mind. That's another pleasant goal.

0:42:37
And hopefully they stay away from our minds. gave up trying to survive the self and the opposition to the deities. So a lot of times we face difficulties, some opposition, and we say, I've got to do something to transform the situation so I can win and live and be and get where I want. You can get what I want. But If you give up the fight Then the yin and the yang of it go away The win and the lose But this is good and this is bad. They go away.

0:43:37
So that's what Milorado did. So that's what Milorat did. He gave up the fight of the conditional world and he was able to experience a unity. He said, if you want to eat me, eat me. I taste like chicken. So when he did that, he gave up that dual awareness, the transient awareness of this is good, this is bad. He said, I'm over. He wasn't giving up to Luke. He was giving up to Tensei. When you see the bad thing, the horrific demon, the abusive spouse, the termites, the dog the dog that craps on your lawn.

0:44:51
When you get up in the evening, all of these things is bad, then you have a very fertile lawn. When you go look in there, you're like, oh, thanks. I can use that. For my tomatoes. tomatoes seeing the difficulties, pain, the hardships, seeing them, being able to see that they're not bad that they're not bad. There's nothing bad in the universe, by the way. Everything is enlightened, and we are connected to everything in the universe. So, when we can see that greater truth, then everything that causes you harm and death, everything that stops stops you, everything that smashes you, everything that hurts you is dispelled. So Buddha is sitting under the Bodhi tree and right before his enlightenment all the armies of Mara come And 10,000 arrows are left in the sky.

0:46:31
And monsters, and all sorts of things are left in the sky. And instead of him fighting against it, he sees the great perfection. perfection and he just says like Dharapa, I'm not here for win or loss, I accept all of life. and he has a complete scene of the Great Perfection. Those arrows all turn into flower petals. This is the story. It's something like that. Everything that seems harmful is quite beautiful. beautiful. So this is the truth. This is the truth.

0:47:51
To be able to see the deeper truth, to see the great perfection. In spirituality, everyone is seeking. They're like, oh, I'm seeking. I'm seeking enlightenment. I'm seeking my Buddhahood. I'm seeking, you know, how to get out of suffering. Because I'm suffering, so how do I get out? And when you're seeking, then you're still caught up in it. That's why I always like to say, more findings. I'm a scientist.

0:48:26
Just cheeky. But yeah, what are we seeking? Zen master Renzai said, you are running around looking for your head as if it had fallen off. This is the way that everyone hits. You're looking around for something missing. But there's nothing missing. So, there's nothing missing.

0:49:12
When you have the seeing of a great perfection, you're able to see your own Buddha nature. So if you're like, I'm seeking a way out of suffering, with realization, there's no more suffering. You realize your Buddha nature, there's nothing to seek. There's no transformation in the world from a condition to another condition, but you go beyond those conditions and you see the true nature of your being. Seeking enlightenment is completely repugnant. Are you done here? Some are already done. That's who you are, of your being. All that is necessary.

0:50:32
And in Buddhist mysticism, in Karma Yoga, there's all sorts of steps. And it does get good. We have a structure to take many steps. After you take a lot of steps, it gets easier. steps. After you take a lot of steps it gets easier. But the truth is for many steps, any place, to see the truth, the good in each of them. To be able to see through the good and the bad and the ugly. Because I saw that movie like twice. So enlightenment is already within you. Awareness of that is to see that you are the opulence. So, to study Buddhism is to study the self. And to study the self truly is to lose the self. Forget the self.

0:52:00
Drop the self. Lose the self. drops, loses, and to lose the self is awakening. I remember reading a book when I was in high school. I think it was called Fanny and Zoe. Anyone read that? Yeah. Yeah, okay, so Fanny or Zoe, I don't remember why. She was like, welcome, means some guests come visit. and guests come visit and so they go on for like four pages of how she's so pissed off, confused, bothered, opinion, opinion, opinion, opinion, opinion, opinion, and she's all like, all this shit, and then she opens the drawer and goes, hi, welcome!

0:52:48
people. It's like, to act properly, whatever works in our society, mostly, usually, but they have so much karmic backstories going on to every word and every action. word and a reaction. And it's like, whoa. Oh, it reminds me of this really good joke. So, there's these three women together. One says, Oh look, my husband got me a diamond ring for our anniversary.

0:53:34
And then, one lady goes, Oh, how nice. And one lady goes, oh, how nice. The other one pulls out a car key and says, my husband got me a Cadillac for our anniversary. And the same lady says, oh, how nice. And then they're just quiet. They're looking at the third lady. They're all, did your husband get you anything for your anniversary?

0:54:00
Did your husband get you anything for your anniversary? And she says, yeah, my husband got me etiquette classes. So I learned how to say, how nice, instead of fuck you. So Buddhism is all about losing all the back story. a backstory. So like, being able to look at ourselves in our minds and to wipe away all that petty bullshit so that we don't have that in us. We can welcome someone in, we can be happy for someone's car or being or whatever they have in their life and not have card or whatever they have in their life and not have to have a self that has trouble with everything. So then there's a pleasure being.

0:55:34
The woman who lets people into her house is welcome except for she's got like ten thousand people in her house, except for she's got like 10,000 thoughts of anger and negativity. How horrible. There's so much stuff. Or you're with your friends and you're just going to say, fuck you and eat shit all the time. And that's just so much stuff. It's But that's what people do. They act the best way that they can, but they feel all of that back story, all of their real side. And it's a very sad thing. The awareness of the great perfection, it just dispels all of that. In all those 10,000 little waves of negativity, you just drop them. ego, pettiness, desire, fear.

0:56:55
But to do this, you have to be real. You have to be for real. We don't come to the spiritual path in a way of being disingenuous. We come to the spiritual path through the practice, to our yoga, to our work, to our martial arts, to our music, to our scuba, to everything that we do. do we come in a way where we're for real. And if we're for real, if we're honest about it, if we're tremendously focused on enlightenment, not full of bullshit, not full of judgment, not full judgment, not hedging. I heard recently that one of my students decided to leave the study community, because that's what this guy on YouTube, he's been around for a while.

0:58:25
That's hedging. That's hedging. The guy on YouTube doesn't make you do any work. The guy on YouTube doesn't hold you to a standard or accountability. There's no samba with the guy on YouTube. And guess what you're going to do? Nothing. Or whatever you want to do. So, are you going to try to get spiritually elevated? Are you spiritually elevated?

0:58:55
As much as quitting a karate dojo will help you with that. So, that's amateur power. But we are intermediate students. our intermediate students. We come to the path to enlightenment for real. For an intermediate student, it should be do or die. And every time your ego comes up, you better look at it. It's just do or die. It's just do or die. I'm not going to go off into some ego trip, mad at someone, blaming someone, desiring stupid shit, going to waste all this energy on it.

0:59:48
You've got to say do or die. I'm serious about my life. So, you have to be ruthless. You have to be ruthless. Let me tell you what Ruthless is in business. Larry Ellison. He's a not a positive fella, but a ruthless and successful fella. He had a spiritual experience when he was doing business in Japan. That's what he said. So he said, but he got him the roof.

1:00:30
It was early on in the days of Oracle. I think he was making his first Oracle sale, database sale in Japan. And he met some big company that needed a database for that much money. But he was sitting there with the CEO of that company. CEO of that company. And they were like, well, you know, Ingress has also made us an offer. And then Larry Ellison was like, oh, yeah, they're a little bit more established than Oracle.

1:01:04
By the year. And then he's like, and then the Japanese guy was a badass. And then Japanese guy said, The Japanese guy was a badass. And then the Japanese guy said, he said, the way that we think in Japan is if our competitor beats us and wins over us, He said, we see that as the rice on the table for our family. And they take it.

1:01:55
And Hilary Ellison is all, yeah! It ignited them. And then he's just all like, no one's gonna fucking take my rice! That looks sick for him. Now there's a lot of rice. A lot of rice. Especially in America. But he was like, this is what it means. This is what it means. And then Larry Ellison really got into that, and that became his inspiration.

1:02:34
He felt that intensity, that ruthlessness. I'm going to let someone take my rice? I'm not going to let you take my rice. So Larry Ellison learned from this Japanese CEO or something, he learned how to be ruthless and he brought that to all of his other deals and he was very successful because of that And he was very successful because of that awareness, that power. Ruthlessness in business. I also think of Dale Carnegie. I think I wrote this in the W. Book.

1:03:36
Dale Carnegie was like, when I'm going to focus on something, Dale Carnegie was like, when I'm going to focus on something, he's like, I forget about everything else. He's like, I'm multi hundreds of millions of dollars. And then he just throws that all away and says, everything is this. And then he's like, I can focus my full mind on it because I have nothing else, and that's what I need. mind on it because I have nothing else and that's what I need. That's ruthless. Or another one that I like. Gerald Thomas Marriott. He had built a string of eight hotels, his first eight hotels, and they had a lot of them eight hotels, his first eight hotels, and they had a lot of growth potential, but they weren't making the money. They ended up making money, but he's like, oh, I bought them in places where it was cheaper that were going to grow in the next ten years. But then he's all like, oh, I'm suffering, I'm hurting. So he took all of his resources and made a all of his resources and made a bid on a plot in midtown Manhattan.

1:04:55
And he's like, that's a money maker. But it takes everything that he's got. And he's like, if I don't get this, my business fails. If I get this, I put everything into this, build this, it's a money maker, and it makes everything last till the other hotels can build up. and it makes everything last till the other hotels couldn't build up because he knew that they would and they did.

1:05:20
So there was a lot of other contractors putting in a bid for that one spot in 47 and 3rd. And then he was like stressing about it. He was like, I need that, I need that. about. And then. He said he felt all the pressure. Of the other. And then he said that it felt And then he said that it felt like somebody pushed him down and was holding him down underwater. Trying to drown him. It all came to that. The competitors, the need, everything came to him feeling like someone was drowning him.

1:06:24
And then he was like, ah, this is horrible. Ah, I'm going to be killed down. But then he said, I forgot about everything. No thought, only all his will to break out of that and to break their grip, just come up and be able to breathe. to break their grip, just come up and be able to breathe. So they went through this for like a minute. They came up and then as soon as he broke out of it, he was like, free. He's like, I know I get this.

1:07:12
That's a place of ruthlessness. That's a place of ruthlessness. No self. Only a hundred percent of your being focused past any thought, idea, or whatever, just to survive, to win. Now, that's not something that Buddha did. He was ruthless. Buddha said, I'm going to sit under that Bodhi tree. He got to the point where he said, I need enlightenment. I need full enlightenment. He said, I'm going to sit under that Bodhi tree until I'm enlightened I'm going to sit under that bony tree until I'm enlightened or dead. So, he goes and sits under the tree. He has a nice little mat.

1:08:14
Comfortableness. Because he's all middle-aged. All I use to sit under a tree is this little mat. He has a special little mat. Okay, and then comfortable enlightenment or death. And so he sits under the tree and he's like, enlightenment, full enlightenment or death. And he was completely ruthless. he would not accept anything else except for the four elements of the mind. and then it seemed to work out. or whatever.

1:09:02
but as Buddhists we follow Buddha's way. Buddha's way, which is intense worthlessness. So when we face spiritual practice, we have to start with, we call it the urge of intent. The urge of intent. So intent comes before thought. the urge of intent. So intent comes before thought. Intent comes before action and words.

1:09:47
But there is a deeper part that urges intent. And that deeper part is ruthlessness. Ruthlessness is the foundation of intent. Ruthlessness is the foundation of intent. We have to yoke our ruthlessness. We have to look at shit and go, oh, this ain't so good. And then when we see that, we have to be like, I didn't turn for things to be better. Nope.

1:10:22
We've talked about intent a lot. And intent comes before action. And intent comes before action. But what comes before intent is ruthlessness. It is to see that things are difficult, that things are up and down and in and out, wrong and good. We have to get past suffering. Transient words. Transient words. And we have to say, no matter what. Buddha says, no matter what, we'll sit under this tree for enlightenment, no matter what. Rather sit there and die than not attain it.

1:11:12
And that's too easy. But he was ruthless. And that's too easy. If he was ruthless, and he made his decision to sit under the tree, he was not going to die. He was going to die in the light. That's what we have to do. We have to have ruthlessness in what we do. In our spiritual practice. In our yoga.

1:11:30
In our martial arts. And that doesn't mean that we don't have control. Perfect control. There's nothing that stops you from your ruthlessness. That is bare to the core of your spirit saying, I'm making a decision. I'm drawing a line. I'm trying to line. No more stuff. I'm trying to narrow. That way to enlightenment. Or this Ruthlessness is where you drop in your heart any willingness to stop. I am going to succeed in my career. Nothing is going to stop me.

1:12:59
Miracles happen. I'm going to succeed in my martial arts. Nothing is going to stop me. Power helps. I'm going to succeed in my martial arts. I'm going to succeed in my martial arts. Nothing's going to stop me. Power. I'm going to succeed in my meditation. Nothing's going to stop me.

1:13:22
Drop all the garbage thoughts. Perfect concentration and focus. I'm going to succeed in enlightenment. Nothing's going to stop me. That's the food. All the little pains and aches, all the great pains and aches, all the confusion and delusions and desires and dissatisfactions and I disagree. That is not true. See the way beyond it. Be ruthless with yourself. Throw it all away. It's garbage. All of that is just reasons to stop. Reasons for enmity. Reasons for karma. Reasons for limitation.

1:14:24
We are Buddha. Buddha did a good thing. He sat under a tree and was ruthless for his people. And we do that with everything. You guys understand? We're coming to the solstice and this is a very powerful solstice. This is a time for tremendous transformation. I call it a Buddhist holiday. Ruthlessness. If you see the great perfection, if you have the opulence mind, not caught up in the stories completely transcend the karmas and such things as that.

1:16:07
You completely let go of what has been a samskara for you for so long. The karmas melt away. The samskaras you can extricate yourself in. The multi-past life, so ingrained in your awareness that you think, that's who I am. You find yourself outside of them. You say, oh, should I fall back in there? No, I have awareness. Don't fall back in that pit. Okay, angry pig joke. I'm not hearing anything. This angry pig finds himself stuck in a pit. And then his friend was fox or the rabbit or something like that.

1:17:03
Comes by and says, Oh, you're stuck in a pit. I'll be right back. Just wait a second. I'm going to go and get a ladder. And then I'll help you get out. And the angry pig goes, and then I'll help you get out. And then angry pig goes, no, I'm not going to wait.

1:17:19
Laughter Hungarians love that shit. Laughter Almost as much as the ghost behind the tree. Laughter As the ghost behind the tree. That is way, just even more than being one with the Brad. So, worthlessness is necessary. Now, when we face worthlessness in our lives, face ruthlessness in our lives.

1:18:03
We're ruthless about enlightenment and our meditation and our work and our martial arts. We hang in there together. We're all like, I'm ruthlessly gonna love you and be compassionate. Even if I get hurt. That's how we should be with each other. And we, We recognize that when we have that hopeless awareness for the ultimate, that our intention grows out of that. Our impeccability grows out of that. Our selflessness grows out of that.

1:18:44
If you can draw that line on the sign and say, no more bullshit. I've been there and done that No more bullshit. I've been there and done that 10,000 times. And guess what it got me? Lots of suffering and confusion and delusion. Don't believe the virtual reality. You'll be caught up in putting all of your attention in shooting a zombie with your song of eight. in shooting a zombie with your song of eight. And all of your attention will be out of ruthlessness. Ruthlessness is, I want to see beyond this illusion.

1:19:24
Because zombie is an illusion, I want to be the opulence. So, we have to seek enlightenment. We have to be the opulence for enlightenment. If you have suffering, if you see something wrong, if you have fear, if you're mad at someone, then that's why you have to be with this. Because that's what sets you free. Otherwise, you're an asshole. They always have those assholes who are playing those multi-user games. They come over and they're killing you, and sometimes they're texting you, and you're who are playing those multi-user games.

1:20:02
They come over and they're killing you, and at the same time they're texting you saying, Go QTube, dude! Go QTube, dude! Go QTube, dude! You know, right? So, we don't want to be cunts in the game. We play the game with nobility, and power, and impeccability.

1:20:24
We get good at the game. We don't want to be assholes in the game, and we get good at the game. We don't want to be assholes in the game. We don't want to be stuck in the game. If someone calls me an asshole while I'm playing some shooting game, and they're all like, I'm a 12 year old kid in fucking Cincinnati. And guess what? You're an asshole. Stupid.

1:20:47
Oh, some 12 year old kid in a video game Oh, some 12-year-old kid in a video game said I'm stupid. I'm gonna feel bad about myself. I'm gonna call him names, too. Right, that's what you guys are doing. You're caught up. So, we want to get beyond the idea So, we want to get beyond the illusion and see what really matters. Because that shit doesn't matter. And when you get caught up in name-calling on video game texting or something like that, come on, man, just wake the fuck up.

1:21:33
That doesn't matter. People get totally pissed off about stuff like that. people get totally pissed off about stuff like that. Some people want to kill themselves over it. Oh, he got the other player to also say it to you. Oh, he! It's true. It's true. People want to kill themselves over this stuff. They get so confident. People do kill themselves over it. I'm not kidding.

1:22:00
people do kill themselves over it. I'm not kidding. Because they get so caught up in something that doesn't fucking matter. So don't do that. See what matters, which is reality and that whole weird world, this physical world, not home world. So this is very important. We have to be ruthless about not believing in the illusion. Self-importance is a big illusion. I'm important for so many reasons. So self-importance is something that could get so in the way of spiritual development, spiritual but it's just self-importance riding the Eagle horse so some of you guys might remember Yogi Ram Saratumar and he had this student, I think his name was David You guys remember that? We went to this little ashram once.

1:23:40
Yeah. So this guy was a really beautiful being, a very high, beautiful spiritual fellow. And like, Yogi Ramsarakamara was giving him teaches even before he knew it. And he got the teachings and everything. And then finally he goes to India, he sees Yogi Ramsarakamara, he's all, immediately, wah, you're my guru! And then Yogi Ramsarakamara's like, yeah, come on in, And then the other runs around. Kumar's like, yeah, come on in.

1:24:04
He gets all the teachings. And then every year he comes over with his students, because he's from America. He comes over. And then it's just like, ah, everything's beautiful. Everything's wonderful. And then one time, he comes over with his family and students. And then he comes over and knocks on the door. and he opens the door, and he goes, who are you?

1:24:31
Are you lost Holmes? And then he's like, it's me, David, I come here every year, I stayed with you for four years, we always talk, we're always together, and then he runs to Mark Holmes. and then the only one who's right, Margo, I don't know who the fuck you are. So you best step off. And then this guy's all, what the fuck? I've known you for years, and we've had these totally intimate spiritual connections and conversations, and we've proclaimed love for each other.

1:25:14
So he's like, what is, what's going on? We've proclaimed love for each other? So he's like, what is it? What's going on? And then he's like, all right. So all of his family and his students are all like, what do we do? Let's go back to the hotel. Let's stay at a train deck. And they all knock, knock.

1:25:32
And then he's like, who are you? He's like, I'm your student. He's all, I don't know you. Who are you? He's like, I'm your student. He's all, I don't know you. He's all, it's me. And he's all, I don't know who the fuck you are. He's all, I'm from a family. I'm a student.

1:25:50
And he's all, oh, OK, they can come in. And he comes in. And I leaves him out. He has this beautiful teaching to all of them. to all of them. And then he's sitting out there in this Indian summer sun, just going. And then this goes on day after day after day. Then he leaves and goes back to America. And he goes back.

1:26:23
It happens again. again and then he somehow pushed his way into the house and he's all like and then Yogi Arunasrakamara is all like I don't know you but what do you want to say? and he says all the things that he wants to say like remember this, remember this, remember this and he said this and he said that and then Yogi Arunasrakamara is just like I don't know man, whatever. whatever. He said we got to stay now, never come and see me again. So then he goes away. And then at some point from that experience he lets go of his self importance. He was the important student, the important devotee in his mind. And he goes away. And he goes student, the important devotee in his mind. That he's all, I don't have that anymore, it's gone.

1:27:26
Isn't that cool? Okay, and then he goes back to India one day to bring his students to see him, because he would accept his students but not him. And he would just get out of the heat. But he had gotten over his self-importance. But he'd gotten over his self-importance. And that's how many he goes back. They had all these banners and signs when they got to T-Roy Manamalai. And they were like, Welcome, David!

1:27:50
I'm your spiritual son. I'm straight-a-mar. I'm your house-runner. Hey, come here! But he got to a place of ruthlessness through giving up his self-importance. And he was just like, I don't have this anymore. It's gone. And I have to accept that. The building officer, Mr. Rockmore, had to give him a hard time because he had self-importance. And the ego just fucking clings to that shit. So, you know, he gave him a really hard time. It was like the biggest, most difficult thing. But once he got rid of that self-importance, then he was embraced.

1:28:45
And then it didn't come back because it was squashed. back because it was squashed. He got to a point of ruthlessness with himself. My guru will not accept me. All my self-importance is gone. that I love to give is to get to ruthlessness you have to get beyond self pity. We all pity our suffering. Look what happened to me. I grew up under these conditions. It set me set me off, and oh, I pity myself for all these reasons. Someone did something, I didn't have this growing up, I didn't have a swatch or a Patagonia, I didn't have what I wanted, and less. It doesn't matter if you're a princess, self-pity, or a pauper, what's that called?

1:30:01
Poor person. poor person Yolo Rafa was poor as fuck he didn't have shit he did not pity himself fucking Yogi Sarandos he has fucking a loin cloth not that he should catch he's a fucking he's a fucking he's a fucking he's a fucking he's a fucking he's a fucking he's a fucking I'm not fucking a loincloth.

1:30:26
Not that Richard catches. And he just fucked you and he's happy. But he does have a smart phone. No weird, that comes from him. Mostly he has nothing. Mostly him. Next time we go there, he's going to have an oculus. So, the place of Yelkity. I never saw a wild day, sorry for it. sorry for itself. A bird can freeze on a wire with never having felt sorry for itself.

1:31:27
But a person. Oh, and I know my friends, I'm dry. I'm dry. I'm dry. I'm dry. I'm dry. I'm dry. I'm dry. I'm dry. I'm dry.

1:31:40
I'm dry. I'm dry. We build personal histories and stories that are reasons for seeing lacking, reasons for suffering. And a fricking bird with no balls. Bird balls. We add so many layers on top of what life is. An animal will just take life as it is. A dog, a cat, a bird will say, she's cold until I die.

1:32:21
I don't want that. But they don't feel sorry for themselves. We build up tons of stories to feel sorry for ourselves. To cut our power. So, being ruthless means that you have to have no pity for yourself. And my great story for having no pity for yourself, so that you can be ruthless. No pity for yourself so that you can be ruthless. And when you're ruthless, you transcend your personal karma. It's like wu wei dou.

1:33:02
You're like, oh, someone's pushing me, but I'm not going to do it. But when you're wu wei dou, you're powerful, and someone pushes you and then you'll slide. You go, what happened? I was selfless, I was ruthless, I had no description, I was like, I can't do this, this is going to hurt me. So there's great power in going beyond the self, that tries to defend itself. That power comes from ruthlessness. Drop it all. I love all of you to think about Wu Wei-deo, or someone's pushing you, and if they're pushing you hard, or punching you hard, if you have that selfless ruthlessness, you just like, take it, breathe in it, and then believe completely that your punch is nothing.

1:34:00
and I'm going to be completely... that your punch is nothing. You aren't going to see it as a punch that could hurt me. I'm just going to be moving up. They will swat. It's hard to do. But there was this great story. Back in the mid-90s, Mike Tyson came out came out and became very quickly the heavyweight champ.

1:34:30
And he knocked people out in the first round. Like no one had ever done. He was knocking everybody out. He was just like, no one could match him. No one could beat him. And he was just like, knocking people out like crazy. He was the best fighter, better than Muhammad Ali. better than Mahama Ali. He was like this phenomenon. And then, well into his career, knocking people out, he was fighting this guy called Buster Douglas. And Buster Douglas was not that experienced. I think he had like six wins and one loss.

1:35:12
I think he had like six wins and one loss. And he was not seen to be really the caliber of Tyson. And he was coming in, everyone knew he was going to lose. He just never, he didn't have the stats, didn't have the experience, didn't have that magical power that Mike had. So everyone's all, well, he's the next contender. magical power that Mike had. So everyone's all, well he's the next contender, but the night before the fight Buster Douglas' mother died. And that got him to go to a place of to go to a place of ruthlessness, a place beyond pity.

1:36:08
He was like, it was such an intense thing where, yeah, he's gonna go into a fight, he's been working on that his whole life, fighting, fighting, there's all this stuff about it, right? And according to that karma, he would have got squashed. he would have got squashed. But then, because the death of his mother gave him a bigger perspective, he's like that has a greater meaning, greater perspective of love and awareness, that he got outside of his normal thinking, his normal karma.

1:36:48
he got outside of his normal thinking, his normal karma. He became, he went to a place beyond pity, and a place of ruthlessness. And in a place of ruthlessness, you're beyond your karma. And when he fought Mike Tyson, he beat him. So this is on YouTube. I always recommend people to watch it. Because you can look at this person who is a person facing the strongest fighter in the world, who is karmically going to lose, and then he's beyond it completely. and he has so much greater power, some unusual magic power that comes from when you're ruthless. It's fascinating. I also like the 8 Mile movie.

1:37:55
So at the end of the 8 Mile movie, it's Eminem and he's like, gonna go into some big rap competition. and he's like, gonna go into some big rap competition. And he goes to a place, in the movie, a place of no self pity, a place of ruthlessness. Because of all the shit that happens to him, he's just like, he just gets to a point where he's all, fuck all this shit. And then he goes to a place where, I don't care. And then he goes to replace her. I don't care.

1:38:26
I'm just, and his power goes beyond his karma. And he wins the city rap. But it's worth watching that movie if you haven't seen it. So these are powerful things. If you go beyond your pitying yourself, you're pitying yourself, your personal history, and you radically recognize the bigger picture, and that all that shit doesn't matter. Enlightenment matters more. Then you can do great things, powerful things, like that, bam, everything can change.

1:39:12
Everything can change, from shit to awesome. Everything can change. From shit to awesome. From crap to enlightenment. Crap is enlightenment. Oh, that's a great realization. That's what I was getting along to the whole evening. You can transcend your karmas. Even karmas that you think are impossible to transcend. Miracles can happen by being worthless. there was a man with a lame leg. He was born with a messed up leg. And his whole life he grew up with this bad leg and was disformed and didn't work. So he would either be in something like a wheelchair or on his crevices. in a wheelchair or on his creches.

1:40:27
And then he finds this Taoist master. And this Taoist master is supposed to be very wise and know everything. So he goes to the Taoist master and he says, Taoist master, I've lived my whole life with this bad leg. Is there any way that you can heal me? And he says, yes. But if I give you this path to healing, you must swear to me that you will follow it. how healing you must swear to me that you will follow it okay yeah okay he takes this egg this is a dragon egg if you can bring that dragon to the B mountains or something like that mountains that are a thousand miles that are a thousand miles away.

1:41:14
If you can get that to the top of this one peak and it hatches there, then your leg will heal. That's a miracle. And you say, wow, really? And then you say, but if you mess up and drop the egg at any point or it's cracked or damaged, then something happens. The dragon in it explodes. then something happens the dragon in it explodes and you'll be incinerated.

1:41:45
It has to pass naturally otherwise poof! So he's like, okay, I'll take care of it. So then he's 88 and he sets off on a journey. You know, so he goes off. But he sets his intent. He's like, I'm gonna do this thing. but he sets his intent, he's like, I'm gonna do this thing. He goes and goes and goes and goes. And then he travels and travels in his car, his car on crutches, and goes and goes, gets to a mountain, climbs the mountain, and then, you know, like all sorts of adventures happen.

1:42:20
Oh yeah, one of the adventures is, he has to see these, see someone steal his egg. Somehow they hear about it, He sees someone steal his egg. Somehow they hear about it, and they're like, oh, we want the dragon egg. So he has to keep hiding it. And then the other one is, he gets up to this precipice, and guess what he gets?

1:42:36
A plank. He has to cross a plank. And he does that with his bad leg. You thought the plank was hard when you had good legs. He has his bad leg. I'm going to put it in his legs. I'm going to put it in his bad leg. And then, you know, whatever, he's gilling, spider eye on his lips and stuff. And then, finally he gets to the top, and he puts it there, and it took him a thousand miles, but it didn't hatch yet.

1:43:03
But finally he puts it there, and it hatches, and guess what? It's a chicken. And he's all, oh man, it's a chicken. Oh man, it's a chicken! I'm so sorry! I'm so sorry! I'm so sorry! But then, he turns around and starts walking back. Now that's a thousand miles that he went. Actually it's a thousand leaves.

1:43:28
Which is like a sixth of a thousand miles. Whatever, it doesn't matter. Um... When he starts walking back, he realizes it's very easy to walk. walk his back, he realized it was very easy to walk. All of that way there, he never tried to walk before because his leg was bad. And then, going through that whole adventure, he did some physical therapy.

1:43:52
It was by the effort of committing to this that he healed himself. And so he was able to walk in it and it was perfectly fine. So when we set our intent, even though we think something's impossible, we can accomplish everything. We can change karmas that you think you can't change. You're like, oh, I got my leg cut off by a train. But it can grow back. But, it can grow back. Stuff like that.

1:44:28
Just stuff like that. You never know. Five minutes from now, it could appear and put a leg on you. Stuff like this happens every day. Alright, so, I'm going to show you a little bit of what I'm doing.

1:44:50
I'm going to show you I don't know if you guys like this half-and-half hit. All right, so, very important. When we are approaching the spiritual path and we're practicing ruthlessness, we start with meditation. with meditation. So meditation is the essence of all spiritual practice. So if you are not doing meditation and you're doing yoga, you're going backwards. Get your meditation strong. Then your yoga gives you a step up. You've got to start in ruthlessness with meditation. So when I meditate, I developed this practice of fruitlessness because I suffered. I had awareness of my suffering.

1:46:00
and I was like, the only place possible to come to some spiritual peace is not in my work, not in my martial arts, unless I can find a first in my meditation. So I said, I'm going to be ruthless in my meditation. And when I meditated, because I was ruthless, I was like, no time for bullshit. I was like, no time for bullshit. You guys might sit there going, put on some music and be all like, mm-hmm, mm-hmm. Oh yeah. Tomorrow, I'm gonna do this. I'm gonna have lunch today. And what about that asshole?

1:46:48
And you guys are fine going through that, if you don't give a shit And you can just fine go through that if you don't give a shit about your suffering. But if you're ruthless, you don't have time for that. And you have to say, I'm so sick of this. All it is is suffering, all it is is more virtual reality, and it's a lie. The moment you get shot in the head, 99% of your drama disappears. and they disappear. And then guess what? They load up a new one.

1:47:18
And you go back to the same conditions. So, I said, I've done this a lot of times. Enough times. I've seen the patterns. I've seen so much dissatisfaction. I've seen so much suffering. My own awareness. Where I'm like, I'm ruthless in my meditation. I don't have time for self-importance, pity, I don't have time for self-importance, pity, or any illusion.

1:47:41
I'm going to develop my concentration and my focus. I'm going to grow a way, I don't have time for thought. And I'm going to be totally seeking enlightenment in my meditation. So you must be ruthless in your meditation. So you must be ruthless in your meditation. If you ever have had a limitation or a thought, a hurt, a pain, you have to say, that never ends until you are ruthless. You can end it by stopping thought. You can end it by stopping the karma parade. you can end it by stopping the karma parade.

1:48:28
You say, nah, nah, nah, nah, loser, nah, nah. Be gone. And then, that's what puts you really into places where you start to see truth. Start to see beyond the illusions, beyond the karmas. But you've got to be ruthless. But you've got to be ruthless. If you're not ruthless about your meditation, then you're just like a new age weirdo. Like, oh, I'm going to play some instants, and listen to some music, and think things, and let them play out in my mind. And that's just another beyond reality, the mental one. But if you're ruthless, you're like, I'm not going to take it.

1:49:19
Not this, not that. I'm going to beyond it all. That's what you've got to do. So we have a tremendously wonderful thing in our sangha. in our Sanda, we have a system structure. So you look at some cool and light people like Eckhart Tolle, Eckhart's cool. He was even enlightened in a past life. He just enlightened himself by sitting in a lab going, shit sucks.

1:50:03
And then he dealt with a core of life going, shit sucks. And then he dealt with a core of life, and he was great. He was like, holy shit. He's like, argh. Ah, OK. There's some people that do that. So he did that. But I met him at Junior Force. And I looked at it.

1:50:25
And I was like, what's going on? And I looked at it, and I was like, what's going on? And I saw pure awareness connects to beautiful light and a few dimensions of awareness, of perfection. I'm like, ah, that's cool. So in our school, we have thousands and thousands thousands of these very hard to find dimensions of life. Because we have a founder who was a great, great, great master. So it's like if you take a talented young guy who's a thousand boxes.

1:51:12
And then you take an ordinary guy, but he goes into a karate school, where the system was created by a tenth degree black belt. If they just follow their paths, this young, strong, athletic guy will be limited at a certain point of physicality and his imagination and personal power. and his imagination and personal power. But there's another structure created by 10th degree black belt that is developmental. And that guy knew a few tips and tricks, right? The 10th degree black belt knew a few things that not a lot of people know to get to that level.

1:51:54
And he was able to create developmental structures and take an average guy, way, way, way, way, way high, as far as he wants to go, as far as he commits as far as he wants to go, as far as he commits, if discipline helps us in this structure. So, at first, there's a talented guy, and then the other guy, an old swine. That's us. I'm not shaking now. So, the great fortune that we have is that we are in a system, The great fortune that we have is that we are in a system, like a karate system, where they have all sorts of dojos and all sorts of kata and practices and things like that.

1:52:38
And we're in that. And we're able to use those invisible spiritual structures in such profound ways that show you something real. that show you something real. Like, I'm using those structures tonight. I didn't know how to do this until I went to the dojo. I wouldn't have thought I'd do this. I would have thought I'd do that. Yeah. So, meditation.

1:53:09
That's where you should be the most ruthless. most ruthless. I do that a lot too. And then, you might not do it. Everything you do. But meditation is the essential part of this. I'm ruthless. I'm not going to put up with this self. This internal dialogue.

1:53:30
These ideas and concepts. It's got to be over. Enough. Be free. Be ruthless with yourself. Be ruthless with yourself. Every single song on the Zazen albums can be canyons of light, enlightenment, samurai, breathless, any others? any others human blue I think those ones I mean misery school So those meditation albums that I mentioned, that's where Zazen got really good.

1:54:32
And with the Enlightenment album, that's where they switched over from kind of like, kind of cool music that they meditated to sometimes. And then, Ron Remesha was like, Enlightenment album is meditation music. The next album is meditation music. Then Canyons of Light, Breathless, Samadhi, and then the other one. Canyon of Light. Canyon of Light. So those ones were like the ones that he recommended for meditation.

1:55:12
recommended for meditation. So I want you to meditate to those albums from now into the solstice and nothing else. And I want you to be really crystal clear on the dimensions. Every single song on those albums are very, very focused on a dimension of life. a certain access to a very certain basic fundamental dimension of life. So, you know, when you're meditating, be very clear, because, you know, some light is like a big cloudy gold light, some light is lots of fast moving gold light, gold light. Some lights are ocean, kind of like an ocean of gold light. But every song has a very specific light. Depends on how you perceive it, but you will perceive it directly. And I want you to be able to go, able to say Lake Tahoe and you should be able to access that dimension of life. Shasta. That dimension of life. From the music, but also from being there. So I got out of the bathroom.

1:56:51
So I'd like to say thank you. I want you to be very clear in your meditation from now until the solstice. Very clear in all these thoughts. You have to be like listening to the song and say, what is the light? to the sun and say, what is the light? If you can't see the light, kick you. Because our job is light. Come on, our job is light. Whenever you hear about so many saints in different religions, different spiritual practices, from Taoism to Hinduism to Buddhism, and what do they talk about?

1:57:36
Buddhism and what do they talk about? There's a big part that talks about illumination, spiritual, transcendent, sometimes it looks like a light, sometimes it feels like a light, the other side, stuff like that. So these dimensions of light are things that when you get close to Samadhi, Dimensions of light are things that when you get close to Samadhi, you see those lights. And then when you go into Samadhi, you become that light. And when you come out, you see the light again. And you're like, God, I can't remember what I did in the universe, what the fuck was that? Thank you.

