0:00:00
Thank you guys for being patient.

0:00:07
So...

0:00:09
Alright, so first of all, I'm really into ginger juice. It's 100% ginger. Or ginger in my sake is better. Thanks for coming. So...

0:00:32
I'm thinking maybe a little cayenne pepper. I'll do a little more. But um, I've been having ginger juice since I got back. It seems to really help with the jet lag.

0:00:51
It's like ahhh

0:01:14
so what's up with you guys? cause I've been through

0:01:18
everything

0:01:20
I'm like Chuck Norris I've been through everything today

0:01:24
twice I'm not going to make you do it twice. Laughter

0:01:30
Alright, um...

0:01:32
That's normal. That's normal.

0:01:36
Apparently. Ah, whoa.

0:01:40
This stuff is... Bwooooooosh. Hum hum hum.

0:01:46
And give me a whole box.

0:01:48
Laughter

0:01:50
That way I could...

0:01:52
Bwooooosh.

0:01:54
I'm happy to be talking to you, Ophelia.

0:01:56
Thank you.

0:01:58
I'm happy to be talking to you, Ophelia. I'm happy to be talking to you, Ophelia.

0:02:02
I'm happy to be talking to you, Ophelia. Thank you.

0:02:06
Thank you.

0:02:08
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.

0:02:16
Thank you.

0:02:18
Thank you. Thank you. Alright, let's begin with meditation. So we have a three song meditation. Can you like...

0:02:38
First three songs?

0:02:40
Yeah!

0:02:41
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.

0:02:44
Thank you.

0:02:45
Thank you.

0:02:46
Thank you. Thank you.

0:02:48
Thank you.

0:02:49
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the so the the the the the the the the the you You Thank you. So Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, So, Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, So, Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, You Yeah. the the the the the the the the the the the So Thank you. so So You you So, this morning I had an insight about yoga that I wanted to share with you. But let's see if we can get around to that. So there's two types of teachers. A teacher who will tell you what you don't want to hear.

0:18:07
A teacher who tells you what you want to hear is agreeable with your karma. Makes you get a good feeling, so comfortable, you can hang out with them for a while and not change, not grow. But a teacher who tells you what you don't want to hear is a teacher just pointing out, hopefully, maybe they're just an idiot.

0:18:34
They're all, Donald Trump America!

0:18:38
is speaking to liberty. See the self, the ego, has all these designs, desires, things they don't want to do, things they want to stay away from, things they don't want to confront, things, ideas that they think they are and what they want to do. And the teacher always goes against it. The teacher says, uh-uh, not that. Because if it's that, it's just you, and it's what you want to do. And then you're stuck in yourself forever. So a teacher that confronts you is a teacher that's showing you the way to liberation. Unless they're just crazy. That happens as well. You go to a teacher and you're like, what is the way? You're wearing a turban and you have a robe. What is the way? No. Follow the goats! I don't know. Follow the goats. Goats is the answer. And we're like, shit, we don't have any goats. But in all cases of the enlightened teachers, of their biographies, stories, in dealing with their students, their students come with desires and fears and ideas, and the enlightened teacher always says something else. I want this no I don't want this because the self the ego has And someone who sides with self and says, oh, I think this, and you go to the teacher, and the teacher says no, then that, if you side with the self, then there's no liberation. And you say, well, guess not.

0:21:24
I don't agree.

0:21:25
Boney Dharma, he went to China from India. The 27th lineage holder of the enlightened school of Buddha goes to India. Oh, goes from India to China. And they invite him, they want him to come. Buddhism has been breaking out in China like a bad rash. And he shows up. He goes to the great emperor and the emperor says,

0:22:06
Oh Bodhidharma, you look dirty.

0:22:09
Because it took him four and a half years to get there. Long travel. And that's another story. But he gets there finally, he's got long hair and a beard and he's like, You don't look like these Buddhist monks. The Buddhist monks have a shaved head and clean cut and robes and comes in this dirty traveler he's all well you're supposed to be the one so he's like tell me great things tell me something about the Dharma. He's like, it's just, nah. He's like, I have all these things I want. He's like, well just tell me about all the good karma I got from, I made some monasteries and put all this money into this stuff. He's like, you're either fake or fraud or something. But he's like, you didn't tell me what I wanted to hear. And so Bodhidharma walks away. He's like, and then what does the Emperor get out of it? Nothing in history! After that, the enlightened teacher says something deeper than what you want to hear, and deeper than what you expect, and conflicts with your ideas, and your desires, and forces you into

0:23:58
pushes you away from concepts yourself.

0:24:00
Cheers to that.

0:24:01
Can I get a...

0:24:02
So, that is my job.

0:24:06
And

0:24:07
I do my job in the most subtle way

0:24:10
sometimes. Um, but at the same time I give you guys a lot of space. A lot of space. Um, really easy going. Seven black belts.

0:24:55
Really easy going.

0:24:56
Even in the dojo, I'm easy going.

0:24:59
But I'll teach you how to get there. I remember one time, it was our first business trip to Japan on our first yoga project. project and Dharma came with me and another SP2, one of my peers was there with us and the other SP2, his name was Atin, really wonderful fellow very very successful yogi really wonderful fellow but he was like noticing all these little things about Dharma and every like 10 seconds so your attention should be like don't be afraid of that And I'm like, it's okay.

0:25:52
It's okay.

0:25:54
And then after a week, he's like all, ahhh!

0:25:59
And I'm like, you should be happy.

0:26:02
Atin has given you every correction that you need to be an impeccable, successful yogi. But he's all, I can't take it, I can't take it! I don't sit there going beep beep beep beep beep beep beep beep beep beep beep beep beep about everything going on in your mind at every moment. I have a big picture, I have a big space for you. And in this space you can develop yourself, it's not too much, it's not too much, and you can become strong. So it's a proper space. It's like a jungle gym. A jungle gym is a playground where every item in the gym is something that you exercise slide down, balance yourself on, you become stronger, you develop balance, you have fun. That's what a jungle gym is.

0:26:55
This is the jungle gym of enlightenment.

0:26:57
Like, inwardly, there's a space for you to be. Sometimes I call it a dojo, but now I'm calling it a jungle gym. we all are climbing around, learning, jumping, seesaws. Seesaws are important to learn about balance. I mean if you fall down it's like a soft floor, right? In jungle gyms. Old school in America, what was that, tan bark? They're like, just fall on this crap.

0:28:18
Make it up all dirty.

0:28:20
But now since it's like fake material that's really soft and bouncy, it just gets better. So we're using new technologies. We can change.

0:28:36
Jungle gym.

0:28:37
This is the jungle gym of enlightenment. I'm sitting there watching you run around, jump around, and everything is a structure I've created for you. I don't have to correct every little thing you learn. Do you guys remember this cartoon called Rugrats? My teacher used to call all of us Rugrats. If you've seen that, then maybe you have a reference. I haven't seen it, but I liked the idea. But you're in my dojo. You're in my jungle gym. Everything is a structure I've created. I don't have to correct you on how to climb the bars or slide the slide. Everything's there for you to figure out and to experience. gets a little bit like, oh, do you want to go down face first? Can I say, maybe turn around? Okay, turn around. So, yeah, it was a while I could stop and say something. But, the way of the Tao is that you show someone the way to enlightenment without having to

0:30:14
tell them. Let them find it.

0:30:19
All I do is create an environment and the right structures. And if you're just jumping around and playing around, it's going to happen. You get strong. There's other spaces that people create. They would be spaces like, let's say, the candy store. And the candy store is a nice thing because it tastes good. There's lots of things to try, and it's very exciting. You eat a lot of candy, you get hyper. But then you get cavities. It's not good for your health. You get diabetes, you get bad and ugly. So there's a lot of spaces in the world. A lot of people create spaces for desire, spaces for anger, spaces for power. This is a space for empowerment and preparation. And it works. So, Aten, was over Dharma, going, put your hand here, no, now lift up, now push, now go down the slide. He was all over Dharma. I was like, Dharma, this is good. He's telling you everything. Every 10 seconds, he's telling you the ways.

0:31:48
Dharma's like, no, no, no, no.

0:31:50
So Dharma, that didn't work for him. So Dharma had to go through the jungle gym for 20 years to figure it out himself and then he figured it out and then he was a successful yogi and a much more successful yogi than Atman.

0:32:15
So I'll let you figure it out.

0:32:22
I can't tell you because if I tell you it won't work. If I tell you, you'll go, yeah, got it. And once you've got it, you don't got it. So I'm like, look, I put a new swing in. The swing is called compassion. And then you're like, Kisanbara, the swing doesn't work. You're meant to actually swing on the swing. So I'm like... So, therefore... I have a lot of patience. I know the jungle gym. I know that you'll explore every part of it. I know that you'll learn it all. Because you'll swing on the swing for a while, you'll go on the monkey bars, and you'll monkey, and then you'll do the next one, and the next one, and you'll go to the other one. You'll figure it out.

0:33:42
That's what you're supposed to do. So...

0:33:46
That's good. So I'm just patient. You're sitting on the monkey bars forever. I'm like...

0:33:52
I say...

0:33:54
Slide, girl. Oh, no slide. Monkey bars. I'm good with these monkey bars. And you'll be like, there's that slide so far. You'll go to the slide. You'll master the slide. So I'm just like, watching you on the monkey bars.

0:34:24
Okay.

0:34:27
You know, they say patience is a virtue.

0:34:34
On the fast path to enlightenment we say, hurry the fuck up!

0:34:38
That's the virtue!

0:34:41
But, okay. Sometimes the fast way is the slow way. If I try to push you on to the fast way, I go, no, do this, do this, do this. You'll be like, oh, it's too much. I can't. You have to figure it out yourself. So, you know, a good teacher lets you dope it out yourself. They throw you back on yourself. What do you think of this? What do you think of this? And eventually you say, Oh, there's that slide. Okay, let me try. And then you say, I learned it by myself. You don't learn anything by me. I only can tell you stuff for you to go, oh I recognize it. But what I teach you, if I teach you it, then it's me teaching you something. The only thing that you learn is what you recognize yourself. of smelling flower, it might come out of a ginger. Ginger and meditation. So yeah, so I have a lot of patients and I tend to the jungle gym and 99% of the time, you guys are doing great. And I just have to come in and make a change 1% of the time. So this is very functional, very good. Sometimes I'm like, get off the monkey bars. I'm like, taking you off the monkey bars. But only 1% of the time. And my older students know this. And if you get that, that's nice. That's a lot of help. You go kicking and screaming, they'll put you on a slide, you'll slide down So I'm patient, but I test you constantly. Am I a test? It's a test, but it's not a test. draws you to let go of the self and push higher. It's something that shows you where the self is stuck.

0:37:29
And it says, there's a way through.

0:37:32
And I'm very specific about it. And that test is a way to identify ego and self. And also along with that test is the teaching of how to get through it to a higher place to be free from it. So I definitely test you. Now my great teacher tested me every single time he talked to me. And I'm very lucky because many of his students he never talked to. I personally talked to him. He zeroed in on my ego, took aim at it, and went I'm like, why would you mention that?

0:38:11
Yeah, so

0:38:12
enlightened students, advanced students that studied directly with him, they can recall those moments where he yelled at them, called them out on their self-desires, fears, weaknesses, concepts, and they say, that was the most transformative moment of my life. And someone who's gotten many of them. So, I remember a time where there was this one older student who was bad and mean and nasty to me. He was wrong. And so I got angry at him. Very angry. And then the next time I sat with my teacher, he looked at me and he said, You are wrong. You were bad. You are to blame. And I'm like, No! He started it! And my teacher is just like, Fuck you! And I'm like...

0:40:22
Because obviously I had every reason.

0:40:26
I mean, he started it. But she did. And then my teacher was like, I'm the bad guy? And I'm like... I did not doubt my teacher. But the fact that my teacher would say that I was to blame, and that the other guy's good, made me more angry at the other guy and i explored that

0:40:56
i explored

0:40:59
into misery to missouri literally i drove to missouri and um So I went through every hell of hate and I meditated and I practiced mindfulness. I read the words of the Buddha, hate has never dispelled hate, only love dispels hate. I'm like, I can't see the way through, I can't see the way through. But eventually, through my meditation, through my mindfulness, and instead of the Dharma, I saw the way through. But I remember three times, my teacher is just like, you're wrong! Do you see that I'm being persecuted? And then he would say great things about the other guy. And then eventually, through my meditation and my mindfulness, I came to a spiritual realization, which is just a very normal, clear seeing of truth that a lot of people can't see. And my teacher pushing me every time, pushed me more into seeing that. I got angrier every time he talked to me. I'd like you're making it worse! But I respect you. I hate him! And then I went so far into it where I was like, and actually the virtues my teacher mentioned about him are true. And I was like, so he's actually got really good things, amazing things. And me being angry, it's all the problem is in me being angry. So I let go of my anger. And I looked at that guy and I was like, I see the virtues. And all that stuff that he did that was his fault washed away. I like to say that now.

0:43:54
It's cute.

0:43:57
I like when people go, I'm fighting with this person because it's their fault. I'm like, mine? Oh really?

0:44:03
Tell me more!

0:44:04
Who made you this?

0:44:05
I'm like, did they? So you're saying that you're upset and suffering because of what they did. So, I'm like, ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha Wait, wait, wait, say it again. I'm glad I'm not the one who's gonna say that. No, but you guys are with me. Would you guys say that or not? Please don't do that.

0:44:32
It's horrible! Alright. We'll get into that part later.

0:44:38
Okay. That's my scarcely good. So, um, I completely let go of my anger and I totally saw the virtue in the person and respect. And then the next time I sat with my teacher, he looked at me. And then he goes, you're to blame! And I'm like, yeah, I was to blame. I was to blame. And then I'm like, but I have no problem with it. So the thing that he used to say that made me go it came, it hit, and I was like, I accept responsibility. It's true that I was I was wrong for being angry. That's it. If I wasn't angry, no problem. And then, right now, you point that out, and I don't have anything.

0:45:45
So I was like, hmm, I'm free of that.

0:45:48
And then, my teacher was looking at me, and he had this little acknowledgement, you know, teeny little acknowledgement in his eye that I noticed, right? So he's sitting there going, finally you've done it. He's like a little nod. And I'm like, yes! My teacher records it too! Finally, you've done it.

0:46:20
And I'm all like, yay!

0:46:24
And then, after that little acknowledgement, like a little, okay, then he goes, so what's your rate now? And I'm like, oh, I'm making like $75 an hour. He goes, oh, because Heather, she's making $100 an hour. And I'm very proud of her. He goes, she's making $100, I can't believe you're not making $100. And I'm like, oh. I'm like, oh, Heather's got all these other things why she's better than me. And I can't be that because she did best in my patheticness. And I'm it's impossible for my... So right after the anger thing, you know, where's the next point?

0:47:20
How about this?

0:47:22
And I'm all, ah!

0:47:24
And then, uh, that's what teachers do. And I, uh, I think it was two weeks later where I was, did a new job making the thing and I was like wow that's fast and then I saw, I was like hey, hey, hey, I did that and then he's just like I was walking with him and he's like hey we're gonna go and do the Until the next time. So if you have a sensei who is like, yeah, yeah, just whatever, you know, if you kind of punch, it probably will work. Oh yeah, if someone punches at you, yeah, if your arm goes up, it might work. If they're like easygoing about everything, that sensei is going to teach you to be weak as a fighter. You're not going to be strong. So the sensei has to be tough on you. The sensei has to say, that's wrong! No! This has to be you! Do it harder! You want to block? That's not going to block anything! You've got to do it like this! The sensei has to be real about stuff that can happen. And so a spiritual teacher has to be real about life. And so that's why they give you a hard time. A real spiritual teacher doesn't relish giving you a hard time. I remember this one beautiful time in yoga where we learned first to be computer programmers and then to be project managers. And I was a project manager on Wall Street and I worked on Wall Street. All the project managers that I had when I was a computer programmer, they were all like,

0:49:39
rah, rah, rah, rah, rah.

0:49:41
They're pushing me. They had a lot of, they tried to make you afraid of them so that they thought that you would do more if you're afraid. Oh, we don't have any energy. So that's a lot of the fear-based management that they did on Wall Street, probably believe you in a lot of places. And so I was like, I learned the enlightened way of project management And then as soon as I became a project manager I was like I'm gonna be mean like those other guys who worked cool. I worked for so then I was a project manager and I was all like

0:50:17
You! You're stupid!

0:50:19
And they were all like, huh? For what? Is your work done yet? No, but I've got two more weeks. Stupid! And ugly! So I was like, ahhh! And then, then after a while I learned, by the time I got to California and met Tara, I was your Project Mandator, right? That was a pretty cool way. Yeah. But I went through this cycle of of having to be like, ah! So we learn. And there's a way. And the way is a way of selflessness. And in that way of selflessness, sometimes you're chill and sometimes you're like... and if you go sometimes it makes a shift and then you can be chill. But mostly chill is good. Like mostly relaxed. Mostly finding that it's the Wu way. It has a definite intent and there's a definite point of shift of power where something dramatic happens but it's a way of selflessness. And this is the way that I learned to manage. It's so funny, as soon as I learned management it was like karate. And then after some experience I was like, oh what was he taught? I'm not doing what I was taught, I'm doing what I had experienced. My experience was a bunch of other people's karma. What I was taught was the way of enlightenment. And then finally I was on Wall Street going, it's okay. Oh you didn't get that done on time? When's the best that you can do? And then my manager above me is all like, oh my god! And I'm like, don't worry. And he's like, I know you're from California. But I'm worried. And then the project got done before the deadline under budget. And then I said, oh, now I understand the whole way of budget management. See, we learn things in our yoga. And then, and that, you know, all the things that we learn in yoga are things that we do on the job, but it's also things that we do in real life. So that was something that I had to learn for being a spiritual teacher and working with the sangha. Because if I was all New York, like I like to be, then it would be a calamity. And it's a practice of letting go. And it's really important to recognize when you're working with me that everything that Everything that I'm aimed on and focused on is transcending the self. And everything that we talk about is a whole bunch of dramas. The drama, LA Law, Hill Street Blues, I don't know what they have these days. What do they have on TV these days. Breaking Bad? Yeah, we don't do that one. Okay, I don't know. Game of Thrones? Yeah, that one I haven't seen because I haven't wanted to kidnap myself to 4,700 hours going through that. But um, but so everything that we talked about, we're like, oh, in my yoga, all this, um, in my job, this, in my relationship, this, in my dog, this, you know, everything. And every single time that you guys are talking to me, what is going to get you to transcend the self to a greater place of empowerment and a greater place of enlightenment. And I talked to you about all the details of the drama, what makes sense, what doesn't make sense, what's powerful, what's not powerful, all these things. And your difficult feelings and that person, all that stuff. I'm all in, going through all the details of the drama with you. And that's cool, I have no problem with it. But I'm laser focused on what gets you to transcend self. So you might be like, should I get this car or this car? Should I get this job or this job? And I'm like, should I wear this tie or that tie? And sometimes I'll say, oh, I know the thing that you gotta do. That tie that looks like someone vomited on it, that's your tie. That's your power tie. Way bad tie. Then you wear that tie and I'm like, I guess you need to experience how people react to you when you wear a tie that looks like that. And then you go, everyone's like going like this. And then, I mean, you asked me, and this is the thing that gets you to have an understand. Yeah.

0:56:49
No, I do this.

0:56:50
We always talk about personal power and personal development. A lot of things are figuring out what not to do. And I'll say, yeah, do that thing not to do. If I see that it's going to be something that you can have realization about and growth on. If it's one day you wear a bad tie and then for the rest of your life you wear good ties, if you wear a tie. So I'm laser focused on your liberation and I will point you in a direction to face fears, to do things that are beyond your concepts. Or I'll say, okay, yeah, do that stupid thing because I think you need to do it one more time. And you do it, you go, I'm done with that stupid thing.

0:57:49
And I'm like, okay.

0:57:50
So everything to me, all the dramas, I'm like, where's the way? Where's the way? And every time I find a way. And I get that. Oh, this one's good. This one's good. Oh, wow, this one didn't work that well. And I'm like, wow, Yeah, I give bad advice on purpose sometimes. So a lot of times, I'm a yes man. You come over to me and say, hey, do you think I should do this? I'm all, yeah. Well, I'm trying to figure out if I want to do this or this. I'm wrong. Which one do you think?

0:58:50
Maybe this, I'm wrong.

0:58:51
Yeah.

0:58:52
That's the one.

0:58:54
My favorite part, I love this. Someone will be like, oh yeah,

0:58:57
so we have to drive the four of us from here to here. So we were gonna take the broken truck, what do you think? I'm like, yeah. And then another person in the car comes over and says, I'm like, yeah. And then another person in the car comes over and says, why are we going to take the broken truck? Shouldn't we take the working car? And I go, yeah. And then the four people who are in the same situation get totally different directions. And I'm like, yeah. It's great. It's awesome. Because the best way to find the ego is to follow the inclination Hey, I think this is what I should do. I'm like, mm-hmm. And then you follow that and then you hit the wall of self. And I thought, ah, the whole idea here is to resolve, to let go of the self and move beyond it.

1:00:11
But the fastest way to the self is to follow a self-desire.

1:00:14
Or, it's like, oh, good. You did it. Congratulations, sir. But it doesn't work and you told me I should do it. I thought I was following the enlightened teachings. I'm like, well, if you go beyond the self, then you are.

1:00:37
Explosion. We'll put a silencer on the toilet.

1:00:40
I know, it's a funny thing. I was sitting here working with some people and then someone went to the bathroom and just, and then they were like, that's okay, it's not an earthquake. Yeah, so I like saying yes a lot. So there was this one time, App Buddy was like three years old. We were in Ojo Caliente, I was there with Dharma and Parvati, and they were still working I think their day jobs and doing part-time athletic. And they're like, it's just growing so slowly. Then they're like, it's such a pain, this pain, that pain, this business pressure, this customer pressure, this thing. They're like, we're starting to get customers and we're not full time. It's hard to deal with them and all these different problems. And we're not making enough. This isn't gonna go. And then they're like they're like hey Sombara all these pains in the ass should we just like quit and like stop this and I was all yeah definitely and then they were like, let's really reflect on this. This is what the self wants. The self wants to give up because it's hard. And then they said, but this is our yoga. This is our pathway to enlightenment. Should we give up? And then like a week later, they're like, we're gonna still work on it. And I was all, yeah. So, whenever you ask me a question, I say, yeah.

1:03:02
I'm not gonna disagree.

1:03:03
I'm gonna say yes, because I want you to figure it out. I want you to go through the process that you have to go through to be aware. I'm not going to figure out your yoga for you. In the beginning, Mandala and I were like Krishna on the chariot with Arjuna. We're like, we're going to battle with you. And we're going to face the arrows and the swords. And that was really powerful and helpful.

1:03:48
And then we said, no, you go into battle.

1:03:53
We're going to give you a little advice on the side. Hey, look out for that sword. but by you figuring it out yourself, that's where enlightenment is. If you're just following someone, they say turn left, turn right, and you're doing that stuff, you have to know truth yourself. If I'm on the jungle gym helping you on the monkey bars, you better go up, because I'm lifting you up, you don't get strong. So you have to do the work. But you have to do the work. So this is a very good thing. You know, sometimes, you know, I'm also a no man. Not only no one, but I also say no. So I say, I'm a yes man, but sometimes a no man. So you're like, hey, what about this, Semper Anima, no. You're like, look, I built this, no.

1:05:17
And I say no in many ways.

1:05:18
I'm all, what's your marketing plan? I'm like, who's your customer? You know, I'm like, I don't believe it. I don't think so, uh-uh, I'm not buying it. And when I say that, I'm saying no, even if you're right, I'm saying no. And I'm saying no because I want you to see more deeply. When I say no to your yoga, to your work, to your ideas, I'm saying no because I want, because you have to break through the self to see more. And then when you can see more, there's many more options. It's grandiose and more powerful. So I remember with LifeBuddy, LifeBuddy immediately when Ajna's like, I'm just teaching people tech and we're creating this thing. I'm like, okay. Then he goes, oh, it's, we want to make this a yoga. And I'm like, show me this. And they're all, no, no. And then they kept on building and developing. And I'm like, no, this doesn't make any sense. No customer, just a market, it's impossible. And they kept on changing and building and growing and changing. And at the end of it, AppBuddy was a really strong yoga. Sorry, LifeBuddy. LifeBuddy, it's personal project management. It was a powerful yoga. And it was because of changing and growing and seeing the bigger picture. And all of my saying no got them to change the dimension of the project, grow the project. It ended up being a project that totally empowered the yogis and we haven't gone to market with it, which it's still possible to, but just the refinement, the looking into the market, like all of that. Why is Sumar saying no? Well, we have to prove something more. It made all of the yogis more powerful. So, sometimes I'm a yes man and sometimes I'm a no man.

1:08:07
Neh.

1:08:08
Mute.

1:08:09
Is that a word?

1:08:12
Okay.

1:08:13
So, um, yeah. So sometimes when you're dealing with me, there's the illusion that you're dealing with an ego. So you're like, I have an opinion. I'm like, I have a different opinion. And you definitely have an opinion and an idea. And the thing with me is I'm laser focused on your enlightenment. So I'm like, I'm gonna say, I say stuff and I disagree and I agree and everything that I do is because I'm laser focused on your liberation. So someone's all like, I think this. I'm like, no. And whether you agree with me or disagree, um, it doesn't matter. It's funny. And sometimes on projects, like you're working on something and I'll be complaining about it. No, no, no, no. You'll think I'm mad at you. I'm like, I don't like you. I'll act mad at you. I'm not mad at you. I'll yell at you. I'm not mad at you. In fact, when I yell at you, then to me, that's the place where my heart opens the most. And I'm like, if I'm yelling at you, then I am like, all of my enlightened attention is on you. It's not anger. I'm not mad at you. You're not dealing with the self who gets angry. I'm a narcissist.

1:10:24
I'm a narcissist.

1:10:26
I'm a narcissist.

1:10:28
But sometimes I say no and I act mad and angry. But it's so that you can see something different. And when I ignore you, it doesn't mean that I don't like you. And I definitely ignore you. It doesn't mean that I don't like you. On the contrary, I love you. But I know that it's... If I get that email or you're in my attention or you're in my face and I turn away... you need to go into a deeper connection with me and the teachings of the second intention and that me giving you an answer isn't a spiritual answer that you have to know and so So if I ignore you, I'm not ignoring you because I don't like you in any way. It's that I'm teaching you. This is the way to learn. So it's really fun. My greatest, what do we call it? Controlled folly is that when we're working together that you think I make

1:12:15
sense.

1:12:16
Or you take me seriously. Because if you don't, I'll make you take me seriously. And whether I'm saying yes or saying no, whether I'm patting you on the back, kicking your

1:12:43
ass, it is all about liberation. Yeah.

1:12:50
It's a funny dynamic. But I'm just giving you guys some insight into what I do. So now it's going to be funny because you guys are going to be like, hey, so I have a question. Is he like saying yes or no? How does he look me up for my enlightenment? And I guarantee you, you can't keep up with me. Unless you're enlightened, you're not gonna keep up with me. I'm a thousand steps ahead of every turn. All right, we're gonna do one last meditation. How about Monument Valley? And we're just going to sit for one song.

1:13:31
And, uh, if you'd like, eyes open.

1:13:36
And I'll say yes, and no.

1:13:38
Yes.

1:13:39
I'm there.

1:13:40
Thank you. Thank you.

1:13:48
So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. so So, so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, So Thank you. you Lovely, thank you so much. And uh, have a good night. Because why not? Because why not? Or as I like to say, have a good night no matter what.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
