0:00:00
So, here's what I have to say.

0:00:04
Cody Woods' birthday!

0:00:06
Huzzah! I thought that this Cody Woods' birthday was super cool.

0:00:12
The beginning of many.

0:00:14
Just kidding.

0:00:16
I know. It's some work, right? But, what you guys did today was a very productive day. So there was like, it must have been like five years ago where we did a bunch of Bodewoods workdays, you know, through the summer, kind of like this. And we got used, you know, you get used to it. So it's like, you know, at first you're like, whoa, everything's like, there's a forest here and what do I do to it? You know, that's how it kind of starts off. But then, you know, you do a couple Floating Woods Workdays, you really kind of like, oh, this is a really cool thing. Like, like, all of the veterans of Floating Woods Workdays, you know, came to me today and they were like, wow, do you see how there's so many people, like, going around doing little things, we're all like sprinkling our magic around Floating Woods. And yeah, I see this, this is a really beautiful thing. So this is a very, very fun, active, Sangha community, Sangha building. You know, they have team building It's just really wonderful. Yeah, so everyone is, you know, participating in and contributing to a really beautiful thing. We've got a lot of pathways to do, but did you guys see those pathways? Yeah, this is great. Now for the history of Boy Woods, there's been this thing called pathways because every winter the rains come and there's like 50 inches of rain every winter and then it washes out the paths and we always have to always have to rebuild the paths, rebuild the paths. But now we're going with the Japanese method. As I mentioned when I was in Kyoto in the mountains outside of Kyoto I looked at these Zen temples and how they did their paths and I was like oh! A Kaizen path! And it is, it's concrete and stones and pebbles. So we're using those elements to make durable paths. And they also look cool. It's really awesome.

0:02:52
So, boy, you know, it's also fortunate that we have four people who look good in the same outfit.

0:03:00
Because otherwise, we'd be like, oh, okay, that's, yeah, we tried that out. It's pretty good. And we'd be like, ah, no, it's not. So, let's sledgehammer it, where you would take it away and try again. That would be very Marko. But the cool thing about Karma Yoga is you can learn over time. And you can get to the point where Marko doesn't our karma yoga. Yeah, so, well, yeah, so thank you all for coming out. This is really good. Things are happening and over this short season of workdays, we're going to like really transform this place. It's really awesome. So thank you. It's super,

0:04:10
it's super exciting. Um, meditation. Yes. So we're going to sit for six songs. Two songs from the navel, two songs from the heart, and two songs from the throat. So So, So, So So So, So So So So So, the the the the the So so so So So So uh so So the the the the So So uh so So So So so so So So So So the So So So So, the the the the the I'm going to play a song called, Ghosts. So, So, the the the the the I'm going to play a little bit of the song. So So So So So So So so So Wisdom of the forest. Focus on the roots. Focus on the roots. And the height of the tree will be great. You're in a place where you can focus on all of what we call the simple stuff, basics. Then you can be very, very, very, very, very elevated. That's what a tree tells

0:27:35
you. We have a lot of trees here. So I was looking at the trees they were telling me that. Yeah!

0:27:44
I mean I know.

0:27:47
Oh!

0:27:48
That's my reflection of the day. and heights will be achieved. So I was, I went over to a student who was digging in dirt. And they said, is this the right way to dig?

0:28:11
And I was like, yes. Yes, maybe try this, another technique. And then they said, oh yeah, that's even better. And I said, but this is very significant. And they said, how so? And then I went on to the next thing. Because I was just walking up and down all over the property. So every little project going around, I was going around to this project saying, how's it going? You guys doing it? And you guys did a great job today.

0:28:59
So that was really great.

0:29:01
However, is this the right way to do it? I'm like, well, how about this to make it better? And that's pretty much the spiritual path as I see it. One says, all right, I'm gonna try to dig something up or paint something or anything, put garbage in a truck, anything you can. You try to do something and you try to do it in the best way possible. And then you go over to a master who is really good at putting trash in the truck and say, well, is this the right way? So usually in spirituality, we say wrong.

0:30:00
You do it wrong.

0:30:02
You do it perfect! But I'm like, how about a little bit better? How about we put the trash in the truck this way? And then people are like, oh, that actually is a little better. And so I think the spiritual path is kind of like that. You come to digging a ditch, digging in dirt, bringing trash in a truck, or whatever, everything that we do here, and we come to it and we're like, I tried to do it the best way, but is it the best way? Is this the right way versus the wrong way. And then if you have enlightened guidance, then you can learn a better way. Now, I had my advanced students working on the cement pathways. So, you know, even Milorado when he was an intermediate student, they didn't say how bad his towers were. They were bad. Marfa was so angry. He's like, ah, ah, ah, give me one of those foxes so I can hit you with it. All they said is that he kept laboring to build the towers. But now my advanced They are beyond the point of karma in their yoga. So they actually can do karma yoga without having to process the karma. They're beyond karma. So this is really fortunate for the Bodhiwood's past. Because I got the karma yogis, or the young karma, who have mastered karma yoga, and now they're the ones who are teaching the practice. Because guaranteed, if we had done this five years ago, which we did a lot of laboring We would have just been spilling concrete everywhere and then I'd be like, no, no, no, no, no, no. Break that up. And what do you do with broken concrete? Put it back in the concrete, something like that. And then we would marpa like 10 million more times. advanced students who are the architects of the path. So if you're on the path, right, so raise your hand if you're on the path. I mean, like, like working on the path. Okay, so you guys have a really, really interesting, ironic yoga task. And it is to work on the path. And the great fortune is that we have advanced students who they would have messed everything up. Like if I told you guys to do it, you would just be like, okay, let's just like start slitting locks and things over here. But the advanced students actually know what they're doing. Did you guys notice that? Yeah, I noticed it too. So we're a very fortunate sangha because we have amazing experiences experiences and special teachings for intro students, for beginning students. And I'm really excited about the intermediate students. Because that's where I will unleash the other things that I want to unleash right now but

0:34:19
I shouldn't. I'm trying to be measured.

0:34:21
Eventually all my measure will disappear. 6.3. And then you guys have the enhanced students. And the advanced students, some of them have been with me for like 20 years. And the great news about that is that beginning students and intermediate students get to move much faster in the school where there's an establishment of the pastures. So that's a good thing. And the advanced students also know how to dig in dirt without making mistakes where you have to do it again and again. See, that's the thing about Milarepa. Milarepa messed up. I mean, he's all like, it's so hard, I'm building my towers, and I'm building them, and he says no, build it over there. But probably his towers were like sideways. It was like, the tower of Pisa And then, I mean, they did not mention Marpa's point of view. So like, yeah, in the, we were starting to look up and he'd go, it's five, I've worked,

0:35:48
and guess what?

0:35:49
So he had beautiful and wonderful, but he made a tower that's like, and then I think the big humor behind it because Marfa was not only super angry as his expression of enlightenment, but he was also super funny. They couldn't get the humor. They only got Mel Robbins' point of view. He was telling me to do things again and change it. But even We have built and unbuilt, built and unbuilt, and built and unbuilt. I love that nod. That's Andrew, she's all like... and bam, we're all happy about it. Yeah, we're all happy about this opportunity that we have in the middle of the woods, the Redwoods Forest, to get together as a team and to just build and do, do stuff. That's what I saw all of you do today. Like we're just together and we're just building and doing stuff and throwing stuff that needs to go to dump in the trash. Okay we're just building pathways for painting boards that we don't know why we're painting them. thing in the world. Ah, it's just the best. So, this, what you guys have been doing today, I want to say thank you. And also, I want to celebrate this. I think this is the funnest and weirdest thing. Like, we all come out into like a little redwood forest and start like cutting bricks and all sorts of silly things, right? Now, that spirit of like working a lot and heat and doing all this work, like, come on. That's the thing. That's the thing And we make ourselves a sangha through every piece of work that we do together. And we work, we work on projects, we work on computers, we work on all sorts of things. We work on, you all need to be like strong in your career, you all need to be great. We work on that. This whole world is the world that you become strong and great in your life. But there's a punctuation. If you can spend a Saturday where we're like together, not working on computer programming, not working on career success, just together, working in dirt and also love. Like we're trying to build this place so that this is a place for all of our sangha, this is a place for all of our sangha, where we all come together and we will have really amazing meditations here and special activities here that are amazing. This is a place of power for us. So what you guys are doing is today I was just walking from point to point with people who are working and I was just like this is great. And you guys are all I don't know why I'm here. And then, and then also if you do four of these, the day after the equinox, we're going to do a Mount Tamaulpais meditation and it will be very special. So this is the first one and you are here. Right? So, if you do more, that will be a powerful, that will be my Bollywood's warrior's meditation. And I mean, this work, think about the hardest part, the dullest part, the boring part, the part where you're like, should I be doing something else? Think about all the hardships. But also, yeah, that's true. I don't know. We have a pretty long stretch, six hours. But back when it was just like even like 20 of us, I'm like, we're going to do 10 hour days. We don't have many people. So we have a few more. And that might have been, I don't know. But now, a six hour day, a powerful day. You guys are great. You guys are really wonderful. And even those of you who are like, Oh, Lakshman's not even here.

0:41:43
God bless his heart.

0:41:45
Because I gave him the first Cody Woods birthday. I mean, I was doing it myself. And I'm like, Wow, this is great. And I said, Lakshman, I love you bro. He's like, yeah. I said, come to Cody with birthday. And he's a total computer programmer geek. And I'm like, come here and just paint boards. He's like, there's a lot of boards.

0:42:18
Love it. He didn't love it.

0:42:26
He didn't love it one, he didn't love it two, he didn't love it three. But then as the congregation of people came, then he's all like, actually I became very strong in this. And he's like, I'm strong because of this. And then he was able to show and help. Do you know what I'm teaching you guys? I'm teaching you guys how to build monasteries. One of the really interesting things about me, I'm a builder since Egypt. Egypt pyramids. Mexico, no I wasn't there. But I like their burritos and tacos. For real. Okay. And then, but I was an innovator in all incarnations where I worked with people and we innovated in places. And this is a place. And I'm like, oh, learn my innovation. You all will be creators of spiritual temples. Whether it's monasteries or temples or all things. The Bodhi Woods teaching is how to be a person who creates a place of spirituality. That's what we're doing here. It's amazing. So it helps also with just financial situations like you're all like oh I built a... Oh what's your name? I don't know Thank you. So, you're going to build an Alejandro tower. I'm not kidding you. We're sitting here digging in dirt, but back in Egypt we dug in sand and we built these big pyramids. What I'm teaching here is a powerful, deep spiritual yoga of the ability to build.

0:44:50
Here what are we working on?

0:44:52
We're building pathways. We're throwing out trash. We're doing all sorts of little things, but every single thing that you guys are working we are building and doing in our spiritual temple is something where I am teaching you to build. In this lifetime, I got a little retreat here. We've had meditation centers here and there, but I'm teaching guys to build. I was in ancient Egypt building a pyramid. I was in China and whole places in East Asia building monasteries and I'm talking to you guys at the deepest level of your soul where you're gonna be in some world you're gonna go holy crap I need to in a tent or a brick wall, you know, like stone wall, castle, or wherever. You can create a monastery, a holy space. That's what we're doing here by digging in the dirt. It's fantastic. So you know, like, it's really cute. I look at some of you are like, why am I here? You're like, I'm willing to dig and dirt to some degree. Yeah, but it's really, really powerful that you are here. And it's wonderful. And yeah, to learn how to be a monastery builder, a temple builder, you have to do the work. We all start in the mail room and not in the I'm not going to make a joke about that. I had the hat and that was enough. But we're here to learn how to build monasteries, how to build temples. And when we're here building this place, that's where our heart is. Like if you just think, it's a bunch of dirt, then whatever, then that's good too. But what I'm aiming for here, and it could get even higher at the next 40 minutes, that I am creating in you temple builders, the builders of places of spirituality, where people change their lives, where you make the opening to God, and that gods can do all the things that Gods can do. And the places where you can make the opening to lightness. And enlightenment is also a decent thing. Why not? But I appreciate every moment of your work here. And every moment of your work opens to you a greater awareness. You transform through this. I mean, just look at Miladrapa. And he did it a silly way. And with a little bit more meditation, direction, and getting what this is all about. And sometimes actually you don't. So the silly way also works. Yeah. But the more awareness that you have, you're like, oh, okay, I have to build this tower. I have to build this path. I have to dig this dirt. For whatever reason, you're like, oh, just by doing this in this spiritual structure, oh, I understand. But even if you don't understand, just doing it is powerful. But I also go back to Satori. Satori was like, he came and visited me a couple times when I had the Sanza in Hawaii. And then he's like, I really like this. And then we moved to Chicago. So he's like, all right, oh, there he is. Okay, he's like, he's right here. He comes to Chicago and he's like, I took two weeks off. I'm here for total vacation, I just want to experience the spirit world. And I was like, good, good for you. And I said, come here. And I'm like, here's a computer, and we're working on this thing, and here's things that you can do. And I told you what to do in like an hour. And you're like, okay. I said, just do that. And he's like, and he did it. And then after like a couple days he's all like, hey this is my vacation. He's like why am I doing this? And then he's all, I'll do more. Because me, you, and Zen. Kana? Is Kana there? Oh me, you, and Zen. Kana came in later and we had these amazing days of yoga. Just yoga for no reason. His vacation. And he's like, uh, do you know what this means? I mean, I can be in like, you know, Paris or Venice or something like that. And we're like, uh, but you're here.

0:52:00
So she's like...

0:52:02
And he produced immediately, he had the impeccability, real strong personal power to be able to work. And then me and Zen are sitting right next to him. And we're all like, is it done? Okay. He gets sucked into Zen's artificial intelligence and then destroyed. Sorry, that was just Zen's artificial intelligence. But anyway, that's what we did. And we were working, working, and then it was just amazing. And I was like, how are you doing on your vacation? Because a vacation should be like fun and happy and all sorts of stuff. And then you come to vacation and vacation is work! And guess what? I extend vacation from my heart to all of you. That's what we do here. This is our vacation. And maybe the first time you're like, was that a vacation? That was a lot of work and good for you. Good for you. You have to be strong. You have to be strong. And one of our little ways of strength practices is digging in dirt. Another practice is martial arts. I want all of you to be black belts. Do some martial arts. I know like you know it's impossible but I used to keep my fond of my team to a degree where I'm like I'm like all over everybody. We have black belts like crazy amazing black belts. Super strong great black belts. People who never thought they could be black belts are black belts in martial arts. And guess what? I only see one person here who cannot be a black belt, so the rest of you can't, except

0:54:22
for her.

0:54:23
Oh wait. Ahimsa is a black belt and she's shorter than the rest of you. And also she kicks ass. And also I gotta say Tao was my original 4'11 black belt and she was always like, no I can't. And I'm all, yeah you can. No I can't, yeah I can. She's amazing, a very strong black belt. You know, what do you learn when you're short? A really good defense. And a really good charge. You learn different tactics, but you learn ones that are effective because in our school we've seen it again and again. So if you're little, if you're short, you can destroy. I came here to destroy, I came here to destroy, yeah, disseminate, or something like that. Take things apart that were living into being not so living, but because of compassion, they're still living. So that it can change into something more. Okay, so. This is a wonderful event. And I'm really appreciative of all of you who are here. And I know that there's a lot of people dialing in. So I said all intermediate students and advanced students can dial in. And so they shall because they did the work too.

0:56:12
They did, we used to have,

0:56:14
I mean, we used to have Bodewood's work base here a lot over years, because most of us lived here for a while. We lived in Bodewoods up to about 40 people before I said, no, go forth and be somewhere else. Else it.

0:56:33
And then they went and then they went and then they found

0:56:36
how to do that. But if we were just in Bodewoods, would they go to Berkeley? No. Heroes go to Berkeley. Heroes. And, would they go to San Francisco? No! Only for like a burrito. But not for you! Now if you're in Santa Cruz, okay, yeah, they might go there. that things are really great and you guys are doing a wonderful job and it's only going to get super more exciting from here. So I would say definitely do four or five work days up to the equinox because this work, when we are working together, like we're a team digging in dirt. There's nothing super magical about it. And just based on that magic, when we sit on Mount Tamalpais to meditate on the 22nd of September, it's going to be a special magic. I'm only like seeing it. I don't know. But I see that if we work together, we create, you know, more pathways. All the physical things are like just the things that we're working on. Yeah, that's a good point. But just us working together. Did anyone notice that like, The people who worked today, and you did all your hard little tasks, don't you notice a little spark in your heart that makes us as a group, a team, a sangha, something stronger, something brighter? Yeah, that's why we're here. It's an amazing thing. And it's such a beautiful thing to sit in the middle of the forest with you in a year. We're going to change years. Sorry about that. Okay. Come back, Richard. Um, yeah. So, so we have really cool plans. So, we're going to continue building through our work days, Bodewood. And we're going to get rid of the urine. Now the urine has been this wonderful little tent that we've had for a long time. And we've done lots of happy things here, beautiful meditation. But we're going to get rid of the earth and we're gonna create this meditation hall, which is all glass panel walls. And it's going to be a clear ceiling. And then we're going to have this beautiful view of trees and from there we have a view of the bathroom. But anyway, we're going to move this yurt to another spot because why not have an extra place for doing things. Ta-da. Okay, but here we're going to make an all glass, all see-through meditation hall. And it'll be bigger than this. So we'll be able to have like 125 people in here as comfortably as this, which is, I don't know if it's comfortable, but that's how it's going to be. And then the yurt will move to another place and we can have certain projects going on there at the same time. So we have some tech classes, we have martial arts classes that happen here and they can do that in either place. And then the old yurt deck, where a lot of you were painting plywood today. We're going to get, this is called an inflatable tent. And it's an inflatable tent that will take up pretty much the whole Sanda. So 10 minutes it is like, 10 minutes it's deep like. So this is something where we have to be very careful with our neighbors because if they report us to the county, then a lot of things that we're doing here are not up to code. And the county could say, not up to code, not up to code, not up to code, fix, fix, fix, fix, fix. And that would make everything disappear. So that's why we're kind of hidden. So if we make it tentative here, one day, and we have like a party, a meditation, something fantastic, which will have parties and meditations and fantastic things. And then the next day we disappear it. So even if our neighbors see it one day, they'll probably say, huh, it's a combination. Nothing to complain about. So, yeah. So we're going to have a bigger glass panel, clear ceiling place here because looking out over here, it's just all beautiful trees. So this will be the place for that. up at the deck, that's the older deck, a big inflatable tent where we can meet because we have this thing called like, you know, mosquitoes and sun. So we have to have like shielding from those two things. Certain times it's sun, other times mosquitoes, that have shielding and then so boom. Then this year it's going to move a little bit further up the hill to another spot and there will be martial arts classes or tech classes or whatever we do. It's going to be fantastic. So this is the big transformation that we're doing that you guys are all a part of in the beginning and that you have no obligation to complete, but there will be people who can do it. But just little by little, if we work together, we make them, you know, what it was, a more and more special place. And the work that you do, the work that you put in to do it, helps you to connect with that team. And when you have that team connection, then we are all stronger because you made team connection. You know, that always happens in any team. You can take a soccer team, as they say in England, football team. As they say in Hungarian, Reds versus Germans. Hungarian. So if you take any team, a person who doesn't want to be in the team, weakens the team. A person who only wants to work half-ass, weakens the team. When we come here to work, we want to say, I'm coming here to work hard. And I know I give you guys a little long stretch, for me it's nothing, but for you guys, six hours of work, just throw yourself into it. Like dig like crazy, dig beyond, I don't like it. I don't like it. Or whatever, just dig beyond it. Do whatever you have to do beyond yourself. And what you do is physically in a location you build something bigger and spiritually you make this team a team of power. Put your heart into it and you make this a team of power.

1:06:23
That's why it's different.

1:06:26
Okay, I just want to say again, thank you, and that this is a very beautiful thing, a wonderful thing. And I guess it's Chinese food time. Boulder Creek Chinese, which is my Chinese students. I don't know. But to Americans, it's good. Wow, what an amazing day. You guys painted all the plywood. That was huge. That's step one.

1:07:19
Step two.

1:07:20
Step two, we've been building pathways and we figured out the idea and got it all right. And we're gonna just build more. Now this time we got four done and that was really good for day one. But next time we're gonna have like Ishta, Tori and Bahia and maybe somebody else be project managers and we're going to like feel more. Now that we know how to do it, which we've proven today, then we're going to feel more. We're going to build these great, great pathways. The great pathway to awakening, which is what we call Mahayana Buddhism. It is the pathway which is not only for the enlightenment itself, but it is the pathway of the yoga of compassion, where we have a great care for the enlightenment of others, for the blessing of suffering for others, for liberation from suffering for others. This is the upcoming teaching and we do this here in our work. See this is what I want to teach you guys. That here in our work, in this digging in dirt and laying down a path, in this place of power, this spiritual place for our sangha, we're actually learning the Buddha dharma, the enlightened dharma. And so it's like, yeah, it's hard. Yeah, it's hard. But just do it. And guess what? If you do it, you will have realization.

1:09:23
Magical things happen.

1:09:25
There's a lot of power in the second intention going into this. If you do the first intention, then you'll go, whoa, that's pretty cool. So things happen. So anyway, come send me a donation. So anyway, come send me a donation. So anyway, come send me a dot.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
