0:00:00
Hello everyone. Thank you for coming. You're most welcome. I think I fixed it. So it's very nice to see you. I'm Samara. I think they introduced me already. What more is there to say? Nothing. But I think we'll begin with meditation. We'll sit for three songs, able, hard, and paradigm.

0:00:37
So, I'm going to play a little bit of it. the the the the the the the the the the the the the the Oh, So, Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the the the the the the the the so so the the the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the the the the the the Oh, You're welcome. So, So so so so so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the the the so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, So, this evening I'd like to talk to you about meditation

0:14:29
and music. Why do we meditate with music? Well, one, I think it's a very beautiful experience. When you have beautiful music and you're meditating, it makes the spiritual experience wonderful. But also, with meditation with music, you can go into higher dimensions. You can go higher than your normal thought patterns through the music, if it's the right music. So music meditation is something that's very, very, very beautiful. Something that's very helpful. Spirituality is an aesthetic. It's something that is a feeling, a beauty. There has to be that experience of, oh, this looks nice to me, this feels nice to me, this has, we have flowers, you know. This has flowers. There's beautiful things about spirituality. And music is a way, a way of entering the spirit. For beginners, especially, music meditation is very helpful. It gets you to focus. It gets you into a position of listening. As Westerners, we have a really wonderful kind of programming. When we listen to music, we shut off our thinking mind and we start listening. And this is a great thing. It's a very fortunate thing. So that's why it's such an aid in music for meditation. Because we sit there and go, da, da, da, da, da, da, but when we listen, right? And then that's a disposition for meditation. You start to become more still. I remember once I was walking down the street. There was this little group of teenage girls in front of me and all the girls are talking, talking, talking, walking, walking, crazy, and this one girl just listens. And I said, wow, that's like meditation. People, we have our thoughts, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, like a little group of teenage girls, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. But then, once you start listening to something, you become focused, still, focused on what you're listening to. So music is like magic. It brings us from our normal consciousness of self to a focus of not self, beyond self, focusing on something else. So meditation is going away from the self, letting the self go. So in music, we can listen and let go. So music also can elevate you above physical attention. So I took some of my students to Kyoto, to a Zen monastery. And we were able to stay there and meditate with the Zen monks. So in Zen, in the morning, they sit in zazen, meditation session, and in the evening, meditation session. And it's all silent, of course, right? And in the morning, everyone's hungry. So you're sitting there and meditating. And you hear the stomach growling. And you're trying to meditate. But then there's all the growling stomachs. And then in the evening, here's the reason why. Zen monks only eat once a day. And there's a table. All the monks sit on the table. The food comes down. You take some. You pass it. You eat it. And then it comes back down. You take some. You eat it. And then you get it to the other side.

0:19:21
And that's it.

0:19:22
So they eat really fast and only whatever they can cram in their mouths. So therefore, they're always hungry, or they're strangely full. So after dinner, we have meditation and meditation is like So in the morning funny stomach and then in the evening I'm like wow so To me I hear a lot of physical awareness a lot of people are going through a Physical thing so while you're sitting there meditating your enlightenment, and then you hear someone's stomach growl, and you're like, oh, enlightenment! So when you have music, you don't hear people cough, sneeze, stomach growl. It brings you into a higher awareness. Music also gives you a structure, some timing. So it's very important in the beginning to have, OK, I'm going to meditate for 15 minutes. I'm going to meditate for half an hour. The timing is important. Because if you just kind of sit down and go, oh, for a while. But if you have a timing device, or music, one song on the needle, one song on the heart, one song on the third eye, it gives you structure for developing yourself in meditation. And that's very important. I remember I was in Wuxi's abbey, Wu Shisan, a very spiritual Buddhist area in China. And I had the privilege of sitting with a Buddhist master. And he's very old, like 80, I think he's 88. And he is very high. And I sat in the meditation hall with him and all of the monks. And the monks, they're all sitting there, ready. And after a while, the master comes in. He sits. And he meditates. He's like, we do meditation. And we start meditating. And the monks had no idea how long the meditation would be. They were just like, it might be short, it might be long, they don't know. So they start meditating, and so do I. And then what happens is six hours later, I open my eyes, and I see the monks, like some of them fall over asleep. Some of them are just like, bored out of their minds. They lose focus because they don't have the timing. They don't have the structure. And I look at the master, he's perfect meditation. So structure and timing is very important, even for these Buddhist monks for many years that they could not sit with the master unless they had structure

0:22:57
So I have a question for you What's your favorite song?

0:23:01
Or what are some of your favorite songs? Think about songs that you really love. Why do you like those songs? It's because the music brings you somewhere. It brings you into a feeling. It brings you into an energy. So, music is magic. You know, you could listen to a song about, you know, some love song, right? And then when you hear that love song, it could remind you of being in love. It could give you the dream of, oh, what if I was in love, and I met the perfect prince, and I kissed the frog, or whatever. A love song can bring you to this really high feeling. Or a really cool dance song gives you energy. Makes you feel energized, right? So I had a student who was at work, and then after lunch, he was very tired from eating and felt very sleepy. And then that was the rest of his afternoon. He was very struggling with being asleep. He would make coffee. He would wake up and be tired. But then he started to listen to dance songs. He's like, listening to dance songs and working. And he's like, all right. That keeps me going. Gives you energy. You know, like heavy metal?

0:24:55
Or like gangster rap?

0:24:57
Gangster rap makes you feel like killing someone. Heavy metal makes you feel like being a viking and like destroying. Those are powerful experiences. In war, they had music. They had drums. They had horns that drove the warriors into battle. And it's very similar to gangster rap and heavy metal. And those have their uses. I had this one student. She was a salesperson. And she had these cold calls. She had to call people and say, hey, I have a new idea, do you want to buy this thing? And usually people would say, no. And so she would listen to heavy metal music and then she would do her calls and she's like, I'm a warrior. So music actually creates energy for different things and brings you into love, power, energy. It can help you. So music is like that. But most songs that we hear are songs that are stuck in karma. They come from, here's my love song about some experience of love. Here's my dance song, some experience of dance. Here's my gangster rap. I'll shoot you if I don't like you. And these are all songs that are caught in some kind of karma. So when Buddha first taught, he said to his monks, don't listen to any music. All this music that we hear everywhere, it's all karma. So if you're meditating to gangster rap, guess what's going to happen? You're going to pull out a gap and bust a cap. Right? And if you're meditating to heavy metal,

0:27:06
you're going to whatever they do. If you're meditating to love songs, you're

0:27:09
gonna just there cry. So all of these songs are karma.

0:27:20
And music is like magic. Did I say that right?

0:27:25
Music's like magic. If you're focusing on those dimensions, you become those dimensions. That's what you're born into. So, there's this wonderful fellow I met. He's the most famous Tibetan thangka painter.

0:28:05
So thangkas are like, they're pictures,

0:28:07
they're Tibetan, it's Tibetan art.

0:28:09
But it's pictures of Buddhas, mandalas, and bodhisattvas. It is a yogic practice of making the Buddha into a picture to bring a light. So I recently met this fellow who's pretty much the most famous Tanka painter in the world. I met him in New York at the Tibet House, spiritual center. And he's a real yogi and really amazing. So he meets me, and he's like, oh, you're Sambara. He's like, you're the computer technology guru. I live in California. And he's like, oh, yeah, so good to meet you. And then he starts singing. He starts singing mantras. But they're just mantras. But he's like, holy, holy, holy, holy. And he starts singing in front of them. And I'm like, what a beautiful expression. And then he's putting up his paintings, large, giant paintings. While he's putting them up on the wall, he's singing mantras. He's a true yogi. And let's take it way back. Krishna, Krishna of the Hare Krishna, who was actually cool before that. He lived long ago. And even as a young boy, he played the flute. And he would play the flute as his meditation. And then when he became older, and he was in wars, he would take, he had his own city, where everybody in the city was like a Hare Krishna. Oh, Krishna. And he would sit there with his students, with his people, and he would play the flute. And when he played the flute, everybody went into spiritual ecstasy. It was meditation. His music brought everybody into spiritual ecstasy.

0:31:02
And another one, I'm afraid to say it.

0:31:05
Nilarapa, a Tibetan Buddhist. Once he was liberated, everything that he taught,

0:31:14
he taught in song.

0:31:16
He would just be singing about ♪ Enlightenment is the best thing ♪ ♪ And it's really good, and he's free. You know, that's my interpretation, but his... There's this book this big called The Thousand Songs of Milarepa. He sang so many discourses of enlightenment, and he sang them. And not only, you could read the words, and the words are perfect, but when he sang it, people were, it uplifted their spirits. So he's the original gangster of the right.

0:32:12
Yeah, so, in music, there's an upliftment.

0:32:25
That's not even a word.

0:32:28
You can translate that. In music, there's an upliftment.

0:32:34
It brings you beyond self. The self can sit there and go, man, man, man, man, man, man, man. That's what it does all the time. And then, in the right music, you can go beyond that into beautiful feelings. So, beyond the karmas of the world, a lot of music is world music? Love, struggle, power, violence. There's so many strange aspects of music. But there is also music that is uplifting, that's very bright, that elevates the spirit. Now music's been a part of spiritual practice for a time in Memoria. One could look at the very early tribal chanting and drumming of tribes, and you're like, what are they trying to do? They're trying to find spirit. They're trying to connect to the ancestors. And they find something that transcends the self. And we can look at modern day religion. And if you can get rid of all of the dogma, there's beautiful things in the hymns, and the chanting in our Western religion that have a very high place of communion with God. And then the Buddhists, and the Taoists, the Hindus, if they can get rid of all of their spiritual dogma as well. They can come to a place of greater awareness of eternal enlightenment. So music's been a very powerful thing in all of religious science, spiritual existence. There's just a couple examples. There's this really cool spiritual practice in Japan. They play the flute. It's called the shakuhachi. And they play the flute as meditation. And then they wear these buckets on their head. And then, when they play the flute, the sound resonates more in the bucket. And so they have these very exalted meditation experiences playing the flute with a bucket on their head.

0:35:52
And in Tibetan Buddhism, they have

0:35:55
a really strange instrument. They have these long trumpets. They have these cymbals. And they have these strange oboes. I don't even know if this is a translation for oboes. Double-beaded instrument, very big.

0:36:16
Anyway, so that's a great sound.

0:36:19
Very beautiful. And the Tibetans, they do this thing called musical mandala. And they're very, very technical in the creation, structure, and formation, call it composition, of the music. It's very, very, very, very, very technical. Because it creates a mandala. This mandala is usually visualized as a picture, a picture of form and balance. So they create, musically, mandalas. spiritual structures throughout all of time, from tribes to Christianity and Judaism to Buddhism, Hinduism, Taoism, where music is used as a means of spiritual attainment. So in the beginning, Buddha was like, no music. It's all karma. You're going to get caught in the karma. It's going to eat you, and you're gone. But then, after some time, then Buddhists would be like, I love the teachings, and they would be like open, and then they would start singing the sutras. And then Buddha said, sing the sutras. Their hearts opened, their mouths opened, and they sang. They sang about enlightenment. And then Buddha was like, this is what to sing about, this is the Dharma, not karma, not something that will happen. So sing the Dharma, play the Dharma, let Dharma be heard in every way. In our school we have a practice of creating music for meditation. It's music yoga. So we have people who are professional musicians and people who are aspirational musicians. And we work together to create meditation music. And this is music that goes beyond physical karma to higher dimensions. So when we create music, we create music from sacred places, places of power. So we might go to the Grand Canyon. We might sit there and look at the Grand Canyon. It's a very powerful place, very sacred. And then we make music that reflects that place. The dimensions, the power, the sacred energy. We create music from that place. So the music that we were listening to tonight is music from places, sacred places, power. But we also might make music about great masters, like Krishna, like Nilarapa, like Buddha. Or like, what is the essence of their teaching? How can we portray that in a sound, in music? Because to meditate to a song about Buddha brings you into a different dimension of awareness and understanding of Buddha. So there's many different spiritual dimensions of beautiful things that we can create in music to share. So you read some Buddha things. You read some Krishna things. But if you can also meditate to the music that reflects their essential teachings, that brings forth their awareness, that's something very, very, very powerful, very bright. Music comes from somewhere. We hear it in sounds, but it comes from somewhere in spirit. And we come from a place of light. So in Taoism, the light is described as the palace of white light. I mean, it crosses every religion. Saint Francis said it's his illumination. It was his brother that illuminated. He called it his brother, the parking light. In Buddhist terms, in Theravada Buddhism, you enter into a condition of light. So, across all of these different religions, there's always this quality of illumination, spiritual transcendence. And so all of our meditation music leads to that place of light. It comes from that place of light.

0:42:35
So that's what we are focused on.

0:42:39
We have our Western sounds. Because a while ago, it was like in Thailand, music was a certain way. And then in India, music was a certain way. And now we have a new way. This is our expression of enlightenment for this age and for our culture. Western.

0:43:01
Western structures.

0:43:03
Kind of new age music. But it's something that actually works. It's something beautiful. Because if we played some time music,

0:43:22
it would be like, oh, shh, shh.

0:43:27
And the Westerners would be like, wow, this is really different. But the music that we're playing is something that's accessible for us. Tibetan music, the old Tibetan music, would be strange for us. So I went to this great swami, renowned for being spiritual and for his musical abilities. So he came to America. And all the Indians in the Bay Area came to see him because he's this famous great Swami. And he's known for playing the sitar and making magical music. So he came out and he said, first of all, he said, the first time that I played the sitar in front of a Hindu congregation of 200 people. He said, that was so bad that 100 of them decided to change their religion. And then, you know, and he said that and people laughed. And then he put down his sitar and he picked up a keyboard, piano, electronic, and he started playing all this weird, really crazy music. And the Indians were like, what? This guy's a master sitarist playing all this crappy, weird American music. I don't know. It's broken. And they were all mad. I was like, this guy is for real. He's awake. He's not playing the old stuff. He's expressing spirit in a new way. So when you hear new music, you can't be like,

0:45:26
oh, the only thing that's spiritual is the old music, the old chanting.

0:45:30
Those words seem great, but you can't be attached to something. The new music that we have is unattached. It's new expressions of enlightenment. So I really appreciated that Swami, because he had the courage to stand up and express his truth. Even though about every beat, all the energy of the kid is in the background. But I appreciate it.

0:46:01
So through music, with higher dimensions

0:46:09
that we create in our system, I also teach. So when you are meditating to the music of our school, all of these songs are songs that I worked with the yogis to develop, and I wrote some of the songs myself in a musical background. And we've developed a system of meditation through music. So when you're meditating to this music, it's music that yogis develop. It's music that I develop with the yogis. So in all martial arts they always have these forms, katas, where they go don't forget to translate that. And it's a way of moving to develop yourself, to silence yourself, to open to wisdom and light. So we have a very beautiful structure of meditation through this music to develop yourself spiritually, to let go of the heaviness of self and to open completely to the mighty.

0:48:04
All right, so I'm going to conclude

0:48:07
with a esoteric teaching about the transference of spirit through music. This is the esoteric, what we call shakti. It's bringing a Kundalini energy, but mostly it's a fine spiritual energy, and expressing it in a way that it can shift your attention, your awareness, and bring you into enlightenment. Look up here, and we're just going to do a one song meditation. It's a song that comes from a sacred place of power. So, the energy of the place comes through, but also there's a powerful spiritual teaching that I can use. I can work with that energy to give you very enlightened experiences. So just be still, light focus on the third eye, and look up this way. the

0:49:27
the the the the the the the the the the the the So the the the the Oh, the the the the the the the the the the the Oh, you you you




Transcribed with Cockatoo
