0:00:00
We're going to begin with meditation. So we're going to sit together for three songs. And, okay, let's begin.

0:00:15
So so I'm not going to let you go so you so so You so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, ♪♪ ♪♪ So so so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so so That was very nice. So, that India trip was amazing, and the recapitulations are really bright and beautiful. And the dance was so exciting. It was so surprising for me. We meditated, and that was kind of like on the 19th and we were celebrating my birthday because I was traveling

0:12:55
on my birthday, coming back. And when they got up, yeah, when Lauren got up and she says, let me show you. And I'm like, okay. And then like the music starts and I'm like, hmm? And then they're all dancing. It was just really great. Just make you guys up.

0:13:16
All right.

0:13:17
But our India trip was very powerful, all of them. The pilgrimages that we go on are very special. Pilgrimages, or we call them power trips. Sometimes we go diving and it's called power dives. There are structures in these trips, structures that avail you to higher dimensions. So, my teacher used to take us on power trips all the time. And we wouldn't just, you know, we'd go to, you know, maybe sit out and meditate in the desert. But we wouldn't just go out and sit in a desert and be like, yeah, there's some sand, cactus. We would be able to access these really high, amazing, beautiful dimensions because of the structure of the trip. When we go to places of power or sacred places, if you go there and you're just in the physical awareness, you don't see anything. If you're in this structure, this way of power trips, of pilgrimages, then the experience is very, very, very high. You are able to connect to the highest dimensions there. So as we were going in all the pilgrimages through India, I would look at their attention and see what spiritual experiences they're having. And while some of them have, you know, some experiences and things, they kind of pale in comparison to what you guys experience. Very few times do I see someone who's got light in their consciousness from their spiritual experiences. They have lots of experience and a lot of like, oh yeah, I saw this Swami, I did this Hatha Yoga, I went to the river. So they have a lot of experiences but they don't gain a lot of, they don't find a lot of light. And it's because we do things, the way that we do pilgrimages or power trips is a very, very significant practice in this school. Now, when you are sharing an experience, this is important for everyone to know, because from time to time you might share an experience with someone. It might just be with one person, or it might be with a whole sangha. When you're sharing an experience, you want to just tell it like it is. You don't want to say, I sat by the Ganga, I was meditating, I saw this, I felt this, I understood this. And if you just tell your experience just like it was, without adding additional reflections, like you're all, oh, and it reminded me of a movie. Yeah, in this movie, there was a space alien and an intergalactic gate and a monkey and then when you start to add additional commentary then you actually start cutting off the light. So you had an experience of light so try to just say this is what I experienced just in a real clean way without adding additional stuff. So I could see when people are saying they're telling you an experience and some people just all this light and then some people start adding stuff, commentary, self, and then the light goes away. So it's important to be able to share a spiritual experience in a clean way because then you're actually sharing the light with people instead of sharing self with people. Additionally, let's not use phones anymore when we're describing, when we're talking to each other and sharing. I know you want to get all the details, but the details don't matter. If you can remember one thing and express that in a clean way, then that will be very bright. You're kind of distracting yourself into structure by looking at phones. So, you look at your phone, then put it away, and then share what comes. So we can get better at sharing the Dharma. Now, this India pilgrimage, this was the last one for a while. Most of my older students have been able to attend this one and maybe in some time we will do another round for newer students. But the reason why we're going to stop the India pilgrimages is because now we're going to focus on Japan. So before India, I took a group of students to Japan. And I've been to Japan a lot because we used to do business in Japan. And this was the highest and brightest and most amazing Japan trip I've been on. And one of the reasons why is because when we were in Kyoto, Ajna started stocking Zen. You know, usually we go down there and there's some temples that are just amazing, just very beautiful. And the energy is wonderful and there's dharma just oozing out of the place, permeating this temple. But what Ajna did is he was all like, I'm going to stalk Zen. And he found an Ikebana practitioner, that's flower arrangement, flowers. And so a group of students went there and she was like, here's how you do it, the physical way, but she talked about Zen mind. She was very, very focused on, this is a Zen practice, clearing your mind, and this was Zen in the art of flower arrangement. And then Ajna found a iaido, or they call it the samurai experience, a sword practice. And some of the students went to that. And not only did he teach sword, but he taught zen in the art of sword. So then there was a dancer and a shakuhachi flute player, and they also did everything in the way of Zen. So this was a very, very powerful Zen experience. So in the next pilgrimage that we do over the next year, year and a half or so, they will be to Kyoto, and they will be experiences of these amazing, beautiful places of power and Zen teachings, these temples, and they will be experiences of Zen practices. So we're going to switch over to Zen. Yes, yes, yes. Let's see.

0:21:10
I want to tell you.

0:21:12
Oh yeah, and then I got back on the 19th of March, and I spent the whole time, you know, I got to the airport at 5 a.m. on March 19th, which was my birthday, and I got back at 10

0:21:30
p.m.

0:21:31
It was a long time, longest birthday ever. So I flew all the way through my birthday, and that was kind of funny. But the next day we had, you know, the Equinox formal and this was also a kind of birthday celebration as well. And it was really, really beautiful. We were at the Ritz-Carlton and it was a wonderful sangha event. So that was great. And then my mother got up and sang happy birthday in English and Spanish. That's what she does. And that was funny. Yeah, so my mother recently became a student of mine. Yeah, it's kind of funny. I mean, she's been around for a while. She's like snuck into meditations and had really magical experiences. But then eventually she became a student. So I'm teaching her knitting yoga because she knits like crazy. She just sits there knitting. So she loves knitting. And so I'm actually teaching her, since that's her thing, to knit as yoga. But she's so funny. She's like a living musical. Like she just starts singing. It's really funny. Like the next day, I took her out to lunch, and we're sitting there at a nice restaurant and she hears next door, she's always listening to other people. She hears these people speaking French. So she gets up and goes over to them and she says, Parlez-vous français? And then they're all like, oh, yes, we were speaking French. And then they start talking to her. And then she's like, speaking French to them. And then she starts singing the French national anthem in the middle of a upscale restaurant to a family of five that are from Paris. And they're all like, I'm like, they're gonna think this is so weird, but they start smiling. But my mother adds a little political twist where she changes the words and for some reason she was like, oh, they're going to really like this because it makes a better political message. And they liked it. They just sat there smiling and laughing. And I was like, wow. Now, that's the way I was able to recognize that I'm actually enlightened. Because my mother, my whole life was doing this. And she used to drive me crazy. I used to be so stressed out when she would do stuff like this. I would be embarrassed. I'd be like, oh my God, just let me out of here. And now when she does stuff like this, I'm just like, oh look, she's having a fun time. And look, she makes other people smile too. I'm like, it's weird. But it doesn't bother me anymore. All right, so let's see, my Disney princess diary. Ah, yes, yes, yes. Something important. All right, so now we're talking, you guys, we're talking about yoga. How to do work, your job, as yoga, as a pathway to enlightenment. And last time we had presentations about the yoga projects that we have. These are projects and businesses that we in the Sangha have come up with to work on to develop new businesses, new business ideas, and this is something that I'd like to develop further. So if any of you, if anybody here has a business idea, a project idea, you can share it next month. So for the April Satsang, after meditation, we're going to share new ideas. So if anyone wants to start stocking a new business idea, you can start now. If you have a business idea, you can start to develop it. And we will have PowerPoint presentations. And if you have an idea, you'll be able to explain it to everybody and we'll start to develop new projects together. And who knows, you know, we've had a couple, you know, successful businesses that have developed over the years and, you know, you might be able to create a new dream, a new project and it might grow to be an amazing, wonderful thing. So this is something that we work on in the Sangha. We help support each other in developing business ideas. So next time, if you stock a business idea, make a PowerPoint presentation where you describe it. Then we can share these ideas next time.

0:27:15
That sounds fun.

0:27:16
Now, let's see. How many of you have read the Job Yoga book? Raise hands. Oh, not many. The Job Yoga book is on the wiki. It's very important to read this book is on the wiki. It's very important to read this book because it has a lot of the principles of job yoga in it. And if I were to teach on all of those principles, some of them I have already, but it would take a lot longer. But if you read the book, then you're going to get those data points. And then a lot of these teachings that are in the, like the spiritual esoteric teachings, they are going to work in your mind a lot better. So, very important. And I've gotten a lot of good feedback about the book. People like it. Some people are confused by it. And then they explain to me why and I go, oh, okay, this is good. So as I said, the book, we're still in the editing phase, so you can help edit. But you should read it. Yeah. How many of you have seen Jiro Dreams of Sushi? Okay, some, okay, good. Yeah, so these are important. These went along with the additional Japan teachings. How many of you have seen the additional Japan teachings? Okay, so it's really important for you to take advantage of these opportunities. So, these things teach you how to be successful in your career, in your physical life, and also spiritually. And if you kind of don't do the assignments, if you don't read the book, you don't watch the film, then you're falling behind. And you're not really honoring the opportunity that you have. So, it is a valuable opportunity. All the things that we do here, all of the teachings, the sangha just being together, working on the businesses together, all of these teachings are very, very powerful, and they're very, very rare. It's a very, very rare opportunity to have this school, this study. And if you're just a flake and you don't read the books, don't watch the videos, don't watch the films, then your personal power is not going to keep up with the opportunity. So I always say this is a black belt school. So we're not just sitting there aiming to be an orange belt, right? We're aiming to be a black belt. So we're aiming to be powerful, enlightened, successful. And in order to do that, you have to do the work. If you don't do the work, then your personal power is going to go down. You're not going to be able to keep up, and then you'll flake off. So, the last time I was here, I said, okay, now, you guys have been here for some of the people over a year, some of the people a little bit newer, but I said, okay, so now we're going to work on some projects and you have to put in five hours a week on a project. And a lot of people were like, I quit. And why did they quit? Selfish. They have too much self. They don't want to do five hours of work. And if you can't do five hours of work, if you are saying, no, I don't feel like it, then you don't have what it takes. You will not develop personal power. You don't have the ability to do a spiritual discipline. So that's why I'm like, well, if that's the reason, then it's time to part ways. And for some people, you say, yeah, I want to do it, but then you end up going, oh, I flaked on it, oh, I didn't do it, oh, I flaked on it again, and then you get kicked out because you don't have the personal power to focus and do the work. So this is the time where you have to be selfless and you have to prove that you have the personal power to do five hours of work on a very positive Dharma project. So this is the time for selflessness. This is the time to actually, you know, we call it walk the walk, not just talk the talk. So doing your yoga project is very important and following the assignments that I give is very important. So read the Job Yoga book and watch the videos, the Dharma Talks, if you missed them. And also watch Jiro and Ramen. It's all about food, Japanese food. Yeah, you watch those and you're like, mmm, I'm hungry. So it's very important. So this is where you have to be for real, because if you don't do the assignments and if you don't do yoga, then nothing's going to happen to you, except for you'll eventually fail out. black belts. So if you're just like operating at yellow belt capacity, then you won't pass. And what you won't pass means is that your ego will take you out or you just don't have the personal power to do the work. You're too much of a flake to like do five hours of work to show up for meetings, to communicate properly. Like if you can't develop that that integrity, that ability to work, then this is not good. Enlightenment is not for you. If your idea of enlightenment is your opinion and being a flake and not being able to actually do the work, then this is not for you. So this is the time to wake up, do the work, honor the opportunity. You guys might, you know, you might not understand that it is an opportunity, because you're all like, huh? No, no, you're not aware of the very difficult era that we're in. There is so much tremendous illusion in this world. It's very, very, very hard to actually understand. So, for example, like when I go to teach in Munich, I sit there and I teach, and the students are like happy and bright. like German, they're all. And then I'm teaching, and then they're like the biggest smiles on their faces and like filled with like light and joy and very happy. And then I'm like, okay, all right, so thank you very much for coming, class is over. And they just sit there. And I'm like, okay, you know, they're gonna kick us out of here. And then they just sit there. And they're so happy. And then people come over and ask questions, I answer. And then they sit back down and everyone's just sitting there. And I said, OK, I'm going to go. You guys can stay. But I tell them, you know, they're really happy and bright, but I tell them, you have to come to the weekly online meditation class. And none of them come. And I've been watching this over a year, and I'm trying to figure out why, and I see what happens. They go from sitting with me and being totally happy and bright to walking out into the world. And within hours, all that light is gone, and they're back into German state of consciousness. They're like, oh, I'm going to go get some schnitzel and beer. No, really. They go right back into this very defined state of mind, because that's the Maya of the culture, that's the illusion of the culture. It's very heavy. And you guys do it in a San Francisco way. You go out, you know, your personal power goes down right after you leave here. You start going into your old habits, your old patterns, your old states of mind and then you lose the light and you forget the opportunity. And if you don't develop it, you won't be strong, you won't have the personal power. And then it will just be like coming here, you get bright and then you go back down. So you have to start, you know, taking responsibility and doing the work. That's what this place is about. This isn't just messing around, this is work. And you develop yourself through that work. You can't go to a karate dojo and just kind of like, when I feel like it, I'll do a couple moves and then I'll watch and start texting. Right? That's not, you know, when you engage in a school, you have to have discipline. You have to do the work. And then if you do the work, you gain something powerful, you gain something great. So, do the work. You have a question? Yes? There's two brand new students who don't have yoga.

0:37:56
So as you try to reach enough for them to do yoga, do you also go forward or do you always strap them down? I kind of want to know. Okay, good question.

0:38:07
So there will be an opportunity in April or May to bring them on to new yoga projects. So, let's say in May, we'll create new assignments. Excellent. But if they're really excited to do yoga, there's always things to do. You can negotiate them.

0:38:30
All right.

0:38:31
Yeah, so. You know, we've been working on the Golden State classes. And what I've seen is that people have taken UI, people have taken content management and Salesforce, and I've seen that people are not really pushing for a job.

0:39:15
They're like, okay, I learned it,

0:39:16
and let's just see if it's gonna kind of happen. I'll try a little bit to see if I get a job. Once you learn it, that's just the first step. Then you have to work really, really hard to get the job. So it's very, very important that once you learn the technology, that you then start to stock your job. Because once you get your first job, then you're going to get all of this experience and all of this personal power, and then you'll be like, oh, okay, this is great, and it's so amazing, and that will establish your career. But if you learn tech and then you just sit there and go, I don't know, I tried a little bit, but it didn't work out, then you're not using your attention properly. You have to focus. So if you've learned tech, then you need to start stalking. You need to really apply yourself, really focus. You need to really say, I'm going to do this. I'm going to make this happen. And use the principles of stalking and then radically change your life. Start a new career that is more exciting, more fun. Because that's why you took the class. So, it's very important. When you guys hit opposition, there's always opposition. There's always like, oh, I tried but I failed. Then try again. Then stalk a solution. If something's not working, start stalking. Start saying, hey, I'm facing this. Tell your teacher. I'm not getting a response from my resumes. Let me take a look at your resume. Oh, it's horrible. Change this, this, this. That's stalking and answer, right? If you just go, I kind of did it and it's not working. You know, if you don't have a job, get a job. You really need to start focusing. If you have a horrible job and you took a tech class, get a tech job. This is a time where you guys need to use stalking for real, put the teachings to the test. Do it for real and see what happens. See, these teachings are very powerful if you use them. But if you don't use them, if you're just such a flake, you're not gonna develop personal power and this will not work out for you. You're just wasting your time. If you're a flake, you're wasting your time. If you wanna stop being a flake, stop being a flake. Use stopping. Put the teachings to the test. They're very magical. Focus and hunt a career and you will be riding that ox. So this is very important.

0:42:19
All right.

0:42:22
this is my way of helping you a little bit. So sometimes I'll just sit there and say, enlightenment is A, B, C, right? And then sometimes I'll say, hey, you gotta do this, you gotta do that. And sometimes, you know, it is, sometimes I'll point out individuals. I'll be like, you! You guys are all, oh! Just kidding. No, but I'll, you know, like, sometimes I have to make corrections and I have to show you where you need to focus. So, you need to focus, a lot of you, on improving your jobs. So go find enlightenment in your work. One other thing, next Satsang in April, we're going to have a guest presenter. And some of you have seen her before, Kali. So she's going to be giving a teaching about men on the pathway to enlightenment and love. So this is going to be very, very wonderful. And it's very important, men in love, because men, when they don't practice love, they become an obstacle to enlightenment for women makes you a jerk. And if you're a jerk, you're not having a good time. You're getting bad karma and you're being a jerk. So, this is a school of enlightenment for women. And guys, if you're like dominating women and being negative toward women and not empowering women, then you're being a jerk and you need to learn to change. the gents to understand and take to heart. the gents to understand and take to heart. Okay. Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
