0:00:00
Hello from Japan.

0:00:08
I am in Japan. I've taken some students here at this time to teach them about job yoga. So Zen Buddhism has a lot of very powerful lessons for us in job yoga. But let's begin with meditation. So we'll sit for three songs. One song on the navel,

0:00:39
one song on the heart, and the third song on the third eye. Let's begin.

0:00:46
the the the So so so Oh Oh so the the the so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, So. Oh, so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Oh, of my life the the the the so the the the the so the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so so So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. So, don't worry, my American students. You come to the Cowell Theater, and I'm not there. I'm just here on the screen.

0:10:34
But don't worry, this is an esoteric teaching. So the fact that I am thousands of miles away means nothing. You will have Kundalini coming out of the screen. All right, so today, since I'm here in Japan and I have some students we're learning about Zen Buddhism, so I'd like to share with you Zen in the art of work. So Japanese Zen Buddhism has a strong tradition of what they call practical Zen. It's applying the spiritual techniques of Buddhism to practical things like work. And this has tradition for centuries that has influenced society. So Japanese businesses are really ingrained with this Buddhist philosophy of work as spiritual practice. So at the heart of every Japanese business is some Zen fundamentals. And it's not like new agey stuff, like, you know, be one with the emptiness of your bank account. It's really, you know, things from Zen Buddhism that they've really taken to heart and they've seen over centuries that these fundamental practices are things that helps their life, it helps their business. So, you know, there's things like, in Zen, there's impeccability, there's a strong focus on clarity, there's a focus on efficiency. So these are aspects of Zen that have made their way into Japanese business. So, you know, there's this old Zen Zen saying, before enlightenment, chop wood, carry water. After enlightenment, chop wood, carry water. And this means that in activity, in work, you can do it in a way where it's just work. But also, when you're doing work, you can do it in a way that is enlightenment. So this is something that is part of Zen in the art of work. It's a way to see something that might be a mundane task, or a task in work that you would say has nothing to do with spirituality and it's the way to see within it that there is spirituality. I remember one time I was with a Zen master Sunim in Berkeley in his Zen Do and he was saying, I teach my monks to have a strong attention, just as strong as maybe somebody in Silicon Valley as a computer programmer. So, he says, even though they're working on simple things, they work on it with a strong attention. Now, while he was saying that, we were sitting by the window, and I was looking out into the garden, watching one of the monks, and the monk is walking around, doing things, and while he's saying that, the monk goes over, he's going to pick something up, and he hits his head on a low branch of a tree, and then he trips over a rake, and then he falls into the koi pond. And then Zen Master Sunim looks at it, and he goes, still working on it. So, this is what we do. Whether it's a mundane task like gardening, chopping wood, carrying water, or if it's a task like computer programming, any kind of work, any kind of activity can be done in a way of Zen. So this is something that in Japanese practice we can learn from in our yoga. We really do include it in our yoga. Zen concepts of introspection, internal reflection. These have been things that Japanese businesses have really relied on in a very profound way to have success. So, in the West, we have a certain way of doing things, but in the East there's another way. And there's power in the Zen way as well. For example, Honda, the car company. In the 80s, sales started going down in the domestic market on their Honda Civic. They were really losing to the competition. So they knew they had to do something and the executive team got together and they couldn't figure out what to do. So then the the CEO, he just sat alone and he was really deeply pondering. So he was like, he said, who are we? Who is Honda? He said, what is Honda? And he started to say, is it just the Honda Civic? Because at first they were like, how are we going to fix this Honda Civic problem? And he started really asking deeper and deeper questions, like, who are we? What is Honda? And this is very similar to Advaita or Yana Yoga, where a yogi will ask,

0:19:40
who am I?

0:19:41
Am I this?

0:19:42
Am I that? And find that they are nothing, right? So he asked these deep questions and he went deeper and deeper and deeper. And he got to the point where he said, we're not just the Honda Civic. And we can be anything. But to be different, we have to change. So he said, okay, I'm gonna do something different. He hired a whole bunch of new engineers right out of university. And he said, okay, you guys are gonna design a brand new car. And the old experienced engineers, he just had them continue to work on the Civic. But he put this new team in place. And then they created, you know, they said, what do you want us to do? And he said, just create something. And they created something brand new, and it was called the Honda City. And for the domestic Japanese market, it was a huge success. And he was able to come up with this insight from really deep introspection. This comes from spiritual observation. Now, we can learn to work really well and be strong and capable in work, but if we don't do that deep introspection, then we don't have a spiritual balance. So you might be, you know, in the art of work, we look to that spiritual insight, greater consciousness, expansion, and then we gain a beautiful kind of spiritual balance from that. Long ago, in Japan, there was an He was a champion. And he heard that there was a Zen master who was also an archer. And people would say, oh, the Zen master, he's really good. And this archer was like, I can beat anybody. So he goes and seeks out the Zen master. And he says, let's have a competition. Zen master says, okay. the archer, the champion, he chooses a target far, far, far away and he hits a bullseye with the first arrow. With the second arrow, he splits the first arrow in half and then he says, okay Zen Master, let's see if you can match that. And then the Zen Master says, okay, okay, come with me. And he's like, alright. So they walk away from the target. They walk up this mountain, and they come up to the top of the mountain, and then there's a ravine. And there's a log laying across the ravine, and it's kind of like, the log is not too thin, and it looks old, and it might break. And the ravine goes deep, deep, deep, deep, deep. It's a huge chasm going down. And the Zen master walks out onto the middle of the log, and then he takes out his bow and arrow,

0:22:56
and he points at a tree far away,

0:22:58
and then he shoots.

0:23:00
And the arrow goes, and a leaf falls, and then the arrow goes right through it and pins it to the tree. And then he walks back over, and then he says to the archer, okay, your turn. And then the champion archer, you know, he looks down, he takes one step onto the log and he goes, oh, I can't do it. He's too afraid, right? He has too much fear. And then the Zen master says, he says, you have skill as an archer, but your mind does not have balance. You still have fears and confusions. So without that balance, you will never be a great archer. So then of course the archer decides to learn Zen and starts to meditate. Because it is through meditation and deep introspection that we a spiritual balance that transcends the ups and downs of the world. And it gives us a greater peace and a greater capability. See, in the West, we only look at things in a certain dimension. Like, we value certain kinds of information. It has to be just straightforward, correct, easy to understand, right? Like two plus two equals four. That's how we build businesses. That's how we do our work. It has to be completely logical, unambiguous. But in Zen Buddhism, we start to look for solutions, look for developing ourselves or developing ourselves through our work or developing our business in the uncertain areas, in the places that are fuzzy, the gray areas, the Zen practice called koan. And a koan is kind of a, sometimes I call it a riddle, but it is a very succinct, paradoxical question that when one reflects on it, it gets you to go beyond the conceptual mind to a greater awareness. So an example of zen koan is, what is the sound of one hand clapping? So when you start going, hmm, what is this sound? There is no sound. So the more that you ponder it, you come to an awareness of emptiness. Now, I actually have solved that koan,

0:26:15
and now it's the ringtone on my iPhone.

0:26:18
Just kidding.

0:26:19
So, koan drives you to a deeper awareness. Now, an interesting story, Panasonic, the CEO of Panasonic, one day went to a famous bread maker in Japan, and he had some bread that he thought was so good. And he was eating it, and he was like, oh, this is just the best bread I ever had. And then a question came in his mind. Can I make a machine that makes bread this good? And then that question just persisted in his mind. And then he said, okay, I'm gonna get my team on it, my engineers, and they set out to make the first mechanical bread maker. And they went to the baker, this master baker, and then they were like, how do you do things? And they tried to get the machine to figure out how to do it. And their first attempts were horrible, and they made some pretty bad bread. But then, little by little, they saw the subtleties of what the baker would do, and they mechanically synthesized it, and then they were able to make a great bread

0:27:43
from the bread maker.

0:27:45
So this started with his koan. His koan was, can I make a machine that will make the bread like this? So this is something that he pondered deeply and then put an engineering team together to solve the koan. So the koan is something very, very profound when you look at things in a very, very deep way. the spirit of Zen. So Zen has this tremendously powerful spirit. And that spirit is what helps you when you're reflecting on the problems of life, or if you're reflecting on the Zen koans that come up in your business or in your work. There's a spirit. And the spirit is, I guess it can't be said in words, but there's a profound spirit. Hakuin, this great Zen master, he was overseeing the development of his monastery, his temple, and he had this vision. he turned into a giant dragon. And the dragon was just, you know, like luminous. And waves of light and dharma would just spread from the dragon like clouds over all of Kyoto. And he saw this as a powerful expression of enlightenment. And this expression of enlightenment was embodied or constructed in his monastery. So this is kind of the spirit of Zen. And I love his monastery. In the Zen

0:29:54
Dojo meditation temple room, on the top, on the ceiling, there's this picture of these two dragons, and it's painted very big, it's very, very

0:30:06
beautiful.

0:30:07
So that's to honor Hakuin's vision. That's the spirit of Zen. So we all, as job yogis, when we're doing Zen in the art of work, we have in us this spirit, this spirit like we're this dragon. But at the same time, we're very humble. We're quiet, we're self-effacing. Because when you're egotistical, and boisterous, pushy, you lose energy, right? So we have that dragon in us, but we don't lose the dragon, right? That energy is something that we hold in. So we hold in our energy, because if you don't hold your energy in, you'll lose energy. It'll just be going out everywhere. So in Zen, we want to be very, very focused on, I'm using my energy here, not everywhere. We don't just let it go out. We're very, very, very conscientious about where we use our energy and our attention. So it's kind of like in Iaido, it's swordsmanship, Japanese swordsmanship. There's a lot of emphasis on one strike to kill, right? There's a great samurai, his name is Musashi. Musashi once fought 60 men, 60 samurai. And it's said that in the fight, the 60 samurai, they had 1,000 strikes against Musashi. Musashi had 60 strikes. Musashi won. So we wanna have a great efficiency in our mind because if you waste your energy, it's kind of like, if you look at a Western movie where they're doing swords, right? They're always like, cling, clang, clang, ching, ching, ching, ching. They have this exhausting battle and then finally the hero wins. But if you look at this Akira Kurosawa movie called Sanjuro, it's like the two samurai

0:32:38
just standing there.

0:32:39
And then, one wins.

0:32:40
So that's kind of the difference. It's like you can do lots of stuff and exhaust yourself, or if you have efficiency, you can just do the right thing, perfectly. You know, when you have thoughts like anger, when you have bad feelings, when you have doubt, these are things that waste energy. So it's very important to focus on a positive mind, you direct your mind where you want to have an effect and then you will have greater success because that dragon energy in you is focused. It's not spilling out all over the place and wasting in negative thoughts. So this is this is the Zen way. So you kind of have to learn this thing called Zen laziness. Zen laziness is not just kind of like sitting around binge-watching Netflix or something like that. Zen laziness means that you are very, very, very effective and efficient at what you want to accomplish it, you do just the one or two things that really make the difference so that you can accomplish it. So in Zen laziness, you let the action with confused thoughts, with ideas, with emotions. All of these things can obscure your attention to getting something done. So you know, zen, laziness, is not lazy, it's efficient. doing things just in the cleanest, clearest, most effective way. So, there's a Zen saying, be patient, be still. The right action will arise on its own. So this is kind of where we try to understand the flow of life. If you understand the flow of life and you go with the flow of life, then you don't have to spend so much energy. It's kind of like there's a river and you're trying to swim against the current, then everything's really, really hard. But if you're going with the current, then it's easy and you let life carry you. But this is what a lot of people do. Like, they'll be on one side of the river, they'll look across and see an apple tree. And they'll say, I want to get an apple. And then they'll swim over there, and they'll go, oh, it's so hard to get, because I'm getting pushed down, but I'm finding the current to get across. So people spend so much energy like that. Now, Zen laziness would be, alright, there's an apple tree. Let me look further down there. Oh, there's another apple tree. Then they would jump in the water and let the river take them down, and they would slowly cross and then they'd get to the apple tree. So the river actually brought them along much more than their own energy, their own willpower.

0:36:17
So this is what we want to do.

0:36:19
We want to try to find those places to let life happen, let action happen, let work happen. Let business happen. And when you do it in a wise way, it, you know, life helps you out. Life flows with you. There's a story from a Zen. There was a visiting Zen master who was coming to a temple, and there was these two monks who wanted to make the garden beautiful for him. So one monk was working on the west side of the garden, or the western garden of the monastery. The other was working on the east side. So the monk on the west side was going around, clipping the hedges, clipping the hedges and pruning the trees. And he was like, oh, okay, I clipped the hedges, but it's a little uneven, so I have to clip a little bit more. Oh, it's a little more uneven, so the hedges got clipped a lot. And he pruned the trees, oh, and pruned some more, and pruning, and pruning, and pruning. Now, on the other side, on the eastern side, the other monk was like, hmm, he's like, a little bit of hedge here, a little bit of prune here, and he's all, hmm, it was autumn, so there was leaves everywhere. So on the western side, he's raking up all the leaves, puts them away, and then he's like, okay, it's beautiful. And then on the eastern side, the monk looks and says, it's good. So he doesn't do any raking. And then the visiting Zen master comes and he walks over and he comes over to the Western Garden and he looks at it and he's not happy. He's like, hmm. So he goes out and there's a tree over there and he grabs the tree and shakes it. And then all these leaves fall down. And he's like, hmm. Then he goes over to the eastern side, and then on the eastern side he walks over and he's looking, and then one leaf falls off of a tree, and then he says, perfect. So the eastern monk was more in tune with what the master wanted, and didn't have to do so much work. It's a very simple thing. You could also consider this in a Western way, or a business way, like, for example, investing. Two people could invest in one company, and then somebody hears some bad news, and they go, oh my gosh, there's a bad earnings report, so now the value of this company is going down. I better sell, so then they sell. Oh wait, there's a good earnings report the next quarter, so I better buy. So they're selling and buying and selling and buying. And then the person who just left their money there, didn't sell or buy, just lazy, zen laziness, they actually didn't sell when it was losing money and didn't buy when it was a higher price. So they actually end up making more. So we can observe zen laziness in our business, in our work, and in our lives. Zen laziness is the There's got to be in Zen a tremendous engagement of attention. You have to be very focused. So this is one of the powers of Zen, right? Zen, meditation, and focus. Zen, walking meditation, observing every detail of walking. There's in Zen intrinsically a deep focus and we need to develop this impeccable focus in our work, in every task in our work. So in our work and the things that we do, we want to draw out a greater truth. We want to use the tasks of our work as meditations. And when we do that, then there's a greater strength. We really unlock the door to spirit with focus and concentration. So, there was a time where a man came to a Zen And then Zen Master said, okay. He took out a teapot. He said, make me tea and bring it to me.

0:41:21
I'll be over on the other side of the river. There's a river by them.

0:41:23
And the river wasn't too, it wasn't a deep river. It was pretty shallow, just up to the knees or something. And then Zen Master walks across the river, but you know, it's kind of a strong river, so you have to kind of balance yourself where you could slip and fall. And so the man goes, okay. So he makes the tea, and then he's got the teacup, and then the Zen master says, don't spill the drop. And the man starts walking across, and then the Zen master goes, go back! And he's like, get more tea, fill it to the top, come across, don't spill a drop. And then the man goes across, or goes back, gets it. And he's trying again and again and again to cut him across without spilling it. And he's holding it, focusing on it, trying, balancing, keeps on making a mistake, and then he does this over and over and over and over and finally he's totally focused and he does it just perfectly and comes over and gives the Zen Master the teacup and then the Zen Master says, that is Zen. So it's just, it's focus. and you have to bring your full attention to the task. And then when you bring your full attention to the task, then you're able to really, really have a profound, strong mind. Now, there's a consideration that they say in Zen, Do every task as if it was your last. So, if this is the last task that you're gonna do, then do it perfectly. In Tokyo, there's an espresso, a guy who specializes in espresso, but he does it as a Zen practice. So he brings his full attention to making espresso. So when he does it, he does, and he says, he says, if this is the last espresso that I make, it's gonna be the best espresso that I make. So he really, really tries to make every single one the best one. And it's really funny because he only makes 20 beverages a day. Because he's so focused. It takes some time for him to make the perfect, perfect espresso. So, you go to work, your boss says, Why are you two hours late? Oh, I stopped off to get some coffee. But you had the perfect coffee. So, yeah, but if you have that consideration, I mean, try it, right? Try a task at work and you say, what if this task is my last, right? And bring your best attention to it. And then you'll see that it shifts the way that you look at things. The way that you look at things is different when you say, this is my last task, my last effort. So this is a very powerful teaching. It's very important to have focus, strong focus. And Dojin Zenji, famous Zen master, he said, there are no rules. Work for awakening. So there's no gimmick to Zen. There's no trick. There's just practice. So when you have a strong focus, strong practice, then you experience Zen. And when you experience Zen, then there is a lot of energy. It's very powerful, very beautiful, there's a lot of success, spiritual awareness. Now, to practice Zen, to practice all these things, you have to actually practice. You know, do it in your work. Now a lot of people, when they read a book about mindfulness or hear a Zen talk or something like that, they go, okay, I'm going to try it. And then they try it for a little while and then they go, oh, there's way too much to do and, you know, I can't, I can't be mindful all the time or I can't like do my task as if it was the last task all the time. This is too much. So what you should do is you should practice one minute, one minute Zen. So that means that you you decide it might be the same task that you do every day or you might do it have a certain time where you where you practice but just choose one a task or a time where you spend one minute practicing Zen. Total focus, as if it's the last task of your life. Introspective, looking into it as deeply as you can. So, if you do that one minute of practice every single day, then what you do is you bring a consistency, and that one minute opens a door in your attention, in your awareness to Zen. If you try to do Zen eight hours a day and it's not focused, then your Zen is murky. But if you can just practice one clear minute a day, then you'll see that you are learning Zen, but you have to be consistent in your practice. And then the time grows and your awareness changes and then everything that you do is Zen. So Zen is energy flow, flowing with life. It's focus. It's higher energy. It's satisfaction. It's a strength. There's a beautiful spirit to it. Now, a lot of times when we think of people being very stoic and philosophical and quirky. But it's more like if you're dancing and you just become the dance. You stop thinking and you just become the movement. Or it's kids playing. Sometimes you see kids playing, and they are totally into it.

0:48:53
Playing with dinosaurs or cars, and they're just like,

0:48:55
vroom, vroom, vroom, vroom, vroom,

0:48:57
playing, playing, playing, playing. And they're not thinking of themselves or anything, they're just totally focused, they're experiencing fun, higher energy, and they're absorbed in what they're doing. That is more zen. And that reminds me of a story of Suzuki Roshi, a Zen master who founded the San Francisco Zen Center. He was giving a workshop, and everybody... they have a big center in San Francisco, and everybody is working. They're all sitting there talking about the sutras. They had done meditation session, and now they're figuring things out. So I think that, you know, Zen is this and that. And he's sitting there listening to them. They're all focusing on trying to figure out the whole universe. And they were very ponderous and heavy, so he snuck out. He sneaks out while they're talking and thinking spiritual things. And downstairs they had a place where people who had kids, there was like a little daycare. So he goes down with the kids and then he starts playing with the kids. And then later on they're like, why did you leave? You were supposed to, you know, teach us Zen and then you just like left and you're playing with the kids. And he said, while you were talking about Zen, I was experiencing Zen. So, Zen, I like to say that Zen is play, or Zen is dance, or Zen is, Zen is play. It's something where you, you, you get into it, it's fun, and it has like good energy, and it makes you happy. And if you're just philosophical about Zen, and if you're heavy about it, then that's not Zen. So try to have play. Because, you know, the world is pretty heavy. The working world is stressful. There's a lot of, you know, pressure, obligations, difficult things, mean bosses, commutes, and all sorts of things that are difficult. So you have to make it into play. It could become something that makes you out of balance. It could be something that's so difficult for your feelings and your awareness. A lot of people get pushed down in work. So you have to turn all of the heaviness of work into Zen, into play. And a big way to do that is to see things differently. Look at your life in a different way. You have to be able to shift your attention from saying, okay, life is this way, work is like this, because after a while it can get very routine, very heavy, and work then becomes kind of like meaningless, soulless. But Zen shows you that there is magic in your work. Now there was a, this is not too long, this is recently, a man who was a construction manager, and he built big buildings and all sorts of things. He got so stressed out from the demands of his work and he didn't like his work anymore. It wasn't fun. He was very good at it, but he had just done it for so long and just got burnt out. So he quits his And then he joins the Zen community. And as soon as he joins the Zen community, they came into a large donation, and they said, okay, we're going to build all of these buildings in our ashram. So we're going to build a library, we're going to build a new Zen hall, and things like that. And then the Zen master says, you're a construction manager, and can you help? Can you do it? And he just came off of being burned out and not wanting to do construction, and now he's being asked to do actually more than he's done on his last jobs. And he says, I'll do it. And when he started to do the building for his spiritual community, he looked at it very differently. It wasn't just a job anymore. Now it was a spiritual practice and supporting his spiritual community. So he just looked at it differently. And then he had no stress, even though he was doing much more work. And he was happy doing it. So when you look at things differently, then there's many more possibilities. And in Zen, they say that, look to what is unborn. And that means there's, you know, what is unborn, what is unmanifest. Then there's endless possibilities there. Now, I remember I was visiting with my Zen master, Sunim, and he came back to the ashram from shopping with one of the lay Buddhists. And then after meditation, they were having a big lunch. And in the middle of the table is a big salad bowl with salad, and then he comes, he says, oh, I got something new when I was shopping. And he comes out with this thing that's, it's like a stick that's three feet long and kind of a squeezing trigger thing that makes this little thing go like that. And he's like, and so he takes it and then he goes to the salad, grouse some, puts it on people's plates, right? And I'm like, oh, that's kind of a weird thing. But he liked it because he's like, oh, it's easy because I can reach everybody's plates. So I was like, huh, okay, cool. So later on, I was in the kitchen and I saw the packaging for it. And it was a, you call it a pooper, a poop scooper. So what it was, it's something to clean up after your dog. Right? It's just really easy, pick it up, throw it in the garbage. But I thought it was so funny, because he's just wandering through some store and he sees it and he doesn't, and probably doesn't read English. And he just sees it and goes, oh, that's what it is. It'll help for the salad. I'm just glad that he didn't get a secondhand one. So, there's, so this is what they say in Zen, look for the unmanifest. And then there's many possibilities. A possibility of a Hooper Scooper to serve salad. But this is where you get creative, or you see possibilities where you were unable to see possibilities before. So Canon, they were working on their printer for a while, and they had a problem with the printer. It would break. So their printers were breaking faster than their competition, and so they started losing out on the market. So the team lead was making the engineering team stay late at night. They're like, we have to solve this problem. And so they're talking all these different ideas, all these different ideas. And then the team lead says, okay, we're gonna get some food, we're gonna get some food and we're gonna keep talking, we're gonna work late.

0:57:24
So they get some food. He also gets beer,

0:57:27
because why not? And then they're talking and he's drinking a beer. And he says, hmm, you know, this beer looks like the metal cylinder drum in our printers that is the thing that breaks the most. It's like, yeah, so what breaks is actually that part. Then he's drinking the beer. He says, we just have to design it so that this one part is replaceable, because that's what breaks most of the time. So he was able to see an opportunity in a funny way. He was able to see, from looking a way to fix his printer problem. So there's always ways, there's always possibilities. And when you can look at things in a different way, when you can see the unborn, then you have many, many more options for success. And that's what Zen is. Zen is a way to see a bigger picture. Zen is a way for you to see greater dimensionality in your work. So when you're looking at your work and you just see it in a very fixed way, a very physical, finite way, then you're missing the dimensions of possibility. So in Zen, during the 17th century, a lot of Zen masters would do these haikus. So a short poem. And in this very short poem of like three phrases or three sentences, the Zen master would try to capture something beyond words. So, and this is so exemplary of Zen. It's taking something, seeing a bigger way. Like one haiku is from Zen Master, is, Long night, sound of water, says my thoughts. And I really like this one, it's very beautiful. When you say long night, it sets a mood. And then, sound of water, and then says my thoughts. So it's like the water is saying his thoughts, which is some balance of nature. But it just, it opens up a bigger understanding, a bigger awareness than just the words. So it's very beautiful. I have another one.

1:01:07
Yesterday, it worked.

1:01:13
Today, it doesn't work.

1:01:15
Wi-Fi is like that. So that's mine. They can be funny too. So, why don't you write a haiku

1:01:25
about your work?

1:01:26
Write a haiku.

1:01:28
Write a haiku. Try to write a serious, profound haiku about your work. And then try to write a funny one. These are ways for you to see a bigger dimension in your work. And this is what we do in Zen. In Zen, we go beyond, beyond the physical, finite way of looking at things, we see magic. So we'll take an ordinary thing and then we'll see the magic in it. And when you do that then everything is wondrous in your work. It's all fun. And that's the play of Zen. In Zen they have this reflection, this consideration. They say, the bridge is running and the river is not. And I remember I was considering that. I'm like, where would the bridge be running to? So I was looking at the bridge, I went over and I looked at a bridge over a river. And I said, I don't see a bridge running anywhere. Then I got on top of the bridge, and I looked down, and I saw the posts of the bridge standing in the river, and I see the river flowing down. And then, still considering this, the bridge is running, but the river is not. And then, all of a sudden, I changed my view, it just happened automatically, from it looking like the water was running, and it started looking like the posts of the bridge were running up. And then it got really exhilarating. So we want to be able to look at our work, our finite tasks, and flip it from mundane to magic. So now I'm going to give the transmission teaching. This is the esoteric teaching of Zen. Zen in the art of work. This is a way of seeing a greater dimensionality of spirit and magic in your work. So So we're going to sit for one song. Sit up nice and straight. You're going to bring the focus to the third eye. And you're going to look up here towards me. And I'm just going to do this transmission. So even though, you know, I know the Americans are like, wait, he's not here! Even though I'm not there, and I'm not there for Paris, Munich, Vienna, Budapest, or Iceland either,

1:04:29
but

1:04:30
I'm able to transmit the Kundalini. So I am transmitting it, and it's something that doesn't have to do with my physical body being there. I'm able to transmit it right to your spirit. There's no separation in spirit. So we will meditate for one song. Eyes open, look to me, focus on the third eye, and just try to still your mind. Okay, let's begin. the

1:04:58
the

1:05:03
the the so so so so so so So Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, You can call me a dog, you can call me a dog so Very nice. So Zen and the art of work is seeing that your work is sacred. Seeing the deeper dimensions and the wonder and the magic in your work,

1:09:19
no matter what work you do. A lot of spiritual people start to think, well, if I'm going to do work, it has to be spiritual work, or it has to be helping people, or something like that. It has to be like I'm a caregiver, or a nurse, or I work for an NGO, or a non-profit. And those are fine, but Zen in the art of work can be done in any work. It doesn't have to be one particular kind. It's paying attention to the magic in everything. Enlightenment is everything, everywhere. There's no place where enlightenment does not exist. There's no place that Zen does not exist. So if you say, oh no, this is good and that is bad, then you're doing Zen. Then you're doing Zen in the art of work. So when your work is meditation, when your work is mindfulness, it's your practice, then that is Zen in the art of work. So there was once a Zen master and And he moved out of the monastery, and then he became a butcher. And he was a great Zen master. And people started to say, wow, this is very strange. One day, one of the monks came to him and said, Zen master, why have you left the monastery? He's like, oh, because I'm doing spiritual work. He says, Zen Master, you're not doing spiritual work, you're just killing animals and that's not spiritual. And the Zen Master says, oh yes, you know, this is the highest Dharma for me. This is the greatest expression of compassion. And the monk says, how is this? And Zen Master says, well, all of these animals are raised to be killed. They're going to go to some butcher, right? And he says, so I am a butcher who kills the animals lovingly. So my work as a butcher is done as an expression of compassion. Plus, a filet mignon is not so bad. So we would say, oh my gosh, this guy is a butcher and he's killing animals, and that can't be spiritual. But he actually was a Zen master, and he did it as an act of compassion. A lot of times, we think that we have to do something else next to be able to do Zen in the art of work, but you have to see that whatever your work is now, there's power in your work. So you can do Zen in the art of work now, no matter what you do. There was a cobblestone cutter. He was taking rocks, and he would go to a quarry, break rocks out, and then he would make them into little stones for the street. And to pay, you know, yeah, cobblestone the street. And he was like, oh, my work is so difficult and it's a powerless job. That's what he thought. And then one day a merchant went by with a beautiful carriage and this merchant had lots of money and he said, I wish I was that merchant. That's such a higher position. It's more powerful. And then poof, he becomes a merchant. And all of a sudden he's wealthy and he's strong. He's like, oh this is great, I'm the wealthiest merchant in the world. And then he's like, but the king, the king is more powerful than me. So I really want to be the king. And then poof, he's the king. And he's like, ah yes, I'm the most powerful man in the whole country, more riches than any merchant. And then the king looks up at the sun. He says, Wow, the sun is so powerful. It's the most powerful thing. It's what makes life here on earth. So he's like, this is the most powerful position.

1:14:28
But then a cloud comes over and covers the kingdom under him, and he's like, I can't even get through this cloud,

1:14:35
so the cloud is more powerful.

1:14:37
I want to be the cloud.

1:14:38
Poof, be the cloud. And then the cloud is floating along, and he's like, ah, this is great. I can cover the sun. Then he comes to this rocky mountain, and then the cloud gets split by the mountain. And then he, as the cloud, says, I want to be the mountain, because a mountain is strong enough to split the cloud. And then he becomes a mountain. And then he says, yes, there's nothing stronger than me. A man comes over, cuts out the rocks, pulls them over, starts setting them into the street. And then he goes, that's the job for me. So boom, again, he becomes a rock cutter. So we can always look at, oh, I want to do this.

1:15:29
Oh, I want to do this.

1:15:30
This is more powerful.

1:15:31
This is more powerful. But you have to see that no matter what you do, no matter where you are, that you can practice Zen in your work now. Your work now is powerful. All right, so thank you all very much. And as I travel around Japan learning about, learning and teaching my students about Zen and the art of work. I will send you guys some more videos so you can follow our journey. Very nice. Now we're going to take a break and next we're going to have yoga presentations. So these are presentations of our existing yoga projects. These are our existing yoga businesses. And some of these businesses we've been running for 10 years, some of them started recently, somewhat recently, but you will have an opportunity to see the things that we've been working on as yoga. I think we have eight or nine presentations. They'll be about ten minutes each. When we come back, we will get right into these presentations. It's important for you to understand, to see what we have been doing, what this sangha has been doing for yoga. Okay, so if you're in Europe and you want to sign off and watch this part later, that's totally fine. If you're in America, don't leave. Don't leave the theater. Okay, so thank you all very much.

1:17:32
Hello to Samvara in Japan and my friends who are with him. Hello to the people in Europe and India and my team in Hungary. So, welcome everyone. I'm going to talk to you about my path as a yogi and about our yoga project. So, who is Vega? Please meet my brother.

1:18:05
So, when I joined this school six years ago and started yoga,

1:18:09
with the American audience I was selling screws, nuts and bolts to. So I picked the name of Naomi Vega and I was very happy to associate myself with this badass gangster because we got the formidable task from Samvara to sell 15 hours a week of those screws, nuts and bolts to the aerospace and military industries. So I was on the phone three hours a day after my day job and I was loving it, at least sometimes. And then when I came to the US and Radha and I was sitting down to find a name for a company that we were starting. She pointed out to me that Vega was actually more than just Vincent Vega from Pulp Fiction and it was a beautiful star. So then it all made sense to call the company Vega and harness the energy of both the gangster and the star.

1:19:40
And this is what it has become.

1:19:41
So it has become a company that solves a huge problem for startups, namely how to build their teams fast and well and how to make it all work. This can be a game changer for them if they can build their team on time. And if it's not a winning team, they can be out of business within no time. So our services grew or were born out of our dialogue with our clients, and it is still happening. Talent acquisition, it speaks for itself. We find people, but then we also realize that we can find much better people if we look at them and if we look at how they fit the team and if we look at how we can build diversity mindfully. And then we also understood that if we already have all the data about the people we take on, then we can just as well use that data while they are on board to help the company retain them. And Adrenaline is our newest addition to the portfolio. We really love it. So Adrenaline boosts startups. This is our strategic advising for any problem that arises. So whenever we hit a wall, we think and we say, wow, what's happening here? And then we figure out how we can help the startup transform that into an opportunity. Just to give you an example, we are working with a startup right now, we have 15 positions open, and they are really struggling because those positions are not organically connected. So we started running with them, finding people for those positions, until we realized that we had to take a step back and think about how to do this cleverly. And how to do this cleverly is maybe to look at one of their competitors that's ahead of them and has 250 employees, map all the job roles, scale them and create an org chart that we can present to our client and we can orientate based on it. So this is the current portfolio and it's still increasing. So it all started with one bright star, which is also a yoga company and you're gonna hear much more about them and we are super proud of them. Their name is AppBuddy. I didn't want to put on the logo not to spoil their presentation, so just to keep you in suspense. AppBuddy gave Vega the chance to look for one role, that was a product manager, and by opening that door, to become the company that it is now. So I am immensely grateful for this opportunity and a lot of love and happiness and gratitude when I think of AppBuddy. So it all started with one company and one role. This is something like this is the current situation. We are working currently with seven different companies, servicing them in different ways. And currently we have at least 15 roles open. So we are scaling, it is a beautiful growth, and this is where we would like to go. So, this is the big question. That was not an easy one when Samvara asked us to project our three year goal. And I heard in a presentation that people usually overestimate their one year goals and underestimate their three year goals. So we've been thinking about this and this is the figure we came up with. So we want Vega to be a $3 million company in three years. And we're gonna do this first of all by scaling the services for which we created operational procedures, processes, training materials. So the company is ready to scale. And we are also going to do it by creating a product, namely an app that can be used for the team dynamics that I told you about the last time when I presented. So this is the team, a wonderful world-class international team, and I have a few empty spaces. So who's going to fill those spaces? First of all, first of all, we badly need ambassadors, business development, anyone who is willing to activate their own network, reach out and recommend Vega, introduce us to them, or is willing to go out and cold call or cold write or cold visit companies, anyone who does that will get 10% of our revenue of placements for a whole year. Sometimes it's just one phone call. So that's for sure something we need. We are also looking for people who help our marketing efforts. And once the application gets started, we will probably need a product manager and people who can help project manage that project. So I am going to inform you more about all that when the time comes and when the time is right. And I am very excited to work with all of you, any of you who is interested to join this team. Thank you very

1:25:43
much. My name is Chi. I'm a Buddhist monk. And I'm here today to tell you about a very exciting project, a longstanding yoga project in the Sangha, which is Vayu music yoga? So we actually have a Sangha band. So we have different members of our Sangha who are trained in instruments. Some of them are composers, some of them are professional musicians, and we've come together and actually formed a band with the intent of creating meditation music. And a lot of the meditation music that we listen to, especially you guys going to classes and your meditation teachers are playing you these interesting songs, you know, in all your different classes, a lot of that actually is self-generated and comes from our sangha, which is very exciting. And this was so cool to me. So when I was first going to Savitri's meditation class back in 2008, she was like, yeah, we got it. We do scuba diving. I got this enlightened teacher. We do job yoga and we have a band. And I went, you have a band? That's so cool. I got to know more about this band thing. And over the course of discovering music yoga, I discovered really this rich, rich lineage of not only our sangha, but actually Sambara sangha, our whole sangha, also has music that they've generated these meditation music and albums to. And a lot of what we listen to in the seminar actually comes from our original sanghas music project. So there's this cool multi-generational, multi-dimensional music project that we've really fostered in our sangha and expanded over the last 10 years. So what is Vayu? Vayu comes from a Sanskrit word. It means movement or wind. That guy, that green guy in the corner, that's actually Vayu. It's Hanuman's father. So in the classic stories, he's the embodiment of the wind. And the way that we think about our meditation music is it's something that we can have the listener connect through the music to these wonderful dimensions of light in our meditation, in our sangha. And we use that music almost like wind to move them from their normal state of mind to this very beautiful high place. And this is one of the ways, one of the primary ways that we actually communicate the light in our study and actually teach people how to meditate through these songs. Very cool. So Yogic success. Since 2008, when the music team started, we've produced nine albums, which is kind of insane. So that's almost an album per year. And you'll see them up on the screen. If you don't recognize the name of some of these albums, we will point to you where they were available on the wiki, because these are really cool albums that each capture all these different dimensions of the school. So we have The Big Island. It's an album about the big island of Hawaii. All the songs are meant to be connections to that place and these very powerful places that we meditated and scuba dove there. Mudra did an album about Tuscany. It's all about the Tuscan countryside and all these beautiful places that they went on a trip with Sambara on. So there's these little snapshots, these little windows, these little dimensional portals into all these wonderful manifestations of light and all these fun things that we do in our sangha. So we did an album about Napa. You guys have been to Napa. It's wine country. We actually did several research trips where we went to Napa, we experienced the food, the wine, but there's, like Sambara was saying in the talk. There's a way there's a Zen So the way we do Napa and the songs on the Napa album are capturing that way and putting what can't be stated in words Into a song so it's this really cool Just way of experiencing this light and we've done a lot of things with it And I'm proud to announce that as of this morning. It just went live our 10th album. We just finished just released We'll send out a link. It's on iTunes, Spotify, which is The Land of Fire and Ice. So, what is The Land of Fire and Ice? So, this one is for our friends in the Reykjavik Sanga because this is an album that's all about Iceland. And this one is a really special cool album for me specifically because there's so much of the energy and dimensions of Iceland that actually created so much of the sangha that we're doing now. So Iceland was the first place that Sambara had a seeing that we wanted to teach new meditation classes. So many of you are in the room here today from that seeing, and that's an energy that came from Iceland. Now we have a sangha in Reykjavik where we teach these classes, where there's dozens of people that are learning this style of meditation that also came from this experience in Iceland. Back in July, we actually took a trip, and it was the first time that the US Sangha and the Hungarian Sangha met in the same place. So for us, it's this place of not only just beautiful energy, but the spirit of Sangha unity and teaching and really sharing the light of our study, and the songs are really intended to capture that. So, like a lot of the classic meditation albums, when you guys download the album, it's structured so that the first five songs are navel songs, second five songs are heart songs, the last five songs are third eye songs. So you can listen to the whole album end-to-end and do a meditation, or you can pick and choose the different songs from those buckets, and you can make your own playlists. So it's intended to actually support your meditation practice, whether you want to go long or go short. But in listening to the songs on this album, it does that same thing, which the intent and composition behind the songs was someone who is in Iceland, having a beautiful experience somewhere in Reykjavik in the Miba nature baths. And when they're able to have that high meditation experience, and then very selflessly write a song about it and just capture those dimensions in a the world. And I'm going to talk about how to do that. So, I'm going to talk about how to do that. So, I'm going to talk about how to do that. So, I'm going to talk about how to do that. So, I'm going to talk about how to do that. So, I'm going to talk about how to do that. So, I'm going to talk about how to do a lot more. So the output of music yoga is pretty challenging because you have to write a bunch of songs and then you have to do a ton, ton, ton, ton, ton of refinement on each song. And our output as of recently has been a little slow. So a big part on the project that we're starting now, which is a lot of the new yogis joining on the music team, is is really intended to accelerate our pace and our output. So every Equinox and Solstice, we're using those as our Buddhist business quarters, we want to produce three new songs of music yoga. And whether we release those all at once, TBD, but we really want to just get in this practice of putting our attention, connecting to dimensions, and then producing output in songs. And ultimately, in three years, my goal is that we have three high-quality studio albums, like this Iceland album we released to you guys. The next album we're working on is India. So Ganganath has come here multiple times. He's talked about India. He shared these beautiful experiences with these sadhus, these saints, these yogis. And we're actually, many people on the music team are going to India next week, and we're going to start composing our next album about India. So intending to capture those same dimensions in this new light so that we can share it with you guys, even if you've never been to India. The other thing that we're really endeavoring to do is set up some kind of live performance cadence. So, it's one thing to connect to music, to listen to an album, and it's a beautiful way. You're sitting in your bedroom, you have this nice contained experience. But, you know, anyone who's ever been to a concert, right, there's a special energy that happens when you're in the room with something that's live and happening. The same way that there's a special magic when Sambar is here and he's meditating live with us in person. So we're actually going to set up a structure where we can actually perform some of these albums with the members of the team and put on a live performance. I think that'd be pretty cool. And really what we're endeavoring to, a lot of the music that we listen to, especially at the seminars, it comes from a very special album. It's the Evening Meditation album you guys have gotten on the website. That's pretty much the gold standard of meditation albums. And as we work through this process of refinement and producing all this output, we're really endeavoring to get something that's the quality, the dimensions of light that we're able to be captured in that album. So that's our practice. That's what we're endeavoring to do. And we're very excited to do it and share it with you guys. So we have some available roles. And you notice the last thing we need is performers, people who can actually play music. Because we need a bunch of other stuff that's a lot more important than that. So, a lot of the music that we do is actually happens through software. So, we use Logic and GarageBand and a program called Reason. Pretty much those are the top three. And we're actually composing a lot of the initial music and sequencing it and sharing it and putting it together to make this beautiful music on the software. So if you have experience with that software, even if you don't play an instrument, that's actually probably the most important thing. And if you're interested in that, let me know. We also want to do some things to promote the music. So if you know design, if you know how to promote, if you know how to send albums out and get reviews, these are all things we actually want to do to publicly promote this music, not even just to our own sangha, but to the entire world. So if that's of interest, that's definitely something that we need to do. We have a very old website. That's going to be the first thing that we redo, and we're going to redo it around the Iceland album to actually share a lot of the inspiration pictures and pictures that we use to compose the music on the new album. So that'll be coming soon and definitely something we can use help on. And then last, very low on the list, if you play an instrument, then we'd love to have you too. So in closing, Sambara wanted me to share just a quick story about the impact of yoga on my life. And I like this picture over here, because that kind of reminds me of what it's like sometimes when you really connect into yoga and just get in this beautiful flow. It just looks like magic everywhere. And there's this Buddhist saying that if you want to see the perfect sunset, first get into a perfect state of mind and then just look at the sunset. And then every sunset you look at is a perfect sunset. And that's been a lot of my experience with yoga. It's this thing that you just do it, and then without you even trying to do anything, all this magic happens around you. So I originally started doing yoga in 2008, and I found out there was a music team. I was like, oh my God, I got to try out for this. And when Simbara was describing people that were wasting their energy and all over the place, that was me in a nutshell in 2008. And I was really excited and I wanted to join the music team, but I was totally doing it from a way of self. I was like, it's going to be self-evident how amazing I am and they're just going to invite me on to the music team with the red carpet. And Simbara and Mudra were very gracious. They listened to the song I submitted. And they said, learn how to meditate first and talk to us in a couple of years. So my first yoga project was not music. It was actually working on AppBuddy, which you guys are going to hear about in a little bit. And at the time, AppBuddy was just this glimmer in our eyes of, hey, maybe we can start a company around Salesforce and do some stuff. So my first yogic task that I can remember, I was merging leads. So, we get a lead come in and I would click on a button and then I would look and see if it already existed in our database and then I hit okay and maybe I'd move one thing. You could have probably trained a monkey to do it more successfully than I was doing it, but it was my yoga and, you know, I took it seriously and this is how I first started to learn selflessness because this amazing thing would happen when I would sit there and merge leads. I would get out of it and I would kind of feel like that guy in the picture. You know, everything would just feel a little more awesome. It would feel like I, it was that feeling that I experienced coming out of a seminar. Whereas things seemed happier, brighter, more possible, felt like I'd been sitting in a hot tub for a little bit. It was just more relaxed. And I would notice on, not so much what would happen, but what I would forget to do when I would do yoga. Because I would forget to get mad at my roommate. I would forget to argue with my boss over some email about something that wasn't important. I would forget to have this view of myself and what was possible. It would just kind of fall away for a while, and some cool stuff would happen. So an early story I wanted to share that was, for me, what solidified the magic of yoga is Sambara gave us an assignment. He said, hey, look at your job. And if you like it, that's awesome. Get a raise. And if you don't like it, get a new job and get a raise. I was like, okay. And it's just like the music yoga. I went through this first with a way of self. So I got a job interview and I walked in there. I'm like, I'm awesome. Hire me. You guys can't help but hire me. And they said, no, we don't want to hire you. So I said, okay, maybe I'll try this selflessness thing that they keep talking about. And I didn't know what that meant or how to do it, but I had my yoga teachers and I noticed something about them that was different, is they were very smart, they're very direct, they're very happy and excited, but they weren't brash and had a ton of ego and talked about how awesome they were. They were just clear, direct, and happy and excited about the jobs they were doing. So, I was like, maybe I'll try that this time. So I got another job interview. And I walked in. It was for a technical project manager position. I was not a technical project manager. And I had just taken the tech class. And I went to every class and understood none of it. But I had on my resume, OK, well, maybe if I'll hang out with developers, this is something that I could get a little bit closer to it. So I go to this interview and something really amazing happened. They looked at my resume, they ignored everything and went straight to the bottom and went, oh, you took a tech class, tell us about that. And I went, uh, and I repeated the ten words that I remembered from tech class and they nodded their head and wrote down and said, okay, well, you've clearly talked to a developer, so when can you start? And they hired me on no qualifications I'm going to do a little bit of a demo. I'm going to show you what I'm doing. I'm going to show you how to do this. So, I'm going to show you how to do this. So, I'm going to show you how to do this. So, I'm going to show you how to do this. So, I'm going to show you how to do this. So, I'm going to show you how to do this. So, I'm going to show you how to do this. So, I'm going to do this job. And at this point, AppBuddy is just kicking. So every free minute that I'm not doing my job, I'm thinking about Salesforce, and how are we going to sell Salesforce, and what's Salesforce, and what are we going to do on the AppExchange. It's just Salesforce, Salesforce, Salesforce. And the side effect of that is all these things that I was doing in my job, like arguing with my boss, and thinking about what I want and don't want, and who cares, I just stopped doing because I didn't have time to focus on it. So, it was like a forced Zen laziness. And as a side effect, I got really good at my job. So, I walked into a performance review. I've been there for a year. And, you know, they went through the performance review. It was my first performance review ever. And something really amazing happened. They, at the very end of the performance review, they said, oh, by the way, we're going to take what you have now. And I, excuse me? You can do that? Apparently, you can do that. And it didn't even occur to me to ask for this. You know, it wasn't like, oh, I'm trying to go in there and make a bunch of money. It was just a side effect of doing yoga is that while I was focused on this thing, everything around me changed. And it made this thing that would have been impossible if you had told me, hey, a year from now, they're going to double your salary. And it's just what happened. So this is the experience I want to share with you guys in yoga

1:41:40
and many, many, many amazing miracles in store for you guys

1:41:44
too.

1:41:45
Thank you.

1:41:48
Shakti rising yoga zen spirit dragon emotional support animal. So I just leave him here, just in case. So, Chi, thank you so much for introducing Vahyu. I'm so excited about the India album because our yoga Shakti Rising was born actually in India during a pilgrimage. for our teacher and out of compassion for all the people who do not have an enlightened teacher. My name is Aruna Challa and I'm a student of Samaras for 14 years. Our raison d'etre, our mission, we exist to build and deliver programs, tools, and experiences that support the empowerment of women globally. Our vision, what we aspire to be, we would like to be a resource for girls and women into to build and share the true feminine power in service of elevating human consciousness. What is power? What is empowerment of women? We figured power is nothing else than the accumulation of energy.

1:43:41
So this yoga project is based on three pillars.

1:43:44
We are going to build an application, which is going to help women direct their energy. We are going to build an application track their energy. We are going to build an application which is data-driven, scientifically proven, and highly personalized. We are going to support this experience with events, with workshops, with trainings, with retreats. And we are going to release some knowledge and wisdom in the form of books, articles, and blog. Accomplishments. We actually didn't start really working on the project, what came to us in India. We started to work on an old platform provided by one of the teams and worked on something else, which doesn't, it's not a money-producing activity first. So we worked on something which didn't generate any income, but as a side effect, the team made more than $600,000 in additional income since starting this yoga project. We made on the side some new clients, two private coaching clients and one corporate coaching client, which brought us about $50,000. One of our key performance indicators is team happiness. So I'm actually tracking how happy the team is. And I'm very excited to see them being really happy. They have fun, actually. They enjoy it. This is the team who bakes cookies for Christmas, having little enlightenment signs on them. This is the team who spends hours in Iceland searching for the right socks to bring them back to the teammates who couldn't make it. And we are very happy and very excited to share with you that what the team is working on, it's finally live.

1:45:59
We are in production.

1:46:00
So the Enlightenment workbook app is actually out there, is in production. So we would like to introduce to you a project one year in the making. And I would like two of our engineers to present this to you. Sophie and Japa, would you like to walk us through?

1:46:36
Hello, I'm Sophie, one of the four engineers on this yoga. And I will talk to you through the Enlightenment Workbook now.

1:46:50
The Enlightenment Workbook is based on the original print version of Samvara's book. It is comprised of writings and exercises that are written by Samvara to help his students with important teachings. So today we are releasing the Enlightenment for a Book application, as you can see on the screen, for desktop, mobile web, and Android, and the iOS application is under approval.

1:47:36
Yeah.

1:47:37
So after you sign up, you will be guided to an introduction to help you to get familiar with the program. And you will get to a profile page. So on the profile page, you can enter a brief description of your intent, together with some details about you. And I must emphasize here that all information you enter here, and as well as you enter in any of the entries, is completely private to you.

1:48:18
And I would like to ask Java to come up to the screen.

1:48:24
All right. So what we have here is the task board. This is basically where you will spend most of your time, waking and sleeping. And this is kind of how you will interact with it. You have three columns. You can see the upcoming chapter of the book, the current chapter you're working on. You can open your tasks or the actual entries that you are reading. You can mark the tasks complete, and then they will magically appear in the completed column. And most of your workflow will be repeating this and having spiritual realizations. All right. And one of the most important features of the Enlightenment Workbook is the Power Plan. It is a really powerful mindfulness exercise where you can list out and categorize your thoughts. You can find out what kind of positive thoughts you are thinking over your days, what kind of negative thoughts. You can write them out, rate them, categorize them. And after you've done that, you will encounter the thought logger, which is the next step of this mindfulness exercise. This is where you can actually log if you had a happy thought or a sad thought. And you have some pre-filled entries from your power plan. And if you encounter a new thought that you didn't think before, you can just enter it. You can rate it, and you can categorize it. And once you actually log your thought, you get to a power log. This is where you get a daily summary of every thought you had, positive, negative, and you get a score. It's nice to have a score. I like to have a score. All right. And actually, one of my favorite features of the Enlightenment Forkbook is the Table of Contents and Progress Tracker. This is where you can track your progress. You can see how much of the Enlightenment Forkbook you have already gone through, how much is left. You have a bird's-eye view of all the chapters and assignments that are coming. And from this table of contents, you can also very easily revisit chapters and assignments you have already completed. And in case you happen to have any kind of feedback, we have a very conveniently placed feedback menu point on the top right corner.

1:51:14
Be sure to press it.

1:51:16
All right, and that is for the Enlightenment Workbook, and back to Aruna Chala.

1:51:20
Thank you.

1:51:22
You know, we like little symbols, stuffed animals and stuff, so let me show you this here. This is a badass button. So I play this frequently to my team, so guys, thank you so much. You are a badass.

1:51:46
There you go.

1:51:47
So yoga had a very profound impact on my life.

1:51:52
I was reflecting on that. I cannot describe all the dimensions, but I would like to highlight three areas. One is the skyrocketing growth. You cannot do differently, you will grow. You develop new skills, you develop new knowledge, even if you didn't intend to. So somebody I could totally relate to your screws and threaded rods. I talk about it a little bit later. I would like to get started with tech. I have a business background. I was always the first one to scream if my computer somehow failed. The blue screen was my dear, close, frequent friend. And then I was made to learn technology. I was staring at my broken code for three hours just to figure out that I missed a comma. So this was my level of excitement. But it was okay because I could hide behind my screen. But then I was made sell software. I had no insight at all. So I grabbed a buddy. She's awesome, by the way. She had insight. She understood all the stuff, you know, data modeling. So and then we went to sell actually a software. This was a very high-end management consultancy, you know, suit. We got a little coffee. We talked to the CEO. We did our little presentation, it was very nice, and then we left, we stood on the street and I poked her, I was like, hey, what's a server again? So this was my level of deep knowledge and insight. And here I am in Silicon Valley, having the pleasure and honor to lead a yoga project which is targeted towards building software. The second area which came up was the magic. The magic, the magic, especially by selling screws. It was just not possible. I was like, I have so much on my plate, I just cannot do it. There's no way. And then I have a German background, so I created somewhere a timesheet. I outlined why I cannot do it. I cannot do things physically, you know. I showed him I get up at 6 and I'm busy until 1 a.m. in the night, like every day, and it was actually really true. And I explained, so no way. And then he smiled at me and he said, you know, I totally get this, but you don't need to call a lot of companies. You just need to call the one who wants to buy your screws. He's always so helpful. And I smiled at him and I was like, Samara, do you know how many aerospace companies are out there in Germany? He just smiled back and I was still hoping that he is giving me a pass or excuse, but no. And this is a death-grant project. This means if you do it, you are in. If you can't do it, you are out. And leaving the Sangha, being out, not being on this path was just not an option. So this is how I learned to use my third eye and my intuition. I found that one company. And it was very funny because this yoga project earned me the title of mom of the year. Some of you know I have a teenager at home. So obviously teenagers, they get like books from school, which are supposed to read, they don't read them. And the sneaky teachers give them assignments, like questions they need to answer. You can only answer if you read the book. So my daughter, obviously, she didn't read the book. It was 10 p.m. in the night. Next day, assignment was due. And and she was completely stressed out. She was like, Mom, I can't do this. I didn't read the book. I don't know how to answer this freaking question. I was like, give me the book. I screamed to her, I said, da, there you go. She was like, how did you do this? So this is one of the ways you can use your magic. You got has a BS detector. It tells you exactly when you screw it up. Mine goes off very frequently. So it makes me grow. I leave my comfort zone. Always. And the fun thing is, you get comfortable with things, and then you think you figured it out, and then somewhere comes your way. And then you just push the rug, and you'd have to grow again. So you get really, really strong. You get all the powers you never thought you have. I realized I can be, I can learn anything. There's no limitations, unless I put them, I place them onto myself. And finally, I started, actually I stopped asking for it to be easier, and I started asking to know my true power. And this is the magic of yoga. Three year goals. We are going to build a viral product. Maybe not one, maybe more. We are going to release our first MVP, which is going to be personal energy management application for women by the fall Equinox this year. We are going to build a multi-million dollar business. Somali, now you got to pay attention, please. We are going to have 120 employees. And as discussed, one of the KPIs is happiness on my team. So we are going to have happy, balanced, motivated, and engaged employees who care about the question, how can we serve better? And we build a company where the bottom line is love. We have some open positions. We played it small. So if you want to play with us, we have three rows open. We definitely need a Scrum Master slash Agile Project Manager to keep us on track, to do some little backlog grooming. We are extremely creative. It's insane. So you've got to be really, really strong. And we could use two QA engineers who help us testing. And by the way, I really would like to thank all the people who worked on the Enlightenment Workbook and even beta tested it. This is priceless. Thank you very much for making this happen. Oh, it's also for guys, right? So this team, we have two men. But you've got to man up. You know why? Because personal development, you cannot work on personal development if you don't develop yourself personally. And power is strongly correlated to the opening of your heart. So if you're up to it, to open your heart and to play with us, you're most welcome. I'm the Shakti Rising Yoga Team. Thank you.

2:00:31
So, you know, 80%, 95% of businesses fail and nobody thinks they're gonna be part of that until, you know, you put all this blood and sweat and tears into it only to see it fail. And I've, you know, been a part of that myself. I've been trying to start successful businesses since I was 18 and it wasn't until joining the Sangha and working with Sambara and and the Sangha on businesses and learning from everybody and going through all the process and applying and learning about you know how to apply things from a Zen point of view that you know now I've actually been able to have and be a part of a successful business and and to see everybody else's businesses going is really something that's remarkable and not common. It's not common. So this is great and I'm highly inspired by everybody. So this is ZenCloud. We started ZenCloud four years ago as a Salesforce consulting company. So when I came to the Saga, I was a Java developer. And I came across, there was a number of people at Saga from AppBuddy, and they were doing this thing called Salesforce. I was like, Salesforce? Who's into Salesforce? And it wasn't until I looked at what they were doing and saw the level of success that they had achieved personally. And as a business, I was like, oh my god, this is the place to be, got to get into this. And so we started a Salesforce consulting business, having no experience in Salesforce, as good business people do. And it's been fantastic. We had a booth at Dreamforce, which was the biggest tech conference in the world. And we actually developed Salesforce expertise and consulting, and now have done business with some of the biggest companies in the world. And in the end of 2017, we saw that what was really needed to be done was to open up an office in India. We had worked with a number of offshore vendors and had tons of problems with it. And I've been in IT for 20 years and my business partner, Lakshmi, she's been in it for 30 years and we've seen the good, the bad, and the ugly, the mostly ugly around offshore development. And what we saw was that most of these problems are actually human problems. Sure, there's some project management stuff, there's some technical things, but most of them are human issues. And what we do is actually we kind of specialize in human issues, the self issues, and really what I've experienced in yoga is overcoming self again and again and again. And really that's what we observed was a lot of the problem was that you have offshore folks and onshore folks and they all think that it's the other person's problem and fault and so what we saw is like, okay, well, why don't we open up an offshore company and focus on how can we actually solve these human problems? And so we spent pretty much the whole of last year developing what we now call the ZenCloud Way, which is our set of processes that span everything from how we hire, to how we train, to how we retain employees, and how we actually deliver quality with a one-pointed focus on exceptional quality and reliable exceptional quality. And now the feedback has been fantastic and the clients have responded incredibly. They're chomping at the bit for more. And so now, actually our biggest problem is hiring. It's like how do we hire people, these really great people faster. And so we've got a 15 person team at a very big publicly traded billion dollar company. We have more, we have two developers who are reporting to the most well-known architect in Salesforce who swore off that Offshore could ever work and now he's using Offshore developers. And so it's been really fantastic and really has come down to, you know, again and again working through what are those human issues. And now we've gotten into product development, which all good, I think consulting companies finally get to. And that's where we're at. So 2018, we had a little over one and a half million in revenue. We grew from one to 20 employees in India last year. And over the course of the business, we've worked with nine different SANGA members at various time, and we've helped four people break into the Salesforce ecosystem, and two of which had never been developers before, and I think there's all these other great things, but that actually may be my favorite success to watch that, and people be successful and amazing, which they are.

2:05:41
So next slide.

2:05:42
So our three year goal. So our three year goal, this is kind of our end game. Our end game is 250 employees in India with a annual 10 million in revenue, shooting for a over $40 million acquisition based on that. So these are not pie in the sky. We do see opportunities and have plans to get from 20 to 250 in three years. Um, and, uh, we think it's, it's quite doable. Um, and we've seen, you know, we've, we've done our research around how other companies have gotten to 250 to 400. And, um, and we see our, our kind of avenue to do that. There's a number of different factors in the market now that are happening between kind of some of the shakiness around the US economy to changes in the H-1B visa programs that look like it's actually gonna drive offshore development even more. So what was initially just an onshore Salesforce consulting company has now actually transformed into really what is a dedicated offshore development model that just happens to specialize in Salesforce

2:06:54
So yoga

2:06:56
next slide So, you know personally for myself, you know when I came to the song I was making $75 an hour which for me was the highest that I could possibly get to and I was convinced that You know that rates higher than that were a thing of the past, and I kind of got to the top of what I could do. And then I came to be a student of Sambar's, and I came to learn, I was like, I got to take a look at some of the rates that other people were looking at. And I opened up this spreadsheet thinking like, oh yeah, I'm going to be like among

2:07:35
the highest. And then I started looking at the rates and I was like seeing over, you

2:07:36
know, a hundred, a hundred and five, a hundred and fifty and like over $200 an hour. And I was like, Oh my God. And it really, what it showed me was the power together that we have, uh, that individually, you know, me personally, or I think really anyone it's, it's impossible when, when together you can create things that are beyond imagination. And really, you know, especially listening to the different yoga presentations today, it's, you know, I think it's proof that together it's like we're able to create these really remarkable opportunities and businesses that have both personal impact and impact out in the world. Like I said, I've been trying to build businesses since I was 18 and you know failing and failing and failing and now it's like I actually have a successful business and for me personally that's been incredibly valuable to actually get to that place. For I don't know better part of 20 years and there it is and beyond the physical results you know I think the biggest impact of yoga has been the inner experience of things and You know what I think I'd like to say taking the hop And there's been a number of different things that happened and situations where I'll go to some bar and be like, oh my God, this is a huge problem. Like this is going on. One example was we actually started a business with three business partners. And there was a point at which one of the business partners was upset. And this happens. I've talked to many businesses and upsets happen all the time, except most of the time when upsets happen, there's just this huge blame game that goes on and it just derails the business. So instead of thinking about product and selflessly putting something out into the world to make others' lives better, what happens is the upset takes over and everybody's focused. And so every time I'm talking a problem to somebody, I'm just like, there's no problem. And it really is then take on how do we take these moments as the perfect moment? And that's what I've learned. There's tons of business books out there, and there's all kinds of philosophies and theories and strategies and calculators, and these are good things and necessary in their place, but really where business – all this stuff is 95% failure, I think it really – it's failure not just in the – it's not failure in the market. It's failure in dealing with these gray areas, these fuzzy areas, these places where there is no book. And it's really, for me, been the part where real value has come up. So we had this moment and this business partner was upset and it was so easy to get into the blame game, to get into the, oh, how could this happen? And so really the teaching was to continually come back to the table, continually come back to the conversation and no matter what was happening, to just come back with compassion, come back with communication and work through it. And while he ended up leaving, it was one of the highest experiences of my life because it was, there was gold light present in the process. There's a process of, of how do you work through something? Um, you know, we're in a, in a Kali Yuga, this dark age. How do you work through things as if it was a golden age? Like, how do we, how do we do that? And so it's really that process, um, that for me has had an incredible impact to go back and now things come up and, uh, and that seem like such a problem. You know, other people, and I'll be like, it's not a problem. Well, some of the times. Still working on it too. Falling in the koi pond here and there. So yes, this business is incredibly exciting. There's so much to do and it's challenging. We have market traction now, we're making money and now we're competing. We're competing with other businesses. We're competing with these behemoth companies like Accenture and Cognizant and going to battle. It's really part of the samurai side of the Zen teachings now. There are some real opportunities to join the team and this is kind of where we're looking. We're looking for folks that want to participate in marketing, social media, content management, helping us really refine and get out a marketing message that's consistent. Along with that, WordPress PHP developers, somebody to help work on our website. So as we come up with some of these new marketing and social media strategies, we need somebody to update the website. I've had to do items on updating our website that's like six months old. So I need somebody, we need somebody to help. From the sales perspective, sales yoga is an amazing, it's an amazing yoga. And we recently opened up a new division, which is our SMB, small, medium business division. You know, most 90% of our business comes from, um, from large kind of enterprise level businesses. These are like fortune 500, you know, billion dollar companies, but there's a huge market in the SMB space. And we started, we opened it up at the beginning of the year and suddenly it's really started taking off. And there, there is, there is opportunities for folks who have no sales experience to actually jump in and actually get sales experience, drive sales, and experience the challenge and fun and excitement of sales give and go. And then finally, we have room for Salesforce developers. We are working on actual products. We have kind of two main products, one of which is in development as we speak, and there is opportunity for Salesforce developers to join the team and work on that. So that's it. This is ZenCloud. I really appreciate the opportunity to speak with you all and wish you all the best in your yoga endeavors and overcoming the self and exploring the ecstasy of that gold light that's just beyond. So thank you very much.

2:14:49
My name is Surya and I'm going to talk to you about something. It's not a game. We are building. I'm trying to get to the next slide. Shepa, can you help me? All right. So this is not really about our project. It's about you. Many of you just joined a study and you came here because you wanted to learn meditation. And guess what? You can learn meditation in a lot of other places, but it's going to do nothing to your life. So, if we're into transformation and making something better out of your life that you could not imagine yet, then Karma Yoga is the way. And another consideration is that there is a tremendous opportunity in this Sangha because we are building. And we are not building usually physical objects, we are building software. And when we find an opportunity, we go for it. My friend Raja found one. He figured that the construction industry is still the most under-digitized industry in the U.S. and in the world, world. Which means that if we find a sweet spot here that could result in something extraordinary that could create, we call them unicorn startups, something that just comes out of nowhere, takes it all, like a new Uber or a new Airbnb. And this is a place where, as someone said, we are still in the threshold of this unborn and born. We're just about to come out, so watch this. I meant to tell you a little more about what we call Pocket Estimate. It's a smart new tool and many of you in the audience, I can see media. Many of you worked on it and many of you are not on the team anymore, but a lot of people contributed to this. For the last over a year, many of you have been working on this, developing it and getting it to the state where we are now. This is basically helping people like me, builders, real contractors, guys who do your kitchen remodeling, build your bathroom, build your new garage, do stuff for your house. These people love to build things. They don't like to do administration. Administration is a pain in the butt for them. So if you can take away that pain from them, they get excited. They say, oh, can I actually show up at my clients and give them fast response to things that I hate doing and I need to do it when I'm going home and tired? So we enable them with this little application to do interactions with their clients, build their own catalogs, make their estimates and invoices, and interact with their clients in a way that is not standard for small, medium-sized businesses. I don't know how many of you have the experience of working with contractors. I have some funny ones. They showed up, they said blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, and then I asked them, so how much is it gonna cost? They gave me like a number. So if we help them do it in a lot more professional way when they actually can create an estimate and send it to their clients. That makes them like look ahead of the game. They kind of stick out of the lame and look like pros. Okay. And the other good news is that it's most of the work is done, like most of the work that we know that needs to be done. The team went through the Ask methodology, went through tremendous amount of research, came up with a great design. They build a software. Right now, we are in the last moment before we would hit the market, and it's super exciting because we are doing these pre-sales and user acceptance testing, and actually just packaging the software so we can actually put it in front of real customers. And during the month of March, we're gonna go out and test it with real people, and we start asking them for real money. So this is the exciting part. So then on, our current estimate, this market is pretty big. We are talking about my estimate is about $83 billion, and it's not a very nice round number, so it can go up and down a little bit. And there is not a huge amount of competent players in this market. We have found a couple of applications that we want to go after and catch up with and guess what in terms of number of users obviously the head of us in terms of features we are not that far so it's not an income incomprehensible gap for us to close and it gives us a good reason to hope that these numbers are super conservative. So if you want to read it, that's all yours. I have no way at this stage honestly to estimate where this could take us. We are thinking about doing the good old Salesforce trick, going for communities and be there for the builders and help them create also a place where they can share their stories and get excited about opportunities. And this is a time when instead of boring you with my yogic story, which is pretty like, not the best in class and not very relatable because I'm still learning karma yoga. I want to introduce somebody who just joined the sangha a couple of like month, a little more than a year ago and she's been through a tremendous transformation as a result of karma yoga. Please welcome Gabrielle.

2:20:17
Hello.

2:20:18
So yeah, as Surya mentioned, I've been a student of Sambar's for about a year now, and I've

2:20:26
been studying with this group for a little bit longer than that. And I'm the marketing lead on Pocket Estimate, and I was asked to share my yoga story with you all. So I think this starts last year when yoga started getting introduced to me, and everyone talked about how magical it was, how awesome it was, and I was like, cool, what's yoga? And they're like, well, you pretty much work for free and it's fun though. At least that's what I heard. I was like, that sounds cool, but I know my worth and I rather do other things. I'd rather spend my time doing things I want to do and getting paid. And then late last year, there was a very pivotal moment in my spiritual growth where my heart really opened up to this group, to Sambara and to the study in a very profound way. And complete trust went to Sambara and his structures and the school. And when that happened, suddenly I was on two yoga projects. This is another. This is one, and I'm on another one as well. And yeah, basically, I had to get over a ton of self. And then once I did, I decided to fully commit into doing yoga. and public speaking is very difficult for me. I'm an actress, but this is... Bear with me. So I thought about enlightenment in a completely different way. I started thinking about it in a different way after this thing opened up for me. And I started thinking about the other things that I've been able to accomplish in life. And I thought about enlightenment. And I'm like, hmm, if I was able to pull this off, that would be a pretty cool accomplishment. And I thought about all the other things in my life that I've been able to accomplish and what was the common thread there. And what I found was I truly wanted it with all of my heart. And I think about other people who have been able to accomplish great things, and when I look at them and their stories, I see the same thing. And I think that it goes for any of us, when you truly want something with all of your heart, nothing stands in your way. And so I thought about enlightenment, and what I was willing to give up, and the answer was everything. And so, from then, some really cool things have been happening. So, when I'm really pushing myself in yoga, so much of my energy, my focus, my attention is going to that. I am balancing multiple things, career, like meditation practice, and then two yogas. And doing that, mindfulness becomes effortless because there's so much going on in your mind and you're super focused on a goal, at least for me, everything that is taking away power from that, or taking energy away from that, I'm very aware of it, and I can feel it. I can feel it in my body. I can feel it taking my energy down. And so I found myself, when I keep my mind strong and focused on this goal, things like, just different things that you will be able to deflect it. I'm able to deflect it and the things I would normally hang on to, I just release them. And so then when I go and sit in my meditations, you know, not only is my mind exhausted from working so hard and is just ready to sit and meditate, but I also see that my awareness is a lot cleaner because I've gone through my whole day deflecting negativity and letting things go. And so when I sit in meditation, it's easier to fall into it, and then I'm able to go higher. And so that's been really cool. The second thing, the power. So basically, it's making me feel like this super intense statue of this woman breaking apart and all of this light coming through her. It's extremely transforming. The transformation happens extremely quick, especially the harder you push, is what I found. And it shows up in all areas of life, and especially in very valuable ones, like your career. And so I go through my day juggling between having a strong career, having my meditation practice, and then these two yogas, and it's literally like juggling multiple universes. And I find that my mind is able to more easily be flexible and fluid and go between them all. And also, I'm pulling out strength within myself that I didn't even know I had. And being able to juggle so much is not something I thought I could do before. and I'm doing it and it's not easy, but it's possible. And an example of how this has manifested in my real job or my real life is a review I just had at work. And leadership is something that has been terrifying for me to step into and to do things like get up here and talk to a big group. And it's something that my job and my boss has been encouraging me to do, pushing me to get there, but I've been resisting it. So of course when I get onto these two yogas, the first thing that pops into my face is the exact same resistances. And so I use yoga as a tool and a practice, kind of like a sandbox environment to work on these resistances and breakthrough them. Also, when like the temperatures dialed up in your life and you're putting all this pressure on yourself, these things pop up into your awareness a lot faster. You're shaking yourself up and you're really getting out of your comfort zone. And so I'm able to see my resistances faster and I'm using yoga as a way to work through them. And then it just shows up in my career. So I just had my review with my manager last week and she's like, it was such good feedback and she was like, all these things that I've been trying to get you to do this year, suddenly it's like a light just flipped and you're doing all the things and you're being outstanding at it. And in the back of my mind, I'm like, yep, that's all my yoga at work. And so the last thing is it's fun. So what I found is that, you know, we're all, most of us are like very busy. We're taking on a lot to push ourselves and to grow ourselves. And so to get the opportunity to sit with your song of mates is extremely special because these relationships are, they're very different than the ones that you have in your other life. And this is your soul tribe. And we are helping each other grow and supporting each other in ways that are seen and unseen. We are pushing the right buttons. We are putting each other and giving each other exactly what we need with some bar of light. with Sombara's Light. And so we're all together on the same mission of enlightenment and working together to create and to make things and to solve problems together. And there's a beautiful, high energy in doing that. And you get to work with really inspiring and amazing team leads like Surya, who instead of taking this opportunity to talk about his experience, he offered it to me. And what he didn't realize is this is truly one of my biggest fears. But what a gift that is. What a gift that is. He is like incredibly supportive. It is the biggest gift to get up here. And you should have seen me for the last week since he's asked me. I've been a freaking wreck. Yeah, and so, and so yes, and so I'm extremely grateful and moral of the story is yoga is definitely worth the hype and and it's definitely worth the time and effort. So thank you.

2:29:34
Oh my God, Gabriel. So the other reason I asked Gabriel because she can talk much better than I do. So you got better outcome. This is what we're looking for. We have a couple of roles open. This is a thing that's just about to pop. Okay, it's just about to come out to the surface. So it's an exciting time. We're looking for an architect. We're looking for a couple of developers. We're looking for designer help just saying We are looking for software testers in other words QA people sales and support people Not if you're interested just talk to the people in the yellow hats So what you get out of this, of course, you're gonna get so strong you're gonna sweat a lot you're gonna hit my guts You're gonna have a lot of hard time. That's what I can promise you. And in the meantime, you're going to develop amazing marketable skills. You'll experience stuff that you thought was not possible, and you will teach me a lot of things that I didn't think was possible. So there's never been a better time. If you understand is getting in on the ground floor, this is it, okay? If you come on board, we might build the next Uber or Airbnb with Joe, okay? Have a fantastic rest of the day. Thank you.

2:30:55
My name is E. Jaya. I'm the president of AppBuddy. And in that role, I lead our sales and marketing teams. I work very closely with Chi, who spoke to you about Vayu, who leads our customer success and support teams. I report to Dharma, who's our CEO, and who founded the yoga project along with Parvati, our CTO. And if you remember, if you were here at the last seminar, you got to hear Dharma and Parvati both speak about the impact of yoga on their lives, which was so beautiful and true. So working with them, as you can imagine, is an incredible privilege for me. To help you understand a little bit about what App Buddy is about, I'm going to do it a little bit differently because I know we've been sitting for a little while, so could everyone please stand up? If you want to do the Wu Wei Do, like, handshaking thing, you can do that, you don't have to. Okay, but you gotta listen to me while you're doing it. So, if you have worked at a large company, either now or in the somewhat recent past, large company, maybe a thousand employees, something like that, you can stay standing. If you've not worked at a large company, you may sit down. Sorry, if you don't want to sit down, you got to sit down if you haven't worked at a big company. Okay, great. So now, for those of you who have worked at a big company, please stay standing. If you had to work with at least one software application, I don't think anyone else sat down. So, you can sit down now if you'd like, but you understand what AppBuddy is trying to do. We're trying to make what's typically very challenging in enterprise software applications, working with data and empower everyone, empower you to be happy in your work by making how you connect with that data an illumining experience. So to go from what's usually treachery and depression and clicking through screen after screen or doing swivel chair integration where you're in one screen working on an application, you copy-paste and then you paste it into the other application, you go back and forth, all the pain that comes with those applications, we're trying to make that really easy, productive, and bright. We have two products that are on the market, GridBuddy, which is a native Salesforce application. This is the first application that we launched, and this is back several years ago. And if you're doing work in Salesforce now, because I know we're teaching a lot of classes around Salesforce, it's an amazing ecosystem to build your career in. And it really helped us to start with a niche that we could build a product on and market to a defined audience and grow a fantastic business on. Our next product that we've released and is now in the market being used by customers is AppBuddy Cloud. AppBuddy Cloud takes all of the learnings that we've had with GridBuddy, building the best user interface in the world for working with lots of data, but now we can support multiple systems, not just Salesforce. So we already support Salesforce, of course, with AppBuddy Cloud, but we also support SAP's Sales Cloud, which is no small feat to support anything that SAP does. And if anyone knows software. And then we're also going to be supporting many other platforms this year. So, think about things like Microsoft Dynamics, think about applications like ConnectWise or we're also looking at NetSuite, some of the back office applications. What makes the software so powerful? So, what we do is we think about how engineers like to work. Whenever I tend to work with data, I open up a Google Sheet, you know, or an Excel spreadsheet because I can work with the data on the one screen. I can edit it, manipulate it, do all the things that I want to do with it. But in enterprise systems, that data is usually locked in a database or across a couple of different systems. And so you got to navigate through all those different screens. What AppBuddy software allows you to do is take all the data you need to work with that would typically require all these different screens, et cetera, and bring it into one unified experience, the grid, that makes it super easy to see what you need to do to make your updates to take the actions that you need to. And then, of course, IT departments, security departments, compliance, they love it because rather than having all the users dump the stuff into spreadsheets and taking the data out of their systems, they can work with it right in the system where it sits. The software is amazing. I'll just stop right here to acknowledge the work that Dharma Parvati, all the engineers have put into building the software. It is world-class. And when we present it to customers, or when we talk to investors or potential partners, and they see, it looks simple, but when they see how we're able to do what we do with data, they're blown away by it. It is extremely sophisticated. Some of the sophistication is making it simple, right? And so, to be able to sell a beautiful product like this is amazing and we've had a lot of success with it. So you can see that Dharma, Parvati, and the early yogis like Chi and others launched the Yoga Project in 2009. We now support 32 full-time employees. Twelve of them are yogis in our sangha. And to have your day job and then the most beautiful, important, meaningful work that you could think of doing be the same thing is just extraordinary. And so, a number of us work full-time on AppBuddy day in, day out, and it's awesome. And this year, our goal is to eclipse $8 million in run rates. That's annual recurring revenue that our customers pay us through subscriptions. And we want to continue this great growth rate that we've had, 25% or greater every year since the company has been started. We want to keep that going. We also have puppies. This is our company Halloween party. And I think you can see Dharma in the middle riding the dinosaur. Parvati is in the dragon suit next to him. Yoga can be kind of stressful. I'd gained a lot of weight, so I was a sumo wrestler. And then we also have a puppy-friendly office. There's a lot of Scotty dogs running around. There's some unicorns, like Makani you can see up there, pirates. So we have a lot of fun working together. This is just some of our customer base. So when we showed this to an investor, it was kind of later in the deck, kind of like now, he's like, he's like, that needs to be your first slide. He's like, that is your logo porn slide. You need to show that first. That's hot. And if you look at all the companies who are up here, it's an impressive list. So, a lot of the top companies in tech, Salesforce is two largest customers in the government sector, the public sector, Veterans Affairs and USDA also use our software. You can see manufacturers like Schneider Electric, agriculture companies like Syngenta, et cetera, all use our software. So in addition to having a great product, to sell to companies like this takes a lot of effort and sales. So if you remember Dharma talking about he didn't want to do sales, he wasn't that good at sales, et cetera, Sambara asked him to do sales and he learned to do sales. So, Sambara made or, well, I guess Sambara helps all of us, but Dharma made a lot of these early sales. Chi came in, made a lot of sales. Yogini, Padma have turned into total sales badass spiritual warriors doing sales for AppBuddy. And this is the fruits of that labor. And our customers love us. So, if you go to the Salesforce AppExchange, you'll see we have 232 reviews. They're all five stars. It's amazing. And you can read this. You don't need me to read this tip for you. But this is from one of the top security companies in the world, Symantec. And this is how much they love us. And not only do they love the software, but the team that supports them. So, Qi, like I mentioned, leads our customer support team, our customer success team, our engineers often pitch in to help where our customers need us. And I'm trying to hit the back button. It worked. One just story I'll tell you about this which is so cool is Syngenta. Syngenta is one of the largest agriculture companies in the world. And I was going to sell them our software and I was visiting them in Switzerland. This is the Matterhorn. And I was talking with an architect there. She was a Salesforce architect. And she was the one who basically did the Salesforce. I just showed up. She was the one who did all the work. And what she told me was she said that, you know, when I was working at a different company and we just had about 20 employees, we were really small, we weren't a big customer for you, we didn't pay you a lot of money. But Parvati and she did so much work to help me and to help us to be successful that I am going to make sure that Syngenta buys this software. And Syngenta is now our largest customer to pay us over $300,000 a year. It's confidential. And that's what applying the principles of the Dharma, the principles of yoga can lead to, right? You selflessly serve our customers, you work together selflessly and these great benefits come. These are many of the use cases that our customers use our software for. I'm happy to chat with you more if you have any of these needs in your company. I don't know what to point to now. Did I break the clicker? Okay. And thanks to Vega Partners, we're actually, we actually just made our two most important sales hires of the year that Vega helped place. So, Samadhi and her team are amazing. We currently are at full roster in terms of our open positions, but we're always looking for additional talent. One of the things that we're really struggling with right now is our website. So, if you have experience with WordPress and web development, you would be interested in that, it would be great. But what all of you can do is you can go to AppBuddyCloud.com and sign up for a trial and test the software out. Many of you might be learning Salesforce. You can have a Salesforce developer org for free and you can just start connecting into that Salesforce org and using the software and experiencing it for yourself and giving us your feedback. So that would be a huge help to us. And if you do have a real core competence in sales, marketing, legal, other things, and you're interested in that, buddy, just let your meditation teacher know and they can, you know, connect with me or Dharma and Pravadi and we can certainly talk about that as well, whether it's now or in the future. So just a quick personal reflection to wrap this up. So, there's two things that have stood out to me with yoga that I think are really, really important to understand. And one is yoga, at least for me, is where sangha becomes real. So it's wonderful to meditate together, right? And we all dress up and it's really nice. And a lot of times you like what other people are wearing. Sometimes you might see something that someone's wearing that you don't like. But generally, it's like pretty easy to get along and have a quick chat over the tea or chocolates and that's all wonderful, right? But when you have to work together on a project and you've got to show up late at night or over the weekend with deliverables accomplishing things that seem impossible, that's when you find out what each other is made of. And you really, in that, you know, that crucible of working together, that's where you find out what each other is made of and that's where you rise above yourselves. And there's been so many times where I've done, gosh, Chi, Yogini, Dharma, any of these people can tell you all the stupid things I've done, or, you know, when I've lost my temper, or been less than impeccable, you know, and they get to see all of those. But we all rally together to rise above ourselves in that process. And, you know, you might not pick your yoga people. Sambara is the magic alchemist. He's the one who kind of helps us decide who will go on what projects frequently. But no matter who it is that you're working with, if you're in that yoga process for long enough, you come to love each other in this beautiful, beautiful way. And I love the people I work with so much. So you can't really get that experience without rolling up your sleeves and doing something meaningful together. And then the last thing is that, for me, I'd been in a community before this one, and we did a lot of yoga work actually very similar so it was cool we were working but we didn't have an enlightened teacher and When you get to work in a project like these that is supported by the enlightened teachings of Sambara It has all of these magical things that you've heard so many people talk about and so for me I had sort of given up that you know always be kind of a spiritual dude And I'll try and be a nice person and all that would be really great. But, you know, enlightenment, I just don't think I'll see it. But for me, and I very much hope for you, yoga makes enlightenment real. So, thank you very much.

2:43:48
I'm Mandala. Oh, okay. I'm Mandala, and I'm here to share with you

2:44:22
that the I Ching Pocket App of Wisdom is back. Woo! Woo! Woo!

2:44:28
Woo!

2:44:29
Woo! For those of you who know her. So she's back, and I'm really happy about that,

2:44:35
and I'm super grateful to someone here

2:44:38
that I thought was sitting over there. But you know who you are, and you're an amazing karma yogi, super selfless. Thank you, thank you. Okay, so the app is back. Okay, so we wanted to make the wisdom of the I Ching available to a contemporary audience. How many of you have used the I Ching app? Okay, and how many of you, so there are a lot of people who have not yet used this app. So I'm gonna talk a little bit about the making of the Eaching app. But before I do that, I just wanna mention, as you have seen

2:45:27
in all these presentations,

2:45:29
that Karma Yoga is a tradition in our school, in this lineage. Sambara and I have the same meditation teacher and I've been practicing Karma Yoga in this path for a long time. About 20 years ago when Sambara started teaching, I led the first yoga project with his Sangha and so a lot of those amazing yogis you saw tonight are from that squad. And I also worked with Sambar to establish Golden State Technology Institute as a vehicle to share computer science and learning and software engineering to everyone. So, just a little bit about that, but back to the app. So, it's back. Okay. So, just a little bit about the I Ching, for those of you who are maybe new to the I Ching, it's an ancient Taoist practice of divination. So back in the day, like, let us teleport back, way back. And so maybe I'm a farmer and I want to ask, you know, how will my crops yield this season? Will my daughter marry well? You know, whatever, whatever people needed, they were pondering, considering at they would go to an oracle and they would ask the question. And the oracle would cast the I Ching and it was through yarrow sticks and then later through coins. And we use coins, we use digital coins, but to get a reading and every cast is a line in a hexagram. And then eventually you cast the coins or the sticks six times and you get your reading and that image is that hexagram. And then that hexagram is binary, essentially, yin or yang. And then in that build of six lines, it could change from yin to yang or yang to yin. And so your reading can transform. And what does all that mean? The hexagram has a symbol, a symbol of nature, of the Tao. And it's really your moment, the snapshot in time of you and your interaction with the Tao. It's a really beautiful practice, the I Ching. I highly encourage you to get the app. But just a little bit about the journey of making it, I worked with two other Sangha sisters of mine. We just did it really a yoga project but a project of love for our teacher and for the I Ching. We spent about two years studying various translations. We called it our I Ching book club. We met every week and we just read and we learned. And it was very magical and a lot of work, but we learned it was like the Tao was unfolding all the time in our lives. And we could start to learn about the Tao through the process and also combine the practices that you're learning are teachings in that rendition. It also has a, it wasn't deliberate, but obviously an outcome because it was rendered by women. It has a feminine rendition to it, if you've read it, you'll see that. Traditionally, the I Ching text is not very accessible sometimes to women. So this one is definitely very accessible for women. And I think that's really... I get asked a lot about the I Ching. I didn't really know what to talk about about this little app. But it took two years to really study the text. It took very little time to build the app, maybe a month or two. But the real question I get, the question I get a lot, and the big question that I was considering while doing this was, how do you codify the Oracle? Like, whoa, how do you codify the cast? How do you codify the DAO? And that was really stressful. I didn't really think about that when I was doing it, I was just like, oh, let's study the I Ching. This is great. You know, it'll be super fun. It'll be really wonderful. Let's build an app. Let's learn how to code in for iOS. But then the time came. So I had to consider kind of like what Simbar talked about. And it was a big koan. So I went to a beautiful place of power for me where I'd done a lot of work. So it was a house. It's in a place in Hawaii, very special place, where we did a lot of yoga work. And I pondered and I asked and I sat. And in this place, there's a beautiful view of the valley and the mountains. And I was sitting in stress, like, oh my God, how do you do that? You know, what is the Tao? How do you codify it? And in that moment, I saw the mountains and I saw the mist and I saw light and magic and everything was that Tao it was these moments I still can't explain it but I knew that with that awareness I just coded it you know and I was like oh now we just code we'll code the algorithm so it was a real gift for me to be able to do that and to have that journey. And it's just wonderful to see all these Karma Yogis working, sharing your magical experiences. So thank you. So I believe that concludes this Thought Song. Someone did ask me to mention that all the new business ideas here and some of the numbers and things that we shared are confidential, so please don't go talking to reporters about them or even your friends maybe.

2:51:45
But thank you so much for your attention But thank you so much for your attention and thank you for coming and enjoy the rest of the day.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
