0:00:00
So we're going to begin with meditation and we will sit for about a half an hour and we're going to just bring the focus to the heart chakra and we're going to do an open eye meditation

0:00:16
looking out towards the area of the sunset.

0:00:21
Let's begin.

0:00:29
So wonderful meditating here. So who's coming up to talk about stuff? Who? Actually, my leg is going to cramp up. I'm going to stand. Okay. Great. So you can still hear us okay, right? Excellent. So we were going to talk tonight about unity and scuba. And I was going to start with some of the basics and the fundamentals, and then Vivica will talk about some of the higher levels of unity and scuba. So I think just about everyone, maybe everyone has read the Mystic Scuba book, and I was really happy that Savitri mentioned it last night too, that to begin to come to unity in scuba diving, you need to develop your competence as a diver. You need to not die while diving. And maybe that would be another form of unity, and that might be great, but that's not our plan for this trip. So you want to develop your competence diving. And in the Mystic Scuba, they talk about moving to advanced open water as a level where you've really developed skill and you can really practice all the exercises very safely and with confidence. Now, not everyone's going to make it maybe to the advanced open water level on this trip, right? Many people are just learning to dive. And the wonderful thing is you don't need to have any dive experience to have beautiful, amazing, magical experiences underwater. So my first dive, actually Savitri took me out diving in Monterey, and I was totally expecting to hate it. And we went down to about eight feet of water. And I was like, yeah, whatever, I'm gonna freeze, it's gonna be terrible. And then we got underwater, and it was so beautiful. At eight feet underwater, in the surf, you know, without being able to see much of anything, it was just so magical, and I was like, oh my God, this is amazing, it's a whole new world, and it's so beautiful, and like, there's a rock underwater! It's so beautiful! Oh my God! I just want to look at it for a while and swim around it." And so you can have that from your very first moment underwater. But you want to take all the instruction and the practices and everything seriously. That's the real key. You don't have to become a master scuba diver in a day, but you need to take it seriously as you're learning and becoming competent to then start to reach these higher levels consistently and safely, right? So it's very important. And you're going to have all kinds of problems. I remember another dive later, I hadn't figured out where to put my tank, and so we went down diving. I was with another dive master, and they got kind of cold, and so they started swimming around, and my tank was too high, so I was trying to catch them and every time I'd look to catch them I'd bang my head on the tank, you know. And by the end of the dive I was so angry. I couldn't keep up and I was hitting my head all the time and whatever, you know. And so you just have to work through these challenges. Everyone's going to have their unique challenges diving, no matter how strong you are, and you have to work through that and that's an opportunity as well, learning to work through those things and not get frustrated. If you have problems clearing, it can be very frustrating. I was so bummed when I couldn't clear because everyone was going deep and I wasn't. And it's really really important. So being competent and learning good diving fundamentals will be your foundation and then of course you have a dive team. So getting along with your dive team is also really really important. It's a yoga. And the first time I was here in Bonaire, it was my first time diving with the dive team. And I think for the whole week, there were only three of us, but I think for the whole week, at least one of us was annoyed with at least one other person about something. And it might've been that someone overslept or someone was like totally blissed out under water and swimming off and we wanted to stay as buddies or someone ordered a second cheeseburger and we had to wait 30 minutes, whatever. And it was just always something was just, argh, you know, and that's going to happen, right? And so it's really important. You approach your dive team like a yoga, with an open heart, with bodhicitta, with love, and you don't push your way super hard. You're open-minded and aware of how everyone's doing and you make sure that everyone's doing okay. If someone's not, you want to help them out. And the last dive that we did on that trip, the Ajahn gave us a special dive. It was really challenging. It was pretty scary. And in that dive, I think because of the challenge of the dive, etc., the three of us came together for the first time, really. And we had the most beautiful dive together in harmony, loving and supporting each other. And it was very much like my highest moments of yoga, like with Appadhi. We'll talk about dharma, Prabhupada and I working on the leadership team, or in sails, Yogini and Padman, she and I would work together. And there was so much love and we had each other's backs. And that allowed us to have the most beautiful dive. And you want to have your heart open and love and you want to have each other's backs in your dive team throughout the week. And let the annoying things go. If you want to give some feedback, give it positively and really keep your heart open and your attention strong so that you're supporting everyone in your team. And those are really, really important beautiful elements that will come up hopefully on this trip. So, with that I will share.

0:07:29
I'd like to talk about a different aspect of unity in scuba, which is the unity with the ocean and the ocean beings. Because we do all this hustle with scuba diving for that, to be able to feel this connection way deeper. You can already feel the ocean's power and energy just sitting by the shore, meditating. You can connect to it. But when you are allowed, with all this equipment to spend more time in the ocean with an almost natural way you can breathe, you can relax, you can go into this connection much deeper. And by being in the ocean want to teach you, that power, that unstoppable power that's always fluid, always in motion, yet it's always stable. And it's not only the ocean, but the beings living in the ocean that you can have a very, very deep connection with. Each of us can find their own special helping spirit animals that live in the ocean. I'd like to share a story of how I met my amakwa. And it's really, really true and very strong. I met my amakwa way before I was in the study. and we were dropped out with our snorkel gear in a place where bottlenose dolphins hang out a lot. And as soon as I got in the water, I saw this big family of dolphins around me and I was lost and gone. And I had no attention to where to get back to the boat or where the others are. I was just swimming with the dolphins and I felt one with them. And that's kind of a feeling that comes from this connection that each of us has to their amakuas. And the importance is about this connection that you can learn through their awareness. You can learn about you and how you approach life, how you are in life, which can be very, very helpful on your path. So that's why we do all this hustle with scuba diving, to get closer to these amazing energies and powers that are there and are very much embracing us if we can allow it to happen. Thank you. I'd like to ask Savitri to come up and if she has something to share before the Mystic Scuba Exercises and do so. If not then Mystic Scuba Exercises please.

0:11:22
So I get to share the Mystic Scuba Exercises tonight. Can you guys hear me fine? Louder. How about now? Okay. So thank you. It's beautiful. Even in the literal sense, Vivica and I were talking earlier tonight about how you're in union when you're in the ocean, you know, you're in the ocean and she's embracing you in a very literal way. So the exercise, I'm going to tell you about two for tomorrow. The first one is one of my absolute favorites and it's called the Healing Ocean. And so to remind you, this one is in the book, but to remind you of the details of it, the idea is that the ocean can assist us with any pain that we carry. There might be a physical pain, mental pain, emotional pain, whatever it it is for each of us we can bring that to mind when we're underwater and in a safe spot to do this practice. You bring that pain to mind and physically you think of it and you cross your arms and bring it to mind and ask the ocean for assistance. You're going to give it to the ocean but the other part of it is that the ocean can give you information about that pain. So the first bit while you brought that pain to mind is to ask the ocean for some information about it. So pain has a spiritual origin and the ocean helps you resolve your pain by working on the spiritual level and if you're still and quiet and asking you know the spirit of the ocean for some information about your pain. You might hear it in words, it might be a subtle feeling, it might be something that comes to you later, you know this insight that will help you resolve the root of that pain. So once you've brought it to mind and listened for some information about it, you release that pain to the ocean to extend your arms and just give it to the ocean and the ocean dissolves that pain in a spiritual way for you and you don't have to worry that you're dumping garbage into the ocean because she's fine she's like perfect as Bodhisitta so it just dissolves it transforms it and gives you gives you light so it's not dishonoring in any way. It's using the spirit of the ocean as your ally. So that's the first one. And then the second one is the orange light at your navel. So anybody who's read Mystic Scuba recently might remember this one from the Gate of Attention of the Whale God. So when my character is waiting to, hoping to meet the whale god, Sam the monk has her me do this breathing exercise. So you breathe to your navel chakra, and you imagine an orange light there. As you breathe in, it gets a little bit bigger, it's about the size of a golf ball, and it's a really bright orange light. And as you exhale, it gets even brighter like kind of fiery like a ember or coal. As you breathe out it gets a tiny bit smaller. It's not huge, but it's really intense. This is a powerful way to clear your mind and heal your aura. You do this for as long as you want to. In the book, Salmon Monk instructs Vanessa to do it for 15 minutes, and she confesses she can stay focused for a few seconds. So try, and when you lose your focus, bring your focus back and keep practicing it for a while.

0:15:50
Okay.

0:15:51
Those are the two. If you have questions, ask me later, or ask your dive masters, because they've done these

0:15:58
before.

0:15:59
So our last bit of the evening, I think, is dive planning for tomorrow. Just a couple moments. Any instructions you guys have to give people?

0:16:10
No? Okay. Thank you. I start. Yeah, go.

0:16:15
Very shortly, the morning dive for not beginner divers can be a deeper dive. Don't go crazy with the depth. 130 I think would be good for the second day. And beginners can dive either after the deep dive with the more advanced students or only in the afternoon. For those who are doing their certifications now, finishing up, we'll meet the same way tomorrow at the same spot. And we'll conclude the open water certification. And if you have questions, you can slack us and we'll reply. Yeah I heard that some people didn't somehow miss the advanced part, so we'll just think up separately how they can do it. Maybe it won't be tomorrow, but we'll talk about it. Thank you. And if there's any questions, no? Okay. Then I'm done.

0:17:24
Ajahn, do you have any final words for this evening?

0:17:32
Alright, so tomorrow's Christmas. Yay! And some of you are going to get your open water certifications for Christmas. Yay! And is anyone getting advanced open water tomorrow? Today? Wow, the Christmas present come early. Fantastic! Okay. Alright, um, I do have an announcement for intermediate and advanced students. Um, we have the, uh, ABS event coming up in San Diego on the weekend of the 9th. And, uh, and this is something just for intermediate and advanced students. If you wish, you should register. And you should register soon. I think we'll send an email out tonight or tomorrow and then you can register. It's very nice when we have the ABS events because that's where you get to meet some of the other ST2s and ST1s, the older students, direct students of Ramas. And some of them are very, very, very cool, very magical. And the rest are just super boring.

0:19:02
Yeah, we go through phases. We go through incarnations. You have a question? Oh, comment. Do you want to say it?

0:19:17
When the email comes out, when the email comes out for the event, we should register before January. So before January 1st, that means this week, please. Thank you.

0:19:28
So I learned a good hint for speaking loudly. You actually put the mic on your chin. It helps. Because like if I'm talking like this, I might be talking really loud in a big voice, but then because I'm pulling the mic away, you don't hear it. So this is for the teachers who are going to be coming up and teaching. Wow, so meditating here is so wonderful. It's such a beautiful place to meditate. The ocean is just really, really lovely. So, this was just fantastic. Now, tomorrow's Christmas, and we're gonna be meeting at the Marriott. So, we're going to have a meditation together and dinner together, and that's where you should wear your finest attire, which is like swim shorts, swimming trunks and a ripped t-shirt or something. Yeah, well, whatever it is, it's your finest. Wear it tomorrow. We'll have our Christmas celebration. Alright, wonderful. A question. It's going to be at 6pm. 6pm at the Marriott Hotel.

0:21:13
Be on time.

0:21:15
Be on time. What's that? There is a specific conference room and we'll be in it. Okay, Dharma. So it sounds like a lot of dive shops are open tomorrow on Christmas. Yeah, it's the funniest thing. I even noticed that back in like 1996. That's when I started diving. And I would go to the Caribbean for Christmas. I was just like, let me get out of New York and just go to the Bahamas or to Cayman Islands. And then on Christmas, they had dive boats operating. And I said, wow, that's weird. But I liked it. So yes, diving is very Christmas friendly. I've had a lot of diving Christmases. And they're just really, it's such a beautiful thing to do on Christmas, especially if you're from the East Coast, get out of the East Coast, or at least the, get to the South part of it. And then you're like, wow, everyone else is being cold and miserable, and I'm diving with happy fishes. All right, so thank you all. This was very beautiful, sitting here with you, meditating, but thank you, teachers. beautiful sitting here with you meditating. Thank you teachers you guys did a great job. Scuba unity. That's a good thing.

0:22:59
Alright have a wonderful evening and I will see you tomorrow. Alright have a wonderful evening and I will see you tomorrow.

0:23:04
Safe diving tomorrow. Thank you very much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
