0:00:00
So, I just realized this afternoon that today was the last day of diving and that tomorrow we're going back home. Like, oh, it went by so quickly. Alright, so we're going to have meditation and some of the Mystic Scuba teachers or advanced teachers teaching and then I think we're having dinner here, right? Dinner on the beach.

0:00:40
Yeah.

0:00:42
Wonderful.

0:00:44
So, we're going to do a meditation. Meditation in silence and again let's meditate on the heart and we can do an open eye meditation just looking off into the water over the horizon. Just be still, open the heart, feel this place. I love the gentle waves here and we'll sit for about a half an hour.

0:01:19
I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. So, I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. Thank you. So, Thank you. I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. I'm going to go ahead and get started. I'm going to go ahead and get the camera. I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. So, I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. Thank you. I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. I'm going to go ahead and get started. I'm going to go ahead and get started. I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. So, I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. I'm going to go ahead and get started. So, I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. I'm going to go ahead and get the camera. So, I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. I'm going to go ahead and get the camera. I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. the the I'm going to go ahead and get my camera.

0:24:01
All right, everyone. It's very beautiful. It's wonderful meditating here. All right, so who's up next? Oh, Dharma. Okay, wonderful. Here comes the Dharma. Hi everybody. Can you hear me? Excellent. So tonight we're going to talk about unity on power trips. Yay! So we're going to have some Sangha participation in this talk tonight. So first, we're going to do that right now. Show of hands, who here, this is your first power trip or Anza Brego this past week was your first power trip? Yes. Awesome. Very cool. Welcome. another ST3 and we were recapitulating power trips and she said her first power trip Mandala went to her and said hey Samvara has taken some of his students to a power trip you want to go and she was like yeah what's a power trip so if you came on a power trip and you had that kind of courage you didn't know what it was but you came anyway I have a lot of respect for you, because you embarked on an amazing adventure. So, what I'd like to do is talk, first of all, about what is a power trip. So, talk a little bit about what is a power trip, if you don't know. And also talk a little bit about unity on power trips, and why this is such an essential thing to realize the amazing benefits that power trips have to offer. And then also talk about a few tips for how to practice unity on power trips. Cool. So what is a power trip? A power trip is when five things come together to create opportunities for radical spiritual transformation. These five things are the time of power, the place of power, and the three jewels, the Buddha or the teacher, the Dharma and the Sangha. So let's first talk about the time of power. So the time of power where we usually go on these power trips are the solstices and the equinoxes. So the solstices and the equinoxes are these great times of transition where the entire planet is on the cusp of going from one season to the Sun and this is a time of really amazing opportunities for us to practice spirituality and take our spiritual practice to a new level. So times of power also don't have to necessarily be solstices and equinoxes. So for example, in yoga, a great time of power is a trade show. So in Aplodee, for example, the Dreamforce trade show was a really tremendous time of power. It was a time where everybody who is in that industry came together and was pushing for a goal. And in pushing for that goal, they generated a lot of power. So what we did was we also pushed for a goal at that Dreamforce trade show. And we also practiced the practices of unity in yoga and unity on power trips in order to really slingshot ourselves into a completely new state of success or a completely new state of seeing with our yoga. So these times of power are just tremendous opportunities to actually just slingshot our practice into a new level. So that's a time of power. And then we have the places of power, like Bonaire. Yay! So places of power, every place on the earth, or actually in the universe, vibrates at a particular frequency, an energetic frequency. It vibrates at a certain rate. And this is actually even proven by quantum physics. And you can have a place, a place, a physical place on this earth. It vibrates either at what low vibration or a higher vibration very very rapidly. And what we do is we try to choose places that vibrate at a very very high frequency at a high vibration. And the reason why we do this is because when we spend time in these places and we still our minds and we bring our best to these places, just spending time in these places, we actually resonate with the energies of those places. So we feel that if a place vibrates high and it emanates light, it emanates a transcendental light, we actually feel this integrated into our being just by being there, just by sitting there. Another way of saying this is that different places have different dimensions. So we've heard about the dimensionality of places. And that's to say that in normal human life, normal out there, there's basically three states of consciousness. There's waking consciousness, dreaming consciousness, and dreamless sleep. And places of power in times of power actually help us to go into different dimensions. And these different dimensions are usually associated with, say, the chakras that we meditate on. So, you might have certain places of power that are associated with the naval center, and associated with personal power, and by spending time in there, we build personal power, we build this power of the naval. You also might have certain places that are associated to seeing, and we practice seeing in a lot of these places, like the Anza Borrego, or or like Mount Tam. Mount Tam is a beautiful place where it has a white light that is just very, very conducive to stillness and to seeing. And we've gone there many times to see the way in yoga and actually have made tremendous jumps in our yoga just by going there and doing these practices is there. The water, under the water, undersea awareness, that's a whole different dimension. So undersea awareness is something that is conducive to stillness, to meditation, and it kind of makes you feel, you know, nice. There's different, there's even different dimensions at different depths underwater. So if you go below, say, 145 feet, don't tell anybody, you get completely below the aura of the planet. And what that means is this constant drone of the human mind that we psychically feel and that's running through our heads all the time just by being on the surface of this planet. That's gone. We're cut off from that. So you enter in this dimension of the Dhyanas or the Samadhis where that is completely possible. So, places of power have these wonderful dimensions that are available to us. And what happens at a time of power is that our teacher chooses the place of power based on the lesson that the Sangha would benefit from at that time. So we follow the guidance of the teacher into these places of power to get those lessons. So, and power trips in general. So, we've heard a lot of dharma talks about the teacher, the Buddha, the dharma and the sangha. But what I'd like to do is talk about why is that an essential thing in power trips. And the reason is that the three jewels make the time of power and the place of power come alive. So there was this time story. I think it was the first Sangha unity trip between the Hungarians and the U.S. Sangha, where we went to Zermatt, Switzerland, and we went to the Matterhorn. And the Americans had gotten there like the day before, and I think we went hiking up the mountain. It was pretty. It was a beautiful place in nature, and it was wonderful. But then when everybody got there, and the teachings kicked off, we went up that mountain, and I swear to God, there were just these waves of light shooting across the valley. Like I never, I didn't even see that the day before and I wasn't making this up. And it was just streaming across the valley. And I asked Samvara about it and he said, the reason why that wasn't here yesterday is because the Dharma arrived today. Not me, but like... And then he also told a story about Rama where he said, Rama said, everything is great as long as there is enlightenment. Which brings me to another story. There was a mini power trip that Samvara, Raja and I took to the big island of Hawaii. So you can take these mini power trips too. And there was this, on the last day, whenever we go to Hawaii, or the Big Island of Hawaii, we really like to go to this place called Michael Dell Beach, because he's got like a $10 million home there or something like that. And the Hawaiian name is way too complicated to pronounce. And it's this beautiful lagoon and beautiful place to swim and stuff. And it's actually a wonderful place of seeing. And on that day, the place was closed. And the reason why it was closed is because there was a sighting of two tiger sharks there. So he said, Nope, can't come in here. So we snuck in anyway. And we got there, and there was nobody there. And Sambhara saw that, and he said, Oh, I see an opportunity. There's not a whole bunch of people just, you know, spending their time and and kind of clouding the place over. It was very, very clear. So what he did, what the enlightened teacher did, was he opened up a dimension. He said, he went to me and Raj and he said, I want to show you guys something. And he opened up this dimension and it was like just over the lagoon, for those of you guys who know this there was this bubble of light that just went over the lagoon but it was like you were in infinity and you could see so clearly and everything felt so pure and so perfect there and it was amazing and this was because we were with Ajahn and Ajahn is an expert at working with the place of power and with opening up dimensions in the place of power. So this is such an essential ingredient is having somebody who can navigate these places of power. The Sangha actually helps us navigate places too. If you think about your dive teams, your dive master, your dive master is has impeccably guided you on these wonderful dives and these wonderful experiences on this whole trip And our dive instructors And also it's through a compassionate care for each other, really a genuine care for each other, that we can also navigate places of power too. So just today, my dive team, we were going to do a morning dive and we all got there and we all had different ideas of what we wanted to do. But it was no problem because we just sat there and we talked it through and we said, okay, we had a care for each other. We said, okay, what is it that you really want to accomplish? And we wanted to find out what everybody wanted to accomplish. And then we found out that we all wanted to accomplish the same thing. And we ended up finding the perfect dive plan, which led to the perfect dive. And I got it. I mean, everybody was so bright after that dive. So the Sangha can help you navigate. The Sangha can help you navigate, just a side note, they really help you navigate yoga too. So I think in AppBuddy, there was never a time, especially in the later years, there was never a time where anybody on the executive team ever made a decision without talking with each other, sharing our experiences and finding the way. Because one person doesn't know that. And it's by sharing your experiences with Sangha mates who are going through the exact same experiences, it's by sharing those perspectives that you actually see this truth, you see a deeper truth and it helps you navigate to success, to enlightenment success, to yogic success. So this is this wonderful thing that the Sangha helps you do. There's another aspect of unity, and that's that unity is something that occurs in our minds. Unity is in our minds. It's not necessarily the thinking mind, it's in our hearts. So it's in the, Ajahn talked about this before, it's the heart mind. And really it's a bright oneness with everything in life and that's something that we have in our minds and when we see that or when we experience that we see that for instance the three jewels are really reflections of each other so the Sangha is our teacher the teacher shows us the Dharma. And then the Dharma is that what is good for the group and what is good for the Sangha is always the Dharma. So Rama and I think a lot of other enlightened beings have said the mind is a reflection. And when we see everything as a reflection of oneness and of love, the three jewels are really just this one jewel. It's this one jewel of enlightenment that just has many surfaces. And maybe I'll get dinged on that, like that, no, no, no, Dharma, that's not how it is, but... So, through our teacher guiding us and also by learning from my experiences and my mistakes, there's a few things I wanted to share with you. And it's not an exhaustive list, but here goes. So, the first thing is preparation. So, preparation for power trips. So, a lot of our yoga teachers have probably gone over this with everybody. And really, what this means is getting our tone out or our first attention in order. And really, really tight to the best of our ability. And when we do this, what it does is it enables us to let go into the second attention and really, really have a deep experience. We can see this even in diving, actually, because the more we have first attention in diving, and our skills are good, we know our it's almost that it's like it's second nature. We can actually let go into the Mystic Scuba Exercises and have really, really deep experiences underwater. And if that wasn't your experience in this whole trip, trust me, it keeps getting better with more and more practice. The second thing is participation. So you gotta go on the power trip. I think it's, if you're given the invitation to go on a power trip, it is almost always a good, the best idea to go on the power trip and put other plans aside and really just focus on the power trip as your number one priority. Physical conditions aside, like if you're physically incapable or whatnot, of course, but I've only missed one power trip in 18 years and that was because I was teaching in Iceland. So I was still doing the dharma on that power trip. These things are tremendous opportunities and I look at it as if I were going to die tomorrow, what would I I'd want to make sure that I just gave it my absolute best and I took advantage of everything that was afforded to me because we are afforded so much. Participation is also not just the physical participation, it's participation in a in a deep way. So what I mean by that is participation with a positive outlook. So when we go on these power trips, it's really important to hold each other in high regard. And no matter what difficulties we've had with everybody in the past and you know we're working things out. But the power trip is really a place where that mantra, Aum, the past is dust, is so so powerful. And when you go on these trips you realize, oh wow, those things that those differences I people. Maybe that was actually an illusion and it wasn't the truth and I saw by practicing unity and power trips that the truth is something else and now I can let that go. And now I can actually see that these people are amazing warriors who have had thousands of past lives practicing the Dharma and I would rather have nobody else side by side with me or getting my back than everybody here.

0:46:07
Yeah. Sorry, I'm holding back kind of. Yeah.

0:46:11
So, another thing in, along these lines is that our number one practice of mindfulness on these trips is compassion with each other. And when I've struggled with this in the past, I'm really looking to find a way and I think the teaching that we had in the Anza Brigo just this past week was really beautiful because Samvara basically showed that everybody here is going through the same thing. Everybody is going for the same thing and essentially that is the most important thing. So everything else, it doesn't matter or the thing that really does matter is the importance of putting people ahead of me the one thing that I've realized is that even if it's taken me time to come around to this is That the truth is always that putting other people's interest ahead of myself is always More important. It's always the Dharma and Sure, I need to take care of myself and whatever and I actually put other people's interest ahead of myself when I take care of myself and I'm in a strong position because I can really do my part to lift people up. But really, this is the truth, ancient and inexhaustible. So if you have difficulty seeing this, it's good to just keep on being persistent and keep trying and try your best, try earnestly to hold your mind in this place because it's really beautiful. And the places of power actually work with you to help you. You get unexpected help from the place and the time and the Sangha and our teacher. Which brings me to the next part which is having to believe. So, going on these trips, it's almost like a supplication. It's a surrender to these times. It's a surrender places. There was this one time we were in the Andes of Borrego and we were practicing a seeing exercise. And the seeing exercise was to look up at the sky and to watch the stars. And everybody reported, the people who shared their experiences reported, oh wow, the stars moved and it was really, really magical and they actually reported them moving in the same way and I'm like, I didn't see nothing. And I was really, really distraught over that and that obviously must have transmitted like a really loud radio transmitter because Mandala came up to me and she's like, hey Dharma, what's wrong? How are you? And I told her, you know, just like my third time in the answer parade, oh I can't see the stuff, I don't know if I'll ever be able to see it, and she said, you have to believe that the star can move, because if you don't believe that the star can move, she's gonna be shy, and she's not gonna move around. So having So, having to believe, what it does is it creates an openness. Because typically the mind wants to close things off. It wants to have reasons for everything and close things off. And these things that are beyond explanation are really difficult for it to process. So having to believe creates an opening. But it's not just simply believing in blind faith. It's creating an opening to the truth. And when you create that opening, that that is something that is possible, your spirit is on a quest to look for it. Your spirit goes on a quest to look for it. And that is what Sambhara calls the center meter of chance. You're looking, your second attention is looking for that center meter of chance. An example of this is with AppBuddy. There was no reason why we should have gotten that acquisition. Everything told us that it was impossible. But every yogi on that team had to believe, and they practiced having to believe. So that when the opportunity did come, we had the presence of mind to see it and then to take the right actions on it. So it's really beautiful and powerful on power trips when we do this because things serendipitously happen. It's just magic that happens and we ride that wave. A couple more things. Another thing to do to practice unity and power trips is connecting with the place, connecting with the place of power. So we establish relationships with places of power, ongoing relationships with places of power. And the way you establish a relationship with a place of power is just like you would with a friend. So you say, hey, do you want to be my friend? But then you also show a care for the place. We show great care for these places and we're super grateful that they invite us to be here and spend time in these places and have these experiences. We pick up trash. We take care of the place. We make a connection with these places. We listen to them. We ask them to help us and give us advice, but truly, truly listen by stilling our minds and our hearts and being open to what they have to say. We connect with the elements of the place. So when you're in a place, it's good to feel the wind. The wind is power. The wind is awareness. The wind is also a great mosquito repellent. So you can use this power to actually say, hey, can you help me out here? I'm getting bitten by bugs. We feel the earth. I mean, I encourage you, just touch the earth. You know, feel the sand between your fingertips. Feel how it feels to feel the sun on your face. Feel the water. We do that so profoundly in these scuba diving trips. Feel the rain. So this is something that connects our senses to these places, but then that's a doorway to something deeper. Another way to connect with these places is to journal our experiences, to journal in these places, especially pretty soon after we have these experiences. Because what we do when we're in these places, having these experiences, is we store power. And what that means is that the awarenesses that we get in these places of power are available to us when we return or when we return there either physically or in our minds. So when you journal, all you have to do is read that entry and instantly you're in that dimension, you're in that place. So if you're having a really, really tough time in Silicon Valley after a hard day's work, I mean, this is just such a bright thing to do. Finally, the way we practice unity and power trips is through gratitude. So every time we're in a place of power after a teaching, after at the end of a trip, we thank the place of power internally. We just say thank you. You might bow, I mean, you might go, thank you. I mean, and we actually think about how we are thankful for the experiences that we've we've gotten and what that does is that it really helps us understand why we are thankful it helps us to Respect the experiences that we've gotten with the place of power and on these trips and with everybody here One more thing that we do that we we kind of do actually so there is one more thing, is after the time of power or after the power trip. So the effects of the power trip last after the power trip. It continues. And just like when we really, really strengthen our spiritual practice and our tonal going into the power trip. What we do with the awarenesses and the power that we've gotten from these power trips afterwards is we pour that into our spiritual practice. So we pour that into our meditation. We deepen our meditation. We deepen our practices of compassion in Bodhicitta. We really work on yogic success and work on that with our sangha mates. We work on our job yoga. Time after power is a really great time to increase your rate or to make a jump in your career. So what this does is it really just builds this connection with the place even stronger and it shows a deep respect to the place that hey this is what I gained from you and now this is what I'm doing to not only help the world my practice but also the world because your enlightenment helps the world. After power trips just a side note is that unless Ajahn says or your yoga teacher, your mentor says, please don't go to the place of power on your own. Or check with them. Check with them before you go to these places. Like I said, I think I might have said this before, but the connection, The stuff that we do in these places of power is actually way different than what normal people do here. So we're in a completely different universe right now. And we make a very, very deep connection with these places. So it's really important to know when to go and how to hold ourselves when we go and a lot of times these places are very very strong and you need somebody like Samvara to help you navigate through them. So but you can ask there are certain places where I'm sure it's fine. So that's what I wanted Just these power trips, they're absolutely beyond. They've always been beyond what my imagination could ever come up with on its own, even to this day. And it's just such a magical experience. And it's been a complete honor to share this experience with you guys on this trip. Thank you so much. So I said there was going to be a participation part, and now this is the second part of participation. What we're going to do now is we're going to share our experiences that we've had on this trip. So if you feel moved, you can come up and share your experiences for a couple minutes, like one or two minutes. Savitri might have her wand like she did in the past life seeing, but basically the only general guideline for this is to try to share your highest experience from this trip or even from the Anza Borrego trip, which has to do with unity, any of the unity themes that we've experienced. And so we'll, so if you're, if you'd like to, we're just going to form a line up here. You can start coming And then if we start bleeding into 730 we'll get food and then keep on sharing experiences with each other. So, does anybody want to come up here? Oh, awesome. I see a Chi hand. Cool. And feel free to line up behind, to line up on this side. Thank you. That was a beautiful Dharma talk. So for those of you who don't know me, my name is Chi. It's wonderful to be here with you guys. And I wanted to share a quick story about unity from my dive team. But in order to feel it, there's two parts. There's a meditation and a mudra. So just very quickly, I'm going to teach you both of these and then share the story. So the meditation, this is a ritual that my dive team did before every single dive. We sat on the ocean just like this and just for a minute we practiced bodhicitta on ourselves. So let's And now expand it to include everyone on your dive team from your last dive. Practice Bodhicitta on your dive team. And last, expand it to include the whole Sangha that dove on this whole trip. Everyone sitting on this beach. Wow, that was awesome. So when you do this before a dive, it removes tension, and it removes separation. And when you remove separation, what you're left with is unity. And every single dive, we would do this meditation, and I would watch my team happily bounce to the truck, help them, they would all help each other put on their gear, and we're just so happy to be expressing this moment and this time with each other. And when you walk in the ocean without attention, it's not seven people walking in the ocean, it's one organism of Bodhisitta moving into the ocean together. So that's the meditation. Second part is the mudra is the okay sign. So every time, and let's just try it, we go, okay? Yes. Oh, beautiful. Because when you do the okay sign, you're generating care and concern for your divers. You want to make sure that they're comfortable in the water, they're okay, and they want to do the same. And when you give each other that care and concern, it's so beautiful underwater. So the experience, we're diving in Angel City, just up the road here, and there's a double reef, and we were swimming from one reef to the other. So we're about 20 feet off the ground, flying through the air. I had two open water divers that had just been certified, and I was leading the dive, and I flipped over on my back to check on Eileen who was diving with me and she was already there giving me the okay sign right at eye level and I looked down and Otman was diving with Tiffany like 5-10 feet below me not even looking in my direction but right at that moment they both just intuitively sensed it looked up and in unison flashed the OK sign. And in that moment, all four of us flashing the OK sign in the ocean, sharing that concern, there was just this, it felt like a flash. It was just this moment of, there wasn't an ocean, there wasn't divers, it was just bodhisitta. And then we finished our dive. And that happened a couple of dozen times every single dive. And if you saw us diving underwater,

1:04:28
it's just a bunch of us giving us the OK sign

1:04:30
all over the place. So I wanted to share that with you guys because it was just a very simple thing. And it's a practice that we all know, but it created such profound unity on this trip. And I just want to express my gratitude to my dive team and to Otman for helping facilitate and to my Mystic Scubic dive teachers who taught me. Thank you. All right everybody. So thank you Chi, that was beautiful. I love the underwater mudra. It's one that we should use all the time. That's like total connection and mindfulness and awareness and bodhicitta with your dive team. But now, we're going to continue with these stories. So, at some point, we're going to get a food truck that shows up and we're going to be eating. But as long as there are stories like this that people want to share, we can just sit around all evening listening to stories of light. But I have to interject because if I don't then we might skip a couple things that we have to get to. So first is, do you were checking our heart rate and we were also checking our breath cycle rate and also palpitations on the abdomen, see, the tightness of our abdomen. So I would like, you know, we've meditation every night, Star Wars. And what I'd like to do is I'd like to do a breath check. I'd like you to take a moment to see what your breathing is like. Just breathe naturally. Feel your breathing, whether it's inhaling from the nose or the mouth, if it's in the chest or in the abdomen, just feel your breathing for a moment. And then what we're going to check our breath. We're going to see how we breathe. Now hopefully you made a note of or remember how many breaths per minute you had on our first night and that was after meditation so that was that's pretty good. So that's nice and relaxed. But now we're going to just breathe inhalation exhalation that's one breath cycle. We're going to breathe in and out one in and out two and we're going to see what our breath cycles are, how many breath cycles in one minute. So, if you would, please sit up, relax, and we're going to begin counting our inhalation, one. Inhalation, exhalation, two. And we'll see what our breathing is like after a week of Mystic Scuba. Let's begin. Ready, go.

1:08:38
I'm going to go ahead and get my camera. Okay.

1:09:30
Okay, very good. So, many of you will notice a dramatic difference. You might notice that you have six or four breaths per minute. So this is a very, very good sign. I'm not like asking because I just know. So, it's just amazing how after doing Mystic Scuba meditation here in this beautiful, gentle place how we can just relax so much. When you are breathing in a very deep, relaxed way, it is so healthy for you. It relieves stress. It makes your body harmonized and balanced with the world. So this is a very good and powerful experience in correction. Okay, now we're going to check the heartbeat just for more information. So you remember your heartbeat the first time. And now we are going to, you know, touch the throat or touch the wrist. Find that heartbeat. And we're going to count your heartbeats. And just, you know, relax and just count. We're going to begin on the count of three. One, two, three, and begin.

1:11:41
1, 2, 3, and begin. I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. Alright, very good.

1:12:33
Alright, so some of you, if you remember, it's okay. So usually we have a better kind of heart rate difference. Some of you guys are like strangely stressed out

1:13:14
but

1:13:15
Trust your breaths If there's one thing you can learn in scuba diving trust your breaths All right, but some of you saw some profound differences in heart rate and some of you are a little bit stressed up and The rate wasn't such a big change I can tell. Okay, the last thing I want you to do is just, we're going to spend about 30 seconds just feeling your abdomen. So go ahead and start. Just relax and just feel your tummy. Now in Chinese medicine, one of the ways to diagnose people of every condition of illness is called abdomen palpitations. It's touching the tummy, seeing where things are soft, seeing where things tickle, seeing where things are hard. So this is an exercise in Chinese medicine diagnosis. It's also called getting to know yourself. So I remember there was one time a gal came over to Rama and he was a very powerful healer. And she said, oh, I have this problem, this problem, all these problems. And he said, every night when you lay down to go to sleep, lay on your back and then touch your stomach and relax. Touch your stomach and try to relax everything and then go to sleep. And then over two months this healed all of her problems and she had like six or seven things she was she was complaining about. So this is a very profound thing. I mean from Chinese medicine medicine being able to diagnose and from Rama's teaching of you got all these weird problems lay on your back before you go to sleep relax your stomach and feel your stomach touch your stomach and and see where you're at so we're just seeing where we're at and I think that you can see from touching your stomach, it gives you information. You gain information. Places where you got to relax and be soft, places where you had a little bit of fear and stress. do this abdominal palpitation is to know where we're at. If you know your body and are aware of it, you can heal yourself of anything. So this is knowledge and awareness.

1:16:41
We began this with Satori saying,

1:16:45
hey, check your breath, check your heart rate, and feel where you're at. And now we're at the end, so it's like, okay, let's see what the difference is. And the difference is good. So I just wanted to go through that because it's very important. I want to do more stories before the fish truck comes over. Oh, it's there. Oh, there's a fish truck. There's a fish on a truck. All right. That's really good. But I also want to say thank you to all of the advanced students, to all of the dive masters, instructors.

1:17:42
Instructors. Yes, you guys are good.

1:17:46
Yeah, thank you. You guys did a wonderful job. So for, so dive instructors, instructors. There's this thing in my mouth, it's hard for me to talk. Okay. Dive instructors. You guys did a good job. Everyone learned, everyone got experience, everyone gained. And for the teachers who came up, you guys did a good job as well. Before we go on to the fish truck that might have more than fish, I would like to announce some spiritual names are a big thing in our school. I'll talk about what they are after I sign them. I'm like, your name is dirt! There's this one American enlightened teacher named Adida and he named one of his students, they had all these fancy Indian names, and then he named one of his students Junko Cookies. I thought that's funny. And also pretty honest, because that guy ate a lot of cookies. Okay, so let's see. Hmm. Alright, so Marissa. Marissa, your And Chandra means shining light. And that's a very beautiful name. Because in our school, we always meditate on light. And it's, I mean, like every book that they give you, whenever they come across something where someone says, I saw light. It's like, wow. Because a lot of people are like, oh, I came to understand something. But light is a very powerful aspect of, I think it's kind of one of the Pith teachings of our school is meditate on light, see light, be aware of light. And watch out for that fish truck. Woo! Duck! Alright, Chandra. So, very good. It's been a long time coming and you've done the work and you've transformed. And good for you. And it's been a long time coming. It's like, yeah. It's like, when you're here, the work that you do is not for yourself. The work that you do is not... The work that you do for your enlightenment is not for your enlightenment. And you have to work really hard and then enlightenment. So when you are struggling with self, yielding self is what advances you on the spiritual practice. So yeah, Chandra, good job. You know, wasn't an easy thing

1:22:02
but good job

1:22:03
alright

1:22:04
Lara

1:22:05
Lara

1:22:07
your spiritual name is

1:22:10
Pavana and this is

1:22:13
Pavana it is the process of purification. It is like purifying.

1:22:32
So, perfect for you. Pavana.

1:22:38
We have a student here from the Hungarian Sangha, who's getting her name. This is Dia. Dia is my translator in Hungary. and her name is Vana. So Diya, you are Vana. And Vana means ray of light. It's a Sanskrit word, ray of light. Alright. Now we have something very special. Fireworks. Oh, but the moon is... Oh, the fireworks, or whatever I'm saying. I don't know. Okay. Alright, so we have something very special. We have a couple, uh, ST5s who are getting their names. The first is Hershel. Hershel, you're getting a Japanese name based on a past life connection and your name is Sanjin. Now Sanjin is a Japanese translation of an Indian Tibetan teaching on the three and the first world is the Dharmakaya. So there's this time where Padmasambhava was standing with a bunch of Buddhist aspirants and they were like, can you explain enlightenment? Like these higher enlightenments, like the enlightenment worlds and enlightened mind?" And he said, yes, yes. And he took out a stick and he drew on the sand in front of him. He said, this is a Dharmakaya. And it was just a straight line. So the Dharmakaya, the clear light of reality, is said to be enlightenment. So he's like, this is Dharmakaya. And then they were like, aha! and they all attained Dharmakaya, enlightenment. But then there's a higher enlightenment called the Sambhogakaya and the Sam in the vara is the same as the Sam in the bhoga. is like the manifestation and the play and the ecstasy of enlightenment. So then he drew a line of sand that went upward. So he's like, Dharmakaya, straight line. And then this bowl almost holding eternity, that's the Sambhogakaya, which is where all the parties are at. And then, and then they said, what's the next one? And he said, it's, it's Nirvaka, Nirvakaya, which is nirvana. And they said, okay, show us the depiction for that. And then he takes a stick and he wipes out the other two lines. So this is a very, very, very profound teaching of the three ways of enlightenment. And they're all the same and they're all separate, but they're three ways and they're three powerful ways. It's a powerful enlightened teaching. So the Japanese took that Sanskrit teaching, that Tibetan teaching, and they call it Sanjin. The next is Aaron. Aaron, your spiritual name is Adara. Adara means heartful care, which is very powerfully in line with the Bodhisitta teachings. So, heartful care. Adhara. The last is Bruce.

1:28:56
The Bruce.

1:28:59
Bruce, your name is of Japanese Buddhism. maybe just Japanese, I don't know. But in the Japanese mysticism, they say, you know, like Don Juan, they say, a man of power, a man of knowledge. So this is the Shingon Buddhism way of saying a man of wisdom, a person of wisdom, someone who possesses wisdom and this is a very very high teaching and direction in your life

1:30:13
so Kenjin wonderful

1:30:18
So, let me tell you what a spiritual name, which if you don't have one you will get, just following the practice changing and flowing. So for me, it is when I see you make a change in your life from following the karma of your life to a transformation of the dharma of your life. And it has to have a lot of personal power. It has to have tonal. Because if it doesn't have power and tonal, even if you get all weird and have some spiritual experience, I'll be like, eh, get out of here. In this school, I often see it happen when someone has a strong career change. Because they're following the technique of the school. And the technique of our school is to have strong career. So if I see a powerful shift in your career, if you become like a yoga rank black belt, that's where the names come in. They When I see that you are following the discipline of this dojo, the spiritual dojo, and that you are making yourself up to the black belt level, then I say, wow, that's powerful. And I don't think it. Like the names come to me. I hear them in my third ear or I see them in my third eye. It's true. Sometimes the name just, I hear it. When I heard Ajna's name and my name, I was like, what, what, what'd you say, Roma? Sh, sh, shamshwabra? Shwarma? Because over, I, I like, I like a kebab. Just call me Kebab.

1:33:13
Kabob.

1:33:15
Okay, yeah, so it's like you know like I Hear it, and it took me a little while to be able to hear and see right But now I'm you know 50-50 Just kidding. I'm pretty good at it Yeah, but when I see that your power is increasing, then all of a sudden, and the advanced students say the same thing to me, they say, they're like, I keep forgetting Lara's name. And they're like, that just doesn't fit her, doesn't suit her anymore. And it doesn't. So, after a while, it's just not right. It's not the Dharma to call you your birth name, your karma name. When you do yoga, when you do meditation, when you transform through this practice, when you, when you can see it yourself, you will go up in martial arts, you will go up in your day job, you will go up in your meditation, and then at a certain point, it doesn't, you're, you're beyond your birth karma and you enter your spiritual karma, your spiritual dharma. And that's where I say, okay, it doesn't make sense to call you this anymore. So now there's a new name. So I wanted to, and these names came in the Anza Borrego desert, and there were a few other people with names in the Anza Borrego, but then I wanted to see if they had enough to make it here, and they didn't. So, to make it from the Anza Borrego to Bonaire is very powerful. So, that's why the ones who made it here get their names, the other ones, yeah, they'll get their names maybe in a year or so. It'll happen. But they didn't have what it took to go from the desert to the Caribbean. Maybe they didn't have the money or whatever, right? Or maybe they just were like, oh no, okay, the Anza-Borrego Desert. Those were very powerful teachings. Very intense, powerful, amazing teachings. I mean, I've had so many people coming up to me after the first night saying, whoa, yeah, and I agree, it was super high. I don't know why I kicked off the first night so big. That was, that was powerful. The second night, I just wanted to like give you guys a hard time. And so, and then everyone did a good job. So I was like, all right. We crossed that bridge, went through that battle. And that's what we do together. Um, do you think that the, uh, fish truck is ready? Okay, fish truck is ready. Names are given. And now here's the trick.

1:36:36
Okay.

1:36:37
Assimilating names. So, always we're all like all, Oh, uh, hey Laura. Oops, I mean, Pavana. Okay, so, you gotta be mindful when you're talking to people with their new names. So try and remember their new names. And then if you if you remember your new name, then you have to tell people, Hey, I'm, you know, this is who I am now. I'm not some jerk. Okay, so fish truck is open, we're going to eat here on the beach and this is a beautiful place to dine together and be with each other in the ocean and the beach and let's see when when you come back we're going to we're going to put some lights in and I'd like to continue but with Dharma's teaching of sharing stories. Because there are some amazing dive stories and experiences that you guys have had. And if you share it, Dharma's talk was on unity. All the talks were on unity. I love that. You guys did a great job. So even like I went into the water, anything honest, anything true to you. I went into the water, we were at 14 feet, I saw a fish on the coral and it made my heart happy. You know, like anything that is true, anything that is true in your experience, and it could be a beautiful thing so fish truck and come back and share and thank you all for being safe divers good divers beautiful meditators thank you dive masters instructors thank you And I think I covered everyone. And I think I covered everyone. Kamsahamnida.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
