0:00:00
Hello. Welcome. So nice of you to be here. I know at this point some of you are thinking, am I in the right place. I am Sambara, Buddhist monk, the abbot of the Bodhi Woods Forest Hermitage and the director of Vajrananda Acharya. And I welcome you here my students in Paris, France, Munich, Germany, Vienna, Austria, Reykjavik, Iceland, Bangalore, India, and of course Budapest, Hungary. I welcome you to Satsang and the beginning of the 2019 teachings on work as spiritual practice. So just as you can wear, you know, the spiritual clothes and have a spiritual expression, you can also wear a business suit and have a very powerful business or spiritual expression through business, through work. So we're going to be learning the Vajrayana Buddhist teachings on the spirituality of work. And this isn't something like, you know, how you say a mantra that codes for you. This isn't something where you learn how to do meditative exercises in sales meetings. You go to a sales meeting, you're like, okay, just a moment. But these are very ancient and powerful teachings and spiritual observations for work. And it creates success and spiritual enlightenment. So we will be learning many, many, many different teachings, observations, and practices over the next 12 months. But to begin today, we'll start with meditation. We will meditate for three songs. The first song on the navel chakra, second song on the heart, third song on the third eye. Let's begin.

0:02:49
Thank you. So So so the so so you so You So, So so So so so you you so so so So You so You're my everything You're my everything You're my everything You're my everything You're my everything You So I'd like to share with you the Bhagavad Gita and Karma Yoga. So the Bhagavad Gita is a recording of a Dharma talk, a discourse between Arjuna, the great warrior, and Krishna, the personality of God. This is to say, he's perfectly

0:15:24
enlightened. Now, during this talk, Arjuna was very confused and upset. He was falling as a warrior because on the battlefield of Kurukshetra, he looked across and seeing the opposing army, it was filled with some old friends, some old teachers, and even some distant family members. So he said, oh no, I can't fight them. It was a big dynastic war, so everybody had to choose a side, and there was a lot of confusion. So he was very confused. So Krishna gave him this beautiful, powerful teaching about dharma, selflessness, and enlightenment. that ended up being very transformative and empowering spiritually for Arjuna. This is what I call a living teaching. It was a teaching about truth, about the Dharma, for Arjuna at that moment, dealing with his mind and the situation he was in. Now, a living teaching is very, very powerful. Even though this moment from this teaching was thousands of years ago, because it was a battle, a dynastic battle, regional northern India, with a very particular situation for Arjuna. There's something very universal So living teachings are teachings that are alive, even if it's a long time ago. They're universal, even if it's about something very peculiar. And that's why this teaching is something that we can learn from now. Living teachings are very transformative. This is the thing. They create real change. I remember a student of mine said, before the Bhagavad Gita, before reading the Gita, if you had asked her, what's that had the most powerful effect on her life, she said, it would be my father's checkbook. You know, he put her through school and bought her a car, you know, things like that, right? And then she said, but after reading the Gita, she said, I've gained so much more awareness that is much more powerful than anything you can buy. So many of the teachings that we come across these days, spiritual teachings, they are not living teachings. You know, some random Buddhist monk will sit down, open up some book, and start chanting some old chant that doesn't mean anything to you. And then they might tell you, oh yeah, here's some teaching about morality or Buddha Dharma, the Lotus Sutra or something. You know, they'll talk about something, but it doesn't have a lot of relevance to your current state of mind, So, many, many teachings through books and videos and teachers these days are what I call irrelevant, about as useful as a wooden frying pan. You know, like something that doesn't really, really affect you, help you, address your mind. So the living teachings are something that you can accept, learn from, transform in, something that's actual for your state of mind and your condition. It helps you with the things that you're facing. So a number of years ago, I went to Kurukshetra, to the place of this battle, and there's a banyan tree there that is said to be the exact spot where Krishna and Arjuna had this discourse. And there were a number of Krishna devotees there, walking around, looking at things. And there was a class going on where there was some pundit or swami talking to about 80 people. And he was speaking Hindi, so I didn't understand. But he was telling them teachings of the Gita. So I sat there and looked at him and the reactions of people. And people were like, kind of like falling asleep and tired. And I said, well, I don't see a lot of realization. And he was just, I think he was very philosophical. So I went over to a different side of the tree with my student, and then we sat down and I gave my teaching on the Gita. Some of my old students remember this teaching. This is a teaching of Krishna's eternal form. So I gave that teaching and my student and I, we closed our eyes and we were in this place where Krishna had actually stood and performed this miracle. And we were pretty happy. It was very powerful. My student was very, very bright and happy. And then we got up and we were to people standing around going, hmm. So even though the Gita is a living teaching, you have to be able to connect with the life in it, because you could just take the words and find concepts. So I always offer living teachings. These are teachings that affect you and have a connection, a relevance with your condition, your state of mind. So this is a powerful thing. So this is a teaching on the Gita that is a living teaching for you. Because what Krishna is teaching is very relevant to you. You know, you're not so different than Arjuna. You know, Arjuna, in his dilemma, is facing something that he doesn't want to face. And then he has a reaction that comes from self-cherishing. He's like, oh, I think it should be this way. Oh, I don't want to hurt this. Oh, I want it this way. And when you are, you know, acting upon the, I guess, the limited self, then you want things one way or another, which draws you into not seeing life correctly. You think you are. You say, I want it this way, so it must be that way. But Krishna says, no, no, you're not seeing life correctly. You are tending to an idea, a conviction that isn't true. And so when you do that, you fall out of seeing truth. Now, we do this because we desire life to be a certain way. We desire a certain experience. We desire a certain condition. We want this. We want out of spiritual balance. So, we need to see what Krishna's teaching is, is

0:25:13
how to

0:25:15
see the greater truth beyond what we want or don't want. And a lot of spiritual seekers kind of because of their desire, they form their opinion and then they agree with their opinion. So they go, is this truth? Yeah, definitely gonna have more ice cream. This is truth, you know. You're like, you know, too fat and you're like, the truth is more ice cream. Yeah. My friend said, I have the body of a Greek God. And I said, a Greek God looks different than Chinese Buddha. So, yeah, we delude ourselves with self-desire. I was talking about this in Shasta. We create these opinions and I said, spirituality is not opinion. I know we all think so. We're all like, in my opinion spirituality is this. Okay, cool. But that's why Krishna starts to say, no, let me show you a higher truth. And my example is martial arts. You know, you go to a dojo and your sensei says, oh, you should start blocking the punches to your head. And you say, well, my opinion is that I shouldn't. And then you get hit in the head, right? So the sensei actually knows something stronger than your opinion.

0:27:39
Yeah. So this is important.

0:27:41
You know, I had a student who came over to me and he said, oh, I'm suffering so much, why? And I would say, I would give him teachings and then he would go, oh, very interesting and not do them. And then he said, oh, but I'm suffering so much. And I said, yes, because you're not listening to the teachings. And this is the important thing of the Gita. I mean, you have to really like try to see the truth. If you just read the words, then you won't see the living sap of the teachings. You'll create That's why I'm here, because I will disabuse you of those ideas. Yeah, it's true. When you're in desire and creating your opinions and delusions, then you cannot actually follow the spiritual path. You're following the self path. The spiritual path is letting go of self, not accumulating self through what you want to experience. So when you are filled with your desires and ideas, then you cannot keep a high state of mind. You can't maintain a state of mind, that's what I say. So you'll sit with me, you'll experience very high levels of attention, a kundalini will move in you. You'll enter into fields of light. You'll go into a very high state of mind. And if you have so many concepts of self and desire, then the moment you walk out of the door, you'll lose a high state of mind. You'll go into self-description of the world. You'll go back into the self. So, it's important to let go of this self-idea, to be open to a higher truth, so that you can hold a higher state of mind. There was this forgetful couple. They just kept forgetting things. And the wife says to the husband, I want an ice cream sundae. And he says, OK, I'll go get it for you in the kitchen. And she says, you better write it down, because we keep forgetting things. And he goes, I'll remember, ice cream. And then she says, yeah, but I want whipped cream on it. And then he goes, okay. She says, oh yeah, and I want butterscotch syrup. He's like, okay. She's like, sure, you sure you shouldn't write this down? And he says, I got it. She's like, oh, and chopped nuts. He's like, uh-huh, uh-huh. And she goes, and a cherry on top. And he's like, oh, okay, yeah, sure. I got it. I got it He goes into the kitchen. He's there for a long time Finally he comes back with scrambled eggs bacon and She looks at it for a while. And then she says where's the toast? So this reminds me of my students. I'm not kidding. I'll sit down with my students. I'll show them high states of mind. Everything becomes clear. I tell them the right things. I say, where's the toast? Yeah, so, in the Bhagavad Gita, we're discussing the big questions of life, like, what is the nature of existence? And who am I? Who am I? And what's my relationship with enlightenment? So there's these big, big, big questions that Krishna discusses. And he shares the truth about it. Now, today, to help you out, I'm going to bring all of the teachings of all these high dharmas that Krishna taught, I'm going to bring it into three elements. So this is the whole Gita can be brought into understanding three points. See, this is for all of you who didn't read the book. And for those of you who did, it's even better. And this is not to simplify it or summarize it. This is actually to show the profound nature of the teachings. Just because it becomes three simple points doesn't mean that it's not profound or that I'm being trivial about it. It's very, very powerful. Yeah, once long ago, there was a monk who goes to his master and he says, Master, what is enlightenment? And his master pauses for a moment and then says, Oh, and walks away. And then the monk goes, Hmm. The monk goes back to the master another day, and he says, Master, who am I? The master says, Om, and walks away. And then again, the monk goes to the master another day and says, How do I attain enlightenment? And the master says, Om. And this time when he hears the Master say Om, he has a recognition beyond words. He has a recognition of the deep, powerful spirit of life. And he goes into Satori, enlightened realization. So even when you look at simple things that are in the physical, if they are living teachings of the Dharma, when you bring your focused attention on bare truth, there's deep recognition, deep realization. So, these three elements of the Gita, these are three secrets, three secret teachings that Krishna is giving to Arjuna. And these teachings are, one, work is spiritual, and that spiritual work leads to the higher self, and that spiritual work leads to ultimate liberation, enlightenment.

0:36:21
See? Simple.

0:36:23
So, this is a very profound thing. We might think that spiritual practice is like sitting around meditating. It is. But, you know, Krishna says, Work is spiritual. Everyone must work. This is the Dharma. So that's kind of a very powerful teaching, and maybe an unusual teaching. So I remember there was a student of my teacher, and she was in a non-profit that she really cared about. She didn't get paid very well, so she was like struggling to pay her bills. And she was considering becoming a computer programmer, but she didn't really like to do that. So she asked my teacher, "'What is my work?' And she was getting ready for him to say, you got to be a programmer or you can do your thing. And he simply said, your work is to let go of self so that you can get higher. And that was something that she reflected on. And in reflecting on it, she realized that even though she really cared about her nonprofit work, that it wasn't getting her higher. She had a self-attachment to it, but it wasn't getting her higher. And so she then became an awesome computer programmer. So work is spiritual. It doesn't have to be like, you know, a non-profit worker. Any work done with the observations of the Gita, these are observations that make any work spiritual. So the second one is that the work, this spiritual work, brings you to the higher self. So people dwell in the egocentric self, the self of desire and aversion, the self of attachment and concept. So when people are dwelling in this condition, they suffer. They're going with the ups and downs of life, and they're suffering. It's limited. Therefore, through selfless work, you're able to attain something called the higher self. And this is your true nature, the realized aspect of self, the Atman. And this is something that brings you great satisfaction, happiness, spiritual insight and balance. So this is important. The third teaching, third secret, is that there is enlightenment in your work. You know, you might be working at Starbucks, you know, you might be flipping burgers somewhere, you might be a computer programmer. Whatever you're doing, in every job, is there. And to start to recognize enlightenment in your work is a powerful thing. And then, you can start to devote your attention to the enlightenment in your work. And then, through that, you're able to realize enlightenment through your work. Liberation comes from work. So these are the three elemental teachings of the Yoga is what Krishna taught Arjuna. This was his pathway to enlightenment. Now, he taught Arjuna the yoga of seeing truth, discernment, and discrimination. It's called jnana yoga. And he also taught bhakti yoga, the yoga of love and devotion. But he principally called for Arjuna to take action, to act, and that is Karma Yoga. Karma Yoga is the yoga of action. So in my school, I teach Vajrayana Buddhism I also teach karma yoga. And the karma yoga is something that we put into action in our work. This is... Buddha taught right livelihood. So we do karma yoga as right livelihood. Right livelihood is, you know, part of the eightfold path of Buddhist enlightenment. And Buddha said, make your work enlightened work. So we do this through karma yoga. Now, this evening, your work will transform from self-work, which is, I'm working for self reasons to enlightened work, karma yoga, spiritual work. So this is a very powerful turning point in one's spiritual trajectory where you go from a good part of your day, you know, doing stuff for yourself, and then learning how to make that a spiritual practice. So let's talk about Karma Yoga a little more. So there's, you know, self-delusion. Working for the self, for your desires, this binds you into karma, limited working in a spiritual way, through the observations of Karma Yoga. And that's something that is liberating, that brings you out of self into your higher self. Now, a lot of people do work seeking, you know, money, wealth, right? Position, certain experience. They say, I like to do this work because this is what I get out of it. Sometimes intellectual understanding. These are all outer things. When the self desires something, you might get skills, these are still considered outer things. But when a yogi is working, a yogi is looking for spirit, is looking for spiritual truth in their work. They might gain wealth and skills and intellectual understanding and experience, but the primary concern and focus is seeing enlightenment in your work, seeing spirit in your work, and then you gain what Krishna calls transcendental knowledge, that which brings you out of the self into the presence of God consciousness. There's a story long ago in China, there's a little and these two scholars happen to stop by there. And they come in and sit down. The shop owner comes over and they order tea. One of the scholars sees that he's wearing prayer beads, the shop owner, and that the prayer beads were from a very particular monastery, because he's a scholar, he knows everything. And he's like, hey, have you gone to the Hakuin Monastery? And then the tea shop owner says, yes, I did. Did you meet Hakuin, this great Zen master? Yes, I did. Did you get teachings from him? And he says, yes, I did. What teachings? Tell us of all the teachings. Oh, I only got one. He just said to me, do your work serving truth.

0:46:27
He's like, and that's enough for me.

0:46:28
I've been working on that and it's good. And then they say, oh, you should learn more. We know, we have mastered over a thousand Buddhist scriptures. And then he's like, okay. So he serves them tea. And then they pull out one of the scriptures that they're working on from the gateless gate. They open it up and they're all hmm so they're kind of going through a koan and they're like this one Zen master he says enlightenment is across the street but then you engage with enlightenment in the middle of the street but then you find enlightenment on your side of the street right where you are and then there's nothing there. So they're going, oh, what does this mean? Does this mean this? Does that mean that? They're going through different theories, they're pulling out, you know, different sutras and they're all, do you think it means this and that? And then the tea shop owner comes back, pours them some more tea, and then one of the guys says, what do you think? And he was overhearing their conversation, and he says, it's just like tea. He says, first you see the tea outside of yourself. That's the other side of the street. Then you engage with the tea, and then you drink the tea, you've gotten it, and it's gone. So the scholars recognize a great profound truth in what this tea shop owner says. is wisdom and that what they had was many conceptual ideas. So this is the kind of thing that a yogi seeks. A yogi seeks some kind of transcendental wisdom and not just ideas. Now, one of the profound teachings in the Gita is that we should consider our work sacrifice or offering. Depends on how fun your work is. If it's very, very, very hard work, then it's a sacrifice. And if it's fun, happy work, then it's an offering. This is the way I like to do it. Now, most people sacrifice their happiness and spirit in their work. Most people kind of go into a career that is kind of, it smashes their spirit down. There's so many demands in the world, so many hardships, you know. You might have a mean boss, mean co-workers, difficult work, not enough pay. A lot of people in their work, they lose spirit. They don't find a lot of happiness, brightness, insight, wisdom. They find a lot of getting drained and tired and it's hard and difficult. And after a number of years, the spirit is gone. They lose spirit. So it's very important to change that. You can work in a very, very difficult environment, a very, very difficult job. It could be physically tiring. You could have difficult managers and co-workers and customers. But if you are sacrificing that to enlightenment, then you start to gain energy, power, wisdom. Even when it's really, really hard, then you go, wow, I saw so much spirit and wisdom in dealing with that, then your spirit grows stronger. It's not about your effort and attention to enlightenment. If things are hard, all the difficulty that you go through is a sacrifice to enlightenment. And then you're able to see a greater wisdom. And if everything's fun and awesome and wonderful, then that's an offering to enlightenment. It's not something that you take for yourself. You don't say, oh, I'm having a good time. I'll take that. That's me. I'm adding it to my desire, self-profile. I'm offering that. I'm giving that to enlightenment too. It's a powerful teaching. Yeah. For me, I was very, very, very into martial arts, Chinese martial arts, Chinese medicine. So I wanted to pursue those as a career. And my sacrifice was that I became a computer programmer. I didn't want to be a computer programmer at all, and I didn't think I could even succeed at it. But because I did that, then my whole career was a career of selflessness, as opposed to self. And then it was very, very enlightening. I was able to do Karma Yoga very successfully. So we have to find those places where we're having a hard time in our work and sacrifice it, say, I'm giving this to enlightenment. All this hardship that I'm going through is me sacrificing the suffering self to enlightenment. And when you have great wins and you're happy and things are going really well, then you say, this is my offering to enlightenment. So long ago in China, there was a great master that was going to go to this nobleman's house and do a spiritual teaching. And the nobleman was preparing. He made this beautiful feast and flowers, decorations, and all these great things in the house. And then there's a big garden within the courtyard, and there was a gardener. And the gardener went around trimming the hedges, cleaning up, raking, and things like that. But he did it as a sacrifice or as an offering. He was very, very in touch with the fact that an enlightened master was coming and he wanted to make it very nice for the master, that experience of just walking through the garden, going to the house. So the master gets there, walks to the garden, very happy, looking at things, smiling, and then he goes into the house where everything's fancy and made up and all prepared. Then he turns around and walks back into the garden and he sits down in the middle of the garden and he starts giving his teaching. And after the teaching, the nobleman says, why didn't you want to be in the house? That's where everything was prepared. And then the master said, the garden was prepared for the Dharma. And then the nobleman goes over to the gardener and says, what did you do? And he says, you know, with every trimming of the shrub, I saw that the master would be happier because of it. Every time I raked a leaf, I saw just a vision of the master happier because of it. So he did, you know, some arduous work and with every action he saw an offering to enlightenment. So every single act, every task involved in your work or your school or finding your work is something that can be an offering to enlightenment. So it's important to observe that. Now we come to Krishna's greatest secret, what he calls the most confidential knowledge, for your eyes only. Yeah. So, this is what we call

0:56:25
coming from the heart in your work.

0:56:29
This is serving enlightenment with devotion. So a lot of times people work from, you know, the ego self. They want this, they want that, they're frustrated with this, that. A lot of times people might even go into Karma Yoga kind of in the head, thinking, Oh, I should try and look at this this way and try to do this this way. I should be mindful. You know, there's a whole bunch of mindfulness considerations. But Krishna says that the biggest secret, the thing that brings you to enlightenment the fastest is that you do your work, you know, coming from a place of love and devotion and care for enlightenment, that you attain enlightenment. This is the fast track. Now in Bhakti Yoga, the yoga of devotion, they say, just look at the enlightened teacher, just love the enlightened teacher, because that's an easy interface for understanding enlightenment. But it's very, very powerful to see enlightenment in your work and to love your work and to do your work from a place of devotion and love. So this is the most confidential knowledge. Long ago in Japan, there was a Buddhist statue maker. And he put a bid in for a commission on building and creating a Buddha for a new temple. He said, okay, I'll build some statue for you. And then he had a vision. He was thinking about, okay, if I get this job, I'm going to make a Buddha like this and like that. And then he had a vision of the Medicine Buddha. And it was a profound vision for him. It was something that was very awakening for him. And he had, it awoke in his heart. And he had love and devotion for the Buddha, the Medicine Buddha. And he was like, oh wow. He said, when I get this commission, I'm gonna make this Buddha and it's gonna be so magical. So then he got passed over on the job, somebody else got it, right? And he was like, oh, but I still have this love. And he said, I'm going to do something. So he went to the mountainside nearby the temple, and he carved out of the mountainside the Medicine Buddha. And it's a very large one, many stories high. But he did this work with true devotion. He did this work from a place of love. And this became a very, very powerful site of pilgrimage, because after he completed it, some people came to look at it, and then some people had illnesses, and it was said that this medicine Buddha healed them of their illnesses. It was a very powerful, magical thing, magical work. So for him, it was a powerful expression of his love, and it was a lot of work, but created an incarnation of the Medicine Buddha. So this is what we do. When we do work from the heart, when we care, then we're able to actually bring some magic, bring the dharma, bring divinity into our work, whatever we're doing. You're working at Starbucks and you're doing it from seeing enlightenment and the Buddha in your work, and then you give someone a cup of coffee, and then they drink it, and they're like, wow, I'm so happy. It's true, or if you're writing software or something like that, you could, writing software for a bank, let's say, right, you're making magical things happen in your mind, but you're also affecting the world, the people that you work with, the company that you work for. Whatever your little part is, it's putting in some magic. So this is what we do in Karma Yoga. enlightened ways, the higher ways, the divine ways, as Krishna says. But then there are lower ways. The lower ways, Krishna calls them demon ways. And this is simply self ways, and Krishna calls This is where he introduces the gunas. The gunas are sattva, rajas and tamas. Sattva means right or good. And then there's the lower way, tamas, and that is lower and dark and aggressive. So these are the three modes of existence, the three natures of being. Ramakrishna, a great He had a little parable about describing this. He said that there was once a merchant who walked into the woods, and there were three men in the woods. One man struck him in the head and knocked him out. This man, his name was Thomas. I have a student named Thomas, don't I? And the second man grabbed his purse and ran away. This man, his name was Rajas, right? This is, you know, vanity, self-passion. He wanted the money. And the third, his name was Sakva. And Sakva, you know, the man was unconscious. He picked him up, he carried him back, you know, to the village, brought him to his home, and helped nurse him back to health. And then he was given a very great, large reward for his help. So this is the kind of things that, you know, one of darkness would do, one of self-ness, and one of selflessness. So Krishna, he taught about these three ways in work. And the ways that we describe, the ways of divinity, bring you to sattva, brings you to goodness. So this is selflessness. This is working without an idea of I'm getting something out of this. Now, desire is something that ruins the spirituality of your work. So it's very important that we learn to work without desire. We do our work impeccably, we're focused on it, we do the actions, but we don't desire something from it. When you can have no expectation from the fruits of your labor, then you are free of desire. This is very important, because when you want something from your work, you're constantly going into self. And then you won't be in Thomas, you won't be in the right good way. You'll always be in Rajas. You'll always be in self and passion. So, learning to do work for the sake of work, learning to be selfless in your work, not expecting things from it, you still get things. You'll get great things, you'll get more things, but you won't expect them. You won't work for those things. And then you're free from self. So I had a student, he was so selfish. He was like, hey, we're working on some software, we're making a new software company, but we're putting in sweat equity into it right now. He's like, well, what do I get out of it? What do I get out of it? What do I get out of it? My consulting rate is this. And I really want this. I want this. I want this. So he was so selfish all the time. And I was like, hmm. I said, hey, do you think you could do me a favor? Come up to Bodie Woods on Saturday and just help me out a little bit around there's a few things to do. And he said, yeah, I guess. He wouldn't think of asking for anything out of helping me out with some stuff around Bodie Woods because it wasn't computer programming. So his rate didn't apply, you know. And so he comes over and then I said, okay, so I need a four-foot trench, you know, 20 feet long. And I gave him a shovel. And he was like, huh. I said, I'll come check on you in a couple hours. And I come back after a couple hours, and he's just digging, and he's like, I don't think I'm gonna finish this. I'm like, I need it by tomorrow. He's like, okay, I'll try harder. And so he was digging and digging and digging and digging all day long, and finally he finished it. And the amazing thing about it was, because it was so different for him, he didn't expect anything from it. He went through a lot in his head. He's like, why am I doing this? For no reason. But then he kept doing it. And then he ended up learning a very powerful lesson on action, work, with selflessness. Because at the end of the day, I didn't give him anything for it. At the end of the day, he ended up happy. And then he was able to put that happiness into his work. He said, I'm gonna stop being so, I wanna get something out of this, also selfish in my work. Then he was able to learn yoga. And this was the birth of Bodie Woods Work Days. Because I saw that it did such an amazing thing. I said, wow, this really works. And then I said, hey, let's all go to Bodie Woods and dig in dirt. And then it is a beautiful thing. So it's very important to work without, you know, you have to observe your work. What do you expect to get out of it? And then if you say, wow, I'm getting all of this stuff from me, my intention is I want this, I want this, I want this, then that's what's bringing you out of sattva, that's bringing you out of goodness or rightness, and it's bringing you into selfishness, vanity. So, it's very important to observe that you're letting go of self-desire, that you're doing things not for any intention except for maybe to give to a higher cause, give to enlightenment. Otherwise, you're in rajas. And when you're in the mode of vanity, selfishness and passion, then your work, Krishna says, your work is tainted. Your work is dark. Your work is limited. And you also suffer. You suffer it going good, you're unhappy, ultimately unfulfilled. So it's important to really observe in your work selflessness, not expecting anything from the fruits of your labor. It's just a much happier state of mind. Not that, you know, if you work, sure, you're going to be paid. You're going to gain so much more. But you have to work in a way where you're able to let go of self-desire. Then of course there's Thomas, and that's the dark way. And that's where you're heedless of hurting people. You're harmful, and you do things that are maybe wrong, that hurt people, that are difficult. So it's important to make sure you don't go into negativity, and that you're always focusing on being positive. So I remember I had a student who learned the lessons of the Gita, and then he went to his high school reunion. And at his high school reunion, he was just going and meeting people. Oh, what are you guys doing this day? Oh, where are you working? People are mostly talking about work and kids and stuff. And he was observing where people were coming from. And he's like, oh yeah, this person is coming from Rahas, this person from Tamas. And he's like, most people were rahas, rahas, rahas. And that is, you know, just, he saw that they were either doing well in their career or not well in their career, but that they had ups and downs, and that ultimately, they had dissatisfaction and suffering. And he was able to find one person who he said, this person was very selfless and was in satva, goodness. But it showed him a great truth in going through, talking to everybody and seeing all these people who he knew from high school and where their minds were in their life and in their work. And it's very, very rare to see someone who is actually selfless. So that was good, it showed him the truth. And seeing the truth is very important, because if you don't see the truth of the teachings, then you don't see the power in the teachings. And this is why Krishna at this battlefield showed Arjuna his eternal form. So Arjuna is like, oh I totally am listening, it's very important, yeah, this is good. But then the thing that was the demonstration of truth was that eternal form. And then Arjuna was like, whoa, okay, now I see the truth and it's unrefutable. So as I said, I have a teaching on that as well, but I won't be giving that teaching this time. I will maybe another time. I would like to invite up a couple of the yogis to tell you just their experience in yoga. So you can understand yoga as you hear the stories of someone who's gone through yoga for a few years or maybe many years, and you can see just for yourself from their attention and their experience, just an understanding of what yoga is. All right, so maybe we can start with Asha. Asha, if you're out there, and if you would, and if you would share with the audience your experience in yoga.

1:15:00
Come on up. You can stand here. That way you're on camera. For those not.

1:15:07
No pressure.

1:15:08
So I'm Asha for those who don't know me. So I thought today I'd talk a little bit about yoga and work

1:15:16
because I've had some really profound experiences with that. So just a little bit of my background. I grew up in a city where most people either, you know, ended up in jail. Young women got pregnant early. That was kind of the trajectory for most people. If you were lucky, you got to college or somehow put yourself through college. And fortunately, I was one of those people that put myself through college, really pushed, aka still had a lot of debt. And so by the time I found the city, I was working at a job that was good. It was, you know, not paying very well, but it was still a job and I felt like, okay, I can push myself in this. I was incredibly dissatisfied, though. Every single meeting I would go to work and just feel very sad. And so by the time that I met my mentor, Radha, she brought me into the study, taught me about, you know, job yoga, fixing up your resume, doing all those lovely things. fix up my resume and just set out on this course to really transform what I was capable of. I was really caught in a lot of self-cherishing in terms of what I thought was possible, right? So I came from a place where you don't make a lot, you know, you're kind of, you know, this is your limit in what you can do in life. And you just try to make it through, right? So that was a lot of the stuff that was in my mind as I was going through this process. So I was like, yeah, okay, I have a nice resume, but how the hell am I gonna get a high-paying job with what I think is possible for myself? So I went through this process of setting up my resume. I would start sending out resumes as much as possible because I couldn't take time off of work. At lunchtime, I would schedule all my interviews. And so I would like dash into the parking lot, sit in my car with my laptop, put on my hotspot, and then just like in the middle of June, be in my car completely sweating. You know, yes, I do know that. And I can't, you know, and trying to like talk to the interviewers, completely drenched in sweat. Because I didn't want people in the office seeing me interview. So I went through this process, and a couple of months later, I did land a really high-paying job. And yes, the money is great, but I think for me, more than anything, it completely transformed what was possible, and completely transform my mind and my life and what I can give. I think I've completely changed in that looking at other women in my work environment, they can see me as like a person that has come from what I've come from and I can still do these things and I can be the one in the meetings being like, no, Bob, we are not doing that today. You know? And, you know, help leading people that are like twice my age and running global teams of people of over 30. So it's been really incredibly transformative. I've gotten over fears like talking in front of people, right? You know, fears and what I'm able to make and what I'm able to do and, you know, even and even having the opportunity to go back to Oakland and teach meditation. There's a lot of my students here today because of this and pushing that and giving other people the opportunity to come into this beautiful study. So yes, it works. I guarantee it. You just have to push. And if I can do it, you definitely all can.

1:20:02
Cool.

1:20:03
Thank you.

1:20:04
All right, how about dharma?

1:20:09
Dharma next and then maybe one more, maybe parvati after that. Just a couple more.

1:20:15
Hi everyone, I'm Dharma and... What's that? Okay. Wow, that's cool.

1:20:32
I can't really see anything but the light now. Yeah.

1:20:37
That's what yoga is like.

1:20:38
You just, wow, I'm just like in the light and this is awesome. So, for those of you who don't know me, I'm one of the co-founders of AppBuddy. We've been going and growing for 10 years now, which is wonderful. It's a yoga company, successful yoga company. And like a lot of my peers, I've actually been doing yoga since 2002. And for me, yoga is the spiritual practice. It's the spiritual practice in life. Sambhar has set up this structure that we can engage in that's just amazingly bright, that every time I engage in it, I was really pissed off and unhappy and actually had limited opportunities in life, in my career and just also in my state of mind. And then Ajahn said, this is the way out. So, in addition to meditation, this is the spiritual practice, this is the way out. And I was just like, great. And he's like, and in addition, we're going to start a tech company. And I was like, great. Oh, wow. I'm kind of geeky. I like that. All right. So sign me up. Where's the computer? I just want code to start running on my fingertips. Here it comes. I'm ready. I'm ready. We need you to And I was like, oh. And he gave this teaching of, there was of course a student of an enlightened teacher who went to the enlightened teacher and said, what do I have to do to become enlightened? He's like, if you want to become enlightened, do the things you don't want to do. Be with the people you don't want to be with. And there was one other thing that he said that you don't want to do that he talked about as well. But do the things that you don't want to do. And you know, my prescription for life or basically my method of life had not worked. It just had not worked up until now. I saw it. I saw it gave me a limited amount of happiness. So I was like, okay, I'm gonna give this a shot. Why not? And boy, did it push me out of my comfort zone. You know, I was not comfortable doing sales. I really sucked at it when I first started. But I kept at it. I really, really kept at it. And by pushing myself out of my comfort zone, I was, these were the points where I was able to really transform. So, and it was really cool because we were going at it all the time. I mean, it was like 24-7. It was meditation, it was martial arts, there was this yoga company, and it was all the time. So it was truly the spiritual practice in everyday life, even when I wasn't sitting in front of an enlightened teacher. So that's the thing, is that like yoga is such a powerful structure structure that it enabled me to engage with the teachings of enlightenment, the teachings of transformation, the teachings that are just beyond words. They just, they work, like Asha said, all the time, even when my teacher is not there. And it was interesting because when I first started this path, I used to go to Ajahn, I'm like, about everything. I'm just like, what shirt should I wear today? Or, you know, what should I do? Like, and this, that, and the other thing. And engaging in this practice of yoga, this everyday practice of life and spirituality through life and enlightenment in my own experience, in my own experience, it's like the Buddha said this, it's like, you know, don't take my word for it, do it yourself. And by engaging that in that, I got to engage with the teachings of my teacher all the time, even when he's not there. And that's super, it was super empowered. And that's part of the magic of yoga, is that not only did I push myself out of my comfort zone, but I was in this empowered structure that was just absolutely magical, that afforded me such a gift. And, you know, the cool thing about it is that

1:25:19
there's so many times...

1:25:21
Like, yoga really makes you very, very fluid. Right? So the self is like, it's like, oh God, I'm always going to be this way. I'm always going to, you know... These are my possibilities. I'm always going to be this way. But all of a sudden, I step into this yoga. I step into yoga every day and I step into this practice and it's not always that way because it's just completely different. I'm becoming something I never thought I could become and that's fluid. I became, I changed careers like five times. I was a project manager, a technical architect, a salesperson, a marketer a CEO. And normal people don't do that. Right? And it's because of this fluidity. And by stepping out of what I thought was possible before, and myself before, and engaging in this practice, there's points where the self drops away. It just drops away. And sometimes it's just not even there. And then it's like, life is love. Like, yoga is love. Yoga is absolute love. So, it ends up being where I'm just like, okay, it's not what I'm going to get out of it. I do this for, like Ajahn was saying, a sacrifice and offering. But it takes a lot of heart. The best advice I can give you is just don't give up because it is hard. You face yourself all the time in yoga. And it's hard. And it's with heart that you don't give up. And it's with really, really wonderful teammates that things are possible. And wonderful sangha that this is possible too. So, you know, that... It's truly the three jewels and it's a gem. And it's such a gift. And for me, it's like... I really cannot think of a better practice and devotion to God than doing this all the time. Thank you.

1:27:51
Oh Yeah, you can come up this thing

1:27:55
Okay, I get nervous so I have no if you have to hold the mic close can you hear me? Okay

1:28:03
Other way no

1:28:05
Okay, cool

1:28:07
Hello, I'm really happy to be here and to have the opportunity to share my story of yoga with you. I have 17 years of experience as a software engineer, architect, and tech lead, and I'm the CTO of AppBuddy. I've worked on and influenced technology for trading systems, bank mergers, e-commerce platforms, and mobile apps for some of the largest companies in the world, all thanks to yoga. I was introduced to yoga right after high school. I didn't have a clear idea of what I wanted to do professionally, didn't have tech skills, and didn't like the idea of programming because it sounded boring. But having the very bright and successful examples of Samvara and Mandala inspired me to see that perhaps this tech thing wasn't so bad and that I too could be successful. In the beginning I deeply suffered or struggled to learn technology unable to grasp the abstract concepts of files in the computer, movie joke, and JavaScript. It was kind of true though, it's very true. Yet I somehow knew that every attempt I made the clearer it would all become until finally things started to click. I saw momentum in yoga. I learned that I didn't have to be my definition of good at it for it to work. The key was just to start and keep taking small steps. After learning coding through working on a software yoga project, I was able to get into the tech job market. From there, I pursued many contracts that exposed me to different technologies, methodologies, and teams. Engaging in technology became fun and absorbing. It also improved my meditation. By becoming an engineer, leading teams, building and growing yoga companies, I've been able to overcome not wanting to speak in public, being afraid that I don't know enough to succeed, not wanting to manage people, and countless other fears and self-imposed limitations of the ego. Ten years ago, AppBuddy was created as a yoga project, and today it's a place for Sangha and non-Sangha employees to engage in right livelihood, where we build and sell powerful technology solutions that have a real impact on businesses, from small non-profits to global enterprises. Over time through yoga, my awareness changed from being fixated on self to being more open, powerful, and compassionate. It's been exhilarating to break through the boundaries of self. Yoga is particularly effective in our school because we work on it in teams, and through this practice we learn to elevate each other. And boy, is it beautiful to see people transform and get higher together. For me, yoga has been one of the greatest gifts on this path, and I hope you can experience it for yourself. Thank you.

1:32:04
All right, wonderful. So this is the testament of yoga. So just by seeing some yogis who've been in the school maybe a shorter time or a longer time, it gives you an awareness of the kinds of things that we can accomplish through yoga. So now I'm going to do the esoteric teaching of the evening, which is a transmission, the transmission of yoga. And this is the secret teachings, the teaching that has no words, but it transmits the heart of yoga. And this is what gives you the second attention, the spiritual attention to your work. So this teaching transmits an awareness, a spiritual awareness that you will have for addressing your work. So you'll be able to then, from this teaching, do your work with new eyes. It's kind of like how Krishna said, going to show you enlightenment, but I have to give you a special eye to see it." And that's a transmission that he gave him, a special eye to see it. So this is something that gives you this magical way to have an awareness, a spiritual awareness, to see your work differently, to see work and much more opportunity for success. So this transmission, this teaching has no words. We're just going to sit up straight. You can look towards me and while we sit, we're going to sit for one song. You can focus lightly on the third eye and we'll just sit quietly. At one moment I will go like this, a mudra, and I'll stop. And just try to still your mind and I will transmit this to you. Try to feel and be aware of the transmission. Even if you're not very aware, you're still getting the transmission. This is something that I do. I do this with Kundalini energy, a very refined spiritual energy, and also through shifts of attention. So I shift your attention with this spiritual energy. I'm very, very aware of my students in the other countries. I've gone through the pictures just before coming out here. So even if you're not here, I'm going to be doing this teaching for you. Okay, so sit up nice and straight, look up this way, and let's begin.

1:35:27
the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so the the the so so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the All right, wonderful. So, you got it. You got a living teaching, a transmission that

1:37:24
opens your eyes to spirit and work. But consider these teachings of selflessness in your work, of seeing enlightenment in your work, of doing your work for that enlightenment. See this in your work. Work in this way of the yogi. I have another support for you, for this teaching. This book is called Job Yoga. This builds upon the teachings of Krishna and also Buddha's teachings of right livelihood, and has our school, our Vajrayana Buddhist school structures in it. So this book will be available on the wiki and if you're in another city, we'll be emailing it to you in an electronic form. And this book will be something that is very, very helpful for further understanding yoga and also giving you specific details of mindfulness and observances in your work. All right, wonderful. So thank you all very much. It was a pleasure sitting with you today, and this was very beautiful teaching. Thank you all. brings you onto the battlefield of your life. It brings you on the battlefield where you face convention or a higher calling, where you face karma versus dharma, self-desire versus a higher truth. It is an inquiry into your spirit. It calls you to ask yourself, how do I get higher? And how do I get beyond my current state of mind to beyond, Krishna would say, my desire to enlightenment. So, you must make a vital existential decision, that is, whether to follow the path of the self or the path of the spirit leads you to satisfaction, the higher self, and enlightenment. So like Arjuna, Krishna gave him advice and he gave him a decision to make. He's like, do you want enlightenment or do you want to follow your wimpy way. And Arjuna followed the pathway to enlightenment. So too, do I give you a decision to make? Enlightenment or Muppetry? It's really funny, you know, when you start coming to these events that you wear a suit, because now I'm wearing a suit. We're bringing our tonal higher. So we have a number of new yoga projects. Yoga projects are projects that we work on as yoga. It's kind of like in karate, they have these things called dojos, and you go into the dojo and you learn karate, right? You could just be out on the streets, brawling, you know, but if you want to develop yourself and learn the art, you go into the dojo. So our yoga projects are like little dojos where you develop your ability to actually do yoga. So the thing is, when you learn about yoga, you start to just say, oh, cool, I do that, I'm going to do that. You know, you just say, I'm going to do that, I'm going to just practice myself and voila, you know, I'm a yogi. However, in our school we have kind of a spiritual structure of attention, awareness, power of yoga constructively and correctly, where you can't trick yourself into thinking, I'm doing yoga, and just be trapped in the ego. So we have these things called yoga projects. And for all of my students, you get to work on one. That's your choice. You get to work on a yoga project, or you get to follow the path of self off into the sunset. I'm going to tell you about the yoga projects. We're going to put these up on the wiki, and everybody gets to sign up. And this is going to be led by an experienced yogi. So they will teach you the way of yoga just by managing the project properly, teaching you the right spirit. And then we work on these happy yoga projects and we learn yoga. How exciting. How so lovely. All right, so we have a cool yoga project and this is going to be creating apps. A yantra meditation app. This is where there's going to be an enlightenment workbook app. So we have, you know, a enlightenment workbook, which is a book that's so like 1800s. And then I think we have some software coming out where it's like, you know, on your computer website. And then we want to make a mobile version, but an app. So that'll be really cool. Now, to do this, we could probably use like one or two content people, so you don't have to be technical. But otherwise, we need technical people, so people who are coming out of a golden state or people who have some experience, especially in mobile. And if you don't know iOS or Android, that's okay. But if you know web technologies, then that's a good place to start. All right. So that's project number one. If you're interested, you can sign up for that. The second one is going to be websites. So we're going to do a revamp of the Enlightenment Workbook website, Mystic Scuba website, and we're going to create a job yoga website. And this is going to be, especially for people who've been working on the content management system class. So students of that class would be very good here. Also non-technical people can do content. So that's project two. Then we have, for those of you who are really into, have a real big interest in death, we have websites for supporting people around death or death of a loved one, different ways. We have hospicejourney.org, which was, if you or a relative are in hospice, personalized websites for communication, recapitulation of your life. What Matters Now is very similar. So a couple websites for that. And we're coming up with a new website now or shortly which is supporting, if someone's passed away, how you can be considered. All right, now this is going to be a good one. It's called Insights, and it'll probably be a book and a website. This is where you don't have to be technical, especially. You'll be re-watching them or listening to them and you'll find some quotes that you find very powerful or very spiritual. You pull that quote out and then you'll kind of match it up with a picture and then it will go into a book. So it'll be kind of like a book of This is a very, very excellent yoga because you review Dharma teachings and you're looking at them in a different way, looking for where's the powerful, that powerful-est part. And then you pluck it out and then we put a book together and it's something that is very happy for the whole Sangha. All right. Another very important yoga is to be the meditation teacher assistant. So your meditation teachers do actually a lot of work outside of just teaching meditation. They print things, they organize meetups and all sorts of stuff. And as a yoga, you could be the one selected to help your meditation teacher. teacher and then they'll give you lots of fun things to do. Another one is the yoga called save the world. It started off as a yoga we called crickets or Jiminy Cricket or something like that and and this was like, hey, there's cricket protein. So, you know, like, if you can feed the poor and the hungry cricket protein, then they'll have protein. So this was like, save, save, feed the hungry. Something good. Cricket. But then it turned into a card game. I know I laughed too, but it turned into a very beautiful card game where it's a game that while you go through the game, you create a higher consciousness of ecology for the just about hunger, but the ecosystem and everything and making the world a better place. So, and then they realized that after completing that, that they should do something else. So this team is coming to what we call another pivot. And this is looking at what's next to save the world in two months. All right, so this is a fun team too. Another team that's going to be important is the archive team. So I have some video recordings and audio recordings, and some going way back, that I would like organized and archived. So you gotta like listen to them, maybe see the date of them. Some of them just, you know, it's just some audio file, you have to listen to what I'm saying and make meta notes about it, organize it. It's all unorganized. So that's cool because you get to listen to like talks that go way way way back and Hear me say very strange things That would be good and then the final yoga is music So as you notice we meditate to music, but we have a music team, Vayu, and they practice music as yoga. Now, if you want to be on this team, you have to have a lot of experience in music. You're like, oh, I played the recorder when I was eight. I'm interested in music. Nah, you have to have a very strong propensity in music. Okay, so these are the projects. These are all super happy projects where you can learn yoga. So, the thing is that it is a requirement in my school, if you've been in the school for six or you're a student that you practice yoga, that you join one of these teams. And it's very important for you to consider your self-arjuna. And when you say, no, I don't want to work on something. I don't want to, I don't have time. Then I would say, check your selflessness. What is it that makes you say, I don't want to? Because it's going to be some kind of ego investment. And this is an opportunity to overcome that. You're going to say, I desire to do my own thing. I desire to do something else instead. I desire to not have to work. I desire not to have to listen to someone or whatever, So these teachings today are teachings for you. You are Arjuna on the battlefield and yoga project is the thing to go squash.

1:55:47
Squash yoga.

1:55:49
Very good.

1:55:50
So yes, as I said, these are going to be things

1:55:52
that you can sign up for. If you're gonna still be in the school, you'll sign up, and otherwise you'll let Rajas and Thomas take you away, which is fine. You might have had enough of this. Okay, good. What else are we doing here these days? Scuba diving. Yeah, so I was talking to Vivica after our last scuba diving trip, and we have to be, you know, we work on greater and greater impeccability, especially when we're engaging in, you know, dangerous sports. So scuba diving is a place where, you know, there can be injury, there could be death, and we have to be very careful. And we have a bigger and bigger group who's engaging in our dive trips. So, you know, it used to be I just took a dozen of my students out to Hawaii and led them myself. But now, you know, dive masters have to be very, very strong to lead people. So we're bringing the performance requirements in our SCUBA higher. So we're going to be sending out what those new requirements are and we're going to set up a structure until the next solstice, summer solstice, on how to achieve those performance requirements. There's going to be some classroom work, there's going to be tests that you have to take and there's going to be the performance requirements in the pool and in open water. And for your yoga rank, you have to achieve those performance requirements. If you're already a dive master but you don't achieve those requirements, then your yoga rank is going to go back down to open water, advanced open water. So we have to make sure that we have those requirements. You might be a dive master for paddy, but that's very easy. I've seen tons and tons of bad dive masters. So this is the difference between a black belt and a martial artist, right? Some people get a black belt because they know some moves, but then a martial artist is someone who's capable in a street fight, capable of really defending themselves. So since sangha matters and since the dive master is gonna be taking out on dives new people, I want you to be a martial artist of the ocean, someone who's capable. So that's why we're raising the performance requirements.

1:58:46
Very nice. Real simple.

1:58:47
Let's see.

1:58:49
I wanna see if there's anything else

1:58:50
I wanna discuss with you.

1:58:51
Yoga projects. They're great.

1:58:53
That's where you start to really, that's where things get real. Oh yeah, another important one. The job yoga book. All right, so I started this book probably like six years ago and I was writing it for you because I had already taught the last generation of students yoga and I said, well maybe next time it'd be good to have a book that covers the main points. So I started writing it, and I got to write maybe one week a month here and there. And so it took a while to complete it. And I completed the content that I want to bring across to you. However, when we started the edit of this book, to give it to you, editing is where we find, oh, there's a logic flaw, oh, the grammar is totally off. Sentence structure is a strange word usement. So I only had like one student get all the way through the edit and you really need like at least a dozen people to go through that to get catch all the little things. So the way that we're going to do this is you're going to get the PDF or Kindle version and there will also be the Google Doc. So while you're reading you could say oh there's a grammar problem and then you go into the Google Doc and then you fix that problem. And guess what you've done? You've helped out the book. Yeah. So now we're going to, all the editors, we're going to make the book impeccable, as it should be, because it's a book about impeccability. That's what Mudra was saying. Mudra's all, hmm, there's a lot of errors in here. So yeah, but this is what it takes to refine a book. It takes many, many eyes on it and questions about it and, you know, like finding, you know, it's like everyone will go through it and then you'll be the one who finds a little grammar error. So this is what it takes to make it very, very, very impeccable. So you guys are going to be reading the book and learning about the fundamentals of job yoga, but you'll also be practicing it through making an impeccable Yeah, that's it everyone. I thank you so very much. And yeah, we will have that sign up and And I'll be meeting with your yoga leaders and seeing the reports of your work. So you'll be, remember that talk I gave called responsibility? You have to take responsibility. And I'll be observing that. And then when you're not responsible, I'll be like, be responsible. All right, so we're going to just take another 10 minute break and I would like just intermediate students to return. and I would like just intermediate students to return.

2:02:54
Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
