0:00:00
the structure of the details, the scope of the details. There's really three parts. We're going to do the hard part first, and then the last part is a practice. So the first two parts are the hardest parts. We're gonna do them here together and then we'll get that out of the way. And then poof, then it turns into a practice. So the first thing that you have to understand, to know it in your heart. So this is where I remind you that you have Buddha nature, that enlightenment is within And there's no reason, no karma that can stop you. So know that you can be enlightened. That knowledge, that knowing here in this place of power is a great truth, great power. And it's the first step in becoming enlightened. is not stopping for anything else. So on the way to enlightenment, you might get to certain states of mind where you get comfortable or find things that you desire and start pursuing them over complete liberation. And if you settle for anything else, that's what you get. But you have to recognize the truth. And the truth is that nothing will bring you satisfaction except for complete liberation. everything will be caught in a world of suffering. Any other pursuit will bring you suffering. So you must not stop for anything. And you must at all times say,

0:02:56
I want enlightenment.

0:02:58
Not this, not this. Only complete liberation. is a meditation practice. And this is a powerful meditation practice. It's a Kriya meditation practice. And it's a meditation practice that really, really, really brings up a lot of second attention support for meditating really well and going into Samadhi. So this practice and focus on three chakras. The first is the heart and we focus on the throat chakra and we say the mantra And when we focus on the throat chakra, we envision a green light. And we say, hum. Then, we focus on the third eye. And we say the mantra, om. When we focus on the third eye, we see a white light. And we say OM. So AH, green. Oh sorry, AH, blue. HUM, green. OM, white. There is another part. We find the mantra for AH. So when you focus on the heart, the blue light, you say AH, you see within that, within your heart, within that blue light, the character for the mantra. When you focus on the third, the throat chakra, the green light, when you say hum, you get that character, you see that character for hum in that green light, in the throat chakra. When you focus on the third eye, you see the white light, you say om, you find the Tibetan om character, and you see that in the third eye, in the white light.

0:07:18
So it's a little techie.

0:07:19
But the mantra and the light is very important. After you practice this for a while, it's just the light is just boom, boom, there. At first you're like, huh? But then after a while it's just like the lights, the lights are there. You just in those lights all the time. Now here's the trick. You do it slow, then the kundalini doesn't rise. So you have to do it kind of fast. I got to the point where I do it really fast. I go tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, But it's fun because I want to be immersed in the dimensions and move really fast. It's really fun as a concentration exercise. But you just get it down. Ah hum om. Ah hum om. So, I was, we were first prescribed to do this for 45 minutes in the morning and then half an hour in the evening. Later, Rama said, you can do a half an hour in the morning and It's not so much about the time that you spend anymore. It is the concentration. It's nailing This practice brings you to Samadhi, Salva Copa Samadhi. There's a lot of support for meditation in this practice. And it very very quickly can bring you to Salva Copa Samadhi. It's very amazing. And then after you have your first Salva Copa Samadhi, it probably is like a month or so before you have your second one. It takes about six months of practice usually to get to Salva Copa Samadhi. This whole practice to bring you to primary liberation three years. And it's a fantastic journey. But it doesn't happen overnight. It definitely takes working on it and it takes about three years. Now Rama said if you are all over this doing it all the way, it could be one year. So it could be as fast as one year, but on average it should take three years. So it took me three and a half years because I spent six months after Rama's death not really practicing. But then when I got back into it, I picked up where I left off.

0:11:14
Years. After about a year and a half

0:11:18
you'll be going into Salva Copa Samadhi so often that you won't care about enlightenment anymore. You won't be like, I got to be enlightened. You will just be flowing in the light. And yeah, you will be working on it. But your self and desire will be so gone because you have gone into salva kuppa samadhi so many times. And I was pretty satisfied when I could go into salva kuppa samadhi every day. I was definitely fulfilled. But then I wanted to be higher. I let go of even that self that was one with everything. And then I was like, whoa, that's way better. you can know that you can be enlightened. You're not going to stop for anything else. Only complete liberation. And you practice this meditation technique perfectly. Then without a doubt this Kala Chakra empowerment, Rama had to do some heavy lifting. Because we had too much karma. And so he had to lift us up above our karma so that he can give us this empowerment. He had to do the work because we weren't prepared. But it is my seeing that from the success in karma yoga that you've burnt off the bad karma that you have become able to make this transition so with you this Kala Chakra Empowerment. So you had to do the hard work. I am not as strong as Rama to be able to lift you guys up. But that is great. You did the hard work and it is real. Alright so now I am going to do the empowerment. So I am just going to stand up and you can just have a light focus on the third eye and look at me and I will do the image.

0:14:09
I'm going to go ahead and get my camera. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Whoa. Alright, so I'm going to conclude with that for this evening, but I'm going to have a

0:16:09
couple more teachings about the Kala Chakra with you. I'll talk about it more. But this was the teaching. Believe that you can become enlightened. Don't settle for anything else and practice this meditation Congratulations. I'm really, really high. Yeah. And now you will see how good I am. Because when you go into Samadhi, it's so intense, so amazing. But then primary enlightenment, 10,000 times more amazing and intense and and you're gone. You're gone! You're walking. So, now I'm good. I'm very high. So what do you do when you have the advanced teachings I kept on working at my job. Kept on going to martial arts. For me they lost funding and I was like talking to Kundalini. I just I just got fired so like thinking of meditating more. She was like yes you're going to become enlightened. And for the student who became enlightened here, they were working the whole time. So you don't have to like say, oh, now I have to go quit and be in a cave. Not at all. Keep keep on doing what you're doing. And then the moment that I became enlightened, what did I do? I said, OK, guys, we're starting yoga now. We're working. And the moment that Mandala became enlightened, what did she do? We got a lot of work to do. So it's not, you know, it's not that you go, OK, now I'm just going to go be a freak. We tend to notice that the structures in the beginning and the middle are very very helpful at the end. So you might be, oh I'm going to the top of the mountain to sit like a wise man. Just do what's powerful. Whatever is powerful for you will be good. All right, are there any questions? Yes. This is your new practice. Yeah, replace your meditation practice with this. You can meditate to music if you wish. What I did was I stopped meditating to music and I just was doing the mantra. But then after a while I meditated to music and did the mantra and both worked. Yeah. So no longer will you sit there and do 20 minutes on the navel, eye. Now it's just this Kriya technique. Ah hum om. Ah hum om. Ah hum om. And see those, see the light. And see the character for the mantra. So it's best if you could do 45 minutes in the morning and 30 minutes in the evening. But then later when Rama said that we can do 30 minutes in the morning and 15 minutes in the evening and it's more about just doing it right. Then I went down to 30 minutes in the morning and 15 minutes in the evening and I just did high concentration. You know, like you got to be nailing this stuff. This is very simple meditation technique. But you got to you got to you got to say the mantra. You got to get the light. See the character. It takes a little while to to get that concentration going. But then you should Yeah, so the shades of light. Like a deep sky blue. Or maybe a Cayman blue. No, lapis is too dark. It's not so dark. It's kind of a, more of a, like a deep sky blue. Or if you know the North wall in the Caymans, Cayman blue is very beautiful. For the green, Brahma said, a light forest green. And for the white, he said, he said it's like a white star. Good question. So the mantra kind of is like any way you want it to be. the light as long as you recognize the color. You can do the mantras out loud but you can also do the mantras internally. So I did the mantras out loud for a couple days and then

0:24:25
I just did them without saying anything out loud. Just inside.

0:24:32
Yes? Yeah, either way. Whatever you can do. So it is like is the mantra character in your chakra? Or is it somewhere out there in the light? Either way.

0:25:23
How do you know when to stop trying?

0:25:32
Yes, so how do you know when to stop trying. So when you do this Kriya meditation, it builds up a tremendous amount of community. And then at some point, you are gone. And you don't have to try to let go. You're gone. You got. And you don't have to say, Oh, I'm getting to a place of stillness now maybe I should just let go just build that Kundalini up and then all of a sudden pow! Kablam! Is there a benefit practicing during the day when you're not meditating? Yes there's always a benefit. Anytime you want to spend more time meditating, doing this technique is good.

0:26:33
Well, like even when you're working or something? Say you're not eyes closed.

0:26:38
Sure, why not? You can explore what works for you, but definitely do your morning meditation and your evening meditation. 45 minutes in the morning, 30 minutes in the evening, probably until you really get clear on how to nail those dimensions and those visualizations. Then you can probably do 30 minutes and 15 minutes, as long as you're nailing it.

0:27:13
Is it okay to collaborate in finding the characters

0:27:17
in the film? Yes, it is. It's okay to collaborate. You guys can say, oh, I got a really good Ohm. Check this one out. I had Gerda make for me a blue light with the character in it, picture, and then the green with the character and then the white with the character. And then it would like, she did a little animation so it would flip fast. So I was all like, I suck at this. Or I was like, what's it look like if I have an open-eyed visual? Yeah. So I played around with that too. And it was fun. I don't have it anymore. But come on, how hard did you do it? But, you know, that's kind of, that was kind of like a fun, interesting thing and it might be neat in the beginning, but eventually you got to be able to nail those dimensions in your mind.

0:28:15
Do you expect a time in the morning like sunrise or sunset?

0:28:21
Sunrise is always good, sunset is always good. those are times of power but anytime when you wake up yeah when you wake up get up take a shower have some coffee or tea if you have to and meditate. You know the drill. Do we need to connect with a teacher or guru? Nope. You don't have to connect with a teacher or a guru. All you do is this meditation practice. Ushapana before is just fine. This is only 45 minutes. Wait a second, question is can you meditate with others doing the same technique?

0:29:09
Absolutely yes, I've definitely done that.

0:29:11
Yes?

0:29:11
So do you feel like you've kind of sucked at the earlier meditations or they're not as good?

0:29:18
You don't need to worry about that now you just...

0:29:20
Yeah, this meditation technique is so strong.

0:29:25
So when I was a beginning and intermediate student, I considered myself really bad at

0:29:37
meditation and I was like, God, I just suck at meditation.

0:29:40
I was always like, the meditation is good for everyone else. They are all good at it, but I'm bad at it. I would just sit there and struggle with disturbing thoughts and emotions. I was like fighting myself through 93% of my meditations. And then you know 5% of the time I would have a good happy meditation. In meditations I saw light and stuff like that. But I was like, wow, that's a good meditation. I sat for 45 minutes in silence, just doing this technique. And I was like, that was a good meditation. And then I think on the second or third day, I was just like totally stopped thought completely. And that happened all the way until Rama's death. Then after his death, you know, I sat there and did the technique, but I had lost it. Like I somehow wasn't practicing strong. I lost the truth of it. And then I was like back in Dhyana, fourth Dhyana, stopping thoughts, stopping thoughts, stopping thoughts. And then after, yeah, after about six months, then I had my first Salva Kuppa Samadhi. So this technique is very powerful to support your Samadhi experience. So forget about everything in the past. Do past do this meditation practice it is completely powerful. Don't judge your meditation. Your meditation doesn't have to be like mine. This is where you meditate for real. You do this meditation because this meditation brings you to enlightenment. You can be enlightened get in your way, not even judging yourself.

0:32:28
Do you have to do anything?

0:32:30
Are you doing anything like a story? Yeah, I totally know.

0:32:34
Come on.

0:32:36
I mean, it's not really important to focus on stopping God anymore.

0:32:40
You just do the technique. Yeah. Just do the technique.

0:32:46
Can you imagine Tibetan deities?

0:32:48
Don't imagine Tibetan deities. Just do this technique. Characters. Is that a Tibetan character or Sanskrit? It's Tibetan. So the Tibetan characters for the mantra. It's not characters in the mantra. A-H. Ah. Ah. Ah. Yes, sorry two people are talking at the same time. How about this one over here? The throat chakra is at the bottom of the throat where there is a little dimple of the bone. So it right there. Some people think it's where the Adam's apple is, but that's not where Rama said to focus for this technique. The throat chakra is at the bottom of the throat where that little bone dimple is, right in there. It's also a good martial arts pressure point. Some of you might remember that one. Good question. And over here, what was the question? Is it okay to do this while teaching a class? Absolutely. So when you're teaching an intro class, you can tell them, yeah, focus on the navel, you know, the heart and the third eye. You could be doing this. Because it generates a lot of power. It's gonna help their meditation. Yes, when we're in satsang with me and we have the buttocks sitting here, you guys do this practice. This is your practice for your

0:34:38
enlightenment. So don't do the navel, heart, chakra, third eye in meditation class, is

0:34:46
Your meditation practice now is this meditation practice. You teach people to do the navel, heart, third eye. But when you're practicing, this is your bread and butter for enlightenment. So this is your meditation from now on. Let that other practice be for other people. But this is your practice. If it is, you'll notice. If it's too much for your dog or your cat or your kid, you'll I'll talk about that in the future. Yes. Yes. So probably lots of people will say, tell us all about it. That's a good question. And you should be radio silence about it. You should be inaccessible about it. Jigarit teaching. Because one, it keeps it sacred to you. And two, it's helpful for them not to know. Because if you tell them about it, they'll go, oh, okay, I have an idea. And maybe I'll even try it. Oh, it didn't do anything. That's why I was like, I was like telling you guys, don't ask Agni Kala about it. He'll tell you everything about it. But I said, it is powerful if you do the work and then you get it. This is powerful. So don't tell anybody about it. This is the secret for enlightenment in your heart. And then you become enlightened and then it's helpful for them.

0:37:05
Both or either? You might start off going, okay, there is the light in the chakra, but

0:37:15
then eventually you transport it into that dimension completely. So I don't know, do both. Both or either. See how it works for you. Focus on the chakra, see the light, have I remember during the Kala Chakra empowerment with Rama, there was a guy who just showed up like six months before and he was there. But you guys all have your yoga rank, black belt, you guys all have done Bodhicitta intermediate teachings. So you guys definitely have the momentum and the chops for this. So even, yeah, everyone. Even everyone. Anyone else?

0:38:38
I'm sorry.

0:38:39
I thought you guys just remembered. Okay, other questions?

0:38:41
Yes, over there.

0:38:42
Yes. Are you still going to do the lineage holder empowerment? I did it already. I told you I was going to do it.

0:38:46
When?

0:38:47
I'm going to do it.

0:38:48
I'm going to do it.

0:38:49
I'm going to do it.

0:38:50
I'm going to do it.

0:38:51
I'm going to do it.

0:38:52
I'm going to do it.

0:38:53
I'm going to do it.

0:38:54
I'm going to do it. I'm going to do it. I'm going to do it.

0:38:57
I'm going to do it.

0:38:58
I'm going to do it.

0:38:59
I'm going to do it.

0:39:00
I'm going to do it.

0:39:01
I'm going to do it.

0:39:02
I'm going to do it.

0:39:03
I'm going to do it.

0:39:04
I'm going to do it.

0:39:05
I'm going to do it. I'm going to do it. I wasn't here.

0:39:14
Oh, okay.

0:39:16
I'll do it with you after.

0:39:20
Thank you.

0:39:22
Anyone else? On the practice, how to? If you are traveling you can practice it while traveling if you have to. That is all you can do. Yeah so this gets the kundalini really going up and then eventually the kundalini just like jumps over. Like eventually it jumps up to the ground. You don't have to focus on it. It just happens. Yeah, it's, there's some scary stuff. It's really intense. And when the self disappears, you're like, oh shit, where did I go? So you'll go through it. Like, you know, you just work on the technique and then the fears will come up and then you just keep meditating and then you'll go beyond them and then you'll be like, oh, I guess that wasn't so bad. But yeah, fears come up, but just keep meditating. Any questions? Yes. Also do bodhicitta. So you don't have to do sitting relative bodhicitta, always a very beautiful thing. But do this meditation. Anything else? Yes. So many of them did not believe that they could become enlightened, but the majority of Rama students who got this empowerment, they stopped themselves. They let themselves get stopped. They didn't say, I'm going for enlightenment no matter what. I'm not going to settle for anything else. Because the self puts everything up in the way. And you'll go, oh yeah, I can't do it. Oh, my meditation is not good. Oh, it's for someone else. Oh, whatever. You know, you're going to come up with everything. But if you say, no, I'm not stopping for anything except for full enlightenment, then you will break down every self barrier. And you do this meditation into Samadhi gives you so much support. Bam! Then you just keep going. You don't settle for anything else. That's the thing that stopped most people. Any other questions? You have Buddha nature. This is the truth. Align yourself with that truth. Yeah, yeah. Are you still going to coach us through this? Yeah, sure. Absolutely. No worries. I don't know what. Any other questions?

0:43:09
Yeah. You will learn about it by doing it.

0:43:13
The dimensions are definitely like connected to you.

0:43:15
Through this empowerment.

0:43:17
So you are definitely learning about it. You are definitely learning about it. You are definitely learning about it. You are definitely learning about it. You are definitely learning about it. You are definitely learning about it.

0:43:29
You are definitely learning about it. You are definitely learning about it. like connected to you through this empowerment. So you are definitely not going to miss them. You will learn all about them by experiencing it. Yes, question? Thank you all very much.

0:43:45
This is, this is.

0:43:46
Do this meditation.

0:44:09
the game changer.

0:44:11
Do you think you're a really giant, Dr. Wolff? All right, thank you all very much. This is very wonderful, very beautiful. This is very wonderful, very beautiful.

0:44:26
And now we're going to head back down the door.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
