0:00:00
Ruthlessness. The ultimate intention for enlightenment. With ruthlessness, you stop at nothing. Any bardo of being could come up. Any karma can come up. Any samskara can as being not enlightenment, and then you push on, you go beyond it. So, the last two teachings, having to believe in ruthlessness,

0:00:57
are the advanced teachings.

0:01:00
You have to believe that you can become enlightened, and you stop at nothing. So you have to recognize when you enter a karmic awareness, when you're bothered, confused, struggling, and say, whoa, I am existing in a karma. Then you have to say, no, I'm going for enlightenment. Then you go beyond that karma. That has to happen, otherwise you stay in the karma. That means that you're settling. So ruthlessness is a very important teaching for beginners and for advanced stages. So we're going to sit together, we're going to do the practice, and hopefully you'll do it very well. Do you know how many stories I tell where there's the master sitting there with the student, and then the student becomes enlightened. Sitting with the teacher, there's powerful spiritual energy. The teacher is enlightened. When you're practicing with the teacher, engaging with the teacher, when you're there with the teacher, they're showing you the way to enlightenment. I remember sitting with my teacher after the Kala Chakra empowerment, sometimes it was just a very mundane conversation. I was talking about a book or something like that, but there were powerful, powerful teachings of enlightenment coming through. And then the times where I sat in meditation with him were phenomenal. He gave us so many teachings, so many teachings, wanted to make sure we had all the transmissions and that we were ready before he split. All right. So we're going to just sit in silence, and we'll probably sit for 15 minutes or so, we'll see. But meditate with a perfect ruthlessness. I really want you to practice ruthlessness in your meditation. Be ruthless about focus, about hitting the right dimensions, about seeing the right colors, seeing the right symbols. Don't settle for distraction. Don't settle for thoughts. Don't settle for a limited experience. Go full into it. So let's practice ruthlessness together. Okay.

0:04:30
Okay. You're welcome. Okay. You are. Okay. Thank you. Okay. You are not. Okay. Okay. Oh. I'm going to go ahead and get started. Okay. Oh, Okay. You are. Okay. Okay, very good. Well, that was quite lovely. So, meditation first and foremost is the place where you're ruthless. You have to meditate for real. If you find yourself tired, you need to really focus, focus, focus, focus, focus, focus.

0:20:06
As soon as the kundalini starts to rise, you're very awake. But you need to unlock the kundalini with intense focus. You need to be ruthless to focus. If you find your mind drifting and you're just kind of on autopilot, Thinking about doing something else is never going to work. You have to be ruthless with your meditation. You've got to be there. You've got to focus. Every time, you have to hit the dimension of light. You can't just be like, okay, and then start thinking about something. So you know, it does take a... We're still in the very beginning part of this, so it takes six months or so to kind of figure out the technique. Or, you're ruthless and you do it perfectly and start going into Samadhi. But you don't have to be enlightened if you don't want to. If that's where your spirit is going to get stuck and dwell there, then that is where you will be. Angry or jealous or fearful or whatever find yourself in a condition of karma and you don't do anything about it and you're just hanging out there, then, yeah, enlightenment won't happen. But if you recognize that you're in a karmic state and you say, hmm, I don't want this, I want enlightenment, then you the transmissions and the ability to move beyond it. So you have the advanced teachings, but you gotta drive it. Drive it down the coast, down to Big Sur. And it's a beautiful ride and then you finally get to the Nirvana Inn and then, I don't know, then that's it. But you know, the advanced path is doing something, but you gotta do it. You can't just sit there and go, wow, I got the car, I got the vehicle. Ta-da! If you don't drive it to the destination, then you don't get there. So, actually do them for real. You should reflect, maybe every day before or after meditation, and be like, do I really believe I can be enlightened? If you have doubts, then you need to reflect more deeply on your Buddha nature and the teachings. And any time that you find yourself in a karmic state of mind, being sad or upset, frustrated, stressed out, delusional, you need to be ruthless and say, no, I'm not going to accept this. And you need to direct your mind to light and get out of that karmic state. And you got to do it again and again and again. You have to be ruthless. And most importantly, you have to be ruthless in meditation. Because because this meditation is what brings you to samadhi. And when you go into samadhi, then layers of self just melt away. Then you gotta get it to be a strong practice where you go into samadhi often. Then the self just, whoosh, whoosh, goes away. So, that's if you want enlightenment. If you don't want enlightenment, well then you can play in the kiddie pool, the kiddie pool of enlightenment. And that's where, you know, you're in the pool, you learned how to swim, you swim around, and then there's just a limited experience in the pool. But if you want enlightenment, it's like you jump into the ocean. You have the same swimming techniques, but you're given so much more. You've coral and happy little fish, manta rays and dolphins.

0:25:43
So, it's a different experience.

0:25:46
When you're in the kiddie pool, the conditions are easier, and so there's more room for mistakes. You're swimming, you get a little tired, so then you just stand up or you grab the edge of the pool and you can rest. And so you don't have to be perfect. There's a really high degree of dedication to perfection that you have to take your meditation very seriously and what occurs in your mind very seriously. And you have to be ruthless about going for beyond it and going for only enlightenment. And if you don't take it seriously, then you don't meditate well, you won't go into Samadhi, then you'll sit around being pissed off and you won't do anything about it. But you have the techniques, you know, you have good experiences in the kiddie pool. It's nice. I know lots of people who've gotten the techniques and have, they play in the kiddie pool. So they don't have to be enlightened, they don't want get stuck on some karmas. But if you really want it, you take very seriously these teachings. It's either you've got to be real or you're fake. And if you're real, then it's very powerful. But it's not like you just get the advanced teachings and then, poof, you're there. You have to do the work. It's funny. What are the teachings? Same as the beginning. But it's much more powerful. But you have to do it. You have to observe. When you fall into a state of karma and you're angry, sad, mad, thinking weird things, you have to say, I am stuck in karma. I'm not going to settle for this. I'm going to go beyond this. Focus on light. You have to take it very seriously. You can do it with meditation. But you've got to do it. Can we play a song. We're just going to listen to a song. And you don't have to do any meditation technique or anything, because all we're going to do is listen to a song. Yeah, so you don't have to do anything, and nothing will happen. How about Monument Valley?

0:29:44
Okay. So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. so You're my love How about arches? Thank you. the the so so So So So You The. Okay. So the best thing that I can do for you is show you the light that is within you. You have to go into that light.

0:40:31
The light is perfect, free, empty, eternal. This light is your true nature. All of your confusions, all of your suffering is not real. If you dwell in unreality, then you miss your eternal being.

0:41:49
So go to this light. Reside in this light. When you find your mind outside of this light,

0:42:08
direct your mind back to the light. Ruthlessly. Okay.

0:42:27
Thank you. Thank you. Okay, thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
