0:00:00
So welcome everyone, thank you for coming to the market. I'd like to talk about the topic of the hour, which is the topic of the hour, which is noon. Noon is a special time. There are certain times in the day where there's more power. And noon is a time of power. I mean, obviously, noon is a time where the sun is at its highest So the energy of the Sun is most prevalent, it's greatest. And noon is a time of action, energy, and seeing. So, at the height of the day, there's an energy to just do things

0:01:14
It's a you know

0:01:16
active side of infinity Time where we can do great things It's also the time where we see the most Everything is most visible at noon At noon there's no shadows, unless you're in what's under the tree. At noon is a special transit. When we hit the noon hour, there's an inner doorway that opens. And most people don't see it.

0:02:05
Most people don't get it.

0:02:06
And most people in the afternoon, their energy goes down. They get tired. So we learn to be aware of the shift of the noon hour so that we're able to be propelled, pushed forward in the energy so that we have more energy in the afternoon. This is a big thing. I remember when I used to work on Wall Street, after, so we would have the break for lunch at noon and everyone at the same time would go out, eat lunch, come back, and then everyone was like in a food coma for an hour or two. But then after that, their productivity in the afternoon just went down in general. So many, many, many people get tired in the afternoon. Their energy goes down in the afternoon. And it's because they don't understand the principle of opening yourself up to the noon transit. You have a regard for it. You look for it. You look for that opening. You look for a certain feeling. And it's a natural course of the day. It's In our crazy world, things are out of balance. And people miss what is obvious. People in the midst of their action, they miss what will help them, what will aid them. People in the darkness of Kali Yuga, this era that we're in, they miss the light of the noon, day, sun. So, we will come to a very precise awareness of this opening. We'll come to a very strong connection with what happens in this new hour. So we're going to just sit for a few minutes. Because it's noon, this is the hour, and we want to feel this time of the day. We want to feel the opening, the natural energy of the sun being at its highest point. The sun's energy. And the dimensions the doorways that open and that that energy that that it brings So we just want to have a regard for it an awareness of it So we'll just sit for a few minutes in silence If you need to focus on the chakra third eye is good. And let's just sit for just three minutes or so.

0:06:08
Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. You're welcome.

0:08:36
All right. Very nice. So there was a feeling there, an awareness there. Whether you felt it or were aware of it or not it was there and you did feel it and you were aware of it. You might have to work on it a little bit. But this is what you should do. You should have a recognition of the noon hour. When it's noon you should say, hmm this is a time of power. There's something open here. And this is a time where I can gain energy. I can move with the rhythms of the world, nature. And by having that intent, you come more and more into that rhythm, more and more into using those dimensions. So, it might be nice to, instead of, you know, breaking into that subway sandwich at noon on the dot, taking a little time. Say, oh, everyone's going to lunch. And even if you have a mandatory lunch break from this time to this time, taking some time to say, I know this is a special time, I want to gain energy from this. I want to go with this natural rhythm. And then you'll be connecting, connecting to the dimensions that are open. And then that energy comes into you. And then you have a more energetic and more successful afternoon. You don't have to take five hour energy. That doesn't give you five hour energy. That is just bad. That's just marketing. to the dimensions, to the energy of the sun, you're in the noon transit, and you'll have more than five hour energy. So, Bodewood's workdays, we usually start them at noon, for the reason that that's a powerful transit. So when we're here together at Bodhiwood's workdays, we're working on really working with that new transit. We're learning about it. We're experiencing it together. It's very unusual that we have a time in the sangha together at noon, right? I guess our satsangs are around the noon hour. It's powerful. And it's so special. The many times we meet at night. There's different powers at night. Different times, there's different powers. But the new power is just a very wonderful power. And when we're all together, so one here is a work day. It's noon. We're together. Which is a beautiful opportunity. And then the other thing is that we're working together. Which is a great, beautiful thing. This is where the Sangha becomes a big team. And we're all on the same team working for the same goal, which is, I don't know... Our goal? Digging in dirt.

0:13:28
Or whatever we have.

0:13:30
And it's just a very, very beautiful thing. Speaking of digging in dirt, when you have recognition and awareness and a connection to the time of power, or the transit of this door, then that is getting you set. So you can do this every day. Every day you can go, oh look it's noon, or it's 12, 15 or something, and you say, and you just take a moment, and you just feel, and it opens your mind, opens your awareness to these dimensions. And you say, okay. And just connecting to these dimensions, just connecting to this awareness, aligns you with this flow of natural energy. Where you won't get tired, you will be enriched and empowered. You'll be following the flow of nature, versus the flow of humans that goes through you. So we feel this time. Together we're working on that and working. Feeling the time, using the time, starting our work day. And doing a lot of work, because there's a lot of powerful getting drained from it, we get empowered by it. So if you go to a martial arts class and you have a killer workout, it's really exhausting. It might be exhausting for your body, but look, you went through it and you did it. And you are empowered by it. So even the most intense martial arts workout, because I've been through all of them, you come out of there physically really tired, but you did the work, and something in your spirit is empowered. You're like, wow, I'm very, very, very strong, very, very happy, even though I might be physically exhausted. And I pushed myself physically beyond what I would normally do. This is the power of the new transit. And we're here working together, doing beautiful things. you know, digging in dirt, which is always good. You know, digging is good, but you have to do it selflessly because if you're digging a hole for yourself, it might be a grave mistake. Why did the shovel not like digging up metal from the ground? Because of the iron. That's a bad one. That is a bad one. But I'll dig up some better ones. I wrote a Zen haiku today for you. It goes like this. she big hole we all did same hole Yeah, those Zen haikus, they could be pretty deep. Alright, those are my jokes for today. get back to Buddhism if we were ever away but Buddha taught about doing things he's like hey guys you gotta you gotta do the right things everybody's doing stuff everybody's acting doing stuff usually doing stuff from their desires and their fears, doing stuff for the self. But Buddha said, if you do the right things, then you gain merit and insight. Simile he said The head has laid several eggs If the head wants them to hatch The head has to do the right thing, which is sit on eggs If the head just wants The eggs They won't hatch. The hen has to take an action to sit on the eggs. So then the hen sits on the eggs and the eggs hatch. It's a simple thing, but it means that if you do the right than wisdom and insight and enlightenment patch But you have to you have to do the right things So Buddha also talked of a farmer if a farmer says I Want my crops? crops you know I want my I want my fruit I want my vegetables where is it I just want it shouldn't it just be here no I mean yeah doesn't come that way the farmer must plow the soil farmer must feed the soil. The farmer must water the soil. That's what the farmer does. And then the crops growing to fruitfulness, where you can harvest them, that happens as a matter of nature. So if the farmer does their job properly, and lets nature take its course, then it's

0:21:28
perfect.

0:21:29
And it's the same with the spiritual seeker. If you say, I want my enlightenment, shouldn't I just get it? Shouldn't it just be here? No, you've got to sit on your eggs. But for a spiritual practitioner, it is meditation. It is mindfulness. It's compassion. It's yoga. It's Bodhiwood's work day. It's following the teachings of the Dharma. And when you do those things, you just do them. You do them perfectly. And when you do it perfectly, then as a matter of nature, wisdom grows from it. Insight And like to make So this is our practice our practice is not to gain the result

0:22:33
Our practice is to be perfect at

0:22:36
Plowing Seeding and watering. If you are perfect at that, then perfect enlightenment is an outgrowth. But there's a very important teaching. My teacher said this all the time.

0:23:16
You can't fake it.

0:23:18
You have to do it. And to my students, this is no big teaching. Because I always teach authentic expression. You can't fake it. But more than you can't fake it, you can't just go along with what's going on. You have to take responsibility for your practice. You have to listen to the teachings, take the teachings, make these teachings a success in your life. You can't just go along with it. Like if I talk about things that are Dharma, you say, yeah, that sounds cool, then you don't do anything. part of your consciousness, if it doesn't become the way of your way, if the Dharma doesn't become the way of your way, then you're just kind of like hanging out and going along To be real in all ways, in your meditation, in your mindfulness, must be self-honesty. You have to be real, and real in your work. There's liberation. So, there was a Zen monk, a number of Zen monks, I think it was 8 or 10, joined the Zen monastery at the same time. did the classes and Zen monasteries they're very regimented we wake up at a certain time we do this we do that yeah they have a very they have a schedule and part of part of their practices The compatibility is to follow that schedule. Do this, do this, do this, do this. It's like 15 minutes here, half an hour there, 45 minutes here, 5 minutes here. Just following that and just keeping up. It's good. So, these monks joined, they were following the program then one day one of the monks had Satori and the master said you have Satori very good and then one of the other monks who joined at the same time said hey wait a minute why didn't I have it I did everything that he did ever since he got here. No, we sat here, we walked there, we read this, we did that. Why does he have the toy? Why don't I have the toy? And the master said you did no work and then he walked away At this point the monk thought about it And then he he realized that he wasn't taking responsibility So he he then was like, Okay, I've been going with the flow, not really pushing it. What Buddhist monks do, they go with the flow. They get the sutra shoved in their face, everyone's reading it, they read it.

0:28:08
We gotta wake up at this certain time, we gotta do this, we gotta do that.

0:28:12
It becomes a big ritual, a big routine. And in a ritual and a routine, there's things to develop. But enlightenment is outside of that. The way to enlightenment can be found in that structure, but it has to be found So this month

0:28:46
Decided

0:28:48
okay, I want to be for real and then he Focused and he meditated and every single thing that he did he did with this whole heart And then shortly after that then he had Satori spiritual realization. But that's what you gotta do. You can't just, you can't fake it. A lot of Buddhist monks try to fake it. They wear their little Buddhist robes. They fake it. Lots of them. It's true. And the other ones go along with the flow. There's a huge flow of Buddhism that is not what Buddha really taught. In fact, I mean like most of it, is really far off from what Buddha taught. Because they could memorize these teachings that Buddha said this, Buddha said that. And during that time people became people became Arhats, enlightened.

0:30:34
And yet,

0:30:36
2500 years later Well, we know what exactly what he said, but no one's becoming enlightened. So that means that you don't know what he said. Just because you wrote it down, just because someone memorized it, that just brings it into thinking and totally pulls it out of the spirit. He was a fully awakened being to the people at the time. The right words at the right time mean everything. Buddhists write in stone the teachings of the Buddha. And stones are very heavy. And if you attach yourself to them and throw it into an ocean, But Buddhism is perfect. If you can get to the heart of it. Past what people do, what people say. past ideas, past concepts, to the shocking reality of the teachings. When Buddha taught, he was talking to people who were there at the moment, at the time, waking them up. things in a book, in a teaching, even in a lineage that's been devoid of enlightenment for a long time, you miss it. I use Buddhist teachings as a reference because there's power in it. But totally out of context, from any other Buddhist. I'm like, if you go and get some Buddhist monk, they'll be like, Wow, yeah, you're very Americanized in it. And I'm like, yeah, okay, I am. But I'm using the archetypes of attention, teaching, awareness that Buddha taught. truth of reality and they use them in a living way so instead of writing them on stone tablets I write them on bubble gum. I don't know, bubble gum doesn't float, it goes away. And that's the way the dharma is. The moment that something written on a bubble becomes written in stone is where we lose it. All enlightened teachings are written on a bubble. And for me, it's bubble gum. So you can't fake it. You have to take responsibility. And this means in our work too. We are here doing labor, digging in dirt, cement, cleaning up, doing landscaping, all these things. Carpentry. And then in this practice at Bodhi Woods, we have a practice of doing these things with the goodness of our heart. Why did you show up here? Because of the goodness of your heart. And then when we have to do hard labor, because of the goodness of our heart. And we do it the best we can. We try our hardest. And we're working with the Sangha. We're working together as a team. And it's such a beautiful thing. We're here together, working as a team. And in a physical way Because the physical ways gives you a way of seeing So when we're like working in our little

0:36:09
companies

0:36:10
It's all information and trying to do some business and that's a really powerful dimension and yes We have to succeed in that but when we can come together and work in a physical way, or we're like digging in dirt, picking up trash, I don't know what we're doing, but all the things that we do here, working physically together, it brings a greater awareness to us that we are doing something together, that we are building together, that we are a sangha, helping a sangha, and every member of the Sangha, and that we're all building this together is a very powerful thing. You know, Milarepa, the great yogi of Tibet, his path was similar to the Bodhiwood's path. I mean, literally, the path, the complete path that... But he had to go to Martha and do physical things. Because doing physical things makes it very, very obvious to you that you're doing something. The higher yogas are just very meditative. They're just seeing the truth, understanding reality, but when you have to build something, this is where it gets down to where we're at. Where we're at is reality. And when you build something, it just shows you, hey, I did something for my sangha. We built this little pathway. We did some landscaping. We did some carpentry. All these things, they're just physical. And when it's physical, you see it very clearly. And that gives you another dimension of recognition, of awareness, of a good thing. So Buddha said, you got to do the right things so that your eggs hatch. But the chicken who's off the egg might say, I have an idea that's right. If I go surfing right now, the chicken goes surfing, says, yeah, that might be the right thing. But there's a powerful dharma to hatch those eggs. We all have those eggs in us. And if we do the right thing, then those eggs hatch. If we go chicken surfing, then the eggs don't hatch. But there's no waves in voting booths. So when you're here, everything that we do is a practice of Dharma.

0:39:32
It's so fantastic. All right, I think we're going to do our meditation together.

0:39:40
So we're going to sit for six songs. And we're just going to take a moment to have our recognition of the hour that we're still in. And it's time where we meditate to understand energy. So, we're going to sit for just three songs. So, one song on the navel, one song on the heart, one song in the third eye. And in this meditation, I want you to feel the openness to the time. Just openness.

0:41:08
and I'm on the last song of the third eye

0:41:12
When you focus on the third eye, but I want you to have open eye meditation Looking up here to be some of on the third eye. I'm going to open the dimensions I'm going to do the transmission over all together in in this transit. Because in this teaching, I'm teaching you this transit, so that you can forever use it in the future. Alright, Japa?

0:41:43
Where's Japa?

0:41:44
Japa, are you ready? Can we do three songs? The three of the six. I'm going to be a good boy. so so

0:42:12
the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so so so the so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, you So, the the so so so so so so the So, the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, So you Wonderful. Very beautiful. is The pathway to enlightenment is good in the beginning It's good in the middle and it's good at the end So wherever you are on the path Enjoy Enjoy it. There is struggles at every end. Buddha, even after having enlightenment, had lots of dramas. People, places, things, different religions. So, there's struggle everywhere. So when we're struggling and digging, the beginning is no different than the end. It's good in all ways. So, enjoy. So, enjoy. And thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
