0:00:00
Hello. All right. So we're going to begin with meditation. So we're going to sit together doing the practice. So we're going to be using Shakti so that we can all stay on the same page in the right dimensions. experience because when I do this, I go into Samadhi very quickly. And so you're going to feel time and time again. And then I'm going to pull myself back. I'll be like, oh, bummer. I'm going to pull myself back so that during this process you're going to feel the power of it and you're going to feel the opening to Samadhi. All right, so sit up nice and straight. This will be a closed eye meditation in silence. And let's begin. Okay. So there, I just told you how to go into Samadhi. So if you have to believe is a beginner's subject, but it's also the first lesson of the advanced teachings. You have to believe, then you won't be enlightened. But if you have to believe in your enlightenment, then you will be enlightened. more information and I'll answer questions. So let's talk about the Kala Chakra. The Kala is infinite dimensions of enlightenment that are constructed and formed, and that the advanced teaching is a way to bring you from the physical world into those infinite dimensions of enlightenment. The Kala Chakra is an ancient, ancient, ancient thing. It's been around for many lokas, I guess almost infinitely. But it has constructs from highly enlightened beings. So, in direct experience of the Kala Chakra, you have to go beyond karma. And our practice of meditation gets you to touch the Kala Chakra. But to be absorbed, you've got to let go of karma. And then you are, you know, in that place, in the Kala, in these endless dimensions of perfection, of enlightened perfection. Now, when we're meditating on the chakras, we see, you know, blue, we see green, and we see white. This blue and this green, they are not astral blues, they're not astral greens. Over some practice, you'll start to become more aware when you are focusing on those. They are constructs of light constructed in such a way where your way to access them is by focusing on blue and green and white. So they're not just simple dimensions. They're not just astral dimensions. They're profound. These colors are something so beyond what we have ever worked on before. They are extremely powerful ways of accessing the Kali Chakra. So, just having that light in your awareness, in that focus, is infinitely more powerful than any meditation practice that you had before. Yeah, so that light is profound. So when you're meditating on those chakras and those colors you're touching the Kala Chakra with your mind. And that is a place beyond any teaching before and beyond any singular dimension. The Kala Chakra is elevated. And in order to get there, you've got to get beyond your karma. What my teacher was able to do was wherever we were at, he was able to just lift us out of our karma so that we could reach it. But you, through your karma yoga, you've gotten high enough to be able to reach it. But this is the point where you go beyond karma. You come to a place where you have a recognition that karma doesn't really exist the way you thought it did. But then, in the Kala Chakra, it's not so much a law, more of like guidelines. It's like, maybe, if you fall, you're going to hurt yourself. But maybe not. Maybe you'll fall and then start floating. So, the Kala Chakra is a place beyond karma. So as you meditate, focusing on these extremely powerful dimensions, as you feel those dimensions, as you explore those dimensions, as you lose yourself in those dimensions, you come to a recognition. that the karmas and even samskaras are not real. You can negate them, you can change them, you can go around them, you can flow around them like water. So, this is what we do in the advanced practice. So when you have, you know, all of your doubts, karmas, limitations, personal history, that all is completely... we discard it. And we throw ourselves into the Kala Chakra. And the way we throw ourselves is, we have to believe in our enlightenment, and we meditate. Like, this is where you have to perfect meditation. But there's tremendous support just focusing on these colors. These are dimensions of enlightenment. All other transmissions that I've given have been empowerments of the navel chakra or transmissions of the heart chakra or some exercises of the third eye but never a transmission of the third eye and the Kala chakra is above all of that So this is a tremendously high teaching, high spiritual empowerment. All the other things have been empowerments of the navel. This is the only empowerment that you need to attain liberation. If you believe that you can be enlightened, that means that you have to believe that you can be enlightened. And you don't stop at anything, and you just do this practice, then you become absorbed in the Kala Chakra. There's many structures, many ways, many dimensions. Very, very powerful, very beautiful pathway to enlightenment. And in those unfolding dimensions, you gain insight, wisdom, powers, awarenesses. Some of them just come, some of them I will teach you. So, it's kind of this amazing thing, like, when you into Samadhi and you're in the Kala Chakra, things are good. And life is like a roller coaster, a really scary one, a really fast one. So, yeah. The Kala Chakra is real. This meditation practice is real. It really brings you into Samadhi. It really brings you to liberation. It's powerful. So, have no doubt. Have to believe in your enlightenment. I mean, enlightenment is your true nature. Enlightenment's already within you. And to not believe that is to, you know, not believe the truth. And if you don't believe the truth, if you're not operating on an agreement with truth, then you're going to be confused. So, you have to believe in your enlightenment. There's so much power in having to believe in your enlightenment. But if you're wishy-washy on it, and you're all, uh, I kind of think so, maybe. Well, then I would say, well, keep meditating. Keep and then you'll have to believe. But Rama said, let's do the hardest part right now. He said, you have to believe in your enlightenment. And so I was like, okay. But then, after the empowerment, after that teaching, he went with his admin to the Malkisco Diner and I was on the security team, so I was on the detail, and he was sitting there with her, Kwan Yin, and we were sitting at different tables around them, and then Kuan Yin is like, Hey Rama, she's like, Are you serious that people can become enlightened? And then he said, Yes, definitely, and people will be enlightened from this one teaching. And then she was like, Oh, okay. So I was of course listening in. And then when she like leans in confidence, when he answered that question, then I was like, okay, I have no doubt. So I'm like, I definitely have to believe in my enlightenment. So that was, I guess, I don't know, maybe I believed when he said believe, but I definitely believed in that moment. I believed more. I had to believe more. And then my meditations got very good very quickly.

0:16:45
Yeah.

0:16:48
Yeah, so the Kalachakra empowerment is something that connects you to that vast, you know, plane of enlightened dimensions. And but you're at this point where you're at the top of your game with Karma Yoga, and you have to be able to reach beyond karma. So, Karma Yoga, you know, it's good, but it's got karma in the name. So, Karma Yoga's good at bringing you up, but at some point, you have to transcend that yoga. You have to transcend karma altogether. And whether you have good karma, if you've got the best karma, to be enlightened you have to transcend that karma. And this is the way that we do it. From the level that you are from your karma yoga, you're able to access the Kala Chakra. And it is through that access that you're able to transcend the self, see that nothing can stop you, that there is no personal history, that there is no samskara, no karma, that all of those things you can just flow around. And then once you see that, then there is no stopping you. Once you see that, attainment is definite. And it's fun. But you see that from going into Samadhi a number of times. Now, right now in practice, you're, oh boy, yeah, you're like blasting off through

0:18:40
very, very

0:18:42
deep samskaras. And the way that it works in this practice is that it's kind of like shooting a rocket ship out of orbit. It's like you're going through this kind of intense thing where there's still a pull and you have to have lots of thrust. And while you're thrusting, it's like you're like going back in your chair. And it's like intense. And if you were practicing, you know, Lesson 1, Lesson 2, and Lesson 3, then what happens is it feels like a great intensity. It becomes like, this is so intense. after a while it brings you into Samadhi and then... But if you're not practicing rule number one and number two, then what happens is when that intensity comes, you don't believe you can be enlightened or you're going to stop and grab onto something else, and you're going to roll into that karma at a great intensity because of this practice. And that happens. It happened to me. So, if you don't practice perfectly and you roll into a karma, then you will go through that cycle of karma, but hopefully very quickly, because you'll keep practicing. But it could be a very painful experience. And then you'll learn, oh, I need to believe in my enlightenment and don't stop at anything and do this really perfectly. And then you'll burn past that karma. You'll go into the dimensions of enlightenment of the Kala Chakra. And then, after doing that a certain number of times, then you gain this enlightened wisdom. And then you'll come back and you'll look at something that's caused you the greatest suffering, the greatest samskara for many incarnations, and you'll just be like, Oh, I recognize this and I won't do this again. And you can pull it out by the roots, and then that karma and samskara is gone. This is the enlightenment cycle, going into samadhi, and going into these dimensions and gaining powers and wisdom. Yeah, but if you're experiencing karmas, it's because you're not doing rule one and two, and you're spinning out into karma. And you've got to get back to rule number one, you have to believe in your enlightenment and do this practice. So I give beginning and intermediate and advanced teachings in every teaching. So, when I'm talking to the beginners, I'm talking to them in certain dimensions that they're ready for, that's helpful for them. And then when I'm talking to the intermediates, I'm talking to them in dimensions that they're ready for. And when I'm talking to advanced, I'm talking about enlightenment, about the truth, the advanced study. So it doesn't matter if we have beginners in the room. Just a story. So the enlightened student, their enlightenment. Yeah, one thing. mean that, you know, you're going to get off scotch-free. It depends. I mean, like, Yeah. Some of you are like, OK, I got the advanced teachings, so forget everything, you know. Forget everything else. Forget yoga, forget whatever, you know. And like, forget the sangha, I'm out of here. Some of you have told me that. And I'm like, OK, whatever. your enlightenment is up to you. But like, really, you know, are you beyond karma? Are you going into samadhi continuously? Because with your complaints, it sounds like you're stopping at rule number one, that you are not having to believe in your enlightenment. You're having to believe in your reaction. That's what you're attached to. You know, Rama did yoga. Rama stayed in a sangha, his sangha. He didn't go, he didn't abandon these structures. And he was mega enlightened. So if you're like, oh yeah, screw yoga and you know, screw the Sangha, you are reacting. You're not believing in enlightenment, you're believing in your reaction. And if you are at a place beyond karma, then show me your samadhi every day. And then at that point, and you see, and you're beyond karma, then, okay. Then do as you wish. At this point, you can do as you wish. Your enlightenment is up to you. But I will point out where your ego is. Yeah. So the enlightened teacher will still kind of give you a hard time, if there's a hard time to give you. If you're beyond hard times, then that's good. Yeah. But it's funny. You know, I remember when I got the advanced teachings, I was like, I'm going to go buy an island in the Caribbean and live off the grid. I was serious about that. That's what I really wanted to do. But then after I went into Salva Copa Samadhi the first time, I knew that I was going to teach. And I was like, okay, changed my mind. But I want, you know, it's like, it's kind of natural when you first get it. You're like, yes, I'm out of here. I don't have to do all, I don't have to hang out with these monkeys anymore. Yeah. But, you know, karma yoga is what gets you to that high level where you can access the Kala Chakra. So if your karma yoga goes down, you might not be at that high level. So you have to be able to get from that high level of karma beyond karma. And then when you're consistently going into samadhi, then maybe you don't need karma yoga. But it has to be real. You have to be going into samadhi and have insight and see that you're beyond karma. And then you still might choose to do Karma Yoga because there's power in it. And then if you're all like, screw my Sangha, it's like, hmm. It's like, oh, so the third jewel, something that's been a great aid to you, now you're saying, screw that. I got the advanced teachings so I can go beyond it. I don't have to be with those monkeys. And yeah, show me your Samadhi. Be real. Otherwise, you're probably just not believing in your enlightenment, believing in self-reaction. So, this is where you have to practice. So stopping the basic teachings of mindfulness, of compassion, of Sangha, of yoga, might not be the smartest thing to do, until you become very strongly and you have your own wisdom and seeing. But even for the enlightened student, I was giving them a hard time up until the end. And they were going into Samadhi all every day, sometimes for hours and hours. And they had insight and wisdom. But I am enlightened already, and I can see where the last stitches of self remain. So it was one beautiful Thursday afternoon, and I was meeting with the student, and then I was all like, hmm, I'm all like, meh. And I was all like, how about this? How about this? Meh, meh, meh. I was like, oh, that hurt. Does that hurt? I was like, that's the last thing. And then they, so even while I'm yelling at them, then they let go of the self completely, went into Nirvikalpa Samadhi. And then everything became gold light to the point where I couldn't see anything else but gold light. And then, after being in Nirvikalpa, then the student came back and then became the Kalachakra in its completeness. And it was spectacular. It was so amazing. That was a manifestation of the Kalachakra I had never seen before. I was like, wow! So, that was truly amazing. But I was just sitting there going, well, there's some self, there's a self, self, self. Even though you blast off into Salva Copa Samadhi for four or eight hours a day. You know, it's like, but there's a self. Until, whoosh, no self. Yeah, so, I don't know, I might give you a hard time. I definitely won't take any bullshit. I won't fool ya. I won't tell you, yeah, you're fine. I mean, you can go away and work your enlightenment out and see if it happens. But I will keep you honest about having to believe, and about not stopping, and about doing the practice right. That's all. That's pretty simple. So, have to believe. And check yourself. It's like you have to say, well, I'm doing this and you say, why am I doing this? Am I doing this for self or am I doing this because I have to believe in my enlightenment? You have to start to find places where you're falling back into I have to believe in my self reactions and you have to re-examine that and say, no, you know what? I really don't believe in this. If I advise my death and I see my opportunity, I don't believe in this anger and this trouble and this enmity and this negativity. I don't believe in it. I believe in, I believe, I have to believe in my enlightenment. All right, so that's what I wanted to share with you today. And I can answer questions if you have any questions.

0:33:26
Yeah. Oh, I see a hand.

0:33:33
So, would you tell us...

0:33:35
Yeah, different dimensions.

0:33:37
Drop that one, do this thing.

0:33:40
Yeah.

0:33:41
Yes?

0:33:42
Do we know when the empowerments are happening? How can we make sure we don't miss them? Yeah, it's going to be... I don't know. I'm playing. Are you worried about traveling for work during the work day? No, not during the work day. It will definitely be on the weekend. So, yeah, so I'm going to put out a schedule where it's going to be Bodie Woods work day. So, Satsang, Bodie Woods work day, and then advanced teaching, Bodie Woods work day, Satsang. It's going to roll like that, so you can make sure you're there on those Saturdays. And sometimes they might just be informational, where we talk about things like this. And sometimes I'll be like, again, there's this other thing. No, even if you're doing one and two you have to really push you have to do this meditation

0:34:53
really perfectly.

0:34:56
Yeah, it can be. Yeah, it's not easy. And also, when you're interfacing with these dimensions, it's intense for the subtle physical body. You guys have never dealt with this level of intensity. And guess what? It gets way more intense. You know Sunanda, right? He was all like, I'm just doing the thing, then he's all, and then it's like you shove a fire hose up your ass and then turn it on full. And I'm like, that's a good way of describing it. You are, yeah, yeah, you're transforming your subtle physical body. When you're interfacing with these dimensions, these dimensions are so intense. They're so big. It's not just a, you know, blue astral dimension. It is so big, so intense, so much in there. So, you're, you're trans, by doing this, you're opening up the meridians, the Shashumna, the Ida and the Bengala in ways where way more power goes through, way more energy goes through. Yeah, so having a super strong intensity happens, having some physical pain happens, having like energetic pain and intensity and dizziness and everything, it happens. But you just have to say, all right, I sit up straight. I love it. For me, For some people, it starts to roll into a karma. So it could be like, I don't know, it could be like a little pain or sadness or things like that. It could have a whole bunch of things that happen, but if you sit up straight and just do this practice, all those things will work themselves out. You just will power, refresh yourself. Yes. Yeah, you have to develop a strong willpower and concentration to do this practice perfectly. It's a very simple practice, you know, but just get good at it. This is the thing to Yeah. Yeah. But that's why we have all of our, you know, beginner and intermediate teachings. Because... Like... Yeah, the enlightened student had the same experiences as me.

0:37:59
You go and you blast off into Samadhi so crazily, and then you're like,

0:38:04
I've got to go to work.

0:38:07
And you're like, wow. But we have such strong focuses in our school of first attention. I would say exercise more, do martial arts. That kind of thing balances that intensity. You know, having that total first attention where you can dive to 200 feet, totally dissolve in Samadhi, and yet know your computer and ascend safely, that's the kind of thing that we do here. That's what we do in meditation. So, if you're coming out of your meditations and you're like, spacey, you have to be first attention. And it's not easy. You have to be like, alright, I'm back. Until you master your second attention. Which is really funny too. This still happens to me. I'm like driving somewhere, and I'm like, Hey, everything's gone. All I'm perceiving is gold light. And then I'm like, and ten minutes later, I'm like, still driving. And I'm just like...

0:39:55
It's really funny, but

0:39:57
it also trips me out. Anyone else want to try? That's what Kamala was saying. After Mandala became enlightened, I think Mandala didn't say anything to people. She just kept on asking Kamala if she wanted to go somewhere and said, hey, can you drive? Oh, the question. The question is, when she's doing the practice, it's kind of like all three chakras become one. So, whatever experiences you have, come back to the basic practice. So if everything's becoming one, you have a recognition of that, and then you're gone, then don't worry about it. But if you're sitting there going, oh, all three chakras are happening at the same time, say, OK, wait, wait, wait. Let me just get back to the simple practice. And then it works itself out. You'll have all sorts of experiences. And you'll experience them, and that's cool. But when it comes down to it, always come back to the basic practice. It won't, yeah. You'll have all sorts of experiences and then that's fine, but then when you are aware, go, oh, back to the basic practice. Eventually the basic practice, you'll go so thought into Samadhi that you can't stop it. So that's the level of concentration and focus that you need to be at. There's no way to stop it when you do this right. You sit up straight, you focus on the chakra, you see the light, you see the character. Light the character, light the character, mantra. It's actually a simple practice. You just have to keep doing it. If you're uncertain of like, am I doing the right color or something like that, don't

0:42:26
worry, just keep doing it.

0:42:26
And then the right color, from the empowerment, you're connected to it. You can't be disconnected, you can't get it wrong, unless you really screw up. Just kidding. Yeah, really, you can't get it wrong. So it's kind of like when you tell a beginner, like, focus on your heart, and they're like, what, where's the heart?

0:42:43
And then after some practice, and they're like,

0:42:44
wow, I feel all this energy here, and I feel peace and balance. They start to figure it out. Yeah, so this is very important. From the empowerment, you are connected with these dimensions. Yeah, so you can...you are connected with it. So you just have to focus on that connection. And then the colors and everything is how you focus your mind to that connection. And the connection is powerful and it's real and it cannot be undone. And so you just have to, you know, try to... You have to get back to, like, OK, I'm connected, and how do I... So you have to work through it, through meditation and focus and everything, but it is definitely something that you've got. So I wouldn't worry about, oh, is my green too dark?

0:43:38
Don't worry about that.

0:43:39
Like, try to have the intent to have the right color, green and blue, and then that's the proper thing to do. Is this the color of the location of the chakra

0:43:49
or is it kind of a specific location? Good question. So, you bring your focus to the chakra, and you see the color and the thing, and then

0:43:56
you say the word. So, people experience it differently. Some people experience that the light is in the chakra. Light in the chakra, light in the chakra, light in the chakra. And I think that's probably how I first experienced it. But then I kept doing it, and then when I would focus on it, then I was in an infinite dimension of blue, then an infinite dimension of green, and an infinite dimension of white. So I would say yes. So, yeah. So, but I think the starting point is like kind of focus on the chakra and you kind of see it in the chakra, but You'll see it in lots of different ways and and you always just come back to that intent the chakra the mantra The light a little in a little character Yes

0:45:09
or slower, or is it all the same?

0:45:11
It's okay.

0:45:13
But I find that the speed is important. It's important for you to be able to have that level of concentration, and it moves the Kundalini much faster. So I did this myself, too. I'm all like, let me go slower so I can really get the color and try to see the thing. I'll spend like five minutes going, huh? But I found what really worked was even if I just had the intent to do all the things, the intent, the intent, the intent, the intent, the intent, the intent, the intent. I said the mantra, I had the intent to see the color and the thing, and I'm like, oh, okay. And doing it faster moves the kundalini more, and then the visualizations, you get better at them. So I think that trying to maintain that speed is the fastest way. But, you know, you guys can see how it goes for you. Yes? Yeah. Yeah, so everybody's enlightenment cycle is different. And there's a lot of intense dimensions in our study. But for me, it just seemed like intensity. It was just like, this is intense. So I think there is intensity, but if it comes as blissful peace, then you're a step ahead.

0:47:25
It's really good.

0:47:26
Yes?

0:47:27
or is it just one word?

0:47:29
Or does it matter?

0:47:30
See how it works for you.

0:47:33
Yeah.

0:47:34
So the teaching is just this chakra, this chakra, this chakra.

0:47:38
And then I remember I used to pause and reset a little bit and this chakra, this chakra, this chakra. But then once I get rolling, then I don't pause. So, you know, this is a little bit of an exploratory experience. Yeah, so everyone's enlightenment cycle is different. And Rama said not to talk about your experiences. So when you're going through your enlightenment cycle, it kind of like disperses the specialness of it or something, the power of it, if you're sharing it with people. So have your experiences and let them be. And then don't get confused by somebody else's experiences. Someone might go into Saval Kopa Samadhi and say,

0:48:55
I know everything.

0:48:56
And you're like, oh, just from that? And then if you hear them, I went into Samadhi and I know everything, you might start believing that's everything. So, you know, we don't want to go into those experiences. We don't want to share them. We don't want to hear them. You want to hear me. Believe me. Yes?

0:49:26
Yes.

0:49:27
Just to be clear about the military experiences with the meditation technique and like, part

0:49:33
of his experiences were like, he had a bright experience teaching and helping other teachers

0:49:40
versus the whole life. Yeah, you can share information about teaching, martial arts.

0:49:51
So don't don't share experiences about this meditation technique and your enlightened awareness is through it Yes Then that's good. Yeah, but at the same time still no

0:50:08
I'm all that's good. That's good. If you have like perfect discrimination, so I would say wait on that Yeah, cuz this was this was Rama's teaching

0:50:16
Okay Okay Okay. Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
