0:00:00
Welcome back.

0:00:05
So we have something very special as a structure in our sangha. And this is what is known as the teacher-master relationship. We would say that the master is the enlightened one, that's the guru, the one who has gone beyond himself and has the primary enlightened teaching for all students. something called the teacher. And the teacher is someone who's proficient or adept or expert in working with the Master. And they have a connection with, to carry, the enlightened teaching of the Master. object-oriented programming. The master class is enlightenment. Then the teacher extends the master and has additional properties. So this is a structure that we use. It's a very powerful structure. So this means that if you're a teacher in this Sangha, that you also are a doorway to enlightenment, even though you might not be enlightened. So this is what my teacher used to always say. There's only two good teachers, types of teachers. Enlightened teachers are students of enlightened teachers Because they extend that enlightenment So

0:02:08
Let me give you an example

0:02:10
There was a time a long time ago in Japan. Oh, sorry China. There was a Taoist master Who taught in a cave he was the hermit, but he was enlightened. And he had four students who came and learned from him for ten years. And after ten years, they learned so many beautiful things. He had a very special teaching called the Light of the Heart. So they trained with him, they learned from him, and then they got the, they looked at him and saw that he had the light of the heart. And then after training with him for a number of years, they got the light of the heart. Then he said, you go north, you go west, you go east, you go south. Go to the four corners of the country and teach. So they did. They left their master, they went to the different places where he said to go, and one of them opened a giant Taoist ashram, the one in the east. The one in the north would teach big assemblies in the same town or city. He would get large, thousands of people come to see him. And the one in the south would travel all around the south teaching everywhere. Smaller groups of people, but throughout the whole country. So they all had different ways of teaching, but the one thing that they had in common was that they taught the light of the heart. And then in every different way that they taught, their students eventually learned the light of the heart, and then they would have the light of the heart too. So if these Taoist teachers didn't have the enlightened master it wouldn't have the light of the heart and They were able to Because of having the enlightened master who gave them the light of the heart and told them to teach it They were able to bring that enlightenment That they experienced To others to give to them. That's how it works. And that's a very profound spiritual structure. And we find that in Buddhism, we find that in Taoism, we find it in several isms. It's way that things can work. And it's very, very, very powerful and magical. So, your meditation teachers, your yoga leaders, your martial arts teachers, your scuba teachers, all of the people in the Sangha who are in roles of teaching, they have a connection where enlightenment comes through them. So like, you know, like Chittananda, you know, goes to China, starts teaching, then what's going to come through him is the light of enlightenment because he has that connection with me. And then once he's enlightened, then he'll have his own enlightenment to extend to others. Or if Arunachala goes to Germany and she teaches, she'll be able to extend the light the light will come through her just as it comes to me So when you when you are in a teaching capacity It's a really beautiful thing because within you the light comes Through enlightenment comes through you you're the doorway to enlightenment for the students that you meet. This is a structure in our school So it's a very beautiful thing. So the new intermediate students, they learned, they got the teaching empowerment, which creates this connection. So the new intermediate students have this ability to teach. And when they teach, then enlightenment comes through. Then to the student sitting with them, they'll see light, like when you're sitting with me. So it's a very beautiful and powerful thing. The teacher-master relationship. It's cool. And also, I could also play the teacher. Sometimes I teach. I could be a teacher and a master, the first attention and the second attention. So for example, Shannon is a great enlightened master, and he's stopped teaching for now. So some of his students are coming to Satsang with me. So to them I'm a teacher, so I'm teaching things. First attention and second attention. But their master, what they're really connecting with, their heart master, is Shannon. So this is the way that it is. And this is the recognition of the fruition of the guru, is to recognize that you have a heart connection. You might see a lot of other enlightened teachers, but you have a heart connection with your teacher, your ultimate spiritual teacher. And that heart connection is something that is strengthened with everything that you learn about the Dharma. So I'm teaching all sorts of things about the Dharma. I'm teaching the first attention, the second attention, in very powerful ways, living teachings, very beautiful. And for Shannon's students, this gives them teachings. I'm a teacher, first attention, and I show things in the second attention. But what it does for them is it strengthens their connection connection with Shannon, because Shannon is there. This is the fruition of Shannon's teaching as a guru, that there's profound inner teachings that transcend time and space. It's amazing. But this is the way it is in any art. Like I remember when I moved to New York, my teacher had us going into the Bronx to learn karate. So we went to learn karate in the Bronx. We're going through this really bad neighborhood and then get to the dojo and then there's all these tough guys there because they're from the There's a picture of the karate teacher, or the founder of SKA, Shodokan Karate of America, Oshima. So, Oshima was a direct student of Funakoshi. Funakoshi was the founder, the creator, of Shodokan Karate, the style of karate. And Oshima studied with him and he learned the way and he became a master of the way. And then Funakoshi died and then he taught all across Japan for a while. Then he came to America and then he founded this American karate in Los Angeles and he taught there. And then he taught the way, he got black belts, right? And the black belts were able to then go all across America. I got to move to Nebraska for some reason, you know? And then they go, I'm going to open a dojo. And they were able to teach the way that they learned from Funakoshi. So there's a spirit, or they learn from Oshima, there's a spirit to the art. And then the Black Belt is able to teach in the Bronx this perfect spirit of karate, Japanese etiquette, karate, attention, power, Taito-shiki spirit. And they're able to bring it to Omaha, Nebraska, or the South Bronx in New York, and it has the same spirit, same technique, same power, same spirit. So this is what happens in inner This recognition of enlightenment in the teacher and also the teacher and master, first attention, second attention, extending enlightenment, this network, is the fruition of my teaching. the first awareness of the turning point. So the second awareness of the turning point is called unfixed mind. This means an unbiased mind where you're not holding on to ideas, where you're not attached to a certain view, you're not looking at something as, this is good, that is bad, I want this, I don't want that. No limited view. And it's very important not to be negative. When you're coming to something new, you have to just have an open mind. Don't get all bothered by something. Like I say something you don't like and then you go, I don't like it. Just be open minded. You don't have to accept everything. You don't have to say, oh, I'm going to do that. Just say, hmm, maybe there's some space for that. Maybe I don't understand it. But don't say, I don't like it and I'm going to Because then that limits you. So there was a time where I had a student, and he was all into healing, and he wanted to go to spiritual university and waste some time. And I was like, that's that song, I was like, learn technology! And he was like, eww, I don't I'm going to do healing spiritual stuff." And then he got grumpy one day. So he went up to Mount Tamil Pais, which is this beautiful place where we go to meditate often. He went up there with his meditation teacher and he just was grumpy. He's like, I don't know if this is right for me, this school." And he did his assignments in the Enlightenment workbook that week. I didn't learn anything, this is garbage. And he sat there on Mount Tammabias, which is this beautiful mountain overlooking the ocean, and he sat there and said, have an open mind. And they meditated, and the light came through her. And then he's like, OK, I'll be open-minded.

0:15:02
And then he's like, yeah, actually, maybe

0:15:05
I'll give it a try. And then once he was open-minded, maybe I'll give it a try. Then all of a sudden, he's like, wow, it's beautiful here. Look at this, the ocean, the sunset. And then he thought, wow, I learned something in the Enlightenment workbook this week. And he thought, you know, actually, I'm kind of interested in learning technology. And that was a turning point, because he had an appointment. Now he's an amazing computer programmer and has a very, very successful career. And he loves his work. He's a yogi. But he became a yogi because he had an open mind. You've got to have an open mind. An unfixed mind is a mind that doesn't have expectations. We're like, well, you know, I'm coming to this and I expect it to be a certain way. I come to the spiritual school, I expect certain things. The guru has to talk a certain way. You know, the guru has to say things I like. The guru can't say things I don't like. The school, people have to act like this. You have expectations, right? So expectations got to go out the window, because that's a fixed mind. It must be this way. Here's the perfect world. And if it's not perfect, I don't want anything. I can't stand it. So I had a student, and she got a job working at Google as a programmer. And when she got there, they didn't have a place for her to work, really. So they stuffed her in this large cubicle with eight other people, like people right next to her, and she didn't have her own workspace. So she got really frustrated, because people made noise, they were just all around her, she couldn't concentrate, she got really upset. And she went over and she yelled at her manager. She's like, you!

0:17:33
Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.

0:17:35
Yelled at her manager and then she quit. She said, I'm out of here, and left. And then she came and talked to me to complain about it. And I said, why do you expect to have a corner office or a window seat or something like that? I'm like, whatever you're given, don't have expectations, just make the best of it. You can do wonderful things and make anything work really well if you get rid of your likes and dislikes, if you don't expect it to be a certain way. Just take it as it is and succeed. So the next day she called her manager and said, sorry. He said, could I come back? And he said, yes. So she goes back and goes into the cubicle, her special little space, and then she puts up these pictures of Caribbean islands and tropical reefs with fish. So in her area, she's got all these beautiful pictures. And then she brings flowers, fresh flowers, and she just makes her space a nice space. And then she puts on noise-canceling headphones, and then she works. And the whole time that she was there, it was like a six or eight-month contract, she never got her own space. She never got her own desk or cubicle or office or anything. She had this bad situation, you would call it, but she made it a happy, beautiful situation. Then it was wonderful. So, don't have expectations. It doesn't have to be a certain way, and you can make any difficult experience into a beautiful, bright, wonderful experience, a successful experience. Yeah, so this is the right way. Now, some of you get really frustrated when an advanced student says something that you don't like or an advanced student teaches something a little different than what you've heard before, or they talk about subjects that you're not familiar with, that are confusing to you, that bother you. So I noticed last week when Domajit and Lila were talking, a lot of you got very upset. I don't like what they're saying. It got all bothered. So this is the place where you need to be open-minded, just accept what you're hearing. You don't have to have a judgment either way. Just go, oh, okay. So they're saying something I don't know anything about. So they're saying something about goddesses and reincarnations and things like that. And you're like, not something I'm aware of, but let me just listen, be open-minded. And then that way you don't have to get bothered and drop off the call and miss my teachings. So you don't have to get so upset about these things. It's going to hear some advanced teacher talk about a subject that you don't know about that bothers you, unless you're unbothered. Unfix mind. Don't be bothered. Let them talk about something weird and way out there. It happens in the spiritual path. People talk about strange things that are maybe not in your experience. That's okay if you're open-minded and you hear different things from different people, then you get actually a more broad sense and a more broad awareness. And then eventually you might say, hmm, maybe that's okay. Maybe actually I know more hearing lots of different points of view. Because different advanced students or different teachers, they have different views on things. I remember I was in a jiu-jitsu dojo where there was an advanced sensei, he was a seventh dan, seventh degree black belt, and then I was working with a third and a fourth degree black belt. First third degree comes and he's teaching me, you know, a jiu-jitsu lock and he's telling me all these subtle things about it and how to do it, and I was like, oh, that's a different... I didn't learn it that way, but I was trying to learn it from him. And then, fourth-degree black belt comes over, interrupts, and teaches me the same technique in a completely different way. And I'm, at first, I'm a little confused. Well, which way is it? Because you guys are actually saying to do it in very different ways. And they both told me their way, which was different. And then I'm like... So, what I ended up doing was just listening to, when a third degree bhakta was teaching me his way, I tried to do it his way. When the fourth taught me, I tried to do it the way that it worked. I just was like, I don't know, I'll just try to see how it works. And over a little bit of time, I realized how to do the technique better, and I realized that both of them made my technique better. Even though they were very different in a single technique, there's not just one way. And if you know both ways, your technique is stronger. So you're going to hear people say different things. And if you hear a different thing, don't get all stressed out. I said, oh no, I thought mindfulness was like this. I'll be open to the way that this person is talking about mindfulness. It's okay. I don't have to get upset. And then you learn more. I remember Suan. Suan was a very positive fellow. Just really positive mind most of the time. But there was a time where he got really mad at me. So this is the time when Yana Sensei, an older student of my teacher, he became very ill with a disease called ALS, and ALS in Western medicine has no cure. So, you know, when I met Ra and met his father, and Ra's father, Guru Raghunath, teaches – he's a healer, and it is a real thing. So when Yana, our sensei Yana, the older Yana, when he got ALS, and I had seen that there's I went all in to Amrit Shikita. I went in to learn it. I went to India, to Bangalore many times to learn how to do the healing. And I learned from Guru Raghunath the healing practices and I was able to bring them back and teach them to the students who were caring for him because he needed 24-7 care. And then we were doing healing every day, this Amrit Chakita healing, because it's the only option that we had to try to save his life, was this alternative healing method, because in Western medicine there's no way to heal. So I was all into it, I was teaching my students it, and I was doing 100% everything that I could. And then Soan was like, he started getting mad. And he was like, I don't like this. He's like, I'm a Buddhist, this is all Hindu stuff." And he got all frustrated and bothered and then angry. And then I kept teaching it and we kept doing it and he used to say, like, why is somebody teaching this Hindu thing? You know, like the healing gurus, all this stuff. He got all mad. And then just one day from meditating and seeing what's going on, then he totally let go of his frustration with the fact that I was doing something different, a different style, a different technique with weird beliefs. I mean, Buddhism has the weird beliefs too. There's weird beliefs. They're Buddhist and not Hindu. But anyway, eventually he was just like, oh, I see. What Sambara is doing is an act of compassion. He's putting all of his energy and attention in doing something that could help Jana. Nothing else can help. This is the only opportunity for help. So he's doing it 100%. So it doesn't matter if it's Hinduism, it doesn't matter if it's a Muslim practice, or a Kabbalah practice, or a Buddhist practice. Whatever it is, it's the only thing that has an opportunity to help. So he got past the fact that it was some technique that he didn't like or something that he wasn't familiar with and he got to the heart of the matter, which was that it was compassion. It was just trying to do the best for someone with the only opportunity that there was. So then he explained this to me. And I was like, good, be open minded. So be open minded. You don't have to get upset about things. In our sangha we have many activities and you might like some, you might not do some, and that's okay. Do what you like, but make sure it makes you successful. Like, let's say you only like the martial arts part. Well, then your life might not be so powerful because you can't have a strong career. I've known lots of martial artists who are good at kicking and punching, who have, you know, working at Burger King, right? And their lives are not powerful. So you have to be, if you love that martial arts part, love your meditation, get a job. Yeah, but you can look at the Sangha as kind of like a spiritual buffet. And maybe you really like your medium rare meditation. You're like, mm, that was a good one, I like that. And maybe you really like, you know, job yoga fricassee. You're like, oh yeah, that's pretty tasty. And then you get over to the reincarnation casserole and you're all, oh, no, I don't like that.

0:30:21
Well, then just skip it.

0:30:23
You don't have to go, I hate the whole buffet. You might not like the mystical medley, or the scuba salad or something like that, right? So you don't have to eat those things. When you go through a buffet, you find the things that you like, the things that nourish you the most, and then you enjoy that. So, sangha is a spiritual buffet. It is. Now the most important thing in having an unfixed mind is having compassion. The place where people get really, really, really stuck, their mind gets stuck, is when they get mad at other people. They say, I don't like that person. He did something mean to me. I can't forgive him. I'm angry. When you do that, you have a fixed mind and you're just going to suffer. You're causing your own suffering. So it's extremely important. This is the main place where fixed mind comes in for most people. It's when you get mad at someone else, upset with someone else, frustrated with someone else. This is where you must practice bodhicitta. So when you say, that person was mean to me, oh I feel pushed down, oh I feel drained, all that stuff that you get bothered by, it creates fixed mind. You have this awareness that someone hurt you, fixed mind. Fixes you. Someone wronged you, fixed mind. Look how they beat me, threw me down and robbed me. Live in such thoughts and you live in hate. That's fixed mind. So, practice compassion. If you think someone hurts you, harms you, pushes you down, then practice bodhicitta, taking and sending, tonglen. Take loss, give victory. Take dark, Do it for real, because that's what frees you from fixed mind. You cannot sit there and say, I'm angry, someone hurt me, this is the end, everything's horrible. That's fixed mind. Compassion frees you. It creates space and light, and then your suffering goes away, because you have compassion for the person that you thought was causing your suffering. So what causes your suffering is you, your ego, your limited viewpoint, your fixed mind, your attached views. That's what causes suffering. Because if the person who said, I don't like you very much." And then you go, Ouch! I'm so mad! I'm so upset! I'm angry! They did that! They hurt me! Me, me, me, me, me! Right? If you do that, then that's all about you. That's all self-reaction, self-defense, defending all your garbage and ego and stuff like that. Because if Buddha was sitting next to you, and the guy said that to Buddha, Buddha, I don't like you very much. And me, me, me, me, me. And the thing that would hurt you so much Buddha was just all But it doesn't get all set get angry doesn't go into some big tantrum and have to figure things out and solve something Get get their way get his way, right? But it just has compassion, but it but it doesn't have this ego clinging to defend this ego clinging to defend. No story of self. So you have to recognize that when you get all upset, it's actually because you get all upset. You're choosing to follow ego clinging. You have to recognize that the thing to solve is not the person who yelled at you. Have compassion for them and you'll see that it goes away. But the thing to solve is this self that sees problems. This self that fixes the mind in limited ways so that it gets hurt. I got hurt and I always blamed it on someone else. But know who's at fault? Let's call it the ego. You, you ego. And then you say, hey, ego, you're the one that actually causes the problem. So I'm going to do everything I can to hold Bodhicitta in my mind, to, at every time you try to grasp on being angry at someone, I'm going to do Bodhicitta and dispel you. And I'm going to dispel everything, every grasping that you do, until there's no more grasping and no more ego. This is the utilization of the practice of bodhicitta in your whole life. In dealing with people, when you get upset, you have to do bodhicitta, this practice, in your whole life. This is essential for unfixing the mind. You have to hold bodhicitta in your mind constantly. So that means that the moment something happens that you go, ouch, you got to go, wait, bodhicitta, instead of this long thing of ego, anger, reaction, and things, you go, wait a second, that hurt? I'm going to immediately meet it with compassion, instead of going through a whole bunch of trying to, you know, this is the ego path. You have to have Bodhicitta in your mind constantly so that as soon as something hurts, you go, oh wait, instead of me yelling, instead of me getting hurt and angry, let me just meet this with compassion. You should be so strong and so mindful of Bodhicitta that Bodhicitta is foremost even in your dreams. If you're dreaming about bodhicitta, like something weird happens, weird things happen in the dream, someone does something weird, a weird situation happens. If bodhicitta is in your dreams, then you have the proper awareness of bodhicitta. If bodhicitta is not in your dreams, then you're not practicing enough. It's not in your mind. So these are the teachings of Bodhicitta are powerful because they completely unfix any attachment in the mind. And then there's fluidity. Then there's an open mind for all things. And this This brings you to the turning point. This brings you to the turning point in your life and in your death. The turning point. So, when something bad happens to you, say someone yells at you, you normally would just follow some karma. Somebody yells at you and you yell back. You get mad and you think about it and you go through some process and yell back and then, you know, whatever, you got to do whatever you got to do, right? That's what the karma is, it pushes you. The turning point is to turn around and face it. Instead of following that karma, it's to face whatever it is that and to be open, open-minded. So, this is very important. For me, it's like, I've seen this a lot in martial arts, in fighting. When you're facing someone and they have intense energy, when you're untrained, you know what people do? They look away, or they close their eyes, or they look down. They're not bringing their full awareness to the person that they're fighting, right? So this, which is not a good idea. So if you're fighting someone, and it's intense to you, and you close your eyes, then you don't have awareness to block or to do a good job dealing with them. But, so that would be turning away the attention. The turning point is facing full awareness dealing with what you're dealing with. Dealing with wrathful energy, dealing with difficulty, hardship, bring your full awareness to it. Don't let karma push you down. Don't let karma close your attention. Don't let karma or some intensity push you into karma where your mind fixes. With the recognition of the fruition of the teacher, there's tremendous support for facing all of life's difficulties. You can bring to mind the enlightened spirit of the teacher when you're mad, when you're angry, when you're confused, and it creates a light in your mind. It creates more balance. You meet it with bodhicitta, compassion, and then you unfix your mind from reaction to compassion. So these two awarenesses support you in the turning point. Turning point is where you would normally follow karma, you turn around and you face what's causing with full attention. So we're going to complete our teaching today with a transmission of the wrath of the world, all the adversity, all the difficulty, an unfixed mind with the support of the enlightened teacher. You can turn around and face it and be free. So sit up nice and straight. We're going to meditate soft focus on the third eye. This will be transmission. Okay, let's begin.

0:41:50
So so so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so you Wonderful. So we are in a powerful transit, as I said. And this is a very,

0:46:35
very powerful transit of wrathful, divine, feminine energy. It is what we're facing here in the living. So there's powerful opportunities to face hardship, to let go, to have a greater connection and to walk through a door to wisdom, insight and liberation. So tomorrow night I'm going to do another teaching, because I want to teach during this transit. So this teaching was not running away, turning around, powerful transition, not running away from your karma, but facing a wrathful energy, facing that which would normally get you to just run off in your karma. So with So Hwang and everyone in their spirit, we've come to the turning point and turned around, we're not running. But tomorrow night, we're going to go through the door. So we're not running from the wrathful energy, we're working with it. And we're going to go through that door, it's called the gate, the guardian of the gate. And it's a door wisdom and it can be very enlightening. If you fully accept it, you become liberated and go into the world of the Sambhoga Buddha. But it's very, very powerful and we're in a very powerful transit. So tomorrow night at 10pm California time, we're going to have satsang. It won't be as long as this, it'll be probably about an hour, and we will be again going through a teaching that is connecting with so long and the stage in the third bardo where we've gone past the turning point and the next step through the door. So this should be an acceptable time for Europeans to wake up early in the morning, around 7 a.m. I think it is. And it should work for India as well. And in Iceland, you guys are going to have to wake up early.

0:49:38
But it's worth it.

0:49:39
So tomorrow we will have from the turning point through the door.

0:49:45
Should be very, very powerful.

0:49:47
It's following a very powerful transit.

0:49:49
And at the end of this transit, then the power level goes down. But right now we're at a very strong extreme, so this is where we want to face the wrathful energy. Be able to work with wrathful energy in a proper way, learn from it, and go through the doorway to wisdom.

0:50:23
All right. All right.

0:50:25
Thank you all very much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
