0:00:00
Hello everyone.

0:00:05
Alright, so by now I think I have met with almost all of the advanced students where I've been offering some corrections in the college practice. So, these corrections are very, very helpful. They're correcting the dimensions that you're accessing and it's also directing you to the thing that helps you be most successful in attaining the Samadhis and enlightenment through this practice. So, I'd like you to continue to practice these things and I will observe over a period of time how it's going for you. And then if you merit additional help, then I'll give more help. All right, so I'd like to sit with you in practice, and you can use the different techniques as you would like. And we'll sit for about 15 minutes in silence. So sit nice and straight. And let's begin.

0:01:14
and let's begin Bye. Oh, I'm sorry. Okay. I'm going to go ahead and close this. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Yeah, so this is the time for extremely strong Kala Chakra meditation practice. So all of these

0:10:58
corrections that I've given you, you should master them and be very, very strong in this I'd like to talk about what's coming up. So in America, we have this thing called the coronavirus. I don't know if you guys have ever heard about it. Probably not, but it's this nasty bug. Anyway, the rest of the world almost got rid of it, but America's all, no, we like it. I like to go and have it at every bar and every Applebee's, TGIF Fridays, whatever. So while other countries might be intelligently dealing with the coronavirus, apparently ours isn't. And so the coronavirus is growing in America. And so there'll be like some, you know, southern state where the governor doesn't believe in a coronavirus. He only believes in Santa Claus. And then they're going to spike. And people are going to drive from that state to some other state and then it'll spike. So it's going to be kind of a wild ride here. So I don't think that coronavirus in America is going to go away anytime soon. So everyone has to be very, very careful. In fact, more careful than when we had our first lockdown because now there's more coronavirus out there. So you've got to be careful. So this leaves an interesting situation for seekers of the spiritual path and meditation. They can't do what they would normally do, which is find some flyer and go to a free meditation class and there's not going to be some big guru going into some auditorium somewhere, a thousand people will go in. So the way to teach is more I'd like to be focusing the Awakened Mind more online. So we're creating structures for the Awakened Mind school to grow, to carry on and go forth. And that begins with teaching new people meditation and Buddhism. So I would like to create more of a direction of focusing on meditation classes, introduction and beginning meditation classes, and to offer these online, the Zoom classes. And there's already a number of teachers who are doing this via meetup and things like that. And there's new students trickling in from these online classes or joining the sangha.

0:14:58
And this is good.

0:14:59
I would like to do it more. And I'd like to have a kind of allied focus in terms of marketing and market message and market strategy. So we'll be doing this in the months to come. And we'll be definitely set up and rolling this out by the next solstice. So this is going to be an opportunity for, this will also be an opportunity for the new intermediate students to do introduction and beginning teaching. But for any of the advanced students who want to develop that more, this is an opportunity for that. We're also going to be doing some more work with apps. So we have the Yantra app that he and I made, and that's the app where you can choose a number of songs and then it goes through the different colors of the Yantra. So that's a really good open-eyed meditation. But we're going to be doing additional Yantra meditation. this really intense Maya around illusion, that people who are new to meditation are more and more going to need visual aids for meditation. So we started off just with music and closed eye, and I think that more and more we're going to need to do open eye meditation meditation, with things like yantras and other visual components for meditation. I remember one time, you guys might have seen it, or some of you might have, Rama had this famous videographer go to the southwest, to all of the places on canyons of light and he filmed in those places. And he, you know, like Rama said, he gave him free license to what to do. He kind of did something a little bit more artsy and Rama wanted it to be a little bit more nature, but it was a cool thing. So there might be things like that where we focus a little bit more on pictures or videos of the Southwest or other places of power. So places of power are something where if someone's looking at it, they can feel something, they can get a powerful connection. So we will be, we'll be slash are doing more visual meditation. So I think that this is going to be very, very helpful in teaching new people how to get into a routine of meditation. So as we develop this, we'll be sharing it with teachers. So, you know, this is going to be a big direction that we go into because this is what's going to kind of propel the awakened mind forward. It's going to be a very, very strong focus in new teachings, new students, moving them up through the structures of the school. And we are going to have a very big focus on introduction, beginning teaching that brings people on board into the school and then following the structures beyond that in the school, which I'll get to in a minute. But this is a big direction. We're going to do kind of like marketing. And we're going to have probably like a YouTube channel. Yeah, so we're going to come out of this inaccessibility thing to be more accessible. But we're going to work on being accessible in the right way. The right message, the right kind of content. Probably some marketing. probably some marketing we're going to focus on trying to get our app out there and make our app very key to the meditation meditation practice so there's There's going to be a big focus on that. So if you're interested in being a teacher Teacher at any level, but if you're interested in the level of introduction and beginning, then start to put your mind in that direction. And as you learn about the ways that we're going to do marketing and the plans and the structures, see if that's something that fits in with you, something that you'd like to do. So, past introduction and beginning, this is where we mark it, reach out, get new people, teach them introduction, get them into the beginning, starting the Enlightenment workbook and things like that. Then we're going to additionally have the, once you're kind of on board with the program, the first set of classes, which is Buddhist mysticism. And this is the first year that I taught in the Cavill Theater. And this is where I taught about things like the first attention, the second attention, caretaker personality, inaccessibility, personal power. So these are, you know, kind of the basics of Buddhist mysticism. And that was the first year that I taught in the Cal Theatre. So starting in January, we're going to have once a month somebody, or maybe multiple teachers, teaching those classes. Now, my videos will be available for students so they can watch my videos on the same subjects and then the teacher will also review my video because that kind of is the parameter of the discussion for that month and then you'll give, the teacher will give a teaching which is commentary on the same teachings, and that way students will be able to have once a month a teacher live Zoom giving class, maybe answering questions. And then they'll also have my videos, maybe additional videos from the recapitulation talks that are on the same subject. And there also might be some book assignments, and there might be video assignments or movie assignments. So for one month talk, maybe it's a talk about personal power. There might be my Cal Theatre video, let's say a recapitulation video, and then the live meeting with the teacher, and then maybe a book, maybe a movie, something like that. So we'll have a very robust and defined structure for going through those teachings. So let's say that in the month of January, the first Saturday, we have that Zoom meeting. And the teacher will, in that meeting, give insight, give a teaching, then tell them what videos they can watch, where they can find it, what books they're allowed to read, what movies they're allowed to read that month. And then you go into the next week. So then the next week is going to be the second year that I taught in the Cowell Theater, which is going to be job yoga. And there are some students right now who they're brand new students, but they're in, they're taking all of this Compassion yoga the bodhicitta, but they didn't do the first year or the second year So new students who didn't do those and then start going to the first week And the second week and the third week So so we'll have the first week of January The Buddhist mysticism first year of Cal second week of January see the job yoga. The job yoga class taught by an advanced student, who will then direct them to any video recordings that are assignments, books that are assignments, and movies that are assignments. The next week, like the third week of January, then we'll have a compassion teaching. And this will be an advanced student teaching Bodhicitta, and it will be going through the teachings that I've given. You'll teach more in-depth on subjects, you'll give video assignments, maybe answer questions, talk about movies, talk about books. And the fourth week will be Tantra.

0:25:15
American Tantra.

0:25:16
American Buddhist Tantra.

0:25:19
And that might be a class that I teach, or I might just tell you guys to teach it. So there's a number of recapitulation teachings that teach about Tantra. And then of course you guys have been Buddhist monks on the American Buddhist tantra path for a long time. So this will be once a month where an advanced student gets up and teaches on tantra. We'll structure the class so that it's following some kind of structure, videos that are associated with it, books, movies. So we're going to have a very feature-rich school. And the school has, you know, a weigh-in, which is going to be online, introduction, beginning. And then when students are like, yeah, this is cool, I'm doing the Enlightenment workbook, this is cool, I want to learn more, then they come into the monthly classes and follow the monthly assignments. And wherever they're at, they start with Buddhist mysticism, and then when they finish that cycle, then they move to the job yoga. When they finish that cycle, they move to compassion. When they finish that cycle, they move to the tantra. At any point, we might introduce yoga. So yoga can be, if someone's got the right skills at the beginning level, maybe they want to start getting into yoga in the beginning. And then when they're doing job yoga, maybe they're just establishing their career at that point, they can do, at that point, yoga also. And then when we get to compassion, then they kind of have to do yoga. But each class takes about a year. So this is going to be an ongoing thing. This is the structure of the Awakened Mind School going forward. So my first year of teaching was teaching once a month about Buddhist mysticism, we'll see who wants to teach Buddhist mysticism, what subject you're drawn to teach, and then we'll just organize it this way. So we can have multiple teachers teaching multiple things. You might want to teach one of the classes on adversity into the pathway of awakening and compassion. So teachers are able to teach across the board what they're interested in. So for advanced teachers, we're going to take a look at this whole structure and see who wants to teach what. But we're going to have a full 10-month course in Buddhist mysticism, 10-month course in job yoga, 10-month course, maybe longer course in Bodhisattva. Because we're actually, now that we're out of the caliphate, I've been teaching a lot more. So we'll structure everything and make sure that we're covering the right points. And then we'll go into the last course, which is currently kind of undefined, which is the American Buddhist Tantra. Yeah, so this is going to be cool. So you get to decide, you can teach everything. You can teach from intro to beginning to any part of these courses that you feel drawn to. And then this way, we have a very strong school where advanced teachers are teaching everybody. And then we're going to have some kind of quality assurance in our teaching, because it's important. There's some people who just go way into the second attention and things like that. We're still working on the impeccability that is required in teaching. Although I have to say the teachings that I saw recently were very, very good. So like the financial tonal, that teaching I think was very impeccable and we recorded it. So this is something that we can now use. So when we give the tonal teaching, we're just going to say, okay, here's one of the recorded videos that is required that you watch. So these are the kinds of things we do. So we don't have to totally redo that one. That one was so impeccable, and it was done so excellently, that it just becomes part of the structure. Additionally, I really liked, there was a teaching that,

0:30:45
let's see, who was it?

0:30:46
It was Parvati and, no, but actually after that one, there was Jing, and there was Shori, and there was Chandra. Yeah, so that one also was very impeccable. So you guys have been doing impeccable teachings. So you guys are like structured, you're clear, you've got good examples, you make it a little bit fun, and that's what we've got to do. We have to have definitely strong tone out, but it has to not be completely boring. So when I'm watching these videos, I'm like, okay, this is good, this is really good. We're getting in the right direction. Now when we started off doing teachings on the last Bon Air trip, I was all like, oh

0:31:53
my God.

0:31:54
I guess that was the first one, right? Learning how to do it right. So, we are going to have quality assurance and planning, so that when you're doing a teaching, that you are able to plan it and set it up so that it's going to be bright and tight and covering the right things and not getting too boring. So we'll have some consistency in our form across all classes. But every teacher's got their own style. So we're not gonna mess up your style. You just have to be great. Yeah, so this is the vision of the school to come. Now, we have already our Sando org, which is a very strong system of management. We're very capable of coming up with new ideas, of managing them. So the Sando org is really good. We also have a church steering committee, a church leadership committee. And so for the Vajramandacharya non-profit, we have a committee of leadership, which is mostly the SD3s. And this means that when there's decisions to be made about organizational direction that this group will be making it. And while I'm around, I'll be the chairman of the board and I'll be like, no, my way.

0:34:01
Just kidding.

0:34:02
But, you know, like, this is for, you know, going forward, even past our lifetimes, where we'll have this structure so that these teachings can go on, and that the organization is the executive directing group. So we have a good structure for teaching and going into the future.

0:34:33
Exciting.

0:34:34
All right, so there's a couple additional considerations in being a teacher. So when you're a teacher, and you've got a lot of the considerations, but when you're a teacher, when you're like a leader, like a yoga leader, you don't only have to be a good yogi, you don't only have to be a good yoga leader, but you have to be able to be a yoga creator. And this is where you're able to understand where the physical activity and the good ideas and everything come together with the structures of the school and the second attention, where it goes from just being a nice idea and something that potentially has a happy dharma, to something where the dharma is first and foremost, and that through the practices of selflessness and impeccability, you can actually access these spiritual structures that are elevating, that become a pathway to enlightenment. So not only do you kind of just sit there and say, yeah, I have an idea and I can manage it and I know how to code and things like that, but you're able to connect and also really administer the second attention of this vast, amazing, and very powerful teaching in our school. when I started my first yoga project, I completely failed. But just by trying, it was fun.

0:36:28
And it was very, very, very bright.

0:36:30
So that was, I think it was me and Tara. And we were just sitting there, we were creating a data warehousing company called Data Forte. And we're going through this extremely like intense business planning process. And it was like really, really, really amusing. It was very, very bright, very powerful. And then what did we do? Then we started, I don't know if we kept doing that, but at some point we like stopped doing that. And then we were teaching technology. So we hijacked City College somehow and we put some ad out there to teach, I think we were teaching Oracle, Oracle database management system. And we were just all teaching for free. And I was all like, Tara, you got to do some teaching. And she's all, what? No. I said, yeah. So we're going to do this little project called Teaching Oracle for Free. So I think I had a club at San Francisco City College. And so I was going through the process of booking a room for a Saturday. And I don't even know if the process went really through, but we put out the ads anyway. And then like 120 people showed up, and they wouldn't fit in one room. So I was going to do most of the teaching, then Heptara would do part. And I was like, you have to take half of them in some other room and just teach. So then we were just sitting there teaching for a while. We were working on that. That was fun. Then the next yoga project became the Meditation Center. And then by that time Ajna was there and some other weirdos. I don't remember who else there was. But Ajna found the Meditation Center. His friend Time had it and just didn't have the stuff together, so he was giving it to us basically. And then we had to clean it, because it was horrible and filthy. Anyway, so we cleaned it, we did the floors, repainted and all this stuff, made it a very beautiful meditation center. So from creating the meditation center, that's where all the ST3s came. And since I had all of them in one place I said, now we're doing yoga. We started creating a company, but I didn't want them to get afraid of computers, so the first company was called The Great Math Adventure. And The Great Math Adventure was, it was on a DVD, yeah, that's right. So, you know, like, remember that advanced DVD technology where you could, like, put in a movie and say special features or I want to go to chapter 10. So, we were creating this multimedia map experience that was kind of like a decision tree. So, it's like, what's two plus two? And if you say four, then it goes to a clip that says, very good, and here's the next question. And if you got it wrong, you said five, then it would give you an explanation video of how you did it right. And then we would use puppets and animation, claymation, and all sorts of stuff. So it was kind of like a Sesame Street kind of DVD thing. And it was really fun. And we had some weird, funny puppet and everything. And then that turned into creating My Web DV. So now it's true. That little by little, like Dharma knew this guy in Japan who was looking for a content management system. Because we had multimedia content, we were managing it. And then we said, hey, why don't we just get rid of this DVD thing and make a computer? And then Mandala was there, so she started teaching everyone Java. And then we ended up moving to Hawaii. And that was fun. So this is where you kind of have an outgrowth of what we were doing with MyWebDB. So these little things are ways that you can bring from the second attention this pathway to enlightenment, these little acts as starting a business or a website or teaching, and you're able to draw out from it this beautiful expression of the pathway to enlightenment. It's really And we hope to do many more wonderful things in yoga soon. Yeah. Including, you know, this um, creating the awakened mind as a stronger structure. A structure where many of the advanced students who want to can participate as teachers. You can develop a lot of power from teaching. And for those of you who want to do introduction and beginning teaching, we're going to be creating a new structure where there's so many people in America who are not going to be able to find Good Spiritual resources, there's a ton of spiritual stuff out there but good Structured positive stuff that can affect their lives in a significantly positive way. It's hard to find It's very unstructured, you know. So even if you go to like some cool teacher's website like Gangaji or something, you get some video clips, it's just very unstructured. So one of the wonderful things that we're capable of is putting a very strong spiritual structure behind a logical first attention structure. So we're going to be doing that for the whole awakened mind. And it will be something that people can come across, find, it will be something very developmental, not just random videos. It will be structured teaching in the first attention and the second attention. So this will be really cool. So for the short foreseeable future, I'd like to start you guys on a teaching exercise. And this is, so we've already finished the fifth point of the seven points of mind training. So I think that I would like to complete the sixth and seventh point, and maybe not go into tremendous detail, because the sixth and seventh point is where the majority of the Lojong slogans are And What I would like to do is I'd like to kind of teach at a high level what the sixth and seventh points are and Then I want to take the 56 slogans and I want to say advance students Teach them teach them. So then for the next 12 weeks or so, I'd like advanced students who would like to teach to look through the slogans and say, I would like to teach about this one. I would like to teach about that one. You could teach multiple ones, but if you So we're going to put a spreadsheet for you to choose. And you can reflect on them. And you can say what your first choice is, your second choice, and your third choice. Like you're like, I want this first choice, first choice, first choice, first choice. Then maybe that is second choice, and if I had to, that is third choice. Because then that would help me decide who's going to teach what. And even if someone says, even if four people say, this is my first choice, if it's still your first choice, put it there, and then I'll look at it. But I definitely want to make sure, if you're looking through the list and you see that there's, you know, there's one slogan that nobody wants to do, and if you can see a way of teaching it, then add it as a choice. Because I want all of you to be able to cover all 56 slogans. And then what we'll do is, after I complete the sixth and seventh slogan, then we'll go being probably four advanced students going from the beginning all the way through the 56 slogans. So we'll probably do four advanced students doing slogan one, two, three, four on one Saturday. The next Saturday, the next four slogans. The next Saturday, the next four slogans. So we can work through it that way. And then that way, if you teach for 10 to 15 to 20 minutes, that would be an acceptable amount of time. And then I'll give you some structure for how to plan out the teaching. Just very simple things like, you know, say what the slogan is, give a definition of what the slogan is, maybe an example from your life, and then have two or three points about the slogan. If I think about the slogan, I could see this, this, and this about it. And then you say, okay, well then I'm going to give a little teaching on each three of those points, and then a conclusion. Something like that is a very structured way. Tells people what it is, gives examples, gives follow-up information to elucidate on what that slogan means, maybe some more examples, and then a conclusion. And then if we have four teachers who are teaching about the slogans, it's like four different people teaching different things. It should be quite nice and a very good way to develop your teaching in this structure. So we'll be putting that up. I'll let you know when we have a spreadsheet for you to consider What's a slogan you'd like to teach? Exactly and And so we'll be we'll be planning to do this for the next 12 weeks or so, but we'll also be starting to plan The January teachings and this is going a process of all the mysticism job yoga, bodhicitta, and then tantra. I'll be giving this same presentation to all of the students as well in the future, but right now I just wanted to get you guys on board because you're the ones who have to start thinking about what you want to teach. Yeah, so teaching the teachers. Yeah, that's good. All right, so thank you all so much. You guys are doing well. Master your meditation, most important. But teaching, yoga and teaching are very powerful ways to help your enlightenment process. So I did yoga and teaching all the way through my enlightenment process. And so did Vandala. And I don't know, so did Sananda. Maybe Ananda, yeah, Ananda also. Ananda was running a yoga business, all the way through his enlightenment. So these are things that, so teaching and yoga, these are things that, they don't get in the way of spiritual practice. They actually enhance your enlightenment cycle. Okay, thank you all so much. Okay, thank you all so much.

0:50:57
Be well.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
