0:00:00
Hi everybody! Are we all back? No, we're all front. Sorry, someone said I'm looking at the middle of the screen. I'm all like looking at myself. Sure, I look at that little green dot. Green dot.

0:00:23
I don't know man. Alright.

0:00:39
So, there's a really good thing that I've been working on. And what I've been working on is being able to give the esoteric teachings the transmissions over the internet. And I think the first one was when I was in Japan. So remember that one Japan teaching? Okay, so that one I was like, okay, I'm going to Japan and I'm going to stream the Satsang. Then I was like, wow, you know, I don't know, you know, I'm gonna be traveling, it's gonna be 4 in the morning for me, and I don't even know if I'm gonna have the internet, but I should know Japan has more internet than here. But I was just like, I don't know how this is gonna work out. You know, there could be technical problems. So what I actually did was I videotaped a teaching. And I had some students come and my set of crew and I videotaped the satsang. And then a few days later, I showed it, so we took the recording and we showed it at the Cal Theatre, I think, right? So we had the big screen and me going, blah blah blah blah blah blah blah. And then, um, and while it was happening, I watched it at 4 a.m. in Tokyo. I was focusing on it, feeling the attention of the people, and listening to weird things that I say, and following it, and transmitting the teachings. And it was very successful. It was as if I was like, oh, okay, I can do this.

0:02:51
So I've been working on that,

0:02:53
and especially after what we're facing right now, you know, the COVID-19, the coronavirus. So I'm doing a lot more Zoom teaching, Satsangs are over Zoom. And when I'm doing satsang, I'm very connected to who's watching, who's there. And I'm very, very strong at bringing the transmissions. So I'm like, okay, this is working out. So I can do all satsangs on video. Like, soft song, enlightenment. Yeah, it's true, I can. I figured it out. What else have I figured out? So, yesterday, I figured out a new thing. So, I'm getting more robust in my second attention, in my teaching skills, of how to bring light through this medium. And so I have a lot of recorded videos and I can make a recording now and you can just archive it and give it to a random meditator in 10 years and say, watch this. And if they watch it, there will be a transmission of light. So I can do recorded light. It's like a terma in a video, an MP4 terma. Yeah, so, I mean, it's not that difficult, but it's working with the mediums that we have. So, it's kind of cool. I like that. So, I have the ability to do transmissions, and it's not just basic transmissions. I can do advanced transmissions. So this is something that I've been, I wanted to do this before the coronavirus. I was like, I don't, I was like, I want to sit with the advanced students and just give them all of the rest of the transmissions. Because I'm like, I'm tired of holding on and I want to just give you guys it and be like, fuck you. Of course, for every advanced teaching and transmission, I could talk for a year about

0:06:14
each one.

0:06:15
But, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. That's what Rama did for us. He was just like, he's like, here's the Kalachakra of Empowerment, which opened us to the advanced teachings. Every single time he met with us, he was like, advance transmissions. And he was just like, joking with us. They're very subtle. So now I'm capable of doing it over Zoom. I'm able to do it in a recording so I can transmit the advanced teachings and transmissions here and It has, it is and has been and now will be. In the once and future, the once beyond and future will be. Okay, that's once and future king, the movie or a book, movie book. I like movie books because books tend to take longer to read. So, what's going on? What's going on in paradise? With your advanced teachings, where everything works out the best and you become enlightened. And what's going on is... you're working on it. We're less than a year into it, right? For the majority of people, six months for another small group. And I'm like, yeah, the first year, you gotta figure stuff out. I'm like, I'm very patient. And I know the paces of the first three years. So I'm just, you know, letting you guys go through what you guys gotta go through. But I gotta say,

0:08:39
a lot of you are a bit impatient.

0:08:43
And impatience doesn't help you.

0:08:52
Like, chill out.

0:08:57
You're like, I'm not going into Samadhi every 30 seconds. Okay, give yourself time. Samadhi is something that happens, and it's cool, and it's helpful and whatever. But don't trip out about it. I mean, like, you can in your heart of hearts be like, I want enlightenment, I want, I need to see. In your heart of hearts, you can do that, but you can't freak out about it. You can't see yourself as something limited. So I spent, I don't know, a couple years, I was just like, I had deep meditations after the advanced teachings. And I was like, but I won't know until I have salva copa samadhi. And I'm like, I need to, in my heart, I needed to know it. And I didn't desire it and I didn't go weird on it. It's just in my heart, I know that I needed to know. I didn't think about it. If you get thinky, then you're going to slip, you're going to take. If you have a deep care,

0:10:33
a deep interest in knowing yourself,

0:10:38
knowing your enlightened mind, you'll come to it. But if you have a desire of, I want to know it. You have to have a full spiritual attention and care for knowing for truth. It can't be I'm afraid of this or I want that and if I don't get this, if I don't get enlightenment from the teachings in three years the way I'm supposed to, then you know like all that stuff is a whole bunch of hoopla. When we come down to it you can be enlightened, never. So we have to say, let go of ideas. You guys are very fortunate, but also at the same time, very bollocks. That means bolls. It's an English way of saying balls. So you're very fortunate because you've gotten the Enlightened Teachings, but you guys are um, there's this Sanskrit term, I don't know how they say it in Sanskrit, but it means dumb fucks. So these are a bunch of dumb fucks in Sanskrit. I'm going to let No, but for real. So my job here is to make the lot of you enlightened. Which is going to happen for a whole lot of you, but I want all of the lot of you. You know, let's get real. Like my advanced teaching of Bodhicitta and how to transform adversity into the pathway of awakening is transforming your mind right now. Enlightenment doesn't need to take a long time. It's the simplest thing of your being. It's not something, Oh, it's over here.

0:13:42
It's the simplest thing.

0:13:43
It's already within you. It's something to just recognize,

0:13:45
and it's something that—and there's a whole bunch

0:13:46
of things that you can do.

0:13:47
It's something to just recognize and it's something that, and there's a whole bunch

0:13:51
of craziness to discard. But it is there. It's within you. So what's going on is a whole bunch of self-thinking, self-going, oh, I have this idea about practice, I have this idea about enlightenment. So there's still a bunch of self going on. Which is okay for this period of time. So, you know, I guess I'm a little bit more like, hey, wake up, right now. And I'm like, it's their first year. And you can go to, you know, a bunch of white belts and be a black belt, and be like, check it out. Isn't this, this is the way it's going to be. And the white belt, they're going to be like, wow, it's true. But it's not true yet. You guys are in your first year, it takes a little bit of time of practice. I'm like, I'm not pushing things and I know what, I know the next steps. I know what's going on and I know what needs to happen. I mean, I know what needs to unfold and you could go to the other enlightened person who knows all too. And they can just tell you, duh, just kick ass. Here's my thrust kick. Here's my jakazookie. No, sorry, that's it, no zookie. Jakazookie. Okay. So, yeah. So, don't get When I'm ordering chow fun or chow mein, I'm all like, which one do I want? The one that I don't get confused. Either way, you end up with noodles. That's what Neo was saying. He went back into the Matrix and he's all, oh, that's a good noodle. I think it was udon or ramen. Anyway, yeah, don't get confused with your noodles. So, you need to get to the heart of liberation. So in the Kalachakra empowerment, the basics of the teachings, if you just do that, liberation happens. Now when you start to get outside of that, there are things that also give you a limitation. So if you say I got the Kalachakra empowerment and that's all that there is and it's not working for me so I'm going to start looking for something else. I did it myself. After my teacher died, I did the practice and it was super high, but then when he was gone, I went to Asia. I was like, I'm out of here. I'm going to look for some enlightened teacher because I don't know it myself. I don't know And I went around Asia looking for enlightened teachers. And then I saw, and I did, and I asked, and I stalked, and I looked, and I was like, there's no one here who, zero people say they're enlightened and none of them are. And, you know, and then when I was able to compare to what my teacher taught, it was like, these people are at such a small level of my enlightened teacher. better listen to the teachings that I got. So I looked. I went. I tried. And even you guys, there's lots of enlightened people. I've introduced you to many liberated beings. enlightened teachers in our sangha. But you can't get confused. You gotta come down to the basics. And the basics is not that I'm gonna get you enlightened. It's that enlightenment is gonna get you enlightened. It's that you're gonna get yourself enlightened. But if you keep on, if you're stuck in this mentality of, Sambara taught me this, and I gotta learn this from him, then you're stuck. If you're like, oh, I gotta go from Sambara to Sahaja, and Sahaja is gonna teach me the next thing. No, no, no, no.

0:19:51
With the advanced teachings,

0:19:52
you have everything that you need. You've developed yourself properly to have the right level of engagement and tonal for the second attention and now you have everything that you need. So if you think I gotta get some more insight from Simbara, nope. If you think oh if Simbara doesn't tell me what I now I better go to Sahaja or Ma or some other enlightened person? No. You're at this wonderful level, wonderful point where you've gotten the teachings and the right teachings and you've done the work and you're at a spiritual place and condition where I guess you could say everybody is but no but you're really there where you need to work out your enlightenment and you can have I would say allies but you don't need a teacher. You can have spiritual friends but you don't need a guru. That means guru. A guru. You don't need a guru. You don't need a master. Or anything. It's time for you to wake up. And that is upon you. So, some of you have been like, Simvara taught me, but it's not working out the way I want it to. So I'm going to go to like a Sahasha's class, and then Sahasha's going to tell me something, and then that's going to get me better. And then, if that doesn't work, I'm going to go to a Maatlaat's class, and then that's going to get me higher and better. And guess what? No. That's what the mind does. It's an endless cycle of I'm going to try to go to a new teaching, to another understanding, to do, do, do, do, do, do, do. Right? Isn't that what I just taught about? So, enlightenment is where you take responsibility. And you don't need another teacher. You don't need another person who figured it out. It's time for you to figure it out. You've seen lots of people who figured it out. You know it's possible. But now it's time for you to figure it out in your mind, not to go, hey, Sasha, I still am pissed off. And she'll go, oh yeah, well, you should start eating Rice Krispie Marshmallow Treats. Because that totally did it for me.

0:23:01
Do you know what I'm saying?

0:23:03
Like, there's enlightened people all over the place. They're great. But they're not your enlightenment. You can be like, hey, I'm Vinkala, I wanna be enlightened. He'll be like, buy one of my tankas and play bongos every night at midnight and Shiva will be like go fucking crazy and listen to great like every enlightened teacher has a different point of view I mean I could walk into any enlightened teachers teacher's school and say, well I have a different idea. I'm like, here's what works for me. It'll totally bother them. That's why I don't bother anybody else. But like, there's every form of enlightenment. Now we have lots of structures, lots of practices, the advanced practice, the advanced meditation, and yeah, sure. These are things that are constructive and help do what it takes, do whatever works. There have been enlightened students of Rama who didn't do the college opera practice and became enlightened now. The ones that became enlightened in the first three or four years definitely did it exactly how he taught it and it worked. But there's other people, like even Anthony Collett didn't do it in the first three years. He took like, I don't know, seven or eight years. So he definitely did it. And it wasn't definitely through the traditional practice that Robin taught, but it still worked. And it came from the College of Empowerment. So whether it takes you 8 years, you can go through whatever you need to go through. So just focus on enlightenment. One of the things that I see going on is that you guys think there's something missing. So you're like, so I taught this, but I can't do it, so there's something missing. So you go to, you know, some other teacher. And the thing is that what I can see is that you get confused by the other teacher. So you're like, okay, this is not happening in my experience so I'm going to someone else and then you end up in diversity and What diversity is when you go to another teacher and you go I need to solve this this means that you're settling So rule number two rule number one Know that you can be a mind rule number two don't settle for anything else And when you settle for I need another teacher to figure it out, then that's settling for I'm a seeker and not an attainer. So I see people going to other teachers. I have no problem with that. But if you go to another teacher with a, hmm, I got the Kalachakra empowerment, I got the teachings for enlightenment, but I'm not getting what I want out of it. Then you're in want. And you're going to another teacher and guess what the other teacher is going to tell you? Whatever the hell they're coming from. Which might be very different. So you're like, ah, I went to karate for a long time, but then I lost a fight. So now I'm gonna go to judo, which is totally different. The judo person is telling you totally different things. And sure, then go there for 15 years to realize that you can win. So don't get confused. If you're like, it's not working for me, then face it and be it and do it. Deal with it. You've got the enlightened teachings. You don't need any more. But if you start running around going, I need another enlightened insight.

0:28:01
And then you'll get some random additional thing.

0:28:04
I remember this one time, I was in New York, I was on security for Rama, and then my mentor, who was a black belt, she said, I found this guy who's like a serious reincarnation of a grandmaster, a totally amazing martial artist. And I was like, okay. And he was very extensive, but I got some private class with him. And he's like, all right, what do you want to learn? And I said, I don't want to mess around, I want to make these stronger, because those are my strongest things to help in my job. Then he started me doing these weird techniques, strange ways of kicking, walking, talking. This is just garbage. And I'm like, yeah, if I did that for 15 years, maybe it would be more powerful than what I know. But I've been training since I was six, and you're going to give me something that I could spend 15 more years on before I can use?

0:29:29
I'm like, no.

0:29:32
It's not usable. If it's advanced, it's usable now? So if someone goes, oh, you should like totally blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, and if it doesn't click and obviously be something at the moment, if they're enlightened, then it should be at that moment, bam, a realization, power. But if it's like, oh, there's a problem and you have to work through it and blah blah blah and blah blah blah blah and forget it. I could walk into any enlightened teacher's school and start telling them shit that I think. Or like my training program, I'll be like, you know what, everyone needs to learn computer programming.

0:30:31
And then they'll go, what?

0:30:33
And we're like, yeah, you guys are all fucking lame.

0:30:36
And it doesn't matter.

0:30:37
I'll just, like, whatever I'm gonna say is something that comes successful in my dojo. And in their dojo, it'll just be havoc. So that's the thing. You think just because someone's enlightened they're going to be able to have the insight to make you enlightened? You've been following the path, developing yourself, and then all of a sudden just go to some other person? That's where you get confused. That's where you run into into the second rule, the second teaching is you are stopping at something for your enlightenment. What you're stopping at is to, I need another teacher, I need another insight, I need another lesson. And all the teachers and all the lessons and you don't need them. You don't even need me. It's true, you don't. I'm just pointing out you're being a jerk. You don't need me. You don't need some other teacher. You don't need another teaching. If you've gotten the Hall of Chalk, if you want to be enlightened then that's it. Now we have some very powerful insights from associations. So I was enlightened, Mandala was enlightened, Sahaja was enlightened, Kundalini was enlightened, Sananda was enlightened. So we had like meetings together, we liked each other. Me and Sananda and Mandala, we worked together and created a company. So like, definitely we help each other out. We reflect each other's liberation. But I didn't, I didn't teach Mandala. I didn't teach Sananda. They became liberated by following the advanced teachings and we were together and by being together it helped us. Enlightenment helps you but you can't like sit there and try to figure it out. So I gave you the advanced teachings, you got the College Chakra Empowerment and the advanced teachings and I'm doing more transmissions but the Enlightenment doesn't come from me, doesn't come from my teachings. It comes, you're at the point where it's the time for you to discover your enlightenment. And enlightenment is in everything. But enlightenment is in everything. So when you're like, oh, I really have to like ask Sahaja some questions that I don't know. And when I ask Zinvara, he goes like this. I want to give it to the camera. So, you know, so it's like, stop it. There's nothing extra that you need. You don't have to like chase somebody down. You don't have to get another practice, you don't have to look at it another way, you don't need to get another teacher, another empowerment, another transmission. Like this is the time for you to take responsibility, take the teachings. And I'll give tons of teachings. I'm going to just keep giving teachings for the beginners, intermediates, and advanced, but these are just endless teachings and the ultimate thing is for you to figure it out. And I'd rather be spiritual friends. When I meet with Mandala, it's magical and uplifting. It's just grand. You don't have to go to Mandala and say, Mandala, enlightenment's not working out for me. What do I got to do? do. Just stay alighting. So, because all enlightened beings have a different point of view. Like I said, if you go to Agni Kala, he's going to tell you, you know, sit in front of one And then Sahaja will say something different, which is cool. And Ma will say something different. But all of these things could be weird. They can get you off into, like, Aki-Ka is very mystical dimensions. And it's like, being in the desert, playing drums, or something like that. And it's like, okay, that's cool. But at the same time, is that going to do it for you? Playing drums out in the desert? I mean, it's kind of cool, but is that it? For him, it worked. Yeah, and for Maat, she gets into some very occult dimensions. occult dimensions. So she starts like finding problems and imbalances and And I'm like, oh my God, she's like, oh my God, someone's trying to hurt me.

0:36:34
And I'm like, yeah, yeah, yeah.

0:36:35
But this school is a dojo. In a dojo, someone trying to punch you in the face is not a problem. It's an everyday experience. So we develop ourselves, not like we're always like, oh my God, we're in a scary fight. No, everything is like, I'm developing myself. We're working on this. So the occultism of the ST1s is garbage. And Rama always said this. He's like, if you are a martial artist, it's much stronger than the occult, wimpy, scary, blah blah blah people. So this is a school where I run it much more like a dojo. We don't have to be afraid in the fight and all scary and boop boop boop boop boop. We are martial artists in this in this practice and so when the weird scary occult shit comes up, you punch it. Or it punches you, but you're like it's just a fight. You can fight someone who does karate. You can fight someone who does Jumanji.

0:38:07
Someone does origami.

0:38:08
You know, like, whatever. It's like, if you're trained in a dojo, it's like, yeah, there's always difficulty. There's always learning through fighting someone who's trying to punch you, learning your blocks, learning your punches, your kicks. That's what we do. So, someone's trying to punch you in the face, I'm like, I'm not afraid of that. That's what we do all day. That's what every moment is. That's what every moment Bodhi Sita practice is. So, don't trip out. So the thing is, like, other teachers might trip out about different things. It might be this, oh my god, horrible thing. And I'm like, okay, so?

0:38:53
So what?

0:38:54
So I would say, you know, you know, and if I go into their school and talk to their students, and I'll talk about things in my way, their students will be all like, whoa, that's super weird, it might not work for them. That's why I don't go into other people's schools and tell them different things. When I go into another person's school, I always tell them, I always see what their teacher is teaching and I always support it. I'm like, whatever, I just support it. Support what they do. Any dharma that I see for them, I try to make their school stronger and more helpful. I don't say what I really think is the most powerful way to development because it takes a while, right? Getting a black belt takes some time. So, bloody weirdos are failing on the lesson number two

0:39:51
which is don't stop at anything.

0:39:54
You are stopping at seeking. You're stopping at thinking that you don't have enough, that you got to get it from somewhere else. So don't do that. This is the point where, I mean, we're all friends. Anything that I can do to like say, hey, become enlightened, I'll do it. Anything that you can do to show enlightenment for another, or for the sangha, or for me, I'm happy about it. So it's like, we're here to be enlightened, and enlightenment isn't seeking in my teaching. It's getting really down to it for yourself. It's not seeking in another person's teaching. You can't be like, oh, I missed something so I got to get it from somebody else's teaching or my aunt's teaching or somebody's teaching, I don't know, anyone's teaching. This is the time you don't need any more teaching. And this is why the teacher-student relationship is, it just comes down to being in a league of enlightenment, being in a sangha, being in a fellowship where we all seek liberation. We all get higher. And in every amazing way. Everybody has thousands of amazing ways of expressing life. And so, you know, I've realized enlightenment and I have my enlightened city. all of you become enlightened, then there will be many cities. There will be many expressions of enlightenment that we all can gain from. So don't stop as a seeker. Don't be like, oh I need to get something from, I need to get another teaching from somebody because I don't get it. I need to get another teaching from some other enlightened teacher. I don't know. Just throw all that out. That's all seeking mind. That's a place where you say, I am not good enough. You have enough. So this is a place where you have to accept that you can be enlightened. Don't stop at anything. And don't detour yourself on chasing and seeking. Drop it and find. Find it. Find it here and now. Right in this moment. Okay. So, the cool thing is, that I started off with, is that I am able to do transmissions over Zoom. I remember after the Kala Chakra Empowerment with Rama, Rama talked about, oh there's lots of advanced teachings. And I was like, oh cool, I want to get them. And then we would have these really cool, you know, thought songs with him. And he was doing transmissions, advanced teachings, ever since the Kala Chakra teaching. And we thought they were very kind of normal meditation seminars. And he was doing the advanced teaching. And it's very subtle.

0:44:19
It's very subtle.

0:44:22
It's very subtle, but it's very powerful.

0:44:27
Yeah, so we're like, I remember there was this one,

0:44:29
see this is just a distraction. There's this one meeting where there was this gal, I think her name was Tiffany or Taffy, maybe not Taffy, anyway, Peggy? I don't know. Anyway, she had blonde curly hair and she was a grand, wonderful gal. Anyway, she was like, she had some trouble and difficulties and she's all rava and really... like he asked her questions that after and this was like maybe two months after the report. Everybody got the Kala Chakra empowerment. And she's like, I'm still struggling and thinking and it's hardship and stuff. And then Rama just listened. It was like, okay, okay. And then when she was done with all their complaints, he said, do the Kala Chakra meditation. He's like, that is the most powerful thing. That's the thing that's going to bring you out of all of this dissatisfaction, suffering, and self. And we're like, Interesting. He's not wrong. There, I did it. See, a little distraction, the truth. So you don't have to look for anything else. You don't need another teaching from me and my transmissions are just additional stuff. So you're like, enlightenment is the main thing and then having a little bit of like more dreaming attention or something like that or better powers for teaching people or better powers for doing yoga. Those are nice. But the most important thing is enlightenment. Your enlightenment. And when things are sideways or difficult or hard, then don't give up. Believe that you can be enlightened. Don't stop on anything. Don't go off into, I gotta find another book, teacher, teaching, idea. Just take, just where you're at. Find enlightenment where you're at. It doesn't take a lot of time actually. It takes just being real. That's a, it's a very deep thing. It's kind of hard to describe. But having recognition of your mind, of your condition, of your awareness, being real, letting go of doubts that you can't be enlightened, letting go of the need for finding out more, be where you're at. Because where you're at is now. And where you're at is where your consciousness is. Where you are conscious now. Be there. Accept it. There's nothing wrong with it. There's nothing else to seek. When you can be conscious now, that's where enlightenment is. And I would like to thank you and say kam sami da. Go and be enlightened and stop being all bollocks. Don't be so ridiculous. Chill out. Have some compassion. Go and be enlightened and stop being all bollocks. Don't be so ridiculous. Chill out. Have some compassion. And you know, go have yourself, go figure yourself out. Okay. Thank you all 감사합니다 till next time




Transcribed with Cockatoo
