0:00:00
Welcome. I just gotta mention another thing about all these gurus. Gurus are tricky. It's their whole job to trick you. Read the Mahabharata. Learn about Krishna. He's tricky. He's like, guess what's over there? Enlightenment! No? Okay. But, um, enlightened teachers, as I was saying, they have to trick you. They have to get around your ego. Because the ego life. It blocks reality. The ego holds everything into a tight awareness, and if everything's in here, you know, oh, this is what it's about. That's what ego does. So then, and then there's The teacher has to kind of like negotiate that with you. Now is a very interesting time. The solstice is a very, very powerful time. The time that I call it, you know, the time of Kali or time of blue Tara, a time of great wrathful energy. And it happened on the Solstice, but it didn't stop. So we're entering into a time, a difficult age, I guess. And that's where an enlightened teacher might give you a hard time, might push you more, have more demands, act weird and crazy, or do... I don't they do, but whatever they do, it's for your enlightenment. Even though you might not get it. You know, so, Taylor's going to come up very soon, but one of the things I hear from Taylor and Shannon's students, they're like, we didn't know how good we had it. We didn't know, like, you know, it was intense and all these teachings and all these things that were great and things that confronted our egos, and we just didn't know how good we had it. They had it good, perfect, the best. So this is a time, a very interesting time. And I know what I'm doing. You don't. You don't know what I'm doing. You're never going to catch up to me. I mean, maybe you will. Hopefully you will. But, like, no, I know what's going on. And things are intense. And also, I go through very interesting intensities. So, I'm just gonna tell you guys something. It's very, yeah.

0:03:48
So this isn't the whole sangha,

0:03:50
this is just the best sangha. Just kidding. Everyone's good, but I'm gonna tell you something. It's very tantric. So my teacher early on, he said, what is ecstasy to you guys? World. He said, for most people, ecstasy is an orgasm. And then he made this joke, he's like, so for most of you, ecstasy is squirt, squirt. And then he goes, but imagine if there was a spiritual orgasm that was, let's say, just ten times more intense. And also, what if it lasted, let's just say, ten times longer? After a while, that ecstasy is pretty bigger than most people want to handle. I thought that was pretty funny. It's true. In the higher meditative states, there is ecstasy that is out of the body, beyond the physical realm, and it goes into the subtle physical, and it goes beyond the subtle physical to the higher astral, and then even into the causal. It's a tremendous ecstasy. It's called Samadhi, Salva Cappa Samadhi. And that's a place where there's the reconciliation of opposites. Yin and Yang become one. You go beyond self and you experience the quintessential energy of existence. You are the Kundalini. It's a meditative state that we work on, we practice on, we practice it. So when we're talking about these experiences, I'm higher than a ladder. I'm higher than an elevator. Like what goes up? I'm higher than that. In my meditative consciousness. So, Shannon was someone who existed in a meditative, enlightened state all the time, in energies, dimensions, power, And, you know, and just for a student, he gave them so much love and so much support and all this magic that was part of his being. And also, enlightened beings sometimes are just like, what good are you? They're just forces of nature. Sometimes an enlightened being just goes away. You can come over to them and say, Master, tell me something. You know, I wanted to do this thing at work, and what do I do? And the teacher just goes, nothing. There may be something you don't want to hear. So, what happens to you? I mean, that's part of it. I mean, I do that. And for my newer students, the ST5s, I've been very polite with you, very structured. You might not understand, but I'm the real deal. And I give you koans. I give you koans. I'm a koan. Like Kundli. Or my teacher Rama.

0:08:53
Or Shannon.

0:08:54
So if I bother you, get bothered and figure it out and be covenant-linked. So Shannon was one of these great teachers who, he had structure, magic, he was very, very, very, very mystical. And some of you guys know Agni Kala. He was like, Agni Kala took us to the desert overnight, and I was like, oh my gosh, this is crazy,

0:09:25
we shouldn't do that.

0:09:26
And then Shannon would take his students to the desert for like four nights. I'm like, wow. And it shows in them, they just, I mean, for them to be able to go through that with their teacher, wow. Amazing. That's like four days of standing and horse. Come to my martial arts class, the staff is telling me to keep it up.

0:09:51
Four days.

0:09:52
It's true.

0:09:55
It's like unheard of. Even my teacher wouldn't do that with people. So for him to be able to pull that off in his students' experience, that was just the best out of his life. So this time of the care, respect, and honor for the Roo, if you guys don't know Shannon, then better check yourself. And then for those that do know Shannon, Better check yourself. And then for those that don't know Shannon, this one is dedicated to Shannon. His enlightened energy is just all over the place. Very prevalent. And it's within his students, it's coming through them. So that's the thing, like teachings, they were with him, and then he went away. But you didn't lose your connection. Did you lose the truth that your teacher gave you? No, of course not. And actually, it becomes stronger. If you don't give up on it, it becomes stronger. So, you guys are doing a good job. And just like me, I got to say, I got a guru, right? And my energy gets stronger because of my connection with them. And it's just one of those things that works out in mysticism and enlightenment and stuff, right? Spirituality. It's one of those structures. So you guys have been doing a good job. And now, maybe this is your time,

0:11:41
because Shannon's energy is so strong within you,

0:11:45
and it's so beautiful,

0:11:46
and Taylor's gonna give us a teaching to help. But I also have to say this.

0:11:52
Shannon is one of the most magical

0:11:55
and most fantastic enlightened teachers I've ever seen. Now including great masters I met in India and everything. He's just, he's magical and special and great. And he gave, I think like 110% to his students. I mean that's overall. He gave all, and then more than all.

0:12:19
And you guys know that.

0:12:20
I like that, that's good.

0:12:22
That's why it's so powerful, right?

0:12:24
That's why it's so powerful, right?

0:12:51
That's why you recognize that? So powerful. But, enlightened people are also, what do we call it, a little bit psychically sensitive. And we're in this extremely crazy world. Extremely crazy. And so, to work with a student is a big deal. Big, big deal. Because an enlightened teacher doesn't just work with a student at a, hey I'm going to tell you, here's four noble truths. Here's the Eightfold Path. When they tell you that, they do what Buddha did, which is they give you the understanding. They transmit, they put their whole heart into the teaching. When Buddha first taught the Four Noble Truths, he taught it to five guides who were meditating to be hung out with. He became enlightened, he came over and said, here's the middle path, four noble truths. And then all five of them became enlightened. And then everybody, every Buddhist monk around the world could read the same things, because it was a famous story. And guess who becomes enlightened? No one. You know why you become enlightened? Because Buddha put his heart into his teachings. That's where enlightenment comes from. It comes from enlightened consciousness and awareness. It's not just words. Words become concepts. Words become words. He transmitted truth from his heart. But that's not an easy thing to do. Now, my teacher, who was an esoteric transmission teacher, he told us, he gave us the same advanced teachings I give all my students, and I also warn them the same thing. I'm like, become enlightened, please. And I don't recommend teaching. Maybe you can teach in a certain way. Write a book, do a blog, tweet, or something like that, right? But to be a transmission teacher, to be the teacher who connects and actually does And actually, the greatest power of teaching in Buddhist mysticism is a bunch of Siddha powers that I teach my students, but I don't recommend that they do it, because then they've done that. Wait, I will do that. But it's also not recommended. Shannon did that. He put it all in for his students. Remember I had this assignment about gratitude and compassion? It's beautiful.

0:16:25
Just expression of gratitude for his teacher.

0:16:29
So that's the right thing for this time. But um, all right, all right, sorry. Alright, alright. Sorry. But a teacher, like, who gives all, Jesus gave all, and he ended up dead! Rama gave all and he ended up dead! Esoteric teachers, they tend not to live that long, usually. So, or they gotta stop. So, Shannon gave it all. And then he's like, gotta stop, then I die.

0:17:08
And he was right.

0:17:10
And good for him because his spark lives on and his teachings become more powerful. He's like a Bobby-Win-Kenobi. Okay, so I just want to say that his giving was the biggest giving. Full. full, like 100% heart in. And all of Shannon's students need to say, hmm, how is it? What's happened to my life since I met my teacher? That's what this time is. And it empowers you. You don't just have to say, oh, Shannon, you're so good. Because you know what Shannon does? She doesn't give a shit.

0:18:29
And you say, oh, Simpar, I learned how to program.

0:18:32
Well, yeah, I give a shit. Program.

0:18:34
You know, Guru Paruna,

0:18:36
Parina.

0:18:37
Guru Parinagotu.

0:18:38
Purina Godfood. My Sanskrit is only so-so. Don't worry, Rob's gonna teach me. But this is a period of time not to just sit there and go, Guru, you're a god! Because actually, this is what I'm pointing out, gurus are weirdos. They are! I love to say, you know how many people are freaks? Jesus Christ went into

0:19:19
the desert for 40 days. He's all like, I'm going to the desert.

0:19:43
What about food?

0:19:46
Jesus went out in the desert. Shannon went out in the desert. And I put you through that fucking wall. I hope you guys get this joke. This is my koan to you. It's a really stupid koan. But it's just something that's funny to me.

0:20:06
So...

0:20:08
No, no, but this is important. Shannon is a great, enlightened teacher. And we're going to hear from one of the students, but all of the students, like, there's Shannon. I don't know where you guys are, where Shannon is, but Shannon's power is teaching this sangha. And it's because you're here. And it's because Shannon's Shannon. Shannon, and we're just very fortunate. So we're going to do a little talk where Taylor introduces Shannon and his experiences. And I'm not trying to build it up. I just have a great respect for this great teacher. What he's done, just amazing things. And I know, I know. And then afterwards, after he gives an introduction about Shannon, we're gonna do some questions and answers. So if you have, you know, you can listen to him or to my amusements. But then, if you have any questions, say, hey, you know, Taylor, what do you think about this? Like, what did Shannon do?

0:21:50
How was it with him?

0:21:51
Did he tell any good jokes? Or whatever. But, we'll have some time for that too. So this is a very important time. A very powerful time for Shannon's students. And Shannon's students are bringing a beautiful Dharma to us. But also it's a time where, listen, and don't ask stupid questions. But if there's a question from your heart, then ask. Okay, thank you. And we're gonna go on to Taylor. Thank you so much. Yes, all right, aha.

0:22:37
Hi everyone, my name is Taylor.

0:22:39
Thank you, Sombara, for the wonderful introduction. I have not been able to stop laughing over the past 15 minutes. I don't know what else to just say since you guys already got such a awesome, enlightened insight and perspective about Shannon. So I'm gonna do my best to just speak from my heart and tell you a little bit about the time that we got to spend with him and the teachings that he passed on. So Shannon, he liked to make fun of himself and he liked to make fun of us. He often referred to himself as the enlightened bobblehead, where he would just sit there while we're like trying to be super spiritual and start meditating. And Hugh just sits there and just like

0:23:41
bounces his head back and forth

0:23:42
and just blasting light out the whole time. He taught us how to make a pizza that took six, seven, eight hours to prepare, you know, down to the finest minute detail. He taught us the refinement of life, the beauty that exists when ultimate insight and mindfulness is applied. Like the sparkling water, this was a whole teaching in and of itself. He really wanted to share not just the teachings that Rama gave to him, but something that would be able to uniquely help each and every single one of us on an individual level. As Sambhar has stated, that teaching just continues to get more and more powerful. I've recently been listening to some of the songs that he would play and you know, he introduced us to Zazen and you know, some of the music and but he would also play like Metallica and Rob Zombie and Rush and just like these like not even like these like not spiritual songs, right? But if you, he always matched them with a teaching. And if you really felt into it, you could feel the teaching manifest through the song. Little things like that, you know, we were a group of misfit mystics, and Shannon was He taught us about the path to enlightenment is the tortoise versus the hare. Now it's not about how fast you go because you'll burn yourself out, but taking each and every step with mindful presence. The desert journeys you heard about, the group had already been in study for about six months by the time I joined. And so when I finally joined, and they're like, oh, we're gonna go to the desert, it's gonna be great. And I'm like, okay, I don't know what this means, but we're going to the desert. My first time out there with the group, we were there for three days, three nights. And that totally shattered my perception of reality in a completely different way. You know, he would point to the stars and be like, pick one you like, and then you just make all of them disappear except this one and it would just start moving around and dancing. He would get us to invoke Kali and taught us how to cringe and how to swing, and we had no idea what we were in for. He's like, all right, we're going to go to class and then we're going to, we're going to, we'd go straight from the desert to a class. So in the desert for like a night or two nights being up for 10, 12 hours, go back to LA and then we'd have like a six hour class. And this, just this style of his teaching, we didn't really know what was happening. And you hear Rama talk about, and Sombara talk about Mr. Toad's wild ride. Looking back, Shannon's program, his teachings, was like all of Disneyland and Star Wars and Star Trek and the Castaneda series, and all of that packed into a two-hour feature where you're just like like you're not even able to hold on. You don't know what's happening. Every moment you think you've experienced more light or you have seen the truth of reality it just is it's shattered. It's gone. He was an embodiment of Shiva and while he liked to kick our ass, he would make fun of us, he would make some of us cry, you know, and then after he'd make us cry, he would come over and he would tell someone else to leave meditation and he would just come over and hug that person while they're crying over what he just made them cry about. Nothing made sense with him and that just started to become a normalcy in a way to where we didn't know how good we had it just like Sombara said and it was it was about a year and a half it was I don't know maybe six months after the advanced teachings where he's like all right it's your time to teach. And it was different and difficult at first, but I know now that especially after engaging with all of you in the Sangha, that he could not have better prepared us more to walk the path of the infinite. There was no time, no teaching, no moment of being with him in meditation, in class, in the desert, where he did not put his absolute all, his heart, his light, his being, his physical, mental, spiritual energy and life force into the teaching. And it took me years to really see what that actually felt like. So we talk about these things like Karma Yoga and we talk about selfless action, selfless giving. And it was at the end of March, beginning of April, where one of the other students and I were talking on the phone and we were kind of recapitulating you know our time with Shannon and you know the time with the Sangha and Sambara. And one of the teachings that we had just kind of went through was the Karma Yoga teaching. And the transmission that Ajahn gave in that teaching was so so clear and so palpable of what karma yoga feels like on such a subtle and beautiful level. And it made me realize on the table. To the point where you would see him physically start to deteriorate after class. And if you had questions, he would answer them. I remember one time in San Diego, very hot day, we were meeting, and he rented a business room at some hotel in La Jolla. And I had so many questions about all these projects, GARMA projects that we were supposed to be starting and doing, and my car was parked right next to his, and I kept having one more question, one more question. And I noticed, I saw that his face on one side would slowly start drooping and getting very discolored. And he was like, I would love to answer more of your questions, but it's only the energy of enlightenment that's holding me together right now. I have to go. And it was the experiences like that that really stood for me and for our group to show what it really means to be a vessel for light and power and clarity and truth to shine through with no miscombobulations of self. He once said that he was an embodiment of Shiva and that's what his energy and his template represented. And he displayed that time and time again, destroying the illusion after Ahamkara, after created self that any of us ever had. He did it through magic. He did it through meditation. He did it through cooking. One of my favorite lessons that I hope I'll get to share with you all at some point is the Zen of opening a coconut. We're making our pizzas and it's a vegan pizza, so the cheese is all made out of coconut meat. And so I'm like cracking all these coconuts open, and I'm doing it like very unmindfully, like water splashing everywhere, like making lots of noise. And I start scooping all the meat out, and he runs over and he's like, what are you doing? And I've like never seen so much terror in someone's face with like when you're in a kitchen before. And I was like, I was just opening the coconuts. He's like, no, you're doing it all wrong. It's going to ruin everything. I didn't know there was a wrong way to open a coconut. And he just walked away and then he came back saying, it's just a dream, it's just a dream. And that, that whatever he did in that look stuck with me, and in that, in that style of teaching. So, something that I would really encourage is not just look to what the teachings are being presented in the satsangs, in the meditations, in the transmissions, but look at all the things that aren't being said. That's really where, that's really where I find the personality of enlightenment expresses itself, as in what's not said. So Shannon, the great enlightened bobblehead, was the epitome and expression of karma yoga. Who left nothing on the table. There was not, I don't think there was a single teaching he could have given us after all that time. And even now, just as Ajahn said, it just, it continues to unfold. I listened to one of the songs and I remember a specific thing that he talked about that was like super confusing to me at the time and it just like makes you laugh. And so I really encourage all of you to really take this time to look at the things that you have learned in the Sangha, the things that you have learned from your teacher, and really take them to heart. And if there is areas of your practice in your life that are less than impeccable to really ask yourself, what has my teacher showed me about this area that can bring me to the next level? Because it's there, if you ask for the teaching, it will come. And that's the scariest thing sometimes. That is the most terrifying thing. You get what you pay for. And payment is life here on earth. So, yeah, I don't know if there's any... what else I can say about him. He's fully present, fully shining, you know, he loves everyone. I believe that he's fully aware of all of you. I don't think you can have a connection to this lineage and not inherently have a connection to everyone on the family tree. So that was my, that was the big takeaway was that he was the full embodiment of Karma Yoga not just in action but in inaction and in selfless giving. He demonstrated that and so I'm very thankful to Ajan for allowing me and my contemporaries, our other students, to come and share time with you guys and be a part of this sangha and offer ourselves to the lineage, to the tradition. If we have time for some questions, I can do a couple questions here. I don't know how you want to moderate that. Until the first question, until the questions start coming in, something I did want to share was can you tell us a story of how you met Rama? I've not, no, okay, there we go, that makes sense. Oh, cool, awesome. Can you just look, okay. First question is can you tell us a story about how you met, I assume you mean Shannon. It says Rama on there, but that was different. I met Shannon in 2016 and I was studying with me and everyone who later became a part of Shannon's program were all studying with his very first student and she was teaching in Los Angeles in West LA and she had a beautiful ability to bring you into beautiful, beautiful realms of light. Some of the highest causal realms that I was able to experience before Shannon was directly in her class. And she has a beautiful heart to share the power of mysticism through that. So we were a part of her class and her programs and I had gone out of town so I missed you know a class and so she invited me to her apartment to have a makeup class and We are sitting there and we were meditating and Shannon walks in the door and she goes Oh Shannon. This is Taylor. He's one of my students He really likes light and he's into alchemy and you know and mysticism and all that stuff. And he just looks at me and kind of like blankly glares and just goes, sweet. And then just completely ignores me and walks away. And she told me Shannon was enlightened and I didn't really have a reference point for that whatsoever. I didn't really know what that meant. I was just like, if there's light in there, let's just keep sitting here, this is beautiful. And I went and studied with another teacher from the Toltec tradition, if you're familiar with the Casting Native series, from that tradition directly. And so I was away, I was doing my foreign exchange time with that teacher for about a year and then some of the other students started telling me that Shannon was having classes and that I should come check it out and I kind of resisted it for like four months five months I was like no I already got a liberated teacher you know we're doing cool shamanic stuff I don't know what you know we're going to light what's what And I went to class and there was a specific moment where I was questioning, I was kind of testing him. And I used to be, I was an asshole. I was such a smartass. And I was testing him because I wanted to see if he was actually legit or not because I heard so much hype about him. And we got done meditating, it was bright, I asked him a question and he looked me straight in the eye and he said, quit trying to explain everything with your fucking mind. And it was at that moment that the world went into this vortex and like had this collision experience of just like totality. And it had triggered all these memories of dreams that I had had with him for the past six months. And what he said to me was the exact same thing he had said in a dream months earlier. And that was how I knew that he was my teacher beyond any teacher that I could meet. So I joined the program a couple weeks later. It was called Lightline. And that's where all of us came from. So that's how I met Shannon. That was the first experience, the first Darshan as well. It was very different, you know, the teacher, the two teachers I was studying with before were bringing us into light through an open-eyed transmission, but the light that Shannon shared, It had infinite and eternal dimensions and angles and qualities to it that you could just focus on a single moment of the meditation and you could find infinite eternity just flowing through it. But the overall meditation in and of itself was something very specific. So it was like, it was the teaching in itself. Can I tell you about the magics he did in the desert? Yes. The magics he did in the desert, he really liked playing with the stars. He said that our group had a good relationship with the heavenly planets and the constellations. He, you know, he would make them disappear. He would hold the moon in place all night. When he gave us the advanced teachings, he gave us one-on-one transmissions that took 10-15 minutes and there was 12-15 of us. So we're doing this thing for, you know, two hours and he held the moon around so it would be like right here and it would start kind of making this kind of like spotlight tracing the desert. He would summon the elements. He would introduce us to the guardians in different ways, the animal guardians, the non-physical guardians. When he taught us how to cringe and to swing, he completely changed the world that we existed in at that moment. The entire canyon walls restructured themselves and we were in a different location in space time from there going forward. the most tangible to me was seeing the canyon wall dissolve and restructure itself in a completely different way. The magic about this one place in the desert that he took us to was that it was never the same. It was constantly changing. You would walk the same path, you'd park in the same spot, and the curves and the windingness of this canyon were different every time but you would find the same energetic spot where you would sit or where we were or had empowerments there things like that that was one of his favorite spots to take us to but that transition of space-time was incredible there's this one time he split a planet in two and these these two fairies came out and and then as he was playing with those two fairies there is a rip in the fabric of reality and it was a rip in the fabric of space-time and it just went it just cut across the sky. And he was like, all right, no more. That's it. That's it. And he was like, if you ever, you know, if you ever figure out how to do any of this and reality starts ripping in front of you, that means it's time to stop. He would sometimes, he would sometimes start talking about the different allies that he had and they would appear in different forms. They would come tap you on the shoulder, something fun like that. He was very playful but very serious. He could be wrathful. If you were doing something in the desert that you were not supposed to be doing, he would let you know. You mentioned summoning Kali and of Lakshmi. This is something that his teacher had taught him and he said when he did this his career and his life changed forever. And so he said that you should only do it once every year, year and a half if you're gonna invoke Kali and that you should be invoking Lakshmi every day after that to balance it out. He had us invoking Kali on like a bi-weekly basis for probably about three months. We'd go out into the desert and he'd be like, alright, let's see if you, how well you do this time. So this kind of like self-destructive path to enlightenment, this, I wish I'd say self-destructive. This egoic destructive path to enlightenment. He was all about it. Sometimes, and you couldn't hold on, you'd just be holding on for dear life. And he knew if you were at a breaking point and he would give you extra love and extra light to help together. I remember there was times where it looked like some people were on the borderline of an existential break and he would just give them a simple hug or just offer them – he would offer us like cookies in the middle of the desert. He ate mostly raw vegan and he would bring us like popcorn and cookies out into the desert. Or he would empower little objects like hand warmers and he would give them to us and that would carry extra energy that we needed for that night.

0:47:23
One of the other students lost

0:47:26
or gave away their hand warmer. And that student ended up getting a scratch across the eye by a rogue twig, he called it. And he walked up to him and he says, where's your hand warmer? He's like, oh, I gave it away. He goes, because anytime an enlightened person gives you something, don't give it away. And, you know, just little teachings like that. Yeah. Did he talk about Rama's teachings? Absolutely. His, Shannon's core teachings were focused in Rama's teachings. He taught cosmopolitan spirituality as he called it and he showed us how Rama was one of the first teachers in the West to really unify all of these different paths and traditions like Parma yoga, Yama yoga, Bhakti yoga, the Toltec traditions of stalking power, being inaccessible, and kind of unifying all of those things into one, Zen, Buddhism. So Shannon had very much that same exact approach. He encouraged us to listen to all of the Rama talks. He would talk to us about different teachings that Rama gave him, little things like that. So everything that he taught was in emanation and was his experience and perspective of those teachings. He really respected a certain level of individuality and the reason why he taught cosmopolitan spirituality was so when we started when we start teaching or started teaching that we would be able to offer something of the teachings to them that would work for them. So he often made a reference to how in this modern new age spiritual ecosystem, there's some people that only follow the path of like a specific type of Buddhism or Taoism something like that. And so he taught that a majority of those paths while they were enlightened paths they were initiated at a time in the world that uniquely spoke to that culture and that people's perspective and world view. And And so he taught us a little bit of a lot from all of those different paths. And always said if you're getting, if you feel stuck, you know, push harder or take up a new teaching to, and find the parallels of those, of those paths. Mainly so that when we teach in the West or when we learn from this Western perspective, you know, a lot of those cultural things that are inlaid in the tradition, they're not relevant anymore to what's going on in our society. And so we take the brightest and the most powerful things from that, and we integrate that into our own practice. So it's cosmopolitan in nature because we're studying every tradition that leads to enlightenment. He once sat there and said, if there be enlightenment, there I be. And that became kind of the like calling card for it. You know, if there's enlightenment, study it. It doesn't matter what form. So I think it's I think it's pretty pertinent to people who are on a spiritual path and have an enlightened teacher, whether they're present or not, to really look for the truth that is coming through the teaching. And know that even if your teacher isn't there in person, enlightenment will put teachers or situations or teachings in front of you to help you advance. It can't not. You only just, I think maybe it wouldn't if you just like stopped deciding you want to be enlightened. I think at that point it would catch up to you at some point too. If there's enlightenment and if you're seeking, you'll find it. So you talk about Romans 2, what was an aspect of Shannon that you treasure more.

0:52:01
Oh man.

0:52:02
For me, the things that really, like really, I guess you could say bought me in to it, was initially it was the light and it was the power. And it was the demonstration of mysticism. And after about six months of that, after about six months of that, the biggest quality that I treasure is the impeccability in the heart that he brought to every interaction. Whether that was in a dream with you, whether or any experience you had with him, he fully gave of himself to it. Now, as I kind of spoke to earlier, he opened his heart up in such a way that the suffering that we would experience as a group, he would feel that, and he would help clear that karma for us. He would help process it. And so, I think that is the biggest thing that I have been able to learn, you know, in the grander scheme of things, is that if you're really going to teach anything, be willing to take the place of their suffering for it. It sounds kind of Christian in nature, but I don't think it really has to be. But be willing to give so much of yourself that it hurts. Because ultimately it's not about you. It's not about the pain you experience. It's about what kind of suffering you can alleviate from those who choose to learn from you or those that eternity puts in front of you or just the world at large. And so he was the ultimate demonstration of servant leader and what servant leadership looks like on every level, mystical and mundane. So I think that's all the time that we have for now. So thank you everyone. It was an honor and a pleasure to be able to share this with you.

0:54:18
Thank you so much. That was just so beautiful. Perfect. Perfect teaching, perfect sharing, perfect yoga, perfect teacher. I mean where does Dharma happen like that? Where's perfection? It happens from perfection. Thank you so much. I'm gonna tell a story, because I like telling stories. But it's a story about a time where I was with Shannon. Not back in 1993, I think it was kind of like the 12th century in India. We were Buddhist monks and we had, this was the time where Buddhist monks started to have ashrams and monasteries, because Buddha didn't have any of them. But we did. After a while they were like, hey, we've got to get together. And then in the 12th century there was a powerful Hindu king who said, I'm into, you know, my Hindu gods and what is this Buddhism? I'm going to squash it!

0:55:50
I'm going to put it through the fucking wall!

0:55:53
You guys got to look that up. You don't get it? But anyway, so that Hindu king put us through the wall. with the mall. And then, so basically what happened was they destroyed the Buddhist monasteries. Buddhism ended in a huge degree in the 12th century.

0:56:17
And then, you know, that was cool.

0:56:21
But what happened to the remainders of us. Some of us ran away because the Hindu king sent an army to the biggest ashram of Buddhism. And what do you think the Buddhists did? Yeah, we kicked their ass! We put them through that fucking wall! Come on. You gotta learn this. This is my It's the silliest plan. Totally silly. Figure it out. And then the eldest leader of the monastery, some of us ran away. I was there. I was there. I mean, like, if I had a past And then I would say, you don't believe in reincarnation? Pretend it's a dream. Okay, but then Shannon was like the leader of the monastery, the Elvis Lonc, the Lama, the Rinpoche, the Grand Puba. And we got out of the monastery because we knew they were coming and they killed lots of monks and stuff like that. And so we were like, oh, they're coming towards our main monastery and we don't know any Kung Fu. So let's get out of here. They destroyed it, took it over, they Hindu'd it, which is cool. I respect them too. them to. And then we're like, Shannon, what do we do? What do we do? Like, our whole way of life as monks is over. And then Shannon was like, that's cool. Guess what? In India, Hindu problem. But he said, Buddhism has been growing for the past thousand years, sorry, two hundred years, in like the Himalayas. It's like, we are going to go. We're going to go. From India, just like Marpa did, Marpa did it before us. We're going to follow a marker. We're going to go up there. And we're like, whoa, it's warm here. It's cold up there. We're Indians. And he was like, you guys are all sleepy anyway. He's like, let's go. So he took a contingency. This is just from my past memories, but I guarantee it's written in some history somewhere too. And we hiked out of Bodh Gaya, the place where Buddha supposedly became enlightened, or whatever, and we went up those mountains. We hiked up from kind of, you know, a little bit northern India. And we hiked, hiked, hiked, hiked, hiked. And we went and we went and we went and we went. And then finally we came to Nepal. In Nepal we came to a Buddhist ashram. And then we got there and we're like, You're Buddhist! I mean, different than us, because you guys have the bone religion and the Padmasambhava. But, we're Buddhists, and they're like, we love you, come in. And we had, you know, like, dinner. And then Shannon was like, not enough! He's like, there's an enlightened master somewhere else, we've got to keep going. And guess what we did? We walked around all of the Himalayas. Sikkim, Bhutan, Nepal,

1:00:36
what's the other place?

1:00:37
Tibet, yeah.

1:00:39
We went around all of them, and guess what? It wasn't about a place to get. It was about the journey. And it took us a long time to figure it out. But we were just going, doing, hiking, and Taylor was there.

1:01:03
Yeah.

1:01:04
And I was there.

1:01:05
And Michael, what are you doing to me?

1:01:08
I don't want to keep hiking.

1:01:10
Hiking across the frickin' Himalayas. Yeah, and do you know why he did it?

1:01:20
Because it was enlightening.

1:01:23
I mean, it was enlightening.

1:01:25
And you gotta go through some hard things sometimes. You gotta do some word stuff. You gotta do some hard trials. If you can't do a hard trial, get out of here. You know, everything, like this wonderful amazing testament to his guru was about magic and a hard trial and difficult things. And I'm like, oh, I remember going through that with you. Back in that thing where we went from India to that, and then we ended up, I guess, just dying at the end. But, I mean, what are you gonna do? You're gonna die at the end anyway. I don't know, but maybe lots of people became enlightened. All the power that Taylor was able to share is because of things that he's been through with this great teacher. So there's only one other little And this is a story that's happening now. It's the Kung Fu nuns of Nepal.

1:02:53
Any of you hear about that?

1:02:54
Yeah, you did? Good, because Vidya, one of my great students, sent me this link to an NPR show about this, and I didn't know about this before. Because actually, I created the first freaking Kung Fu school in Nepal. I did. I did. But, they're better. And I left. It's very difficult. But I was in Nepal in 1999, 98, 99, and I created a Buddhist monastery. I did martial arts, like I teach you guys martial arts. And I got dozens of kids who were street kids, got them off the streets, into a place where I provided for them and also taught some martial arts and meditation. I don't know, it's just what I did. But then there's this thing, this one Rinpoche from Bhutan who was in Nepal, to a nunnery. And most nunneries are lower than monasteries. They have, they just, just a cultural thing. They stop teaching them, advancing. So there's this one powerful teaching, it's called the Maha Mudra. And then this, this, this master, a Rinpoche, from Bhutan, he's like, you know what, I'm going to nunnery, he's like, you guys are good, I'm going to teach you this advanced teaching that should bring enlightenment. And then he did it, and then guess what happened? The local monks We don't like that you're teaching her the things that we're learning, because shouldn't we learn it first? And if they're spiritual women, then maybe they should just get enlightened and then be reborn as a man. No, this is the way out. And then so what started happening was Buddhists would come over to the women and say,

1:05:40
I can't believe you're learning this advanced enlightenment teaching

1:05:45
because you're a woman.

1:05:48
And then they were all like, well, this teacher, this great teacher is teaching us this. And then they're all, they don't like it. So they start getting mad and start pushing them. Buddhist Gita. And then this guy was like, hmm, now he's from Bhutan. And then he says, you know what, what did Bodhidharma do? Kung Fu. So

1:06:35
somehow he networked this nunnery with a Kung Fu teacher and they learned Kung Fu.

1:06:49
And then guess what?

1:06:50
Kung Fu girls, these girls, and they hold swords.

1:06:54
Original Shaolin, they had sticks. They're like, yeah, we can have sticks, but maybe not swords.

1:07:06
But now it's like, we can have swords.

1:07:09
And guns.

1:07:10
Is this American? Well, oh wait, no, it's not America. There's no American gun.

1:07:15
So, this is an amazing thing.

1:07:20
It's a great teacher. Like Shannon, this guy, this is a rimpushe from Bhutan. And he came over and he created this empowerment of spirituality first. And then when they got pushed back, Kung Fu! And they're like Shaolin monks. They meditate two and a half hours in the morning, and they do Kung Fu. And guess what? Now you want to, ten years later, you want to push this girl and say, you shouldn't do spiritual teaching.

1:08:18
And guess what she's going to do?

1:08:19
She'll push you through that fucking wall! I don't know if you guys get the joke, but it's the funniest thing to me. So great teachers do great things. And they might put you in a fight. They might teach you how to fight. Maybe you were already in a fight. You didn't know you were in a fight. Maybe you just had a thought. You were thinking a thought. They're against the thought. And that's a bother for you because you like a thought. This is what brings you to this special day to have appreciation for gurus. That guru, that Bhutanese Rinpoche, for whatever reason, was like, I've learned something enlightened and I'm going to teach this highly enlightened teaching the Mahamudra to women because I don't see a problem. And guess what? Other people saw a problem. And it became a big fight. And then he made them... So that's what an enlightened teacher does. That's what Shannon did in that past life where Buddhism got destroyed in India. Then he led us out of India. What do you do at a time of powerful transition? Something that's changing. Like we had Buddhism for a long time. It did. I was there when it ended. And it's like, oh, well, now what do we do? So at times of transition, that's where the enlightened teachers show the next way. And Shannon took us to Tibet. And we went on a long exodus, hiking in the mountains and becoming enlightened like crazy. Also, Shannon, when we were sitting there in India, he's just like, you guys suck. You're just in routine monk mind. You're all like, we're monks forever. There's this whole thing of monks and he complained about it and then luckily the Hindus killed us and then we had to run away and there was a you know small band of us, maybe a hundred of us, hiking around the Himalayas following Shannon and he's like we're gonna find an ashram. It's going to be warmer. But he loved it that it was cold. He loved it that it was hard to hike. But he loved it because the monks were awake. They weren't like all, we're used to sort of being intellectuals.

1:11:51
You too, Taylor.

1:11:54
He was kicking your ass the whole time.

1:11:58
It's true.

1:12:00
But he was... In a time of transition, in the hard times, the interesting times, this is what happens. That's where you need to follow. I would follow it in the long future. And it can be easy in hard times. It's not easy. It's going to be difficult. It's going to be hard. But, it's real. And it's the thing, you know, you can look at transitory times. And those are the times where there's great power, spirit, transformation. So, this is one of those times. I'd like you to bring a soft focus to the heart. We're going to play a song. So sometimes I like to play, like a, you know, not a classical meditation song, just a song that I've heard here and there, sometimes from the 50s or the 80s or the 90s, or something like that. We're going to play just a song. But this song, I would say, is very dedicated to Shannon and his students. Because Shannon's students bring Shannon's enlightenment for him. And the world needs that, I would have to say. So this is a great guru. And there's a very powerful second attention teaching from him and through his students. And I guess a little bit through us because we're the beneficiaries of it. His students, too. This is them being strong and helping us. We help them a little bit, too. Hey, let's do some yoga, learn some computer, I don't know, whatever. They're good in all of their ways. But this is Shannon, I guess, giving back and the students are perfect. So we're going to just sit for this weird song, something that used to be a 1990s song. And we're just going to sit and we're going to do eyes closed. closed and just focus on the heart.

1:15:17
And let's begin.

1:15:20
These are days you'll remember Never before and never since I promise Will the whole world be warm and safe And as you feel it, you'll know it's true The hues are less than the breeze It's true The hills are touched by something that'll grow and bloom in you I'll be there for you, baby, I'll be there for you It's true, that you are blessed and lucky It's true, that you are touched by something that's more than you These days you might feel a shadow to lie like Make it quick, accost your day And when you do, then you'll know how it was meant to be Leave your signs with no bare knees, if it's true Then you'll know how it was meant to be It's time to know me again To you, to you so I hope you enjoyed it. Very beautiful. And then homage and a testament. We have to appreciate in the time that we have with the teacher, the opportunity.

1:18:39
I mean like, I would like that. While I was with my teacher, I'm like, he is super intense, very martial arts, sometimes greatest wisdom, sometimes crazy, and everything creates in me a greater wisdom and a deeper meditation, deeper stillness. Even koans that are confusing choosing to bring a deeper stillness. And when I was with him I thought I'd be with him forever. I never thought to bring into it. I'm like, he's only 40, 50, whatever. He's going to live until he's like 84. I'm going to be his student until then, learn And when he was 48, he was gone. And Shannon was this great teacher. So much energy, so much power, so much insight, so much perfect enlightened teachings, and then he's gone at a certain point. He's still alive, but he's not teaching. He's gone. He's doing his own thing. So, to have an enlightened teacher is a very special thing. And even when enlightened teachers do things that are mean to you, they yell at you, they say you're bad, or they act crazy, you don't understand it, then you just don't That's the thing you've got to figure out. It is. Because that's what they do. Even Padmasambhava did stuff that everyone thought was super crazy. And Padmasambhava is the undisputed champ of enlightenment and the beginner or the founder of Tibetan Buddhism. So, you want to go against him with your ego, your idea? He'll put you through. I give a lot of times I talk about self as a wall and that you, the lens is a wall and it's like, that's the wall of self. I call it the Great Wall. So, I've talked about this many times maybe, maybe not to you, but... You need to just do a little Googling to find out my little Zen koan of I will put you through that fucking wall!

1:23:55
Especially the way you say it, I'm just so good at it.

1:23:57
So, there's a lot of different faces of enragement. So we show these wrathful things. You know, We were going through a very powerful, radical experience with this, I call it the Kali time, this solstice that we went through. Very powerful, but it's not just a transit. It's an open door to a different energy, time. We have Americans who are too stupid to stop catching it. And then we've got economic downturn, we have civil unrest, and we also have political differences. And in the minds of Americans. It affects you. It affects you. Even if you think you're not all into that political stuff, or you're just doing your own thing, sitting at home with a mask on, some gloves, good for you! But it affects you. Now, for me, I'm, enlightened beings are psychically sensitive, and these things affect me a lot. And when they affect my students, I feel all of that. And what it does is, you know, it used to be a place where I would have pain. I'd be like, hey, students, you shouldn't be mad. I thought we were friends. Oh, no! I disagree. And then now, when there's intense energy from the world or you, my connection with you is very intense. But it doesn't hurt me anymore. It's not like, you know, since the first cycle, why'd you look at me like that? You know, kind of thing. And I'm like, you look at me with all your anger, because you're all so confused, and I just have more compassion. I have more bodhicitta. It's just bigger! And you can get as mad as you want, and you're going to have bigger bodhicitta. And for me it's like a very, very, very, very is the thing, because I have a strong demonstration of compassion for you. When you get mad, you get confused, this is strong compassion. And it's something that you, you know, on this day of the gurus, you should reflect on that. Say, I've got all this confusion, anger, stuff. And then you go, what is this thing? The Sinbar thing? Figure it out. This is the time to do it. Guaranteed, all of Shannon's students have had a hard time, have had many trials, and have a lot of enlightenment that comes through them because they're advanced powerful students. Enlightenment comes through them and they had hard times with their teacher. Their teacher loved them and gave them a hard time. Shaolin, Zen, usually, hard time. Buddhism, enlightenment, when you're working with an enlightened teacher, listen to that story of Shannon. Just the most beautiful story of light. And also, it's intense! And it's very, very, very mystical. Just amazing. However, you know, you've got to get to the foundations of what these things are. I'm a little more chill shannon a lot of magical powerful things and I'm like well just get a job you know that was part of the teachings too compassion was a big part of those teachings

1:29:31
and uh...

1:29:32
a lot of just I'm focused on those more just certain teachings but also I'll take you out into the desert resolve a star throw you into a fucking mountain and put you

1:29:47
through that fucking wall!

1:29:50
Okay? You gotta get the jokes. Um, I'll do a little bit of that but Shannon did that like to the point of enlightened perfection. And then you probably seem like a crazy person. Some of you guys are like, what are you doing, Zephiah? You're weird. I'm all, yes, enlightenment is weird. I'll So, I just, I got two things to say. One, Shannon, so on this day of recognition of this enlightened teacher. I usually talk about my teacher. I did, but today is Shannon's day and Shannon's teachings are just strong. And it's not just stopping. shared with us is just perfect and wonderful and just I was crying. Okay but no really it's really beautiful. Okay and then um then I also have to give a shout out to Kung Fu Nuns.

1:32:05
Kung Fu Nuns.

1:32:07
That's a good thing. Yeah, so, Vidi has shared with me this NPR show,

1:32:14
so you can probably Google it.

1:32:16
Kung Fu Nuns. I'm like, mm. Like, and you know what else they do? On, I think every Sunday they watch horror films. Yeah, they do. And they go, well, you know, there's the whole barter. When you die, horrific things are gonna happen, so you better be prepared in your martial arts and also in your mind. That's... There's enlightenment out there, and the real deal. And hearing something like that, and well, that's good. Shannon would approve. Okay, thank you all! Here's, this is my bow, my bow out. Here's, this is my bow, my bow out. My bow. My bow out.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
