0:00:00
All right, we're going to begin with a meditation, a meditation on the heart. So sit up nice and straight. And let's begin.

0:00:18
Thank you. the the the the so so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Okay. Okay, so today we are celebrating the death of So Wong. And when we celebrate death, it's

0:02:27
not because we're like, oh yay, he's dead. It's so sad that he's dead. So young. I don't know how old he was. He was probably 78. I couldn't tell. What? They're all like 38, 35. A very young man. Yeah, so he was a great and definitely beloved member of the Sangha. And he passed away on Thursday, and yesterday the Tibetan Buddhist community did a prayer for him, and I was very present in their prayers for him. was a wonderful, wonderful being and a great blessing to our Sangha. For those of you who didn't know Tsoang, he was a Khenpo and he was born in Bhutan and Buddhist monk at a young age and studied Buddhism his whole life. And he became what we call a Khenpo. And that is kind of the highest level of learning in Tibetan Buddhism. So it would be like being like a tenured PhD professor at the highest universities. So they probably had a dozen universities. And he was like, you know, Oxford professor kind of guy. So it's quite an accomplishment. I think in his class, it's harder than getting a PhD. Because in his class, there were 76 people who were trying to become a Kempo, and only he became a Kempo. So, and I remember talking to another Kempo, he had 180 people in his class, and then four of them became Kempos. So, to become a Kempo is not an easy thing. So he had quite an accomplishment in his training and his study before he came to this school. And he became a monk in the school and a So, I'd like, in honor of Sovong, to offer a teaching on Bodhisitta that he exemplified. And this is a shift from the third point of mind training to the fourth point of mind training. I was going to keep you on the third forever. That's long. It helps us to get to the fourth. And this is utilizing bodhicitta in your whole life. Utilizing bodhicitta in your entire life. And this begins with your death. So this is the teaching that we gain from Solong, because he utilized the teachings and also his death. So there's one of the Lojang teachings. The Mahayana teaching for death and dying is to utilize the five forces, the five forces of Dharma. And so long, utilized the five forces in his life, in his entire life, and in his death. So we can't feel sorry for him. He lived as a spiritual warrior, and he died as a spiritual warrior. So this is very... that's why I call it a celebration. We celebrate the deaths of great beings. You know, the death day of enlightened beings are the days that we celebrate even more than the birthday, because that is a time that shows a way, a way to release from karma, from the samsara. So this is, that's why I call this a celebration. And the celebration unfolds teachings, unfolds the Dharma. Celebration of a great being. So this is Palojan teaching. teaching of death and dying, which is also life and living. It's called death and dying. And it's the five forces of Dharma. The first is repudiation, which is to negate or reject the ego or ego cherishing. This is the most essential thing in spiritual practice. So, at the time of death or at the time of coming close to dying, it's important to say, doesn't exist that I've been thinking about. This ego cherishing or clinging to this idea of I am an individual self separate from the universe doesn't exist. That I am actually one with all things. You have to recognize that this idea of self that you defend, that you increase, that you develop, it is the only thing that's caused suffering for you. The self only causes desires, ideas, things, attachments, personal history, all the things that the self creates are the things that create the dramas and suffering in your life. So recognition that that self brings only suffering, ego cherishing and clinging and attachment, desires and fears that you hang on to. These are all things that are suffering.

0:12:57
So at some point you have to say,

0:13:00
I recognize this. And at the time of death, it's the most important time to recognize. So, this is something that was in the foremost attention in Suong's mind, in his life and in his death. The teachings of death are always the teachings of life. They're not dead, they just smell bad. I'm going to have like death jokes. So, when death is upon you, it's the most important thing to let go and to This body is not who I am. I am the eternal self. This is what Ramana Maharshi taught. He got sick one day when he was 16 and he was like, oh, what if I die? And then is, am I that body? And he did the Advaita, the Yana Yoga, and he's like, am I the body? Who am I to die if I die? If the body dies, do I die? And then in this consideration, he became liberated. So having the intent, the intent to let go of this idea of self is the most fundamental teaching in Buddhism and in any enlightened path. So let it go. Let it go. Let go of this self-clinging. See, this is the teaching that Solange brings us with his death. It's the essential teaching of spiritual liberation, that we're all going to die. And if we cling to the self, we're So we've got to let it go. Now, so long did that. And that's a very high, very powerful, very beautiful thing. So you have to let things go. You've got to let the self. He was sitting under the Bodhi tree. He was going, meditating, wanted to be free, completely liberated. And all, you know, Mara's illusion, the God of illusion came and he saw all the things in the universe that pulled on him, he was unmoved. He could let go of all of them and then finally the self arose. He saw the essence of the ego and then he was free. There's And in seeing that self, you find a way to just let it go. So repudiation is the first force of dharma, rejecting the ego. I was in Bodie Woods and I was, you know, helping, coaching, whatever. So Wong, I was like, alright, so Wong, here's the next thing you need to do. And I said, oh, you don't know how to drive. You need to learn how to drive a car. And he's like, okay. He's like, I'm a little afraid of that. I'm like, well, you need to do it. Okay. So I told him what to do. I'm like, here's how you're going to learn. And then he's like, okay. And then I checked on him. It must have been a couple months later. I'm like, how are you doing with that? And he's all, oh, I haven't started. I'm like, why not? We had a plan. And he's like, oh, I'm a little bit afraid. I'm like, well, that's what you said last time. And he's like, well, you know, I never drove before. I drove a goat cart. And I'm like, no. I'm like, you've got to do it. And he's like, okay, okay, I will. And then a month later, I checked in with him. And I'm like, how's it going with the driving? And he's all, oh, I haven't started yet. And then I did the Sambara thing. I yelled at him, I gave him a very hard time to face his fears, to get over some limitation, to be able to do something that he needed to do. I was like, you can't live out in the middle of the Redwood Forest. And then you gotta get a job. What are you gonna do, hike to work every day? He's like, I'll start off at four in the morning. I'll get to work by noon. Forget it. You know, it's like, I was like, don't you get it? That's what I'm saying. He's like, yeah, I get it. He's like, it's just the cars and things, big. I'm like, just drive around Bodie Woods. And so I yelled at him, because if you are so blessed, that's what I do. If I'm being polite, then I'm being polite. But when I really give you a hard time, I do it without actually giving you a hard time. So I yelled at him. I was like, gosh darn it. And he was like, OK. And he had a really hard time, because I yelled at him. I actually raised my voice. My voice arose. And then I was like, ah. And he's like, oh. And he was troubled for a while. He was like, I'm troubled. It's difficult. He's like, I'm afraid of driving. It's difficult for me. Something I've never done before. Oh, no, not goat carts.

0:20:33
Yak carts.

0:20:34
He's like, I used to drive yaks. It's different than a car. Yaks are different than Mercedes. I'm pretty sure. And so he's like, oh, it's so scary. I'm like, well, borrow someone's Mercedes, drive it around Bode Woods, crash it a few times and sit some redwood trees, and then muzzle pop. And so, you know, but I gave him a hard time. I yelled at him. I rose my voice. I raised my voice. I arose, my voice was arisen. And then, um, and he was, you know, it was intense. I've done this several times with him. That means I like you. And he, he had a hard time with it. He struggled with it. And then he had a recognition. He's like, what am I struggling with? He's like, I'm struggling with my own fear and Sambaras shoving my face in it for a reason, because it's logical. Like I came here to you know, get hired and to be able to get a job and everything and I can't if I don't know how to drive. And so guess what he did? He learned how to drive very well. I mean, it's a simple thing for a lot of us in the West, but I mean, like, he grew up in his whole life not knowing how to drive. And then he started driving around and like shopping for himself and things like that. And that's driving on the woods, the wooded roads going to Bodie Woods, they're very wishy-washy, wishy-washy. curviest roadside I've ever seen actually. So he got driving. He was driven to drive. His repudiation of the ego, he was like, oh wait, this is self, this is myself that is having a problem. And it's having a problem because of fear or something, and then Sambar gives me a hard time and he was a little bothered, a little mad at me. But I'm like, I'm just telling you man, this is the truth. And he's like, okay. So once he saw it, then he was free and he became a good driver. So these are the steps that people take. Now, the second force of Dharma to practice is called Empetus. Empetus is intention. Your intention for enlightenment, your intention for Bodhisitta, for the Dharma. So in any moment you have to foster this intent. I want enlightenment. I want to be compassionate. I want to be mindful. I want to have this. Any of you who knew him, he never had a doubt. He never had a doubt. Isn't that amazing? There was this Buddhist monk in Tibet, not too long ago, who started learning the Mahayana teachings, Bodhisitta, of compassion, and his school is all about this yoga of compassion. And he's like, I'm having a hard time because I want enlightenment but I don't give a care about anybody else. He's like, I could just sit there and meditate and other people, I don't care. Like, get out of my way. You just bother me. And his master's all, that's not bodhicitta. And then he's like, but I want enlightenment. But he's in the school of bodhicitta. So what do I do? Well, if you're in a school of bodhicitta, you better learn your technique. Right? If you're in a school of jhāna, then you learn the other technique. But he was in a school of bodhicitta. And that's all, this is the pathway to enlightenment. You've got to do the work. He's like, I don't like this thing about caring for other people. I don't want to just sit in a cave and meditate. He's all, well, this is our school. We do compassion. And he's like, well, I really want to like, what should I do, master? Because I don't give a care about anyone else. When I say a care, I mean the F word. I don't give a care about anybody else. And then the Master says, well then, if you want enlightenment, pray, pray from the deepest depths of your inspired, you know, want for enlightenment. Pray to have care for others and if you pray for that then you can have enlightenment so this monk said all right i'm gonna work on it and he prayed he's like oh universe eternity nirvana please give me a care for other people and it didn't come. Oh please universe I hate everybody but please give me a care for everybody. Oh beans. And it didn't come. Then he prayed again and again and again and he was like oh come on the universe give it to me, please. And it didn't come. And then one day, he was walking through the monastery and a monk in front of him tripped and almost fell. And he grabbed him before he fell and lifted him up. And was like, I need to have compassion. There was another day where there was a monk who didn't have any food. Like, it was the end of food. For some reason, there was a limitation of food. And he had a bowl of food, and that monk didn't get it. And he just gave it to him. He's all, oh, come on, where's my compassion? I need it for my enlightenment." And there was another day where there was a monk who was sick. And the monk kind of passed out in front of him, and he caught him, and he took care of his people. So he got so involved in his care for his enlightened compassion that he was actually already compassionate. And he realized it after a while. And then he's like, oh, let's go back to force number one and get rid of the cell and and then he was he was free this also reminds me of the karma llama it's a tibetan llama who's still living he's a healer but he also has this power it's called the inner heat, the tumo. So the Karma Lama, he went into a nine year retreat in a cave in the Himalayas. And he went in there with one Padmasambhava mantra. And he did it for nine years. And he wanted to get the power, to get the heat. You know, heat. There's this inner heat. It's called the tumo. And it's this power to get extremely warm. It's very similar. Like he can heat himself. And he's sitting there in the cave, he wanted this so much, he worked on it so hard, he prayed for it and he chanted the mantras over and over and over. And he's just like, doesn't seem to be happening. Until he left the cave, he finished his nine-year retreat and he's all, well, I did it. I gave it my best shot. And then he was walking, going somewhere, and he ran into a person, and the person was like, Hi, nice to meet you. You look like a crazy Buddhist monk. Because you've been in a cave for nine years. And he's like, yeah. And he's like, um... So they were talking, and he's like, you know what, this is my favorite thing. I brought it from the cave, my little emblem from the cave. And then he's like, oh, let me check out that rock. It's kind of nice. Just a nice little rock from the cave. And the moment that he touched the rock, it burned his hand. And he was like whoa that seemed to do something to him and then he realized that even even though he didn't notice it but in the time that he was practicing he gained the heat that he was the internal heat, the tumo, that he was wishing for. So he could take anything, piece of metal, turn it into red hot heat or a bucket of water, turn it to boiling just by touching it. So he had this power and he's still alive and many And many of us met him and got burned by him. I definitely did. I still have scars. I'm like, oh, it's nice to meet you. But he does, by using the heat, he does healing. sitting there in the cave wishing and praying and having complete devotion. Proper devotion, impetus, intent for enlightenment. And he had the proper teachings and the proper structure and he got this thing from his practice called the internal heat. And he didn't even know it because you know why? You don't know it.

0:34:04
You don't know it.

0:34:05
You're developing it, you're getting it, and you're like, oh, where is it? Just like the monk who was like, I pray to be selfless. And then he's so involved in the prayer to be selfless, he's automatically selfless, completely selfless, praying to be selfless. This is impetus. This is the force of impetus

0:34:30
Hmm Now so long

0:34:34
when when he came here he was like I Really really really want to succeed and then he realized Pretty early on that. It's very different here in America than in Bhutan. And he's like, oh, he's like, you know, I was teaching about, you know, career and job yoga and developing yourself that way. He's like, he's like, I totally want to do it. Since the first day I met him, I totally want to do it. And then he was taking classes and they were hard and different than his training. And he came to me and he said, he said something first in Tibetan. He came over and he said, I don't know what he said. And he goes, this is a saying, and it's like, you and only you, only you can tell me the truth," or something like that. And so, it's a thing that you would say to a guru. You would say, I can't ask anyone else. You're the only one who could expose the truth. And it's a very, like it's an honor for me to be spoken to that way. Except for I didn't know that. He told me later. And he's like, can I do this? He's like, this is so different than my training. And he's like, can I succeed at this? Can I do this? And I was like, do you want to? And he said, more than anything, I said, then without a doubt you will. So he had the, he just had it. I mean, like this is the magic of him. He had that impetus in him. He had this intent. He just wanted to succeed. And I was just like, of course you will if you want to, of course. This is a school of structure where everyone fights, nobody quits. And everyone who fights wins. And that little conversation early on in his technical studies got him to be 100% focused on it. And he put, he worked hard and he did a lot. Now, here's the thing. Right when I started giving him a hard time again, I was like, now you gotta get a job. And then the coronavirus kicked in and made it a little more difficult. So I was like, all right. But months ago, I think his big success is he learned technology. And he, a few months, or several months ago, maybe six months, he's involved in the Tibetan Buddhist Association and schools. and somehow he got an email from some rimpache who was like, I need to create a website for my school or for my new initiative or something. And he heard about that and he said, I will build it for you. And the rimpache was like, what? You're a campo, how can you do a website for me? He's like, I need to raise money for a website. He's like, no, no, no, I'll build it for you. And he did. So, I would say that is a great victory. And if he had lived longer, he would have had many more technical victories, but this was a victory. This is good. He had the right intent. He didn't give up. He followed it through. It was very different for him. You got to understand that. It was very different for him. He was born in Bhutan next to a goat and a yak, right? And he was a Buddhist from his whole life, and a monk. And he's like, and he didn't know, he says to me, wow, thank you, you showed me the modern world. He's like, I didn't know the modern world, and I didn't know how Buddhism worked in the modern world. I knew that it existed, I thought they were different. And then he said, now I see that they're the same. And he was successful. Successful, which is great. So, he had the right intent, and if you never give up, never surrender, he never did. And he had a hard time. He had his hard times, he had troubles, and he worked through them because he had the right impetus. He was focused on it. He was like, I'm gonna. because his website to help out Tibetan Buddhists in his community was his technical Dharmic accomplishment and that's a good thing. Having the skills is one thing, but also to do something He did very, very, very well. So the third force of Dharma, the third force of action, is called being familiar. and it's like familiarization with enlightenment. It is to never forget enlightenment in any moment. Never forget Bodhicitta, never forget the Dharma in any moment. And I think, those of you who need salons, I think that you would agree, he never forgot. You got to see him in lots of different circumstances, and even if it was challenging for him, he didn't forget.

0:41:52
He was like,

0:41:53
Oh, this is painful. And he was like, Dharma. Oh, this is painful, Bodhisitta. Oh, this is painful, enlightenment. He never forgot.

0:41:58
He never forgot. He never forgot.

0:42:00
He never forgot.

0:42:01
He never forgot.

0:42:02
He never forgot. He never forgot. He never forgot. I wish all of you knew him. So never forget. You have to strive to have enlightenment and Bodhisitta and Dharma in your mind all the time. If you find yourself watching Netflix and forgetting the Dharma? Don't. Netflix is the Dharma. You have to make it, you have to be while you're watching it, like, what's your mind? You can't just tune off. You have to wake up. You have to wake up. You have to be there and say, I'm watching a crappy movie I'm watching. I've been watching some series because I'm coronavirused out and nothing else to do. If there's a suffering with that, and guess what? If there's a suffering with that, many people are suffering that. And you need to start having compassion for all the people watching Netflix and going,

0:43:14
I don't have anything to do,

0:43:16
and everything sucks, and blah, blah, blah. And you have to be like, if I feel that way, many other people feel that way, and you have to have compassion for it. So, I mean, this is what it is. Being familiar with the practice is to be family, joined with family. We, like the human consciousness, all beings come together, familiar, So, we foster this awareness of anything that I'm doing, I'm familiar with. The connection and care for another. Bodhicitta, compassion for another. And awareness. So there was this monk, this was also in Nepal or Tibet, and not that long ago, maybe 100 years ago, maybe 6 years, not too long ago. I heard this story when I was in Nepal. So there was a monk, and he was just focused on, he's like, I have to be mindful of bodhicitta all the time And that was his focus. That was his mind training and then One day he was being transported in a cart That was led by two yaks and with three other monks, so he and three other monks were in the back, and they were going somewhere for a retreat, a meditation retreat. And somehow they got a cart to take them down a big road. And they were going down the road, and then there was another cart coming up, and they had to go around it, and they went around it on the downward, there's mountains there, the Himalayas, there's some mountains. And they were going on the outside of the road. And then the cart fell down the mountain, accidentally the yak on the edge fell, and then the other yak fell and the whole cart went down. And then everyone was screaming and then they got to the bottom of the mountain and everyone was okay. And the three of the monks were like, oh my gosh, that was so scary and oh my goodness. And then there was the one monk, he was like pristine, just like looking like, and they were like, hey, you look really happy. What happened? I mean, like, aren't you scared? Weren't you scared? This was scary. And he's like, he's like, I wasn't afraid for myself. He's like, I was concerned for all of you. And I was concerned for the driver. And I was concerned for the yaks. And I was concerned for the vehicle, because there's a cost. And I was worried if it cost the driver money, then it would affect his family. And he was just not focused on himself. He was always focused with care for others. And then he didn't suffer fear. And even if he died, he wouldn't have suffered death. because he was familiar with the Dharma. It was always on his mind.

0:47:22
When Dharma is foremost,

0:47:25
then you can have a hardship, but it's not hard. So with Sovang, any time that he had a hardship, even with his death, it wasn't hard for him. It wasn't the worst thing in the world. It's true. Even his death, it wasn't hard for him. So being familiar. I remember one time I was talking to Soong and then whenever he talked to me he'd be like he has this thing that he says in Tibetan like you and only you which is a very kind of like only a guru can tell me this thing or something like that which is very like like, a very, very high thing to say. And he came to me and he said, in all of my education in Buddhism, I was told, you should do this, you should do this, you should do this, you shouldn't do that. Asanas and Sanasana. It's like, do things or don't do things. There's things you should do and there's things you shouldn't do. And then he said, but in coming here and working with you, he said it totally transformed his awareness of there's rules, there's shuds, and he learned loads of Buddhism. He was like a tenured PhD at Harvard kind of Buddhist, right? And then he was like, I should do this, to understanding why I should do this. And then all of these things became automatic. Not just ideas, but once I saw why, then these things blossomed automatically. So, and he's a Kempo. A Kempo, you know, how many years of education, how many lectures, how many books did he read? Many. Many more than me. So, the Kenpo is at a very high level of education. There was this one Kenpo. And then he was very highly educated. But So Wong was also a yogi. He didn't just know the stuff, he did the stuff. You know, he came out and he worked. He worked. So it's not just knowledge. He was also a yogi, someone who put that knowledge into action. Because the other Kenpo, he read a thousand and one books, but he didn't do anything. He just sat there knowing stuff. And then eventually, he died under those books. They crushed him to death. And he only has his shelf to blame. See? I'm going to give you death jokes. He only has his shelf to blame. No, but a lot of Kempos are just information. They know stuff, and they just sit around. But he came out, he did the work, he became a yogi. He did Bodhiwood's Workdays. And he learned technology. So familiarize yourself with Bodhisitta. acting in it every moment. It's funny, so he's a Kenpo, and also Tenzin is the same level. So we still have Tenzin, old man, be careful. And he, as a Kenpo, knows way more than me. It's really funny. Because when he first came, I started teaching like regular Buddhism, and then job yoga, and livelihood. And I would ask him from time to time, like, yeah, so I'm teaching these Buddhist concepts. I'm like, what do you think? Is there anything wrong? What would you say? And he would always say, it's the best upaya, the best skillful means. He said it's the best way that he's seen to bring the Dharma to people. He's like, yeah. Because he's always taught, you should do this, you should do this, you teach why? Why to do it? So he's always been very, very excited, inspired by, and positive about the teachings in the school. And for me, that's kind of cool. Because I don't know. It's kind of like if you get a karate black belt from some like 10th degree master in Japan, and then you come to my dojo, and I'm all, I just know how to kill people. You know, I mean, like, I'm authentic, and I'm effective, but like, the funny thing is that, like, you know, So Wong and Tenzin, they're like PhDs, you know, they know way more than me about the subjects that I'm teaching about. They know way more than me. I'm true and effective and authentic. But they know more. Way more. It's so interesting. So sometimes I talk to them, I go, hey, what about this thing? You know, and then they tell me stuff. I'm like, ah, it's like reading a book. It's true. They know so much stuff. So it is funny to me that I'm sitting here teaching to one who has a great breadth of knowledge. But I'm real. And also, if you're enlightened, you don't have to know nothing. You might not have any education. It's just that they have an extreme amount of education. And for me, it's a wonderful base and also a reflection point. Because if I said something that's would say, you're false for all these reasons. And I'm like, what? You're false. Yeah, so being familiar, it's very important. You've got to practice it all the time. That means that in every moment you're familiar with compassion. In every moment you're mindful and in the Dharma. Okay, then the next, the fourth force of Dharma is aspiration. What are you here for? Why are you on the path? I think, you know, and everyone who's become a student has written why. I say, why do you want to become a student? And a lot of you guys are like, I kind of want to be a little bit more calm or understand, be more focused, you know, things like that. Now here's the teaching. You should have the aspiration for enlightenment. Like, this is so important. If you aspire to be enlightened, then what you seek you shall find. But if you're looking for something smaller, I just want a little bit of peace, a little bit of happiness, a little bit of more control. Well, then that's okay, but this path leads to enlightenment, which is greater than that. And you should aspire to be enlightened, because that will take care of your little desire for some peace, or a little bit more knowledge, or something like that. So, the fifth force of practice in life and in death is not to just want to be a little bit okay, not to get to some certain state of being and mind, but to be completely liberated, completely liberated from suffering and from wanting a limited state of peace, of calm. A ceasefire. Can we have a ceasefire for a little while? Then we'll have another fire? Yeah, enlightenment is completely being liberated from suffering. So aspiration is important. You can't just want, I want to be a little bit more still, a little bit less stressed, a little bit happier. I want to go into meditation to get a little bit of a higher state of mind. You can do that in all sorts of different ways, but if you aspire to enlightenment, greatest peace, the greatest clarity, the greatest lack of suffering, and the greatest awareness. So if you want just a little, you're cutting yourself off. So an aspiration, a force of aspiration, is to be enlightened. So Soong wanted to be enlightened. So when So, when I first met So Long, I just heard about him. I heard, this Kenpo came to America and wants to stay, and he left the ashram. He left the monastery. the Tibetan Buddhist order because he wants to be here and work or something. And I was like, that sounds weird. And then I heard that Rinzin, who is also a Tibetan Lama who left the ashram, who is a very good yogic cook. He does cooking, that's his job, but he does it as yoga. But he gets paid. And so this is his spiritual practice. And so I heard Rinzai, who's been established in America for at least a few years, said, oh, I'll let him come. And I'll support him for a while and get him working. And so Rinzen was renting a room in a house. Not making a lot of money, but making some. So he was renting a room in a house, and he had a twin bed, right? And then he didn't even know this guy, let him in, and they shared this bed. And I was like, you guys are sharing a single twin bed, that's like for one person, I mean, two people could fit on it, and they're all, uh-huh. And I was like, wow. So just hearing that story, I said, well, there's something super magical about this. So one of my students who knew Rinzin said, hey, we could meet. And I'm like, OK, I want to meet. I want to meet these guys. And then I met them. And I was like, wow, amazing. It was a powerful meeting, let's just say. But I asked so long, I said, why did you, why are you leaving the ashram? Because in the ashram, he had already gotten to the highest level of education. He was a grandmaster and he was in charge of his own community, you know, and he could be very relaxed and everyone's all yes you are the temple we listen to everything and everything right so he was at a very high exalted state he was very comfortable and yet he decided to leave and leaving he knew that what could I do I could make a few hundred dollars a month under the table, you know, cooking or cleaning or washing dishes in a restaurant or something like that, right? And he didn't leave for an easier life. He was in the easy life. He achieved the easy place and space of mind.

1:02:41
He had gotten there.

1:02:44
And then he left. And I was like, why'd you leave? And I thought he was going to say, eh, I don't know. I got bored of it. I don't like all that spiritual stuff anymore. I've met monks who quit. And they got bored of the spiritual focus. And then they started partying. That's true. I'm like, oh. But Soong said, he said, you know, I grew up in the monastery, and I've gone through the highest education. And he said, I need to leave the monastery to learn more. I need to, I know the spirituality in the ashram. I know it. I've been it. I am it. I've got stood at the top of it. And now I want to have spiritual experiences that are higher than the monastic life. And so I have to come into the world." And I was like, wow, I've never heard that from a Tibetan before. Tibetan Buddhist. And then he said, in Buddhism, compassion is very important. And I'm like, how is you coming here to try to get a job and be compassionate? And he said, well, he said, I have compassion for my family." And I'm like, okay. So he said, the first thing in Buddhism is to focus on helping your family. And I was like, really? I don't remember that. And then he said, no, no, no. He's like, you have to, like, first we recognize our mother. Our mother gave birth to us and took care of us. And then I was like, oh, okay. And some of you are familiar with this too. The first impetus of compassion for Buddhist monks, you know, Mahayana Buddhism, is to realize, my mother did a great thing for me. Birthing me, taking care of me, raising me, and yet my mother has suffering. And so he's like, I'm coming here to have greater compassion, to give back to my mother and family. But But I was amazed to hear that, because Tibetan Buddhists don't usually say things like that. They have a party line. So he came here, his aspiration was for enlightenment. He had moved to the top of education in Tibetan Buddhism, and he came here not knowing what was going to happen, to have a greater spiritual experience and have greater compassion. And then he met me and then moved to Bodie Woods, became a monk, and everything that he was doing was a greater aspiration for enlightenment and a greater empowerment of compassion. So the fifth force of dharma for death and dying is seeds of virtue. At the time of death, it is a complete detachment of all things. Let go of all things. You don't own anything in this life. And letting go of all things is a giving. So seeds of virtue is also selfless giving. Selfless giving in your life and a complete giving at the time of death. Selfless giving. And Sobong was selfless. Me or anybody can't think of something selfish that he's ever done. He was very, very selfish. I remember in the beginning, when he first got here, we would have some dinners at Bodie Woods, and he would be very quiet and just listen. And then at the end of dinner, I would ask him, so, so long, you know, because you're a Kempo, what do you think of this? And I would say, please share something that you know about the Dharma. And he would just talk and talk and talk. He would just share so much. He had so much to share, so many teachings. So we would have these Bodhiwood dinners where he would just share so much. It was his selfless giving. He was very, very, very happy to be in this spiritual community. And then when asked, he had a wealth of knowledge, and he would share it happily. I had to tell him to stop after a while. And then by that time I knew to say, only 15 minutes, okay? And he was good at that. But he shared so much. And that sharing or, you know, even him doing Bodhiwood's workdays. For a while, you know, some of the monks who live in Bodhiwoods, I'm like, you guys gotta do Bodhi Woods work every day. Because you're just sitting there waiting, you know, you have to wait for some time before you're able to work. So I'm like, well, put a couple hours a day into Bodhi Woods. Be useful. And they're, oh, okay. So they did. So, you know, they were working daily in Bodie Woods, building paths, things like that. So by doing that, it's a selfless giving, and then you give yourself, your spirit, into the place. So because he worked on Bodie Woods Workday, do you guys remember him in Bodie Woods Workday? He worked, and even when most of the sangha wasn't there, it was him and Tenzin and Mate, Marci, and probably some others. They were working every day. They put a lot into it, very selflessly. And then, so even though he's gone, you can still feel his spirit in his yogic work. So he's a part of Bodhiwood. He's a part of the sangha. And that comes from selfless giving. force of dharma, which he exemplified in his life and also exemplified in his death. This is a teaching, a transition from the third point of mind training to the fourth point, that is, the grace from Samong's life and his death. So now we're going to take a break for ten minutes, and then we're going to come back and Savitri is going to do an introduction to the bardos, the intermediate states that happen after death, before your next incarnation. She's going to give you a little introduction on what that is. And then we're going to do a guided meditation, which is where all of us in the Sangha are guided through the Bardo dimensions to have this compassionate support for Tzu Wang. And it's a very powerful thing. It's a very supportive thing. Tzu Wang, yeah, he probably doesn't need it. He's in a very great state. But this is what we do for each other. It's very powerful. And this will be for many students, the first introduction to the Bardo Pahal,

1:12:39
the Tibetan Book of the Dead,

1:12:40
the yoga of after death. But this is something that we do in our school. of after death. But this is something that we do in our school. Just like we do martial arts, we also do this mastery of the yoga of what do you do when you're going to die, or after you die, or how to help someone when they're dying or dead. There's means of help. So we're going to take a break. When we come back, Savitri will be on. She'll talk a little bit about the experience that we're going to have, and then we're going to do this guided

1:13:24
meditation together. Okay, thank you. All right. Welcome back, everyone.

1:13:40
I wanted to start by sharing a picture of Soong, since I realize not everyone on this call had the good fortune to meet him in person. So this is one of the photos that the Tenzin and the Hints have shared with me in his monk's robes. I'm really touched to get to share a little bit about the Bardos and our healing after death meditation with you for him. It's especially poignant because he actually worked on this yoga. It was one of his yoga projects when we were just getting in the role of Kenpo being an advisor to the project, making sure that it had the integrity of the truth of the Tibetan teachings, even though we were going through this process of trying to take those teachings and offer them to people in the West in a way that they could more easily digest and understand and work with. But it's really important to me that the truth of it was there. That was the whole goal. So he was an advisor and a consultant in that capacity. And then he was also an engineer. So he was learning to code by working on this yoga. So with the support of Atman and Ahimsa, he was learning React and other technologies, both Hwang and Tenzin. excuse the distractions of my dogs, to share the bardo. So there's a book called the Tibetan Book of the Dead, which is its English title, and it's really a marketing title. So the title is the Bardo Thadol. And if you were to translate that directly, what it means is the great liberation through hearing in the intermediate state. So the bardos are the time after death, before one's rebirth into their next life. And the Bardo Thetol is this classic funerary text drawing on the wisdom left by Padmasambhava that's traditionally read to the person after they have died for a number of days. And it's rich with symbolism, there are a lot of deities, peaceful ones, wrathful ones, and it's a whole process that's shared, and the goal of reading it to someone is to remind them of the teachings that they learned during their life and point their spirit toward liberation. In the bardos, your mind is exceptionally clear, your spirit is completely present and free in a way that we might not be, having the bodies that we do during life. And so there's a tremendous opportunity for liberation. It's also really intense and can be confusing and that's why it's really valuable to have the support of the prayers that are done, reading the Bardo Thetol and connecting with that spirit and offering it clarity and compassion. So in our yoga we took the traditional teachings and we distilled the heart of it into about a 20-minute guided meditation where we're combining tonglen, which is the taking and sending part of bodhicitta, where you use your intention to take in suffering on your in-breath and on your out-breath, you offer compassion, wisdom, relief from that suffering. And we also use the structure of the five Buddha family mandala. And this is a structure that, as Ajahn was saying, the teachings of death are the teachings of life. The five Buddha family mandala is exactly that. It's a teaching about the qualities of energy that are present both in life and in the bardos. The idea, there's an absolute richness to it, but the idea that we'll focus on is that each of the five families has a particular encumbered aspect, a particular form of suffering, and a particular quality of wisdom. And so we will do a guided meditation working with those five families in the mandala. I will actually share an image just so you get a sense of the layout and the colors. Simple version. There's many, many rich Tibetan versions out there, but this gets to the heart of it. So we will do a guided meditation, practicing bodhisitta, tonglen, taking and sending, going through the encumbered aspects of each of the five families and offering and in a particular color of light, which matches these colors. This is laid out, I'll just share this. This is laid out where east is at the bottom. So when I guide you through the meditation and I tell you to move to the east, come here to the blue Buddha, which is the Tibetan way of doing it. I actually think it's really beautiful that east is at the bottom in the front where the sun rises in the east. So orient yourself, we'll start in the middle, we'll go to the east, and then we'll move around clockwise. So, please sit up nice and straight. You can close your eyes, this will be a guided meditation. Take a few deep breaths, and bring yourself to a calm and centered place as we enter the mandala, the five Buddha families. Bring so long to mind. Those of you who had the good fortune to know him as a friend can do this easily.

1:19:20
And others, think of the picture that you just saw

1:19:22
or imagine him smiling, he was usually smiling. Think of him in a place that he loved. If you knew him in Bodie Woods, imagine him there. And then think of him traveling safely. So his spirit is on a journey, and we're gonna connect with him

1:19:34
by envisioning him traveling safely.

1:19:36
So now that you know he got his license and could drive,

1:19:39
you can imagine him in his car.

1:19:41
I know someone had gifted him their BMW so you can see so long driving

1:20:06
safely in his car.

1:20:18
So now we'll start in the center of the mandala with the white Buddha. The family is known simply as the Buddha family. The element is space. The essential quality is spaciousness. The suffering associated with the Buddha family is a kind of confusion, depression, heaviness, numbness, a sense of separation, maybe some fear and avoidance. And then its corresponding wisdom is called all-encompassing wisdom, which is spacious

1:20:55
and incredibly peaceful.

1:20:59
So in this practice, if you knew Soong really well, and you can think of times when he was being affected by the encumbered aspect, you can bring those to mind. But it also works perfectly well to think of examples from your own life where you felt the encumbered aspect of that energy, just to bring it to mind and really embody it so that you can take it in and offer the corresponding wisdom. So consider a time when so long was confused about the larger truth of life or a time when you were a time when you felt bewildered, disconnected, depressed. Now imagine that suffering like a heavy, dark smoke and breathe it in through your inhalation. Breathe it into your heart and then you allow the innate goodness within you to transform that suffering, that confusion, that heaviness into the beautiful white light of all-encompassing wisdom. So envision that white light extending from your heart to someone's heart. See it surrounding him and supporting him. See him free from the confusion of denial, avoidance, any heaviness of depression, and see him filled by this pristine white light of the Buddha family, serene and complete. So practice this exchange for a few more breaths, taking in so long suffering and offering him So now we'll move to the east in the mandala, to the Vajra family. The color is blue, the color of the deep sea, with a stone called lapis. The element is water, and the essential quality is clarity. The suffering that's associated with the Vajra family is anger, self-righteousness, vengeance, hatred. The suffering can be burning hot or icy cold. And the corresponding wisdom is called mirror-like wisdom. back just as it is, without bias, like a mirror does. Anger constricts our perspective and limits our view of life, and mirror-like wisdom is its expansive antidote. Reflect on times that you experienced anger, or if you've ever happened to see so long experiencing anger. You know, as Ajahn said, he was a really evolved being and really worked his practice and had a tremendous amount of both knowledge and wisdom. But if you did ever happen to see him angry or frustrated, you can recall that time or you can bring to mind a time when you experienced anger and remember that constriction and difficulty. Breathe it into your heart. Use the compassion of your heart, your innate goodness, to transform that suffering into this deep blue light of mirror-like wisdom. Breathe out that blue light of the Vajra family, the expansiveness of mirror-like wisdom. Continue this exchange, taking in the suffering of anger and offering your family for a few more breaths.

1:25:35
Now we'll continue around the mandala to the south to the Ratna family. The color is this rich golden yellow, the color of sunflowers. The associated element is earth and the essential quality of the Ratna family is enrichment.

1:26:09
The suffering of this family is a kind of arrogance, puffed up pride, which is often actually just a disguise for a sense of insecurity and a feeling of inferiority. The sense that one is lacking something, doesn't have enough, isn't enough. The wisdom of the Ratna family is equanimity.

1:26:31
It's a sense of equality.

1:26:32
The knowledge that one is not better or worse than anyone else. Equanimity has a richness and a satisfaction. It's a sense of having everything that you need. So consider times when perhaps you exhibited arrogance or insecurity, or if you knew so long really well and you can think of times during his life when he was affected by that. Bring that suffering to mind and intend to take in the suffering, breathing it into your heart. Transform it into this rich yellow light of the wisdom of equanimity. See the yellow light extend from your heart to So Hoang's heart. Envision his spirit surrounded, supported by this light. See him feeling calm, equanimous, satisfied that he has everything that he needs. I'm going to go ahead and close the poll.

1:28:15
I'm going to close the poll. I'm going to close the poll. I'm going to close the poll. I'm going to close the poll. I'm going to close the poll. I'm going to close the poll. I'm going to close the poll. I'm going to close the poll. I'm going to close the poll. I'm going to close the poll. I'm going to close the poll. I'm going to close the poll. I'm going to close the poll. I'm going to close the poll. I'm going to close the poll. I'm going to close the poll. I'm going to close the poll. I'm going to close the poll. I'm going to close the poll. I'm going to close the poll. I'm going to close the poll. I'm going to close the poll. I'm going to close the poll. I'm going to close the poll. I'm going to close the poll. I'm going to close the poll. I'm going to close the poll. Now let's move to the West, the top of the mandala, to the Padma family.

1:28:58
The color is this deep red, like a red rose. The element is fire and the essential quality is passion. The suffering of the Padma family is a kind of grasping and desire, an attachment to people or things, a false sense that you need something outside of yourself to be complete. This can show up as craving, seduction, manipulation, addiction. The corresponding wisdom of the Padma family is discernment, which is an infinite, compassionate light. With the clarity of discernment, you can care for yourself and others in a really balanced way, enjoying your life and your relationships without needing to cling to anything. You're naturally selfless and compassionate toward everyone.

1:30:01
Consider times when so long or you were affected by the

1:30:05
suffering of clinging and attachment. Breathe in that pain and transform it in your heart into the deep red light of the Padma family, the wisdom of discernment. See that red light extending from your heart to so long heart. See it surrounding and supporting him. See his spirit feeling the richness and the beauty of existence without needing to cling to any of it.

1:30:40
For a few more breaths, take in the suffering and send the red light of the Padma family.

1:31:38
The element is air, the color is green, it's beautiful deep forest green and the essential quality as you know from your Karma Yoga is action. It's suffering is jealousy, the feeling that you need to compete to get ahead, there's a sense of stress and rushing and a fear of being left behind. Its wisdom is all-accomplishing wisdom, which is experienced as being a flow of life, flow of dharma. This action for the benefit of others

1:32:12
rather than just yourself.

1:32:14
There's a sense of ease and joyful activity, offering seeds of virtue. So bring to mind this energy of jealousy and envy, times that you've experienced it, if you ever knew so long to experience it, you can bring that to mind. Breathe in the suffering of competitiveness and self-absorption. Transform it in your heart into the green light of all accomplishing wisdom. Extend the light from your heart to So Long's heart. See him in a flow, working to serve others, just as he did so much of during his life. I'm going to go ahead and say that I'm going to be covering this in the next few minutes.

1:33:36
And now, let's return to the center of the mandala of the five Buddha families and conclude our practice by taking in suffering as a whole and offering wisdom and compassion with all for so long, for yourself, and for all beings. Use your intention to take in the suffering of ignorance,

1:34:09
anger, arrogance and insecurity, desire and jealousy. Transform all of us into gold light in your heart. Offer wisdom, compassion and peace. Envision so long supported by this gold light. Know that you are supported by it. Intend for all beings to be supported by it. Sit for a bit longer, breathing in suffering and offering goal light. When you're ready. Inwardly think. This great being, our very good friend so long. And wish him well on his journey. May all beings everywhere be free from suffering and be at peace. Thank you. Now we're going to move into a second aspect of the Bardo work that we do, which is a very special Bardo blessing that Samara knows and has mastered over the years and which he also shared with Kamala and me and has taught us to do as well. So the three of us will sit in a meditation doing this blessing for so long spirit while you all are also sitting in meditation and joining us and offering your support. So it'll be a three-song meditation. You can continue doing bodhicitta, working with cold light, if that feels right to you, or you can sit in your normal meditation

1:37:51
Three-song meditation, a bardo blessing, offering him additional support as he makes his journey

1:38:03
through the intermediate state on his pathway to enlightenment. the

1:38:15
the the the so so The. the the the so so so so Thank you.. the the the the so the the the the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the the the so the the the the the the the the you you Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so the the the the the the so you Thank you very much for your practice now and for all the love and care and support he gave to

1:50:54
so long over his life.

1:50:57
powerful thing, are working together,

1:51:08
being together in this meditation

1:51:10
of the five Buddha families. In that silent meditation, or in the meditation, Savitri and Kamala are very skilled in the Bharta yoga and it's a very profound assistance to a spirit. So it's like a very powerful, fluid time where you can make amazing changes if you have awareness. Most people when they die, they follow karma straight across. They just get stuck in the same states and just experience the same thing over and over. Life after life, death after death. However, when you learn the Bardo Yoga, you're able to help someone. You're able to help yourself,

1:52:39
but you're able to help others.

1:52:41
When they go into the Bardos and they start going through these intermediate states after death. When they start getting stuck in karmas, you can bring them light. It's kind of like having a guru by your side in death. So you go into some situation where you're stuck in a state of mind, and anger or confusion, and then normally you would just be stuck in it and then you would follow that path.

1:53:16
But then

1:53:18
when someone like Savitri or Kamala does a bardo blessing, they know those dimensions. They know the bardos and they know the way in and they know the way out. They know the right dharma to do for each state. So if they are focusing on someone and someone's stuck in a certain place, they can do compassion dharma for them, knowing where they're at, and freeing them. Kind of like if someone's angry, you say, hey, chill out, man. And they go, oh, thanks for saying so. Or hey, Buddha said this about being angry.

1:53:58
You're like, damn, Buddha!

1:54:00
Just kidding.

1:54:01
It's always a very positive thing. We know the way, the way of compassion and the way of the different states of the bardo. And so they're able to really, in a very significant So this will be the beginning of our Bardo Thadol teachings. So you should read the book, the Tibetan Book of the Dead, the Shambhala Pocket Edition. It's a very good one, a little book. And read it. there are many dimensions that we go through through the bardos. And Savitri and Kamala are masters of death, meaning that they know all of those states. They've been through those states in meditation many, many, many times. They know them and they know the dharma for each of those states. So then if they focus on someone, and this is an advanced teaching, it's a very advanced teaching, it's just that they mastered it. If they focus on a person, a being who's passing through the bardos in that time of time, through those states, they know how to assist them. So the bardo yoga is a very advanced yoga, but we start learning, even in the beginning, about this. There's a giant foundation of learning about, we started with death as an advisor. That's the basic teaching. And then we start to understand what happens before death, in this lineage, is the ability to do what Savitri and Kamala just did, which is the bardo blessing. Read the book. Read the Tibetan book of the dead, it'll give you the first indication of the complexity of it. And it's in advanced yoga, eventually we'll get around to it. But it's very, very, very helpful, very enlightening and auspicious. So that was a perfect job that Savitri and Kamala did. Like, I watched them and I'm like, yeah, you guys did a good job. I used to have to do it.

1:57:01
Now they can do it.

1:57:02
And they did it perfectly.

1:57:03
It was very, very, very beautiful.

1:57:04
Really wonderful.

1:57:05
So, from this experience and this spiritual guidance, Soang is making a transition from this incarnation to a higher incarnation. So he'll be reborn, he will reincarnate in a higher world, a place we call the Hiranyaloka, which is the next evolutionary state for a spiritual practitioner. This world is in the Kali Yuga, so it's kind of like in this destruction phase, and the Hiranyaloka is in a golden age, an opening, a beginning. And so for spiritual people who are very connected to practice in the Dharma this is The way to go it's not easy to get there It's not easy to get there on your own, but with some help it's It's doable so the Tibetan book of the next teachings in Bodhicitta, the Yoga of Compassion and the Yoga of Death, together. Because the fourth point of the seven points of mind training is utilizing Bodhicitta in your whole life and that includes your death. Thank you all very much. Thank you all very much. 감사합니다.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
