0:00:00
Hi everybody. All right. Wasn't that fun. That's the five day going like, Oh my gosh. From this solstice to the next, it's going to be a very intense time for the SD5s. And many of them who are learning tech, you know, now they're starting to learn JavaScript. So they did HTML and CSS and they had like, it was hard enough for them. And then now they're going into JavaScript. And JavaScript is, you know, where you become strong. Or you go, oh, this is too hard. And I'm like, oh yeah? How about the bardos? Yeah, so slowly we're teaching them more. Yeah, it's good. This would be the point, like, if our martial arts dojo was open, I'd be like, a roundhouse kick to the leg is a very effective kick. Let me show you. Kick them in the leg. Oh my God, it is effective. Anyway, so, so this is good. It's nice. So I'm going to, I'm going to do one of the transmissions for you. I don't think I have, there's no words for it, so we'll just sit. We'll play a song. Soft focus on the third eye is good. Closed eye is good for this. So close your eyes. Especially after going through the dharmakā, what I call the third bardo. It's really good, I really like it. But in the third bardo, like I was saying, each Buddha, each Yogini, each Rupa that appears are the sentinels. a very, very, very profound dimension of life and death. So when you are studying the Bharata Paral, you have to consider each one of them, like you have to meditate on each one of them. So this transmission is about Dharmakalpa, the third Bharata. I call the bardo a little bit different than how they call it. They say there's the bardo before death. I don't even talk about that. I talk about the moment you die, you see the Dharmakaya. And that's what people see. There's this dark tunnel, a little light at the end, and then maybe there's Jesus and Krishna and your uncle, your grandpa, and you're going up. So people who come back from a death experience, they don't continue in death, they come back to life, they talk about that, and that's their experience. But beyond that experience, you go into the... So that's the first bardo. It's coming up to the dharmakaya. And then people run away from the dharmakaya. And then they end up in a different state, which is ghosting around. It's where you're you find yourself not at the dharmakaya anymore, but hanging around your house, your old friends, family, and you're all kind of there, ghosting around. You're a ghost. And then you go, finally when they say, go into the light, you transfer over, and then you go into the dharmatada, the third bardo. And then in the third bardo, amazing experiences, very intense, primal experiences. That's where you and your discrimination, your impeccability, but no definitions of self, no personal history, just direct self against you, not us. Really cool. Sit up nice and straight. We're going to sit for one song.

0:05:36
Let's all focus on the third eye.

0:05:40
And let's begin.

0:05:41
So. So. So So So I'm gonna go back to the way I was And I'm gonna go back to the way I was And I'm gonna go back to the way I was And I'm gonna go back to the way I was And I'm gonna go back to the way I was And I'm gonna go back to the way I was And I'm gonna go back to the way I was So So so so Oh. so the the the the the the the the so So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. so so so so Excellent. So, if you wanted to be able to have the command of this empowerment, you would probably read the Bardo of the Dharmata

0:17:49
a lot. Because you have to really meditate on them, get a feel for them in the second intention. Because, you know, because the yoga is to help someone through those, so in order to go through them, you have to understand them. And not just in a, in a mental way, not just an idea.

0:18:23
You have to like know.

0:18:24
So that's if you want. It's a lot of work. You know, I've read the Bardo Farao many, many times. And I had to put in a lot of tonal to understand it. So I remember writing down, you know, going through the Dharmatha and writing down every, you know, Buddha, every Yogini, every Heruka, all those names and what they meant. So I had to try to figure it out, understand it. And then, by putting a lot of tonal into it, then I started to open up more psychically into the second attention. So it's a very powerful, very powerful book. And this transmission, even if you don't sit there and study the Bhārata or something, the dharma-ta, eventually, you know, it means something. And if you're not a master of the bardos, if someone's passed away, the most wonderful thing to do for them is to do bodhicitta, no matter what bardo they're in. Bodhicitta is always a beautiful, positive, and spiritual support. But if you know Dharmatta, if you know all those dimensions, and there's a lot of them, if you know them, that's where people experience the most primal suffering. So, a spirit in the bardo, there's lots of places where people experience great suffering, and the most intense is in the dharmatas. It's not very personal, but it's very intense. And so when someone gets stuck somewhere and they're experiencing some intense suffering, we can move them out. Say, go to the beach. Show them to go to a better place. In fact, we can push them out of bardos, or we can hold them in certain bardos and say, hey, this is a good thing. I know you want to run away from the Buddha, but I'm going to hold you here." So those are powers. Those are Siddhi. But you have to have the seeing and the knowledge of what's going on in the bardo, otherwise you can't use the power correctly. So just if you want to learn, it's a lot of psychic study. And it took Savitri and Kamala years of the advanced practice. I taught them this advanced teaching before they were advanced students. That's why I was like, I don't know if you guys are going to understand this.

0:21:52
It's pretty deep.

0:21:53
I started telling Savitri first, and then I saw she was doing it.

0:21:58
And I was like, oh, cool.

0:22:03
All right, so we're going to continue the considerations of Vardos through this week. There will be a lot of second attention teachings for you and for all the other students. And then next week we will go through the Bardo of the Coming. And then we'll see. And then I'll have another advanced teaching next week. Going through this fast. And then we'll see after the third one, and then there's the, those are ones of awareness,

0:22:53
and then the next two are ones about how to use the powers. We'll see. If you don't and then the next two are ones about how to use the powers. We'll see. If you don't

0:22:55
know, why don't you get the power? Okay, thank you. Kamsahamnida.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
