0:00:00
Let's begin with meditation. We're going to sit meditation for about 15 minutes. We're going to do the Kalachakra. So let's have a strong focus. Try to identify when you have thoughts that are bringing you out, identify them quickly, come back into focus, okay? So don't go off in long thoughts. So sit up nice and straight, and let's begin. Okay. Okay.

0:00:41
Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. I don't know. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. you I'm going to go ahead and close the phone. Thank you. Okay. Okay. Okay. I'm going to go ahead and close the webinar. the Okay. Okay. to talk about the Kalachakra. Kalachakra technique. So the Kalachakra technique is a technique that employs 12 powerful dimensions. Right? First, the chakra, then the mantra, then the color, then the character. So that's four, that's eight, that's twelve. So these are four powerful dimensions. Like, you know, they call it chakra picture. There's the man and the woman and all the arms. This is like the 12 arms of this technique, 12 dimensions. They're very powerful dimensions. So it's important that you develop the ability to have multiple dimensions in your mind at the same time. Four, four, four. So you've got to hold four dimensions in your mind. So you've got to work on it. You've got to develop concentration and focus. Make your mind strong. Save my recording. Sorry. Cancel. Messed that one up. Okay. All right, so, yeah, so some of you are entering into year, you know, you're finishing your first year and you should be well versed in this and this is the time to really master your meditation. after your first six months, well, you can catch up. But it's very important to practice with discipline and really develop your ability to hold these chakras, mantras, colors, and characters. Very important.

0:06:24
These are very powerful dimensions. So when you can do this, what happens is it lifts your spirit. And it lifts your spirit to a place where you can go beyond karma. Bad karma will hold you down. Good karma will hold you down. It will hold you in the world of karma. The advanced teachings are where you go beyond liberation. Buddha always was saying about his arhants, that once someone becomes an arhant, they're beyond karma. So by going beyond karma, you become an arhant. And the advanced teachings get you beyond karma. And then when you're beyond karma, you're in this state of awareness where karma doesn't even exist. I know that in the world of samsara, karma exists, and karma's a bitch but The in the enhanced teachings you're going to you go beyond karma you're in a state of consciousness that is beyond karma and an enlightened state of consciousness is Mind beyond karma not that your physical body Will be beyond the karma You know you trip you fall you hurt your knee, that happens. In the samsara, even if you have a mind that's beyond karma, your body isn't. So you still have to have strong first attention. But the whole thing that happens is you get to a place where you can see, you know, you leap into a place where you can see that all the bad karma that you got doesn't count anymore. All the good karma that you got doesn't count anymore. Because those things both will hold you from liberation. So once you're beyond karma, then liberation is very close, but it still takes some work. So you still have to keep meditating. But you usually see going beyond karma when someone's close to enlightenment. So you have to face your most difficult karmas. You have to look at yourself and say, what pisses me off the most? What hurts me the most? What am I most bothered by? You have to look it in the face and you have to get over it. You've got to get through. And you can get through it with pure will, with pure discrimination, with bodhicitta. There's no recipe or equation it, you intend to do it and you do it. And when you go through the last karma, you face something really, really, really intense. So for me, it was a fear. My last karma, my last samsara, was a fear, and I faced the fear. And in facing the fear, I did it in my mind. I was standing in Zion, on that cliff that we go to to meditate next. And it's like, you know, a couple hundred feet drop or something. And I'm standing at the edge of the cliff, and I remember the first time that I went there, it's a strong place of power. So I was there by myself, and I was standing at the cliff, and I was like, whoa, this is powerful. And I was afraid, I had fear, but I stepped back from the cliff and I felt my death there. And then, years later, I recognized that the biggest thing that's holding me back was my fear, a very big samskara of fear, facing death. And so in my mind I went to this place, I stood at the cliff and then I jumped over it, I dissolved, fallen. Then after dissolving, I was standing back at the top of the cliff and I had no fear. So I had to face my samskaras. And then in my meditation, I was able to go beyond any karma. So you have to face your karma, your deepest karma, to go beyond your karma. Or you have to go into a lot of shallow Kopa Samadhi, and it dissolves there, the high Samadhis. But the fast path and the way that a lot of us did it was really to face our deepest karmas. It's very powerful. Because once you can let go of that, once you understand that and let go, then you go beyond karma in meditation very quickly. So why don't you do that? No, really. Be real about life and your enlightenment. I got very, very serious and I got ruthless. I wanted liberation more fear. Yeah. Or if you want to take longer, get good at meditation. Be very strong in the meditation technique. And then in the Samadhis, karmas wash away. But you'll still but in meditation you go beyond it. So be strong in your meditation techniques. Bringing your Kundalini up, so it brings you beyond karma. But karma is a wall, a barrier to go And you can transcend it with a combination of facing it and meditation. I think that's what we'll talk about for now. So the other thing I want to talk about is lineage. Some of you I haven't given a lineage transmission to, but I will now. To be in a lineage means that you align yourself with the power of the lineage. You by yourself have limited power, even if you're enlightened. You have limited power, limited capability, limitedness. You know, you got what you got. Like that guy Eckhart Tolle, right? He's got a few things, but if you're a part of this lineage it was created by a great master who had many, many, many tools. And if you're in the lineage you learn how to use the tools. And if you're in the lineage you're granted tools, capabilities, awarenesses that on your own you don't get, even if you're enlightened. So some people are enlightened and they're just like jolly, they're like hmmm, hmmm, hmmm, and they're just simple. They just look above the ego, right? What else can they do? Nothing. Maybe they have a few tools, maybe a couple of awarenesses. If you're enlightened, it doesn't mean that you're like, oh, and have everything, knowing everything and all that stuff. You can fix motorcycles. It doesn't mean that, right? But there are special tools available if you're in a lineage. Let me give you a martial arts analogy. Let's say you learn martial arts, and you can be pretty good. But if you're like Shaolin monk, let's say, then you're going to learn a lot more martial arts, you're going to have a lot more depth, you're going to have a lot more power, you're going to learn a lot more weapons and things like that, because you're in a structured lineage. by martial arts theology. So if you're in a lineage, it's important to not get confused. So let's say that you learn from some other teacher later, because you probably will. You'll probably see some other teachers, because why not? But you can't get it confused. You can't say, oh, this other teacher had a better teaching. I'm going to use it. You can use it, but you can't cross the streams. You can't go see five other teachers in India or something, and then come and say, let me teach you Rama meditation, Rama's teaching, this other guy's teaching, this other guy's you're not aligning yourself with the lineage. And that is, that's gonna be, the energy's gonna be off. You won't be able to bring forth the power of the teaching. You'll be cutting it off with adding stuff to it. So, if you go into a karate dojo, you know, and you're like getting your brown belt and all that stuff, then you start going to a Judo dojo at the same time and you like a Judo teaching, you can't bring that shit into a karate dojo. You're like, oh, punch, punch, oh, let me throw you, right? They'll be like, what are you doing? You can't develop in a karate dojo when you start throwing in some judo, some random judo that you like. Or even if you get a black belt in judo, you can't bring it into a karate dojo. So, when you are expressing the lineage, when you're being the lineage or expressing the lineage, or, yeah, just being the lineage in your mind, it has to be the lineage. And, you know, I'm sure in your lifetime you're going to go see some cool teacher in India or somebody like that, you know, which is totally fine. Totally fine. But you have to be crystal clear on the lineage and the other teaching. Because, as they say in the Hagakure, the book of the samurai, is bad when one becomes two. That will split your power. Now it's good when two become one. So let's say that you do have additional insight, then that's okay. So additional insight. You go further into the lineage teachings and you add something powerful to it. So for example, Mystic Scuba. So Rama had a big teaching in scuba. Rama also had a big teaching in martial arts. So Mystic Scuba, Qigong, is part of martial arts, and so I applied martial arts and scuba. And it's okay. Or let's say Agni Kala. Agni Kala takes us to the desert, so desert power trips. And then we play bongos, music. And so that's, so music is part of Rama's teaching, and desert trips is part of Rama's teaching, and then Adhikala expresses it in a special way.

0:30:14
It's okay.

0:30:16
I mean, it works, because he has great impeccability in how he does it, and I have great impeccability in my martial arts and mystic scuba. So those things are okay. But then if you like learn some chanting from some enlightened guru somewhere else, that's not something that you would bring into the school. You would be like, hey guys, let's sit down and do this chanting that I learned from some other teacher. Don't dirty it. And don't do some random shit like bring some judo into a karate dojo. Yeah, so being part of the lineage is easy, but you've got to keep the connection pure. That's the thing about me. I keep my connection extremely pure. I've seen lots of other teachers. I've seen lots of other teachings, but I keep my connection with the lineage pure. That is my recommendation to you. So for all of you who haven't gotten the lineage empowerment. It's probably because you didn't teach and bring 10 students into the school. So that was the practice. That was the goal. That's what got the first round of people and the second round of people, the lineage empowerment. So for those of you who haven't done that, you should do that eventually. And you should also determine to read 29 books in this lifetime. Next, we'll talk about... what will we talk about? How about the thing that almost killed me? Transmission teaching. She does it. And then usually afterwards she goes, oh my god I feel horrible. So transmission teaching is the most effective, powerful way of teaching, in my opinion. Except for, unless you're wearing out. If a teacher gets up and says beautiful things and they're very bright, tells you to read a book, tells you to meditate, and then leaves, that's a decent teacher. And then you sit there and try and try and try. And then you're at your level working your way up. Now, a transmission teacher, what they do is they give you a spiritual experience higher than where you're at. And show you in spirit through that transmission the thing that they're teaching. Now that takes that line to them and you pushing Kundalini and you knowing the structures of what you're teaching. And that takes a lot of energy and usually when you do that to someone, then you start to, like, they're all like, oh, you're teaching me about something that my ego is chirping out about. And then they have all these reactions back. Because you're making a connection with them. It's like putting a shark on a leash.

0:34:44
So you're making a connection with someone.

0:34:46
You're giving them energy to help. But most of the time, people react back. Now, if you just do it once, like if you're just like, okay, I'm just here, you know, like if I go to Paris or something, and I'm just here and there's a room of 50 people and I just do it once, and they don't become students and they don't come back or something, then yeah, okay, so I'll do it once, I'll get some reaction, and then that's fine. But when you're a teacher and you commit to accepting a student and you do the transmission, then it's a hundred percent of the time. You can't give up. You have to be there. Because even when they have their worst reaction, that's when you have to help. You've got to feel it in the second attention. So you don't go on vacation from the connection of student and teacher. So in transmission teachings, you know, it'll suck. But you'll give people a spiritual experience, and then you cut it. And then you'll be like, oh, wow, that doesn't make me feel so good. Or you could be a transmission teacher where you accept students and do transmission all the time. Now, that's what Ramana did for me, and I think that that's the most amazing thing that he did. Because when I was all pissed off and funky and in bad, low states of mind, that connection to this enlightened teacher was there and he was giving me teachings. And it was the grace that helped me to get over this. Without that, if he just got up on stage and said beautiful things and told us to read books and sit and meditate, without that I would not be enlightened. I would be very, very, very, very slow. So, I think it's the highest, way of teaching. However, Rama did not recommend that we do it. He said, he said, this enlightened teacher gave us this empowerment and this enlightened teacher said, I don't recommend that you do it. You know why? Because it'll run you into the ground until you're dead. Or it'll run you into the ground until you want to be dead. So they were like, I've got to step back. So, and me, I was just going to run myself into the ground to death just like But it is really, insanely crazy. No, because you have the deepest spiritual connection to a person, to everyone you teach at all times. And when they have the hardest time, you have to be there. You're like, oh, I don't want to deal with people's problems when they have a hard time, it's like you want to react and go, ah, you suck, right? But in your heart, you have to go, you know, when they're having the hardest problem, you have to go, ah, I'm going to be there for them. So if you do transmission teachings, you have to do it right. You can't fuck that up. Transmission teaching means during their hardest times, you're there to give them a teaching. So I also do not recommend it. I don't recommend that you do it, because I, like Rama, had I can't tell you how difficult it was, but it's also extremely high. To do that is completely selfless. Tremendous powers of the lineage come through you. You know, if you're not like a black belt,

0:39:59
you know, if you're not extremely strong,

0:40:00
like Rommel's an extremely strong martial artist. I got a bunch of black belts, I've been doing martial arts since I was, knee high to a grasshopper. If you're not extremely strong, you'll wipe yourself out pretty fast. So if you're not really tough, then it's not good for you. And even if you are really tough, you've got a bunch of black belts, it's still tough, man. Yeah, see, it's definitely during this, it was the hardest thing that I did. All that, not standing in front of people and teaching and showing light or something, it's the transmission teaching all the time, accepting a student like Rama accepted students. So I don't recommend it. Now, Svahaja is very highly enlightened and from time to time she gives teachings and her teachings have powerful insight. And she does amazing things. Like she has these abilities and siddhas to help in so many ways. But she pulls out. She comes in, has maybe something that she offers, and then she disappears. Because she says, I'm not a teacher like Sambar. She's like, I'm not built for this. And she's a capable, amazing person, but to teach, to take on students and to teach through transmission is serious business. And once you take on a student, you can't fuck it up. It's a very, very deep connection. So if you teach, I recommend that you teach without transmission. Or you can do a one-offs. So you can say, I'm going to do a little, you know, like I'll accept you as a student, but I'm not going to do transmission all the time. I'll do it maybe once in a while. And then you'll do it, and then you'll see everyone have reactions to you. You'll feel sick for a little while. You'll be all good. I'm glad I don't do this 100% of the time. So unless you want to, you know, kill yourself, or run yourself into the ground completely. So, no, this is a serious business. This is what Rama said. He gave us this transmission. transmissions, it's very, very, very deep. You can try one-off transmissions and that will be good. The wonderful thing that we can do in the school is I can have the 100% of the time people become my student, but you can maybe give a teaching and a transmission and then you'll see what it's like. And then see, you can do a one-off in the school. I think that's how it would work best, but if you want to be outside of school and do your own thing, then be careful. So, so I'm going to give you the transmissions automatic, and manual. So, a really wonderful way to work with transmission in the school is, let me take the 100% of the time. Everyone who comes into the school can become my student, and then I'll do that job. I'm very good at it. And now it's Wu Wei Do for me. So I can handle that. But I want to give you guys the transmissions so that you can see what transmissions are. Now, all these things take practice. You might say, I'm going to do a transmission teaching, and then you might not do it. So to do a transmission teaching, you have to feel what you want to transmit. Now, in this lineage you're given many things. So you say, I want to transmit this one teaching from Bodhicitta. So then you embody that teaching, you feel that teaching, you become that teaching, you're a powerful expert in that teaching. And then, with that embodiment of that teaching, then you feel the audience, and you feel everybody in the second attention, and you are able to push it out to them in lines, lines of kundalini, shakti. And when you have a teaching from this school that you're teaching. And then express it. So now, you have the transmission of transmissions. Don't fuck it up. If you fuck it up, nothing happens or you can get some bad karma by doing it wrong. So take it to heart. Do it right. Follow this feeling. If you don't, if you're unsure, then connect to me. And you'll say, hmm, I want to teach this, but I don't know if I got it right. And then you go, Sambara, Sambara, Sambara, Sambara. And then all of a sudden you'll go, whoosh, really? And then you go, okay, now I can express it. Take this lesson to heart. But I highly recommend that you stay in this school, that students that come in become my students, because I'm very good at this 100% connection. It's very helpful for them. And that I'm going to start having students teaching more, advanced students. And when you teach, you can do transmissions. You can say, okay, I'm going to do a transmission. And then this will be beautiful for everyone. Because a transmission comes from a perfect teaching. It doesn't come from a person. If it comes from you and you're like, let me show you how to do a bodhicitta, then nothing's going to come out. And no one's going to feel nothing. People, you'll be all like, here we go.

0:48:36
I'm going to play a song.

0:48:37
And people will be like, nothing. There's a song, at least. So when any advanced student gives a transmission, they get themselves to the perfect mind of the essence of the teaching and then they transmit. But if you are going to leave the school and teach through transmission, I recommend that you just with groups. What I don't recommend is what Rama didn't recommend, which is what I did, which is accept students as a transmission teacher. And then there's a 100% connection, and then God bless you. Hopefully you make it. But you'll, that's the way to really help people. It's the most powerful technique we have. Let's talk about the Siddhas of places of power. So when I take you to the desert or underwater, I'll do Siddhas What else do I do? Float. Stars. Oh yeah, stars. The stars go whoosh. Alright, so stuff like that. When I'm there, I see what energies are there and I work with them. Now, so basically teaching you how to do it since I've been showing you how to do it. So when I do these things I'm not only just doing them so that you go, whoa, and it changes your karmic view of the world, but I'm also showing you, I've been like, watch this, and I break a board in half, right? And I'm like, the first time you see it, it's like, wow, that's powerful, whoa, something's going on. And then if you think about it, I'm actually instructing you how to do it. And I keep doing it, and then you're like, yeah, magic's real. Yeah, it's magic. But also, you're getting familiar with how to do it. You're like, oh, do it. So all of these things you've seen before, you've experienced before, you have some sense and some feeling and a second attention of how to do these things. And these These are things that are very, very intuitive. You go into a place of power, like the Anza Brego, and you feel the dimensions of the place, of the time, and you align with them. And in aligning with those dimensions, you feel what's possible. You feel how you can use the dimension, how you can shift energies. So having gone into places of power many times, you have felt those energies. Watched me and gone with me Shifting them and using them and creating miracles so It's something that you've learned over time through your experience So if you walk by yourself into the Vans of Boredo You can say, ah, I definitely feel this. What can I do with this energy? Maybe I can take this energy and make white light fill the air. It's very intuitive. So you've been trained in it. So you can do it with this transmission. You can do magic, whatever mysticism that you come across, because it's very intuitive. So with this transmission, in any place, and places of power, you can feel what's possible to do. So there's many tools in our lineage of what's possible to do. And it's all Buddhist magic. It's all very bright, very beautiful. So you've been trained, you can do it, but it takes training. I went out into deserts many times. I used to travel around in deserts, checking them out, feeling them. And this is after Rama's death. And I would go and I would feel and I would see and I would explore and all sorts of things. And then, let's see, it was my first trip, the first power trip with, you know, into the Southwest with my students. I remember one time Tara was my first student. The one time I took her to Mount Tam on the summer solstice at midnight. And then, you know, we had some meditation there and all this stuff, and then, you know, I was like, do you see the energy? And she's all, no. And I'm like, okay. And then we're walking down the mountain, and then I'm all, look, a ghost! And she's all, ahhh! It was a spirit, a spirit of the mountain. She saw that one. Anyway, then I had some more students and we went down to Joshua Tree. And so we were in Joshua Tree and I was like, okay, you know, feeling the energy, seeing what's going on. And I go, all right, so see that mountain there? And everyone's all, uh-huh. I'm like, it's gonna disappear. And everyone's looking at the mountain and it disappeared. And I was like, wow, it worked. Because I knew it from gazing practices and things that I did, but this was the time where I was able to do the power so that others can see it. And so my abilities grew from there. So if you've been in the desert with me and seen the miracles that I do, you can too. You can go to a place of power and say, obviously, you know, I can, you know, turn invisible here. You know, I feel that energy. That same energy when I saw Timbara turn invisible, I feel that energy. I'm going to do it. Now, it takes practice and awareness to do it. So you would have to, if you wanted to do it, you would have to practice. You could practice at home, in your mind, or you can go to places of power. But in places of power, now that you're an advanced student, more dimensions are open to you. You have to be extremely impeccable. You could fuck up, even as an advanced student. You get a black belt, doesn't mean that you can win every fight, especially in play in strong places of power. The Anza Brago is extremely strong. So, but it's very beautiful. Or the ocean. Local places. Mount Tama, Paius, is magical. And go and see, see the energies that are Go to a place of power and look at the stars and move the stars with your mind. Because you can do that. And then, you know, maybe bring an ST5 and do it. So this is very important. You can't use these powers just for fun. These powers have to be used selflessly. So you can't just be like, I'm going to go to the desert and just fly around. It is fun doing Buddhist magic, but you have to do it selflessly. If you ever do it selfishly, you're going to get really bad karma. Like negativity will crash down on you if you use these powers wrong and It could take you off the advanced path, take you off the path completely. It could be very bad for your attention. So when you use these powers it always has to be in a selfless way. So if you're showing somebody something magical so that it lifts up their spirit, changes the way that they look at life, then that's good. If you're trying to show off, you're gonna, oh it's so bad. No, this is something where if you use this Buddhist magic in the wrong way, it could take you off the path completely. So don't mess with that. I remember I was like, Senandoh, wow, you have very strong powers, you know, siddhas. And he's all, no I don't. I'm all, yeah, you do. He's like, what? He's like, then what would I know? How would I do it? So then he and I went to a place of power in Santa Fe together and I was all like, all right, so I showed him some miraculous thing and he was like, Wow, Sampara, you can do that? Because only Rama could do that. And I'm like, No, he taught us how. And he's like, Really? I said, Yeah. And I said, Just do it! And then he performed a miracle. And then we were throwing astral balls back and forth. And we were having this fun time manifesting different miracles. And then we told Kundalini and she was like, You can't do that. It will be horrible for your karma. But I came from a place of selflessness. I wanted to ignite Sananda's awareness of his Siddha skills and then he became this really amazing Siddha Master. It's just that he had it all, you know, he had the toolkit, he just didn't open it. And then at one time he opened it. So I did that really selflessly. And then we were able to play around because he had to utilize the tools that he had.

1:02:01
We had a lot of fun.

1:02:02
That was like one of the most magical moments. Well, casting lights and stuff. So it's really fun. Disappearing, turning into light. Yeah. And so that was for Sonanda. And often, during times of power, I'll go to the desert or to Mount Shasta or something with my students, and then I'll see what's there at that time, in that place of power. And I will manifest miracles. But I do it very selflessly, and I do it very carefully, to help my students. It's very possible to use these siddhas in such a strong way, because you feel like it.

1:02:55
You're like, yeah!

1:02:58
It's very possible to use these siddhas in a way that is actually destructive for students. So, not only do you have to do it with a purity in selflessness, you also have to be very careful about how it's affecting people. If you're teaching someone karate and you're all like,

1:03:19
whoa, I got this punch down really good,

1:03:23
and you go over to teach a yellow belt and you're all,

1:03:25
whoa, isn't that powerful?

1:03:28
And then what did you do to the yellow belt? You flattened them. You meant to teach them, you came from a good place, but you used way too much power and you flattened them. I've seen teachers do this and it just sucks. Don't do that. So once you access these powers and if you're going to use it to help someone, be very careful, look at their minds and see how they're reacting to it. If they're reacting poorly, stop. If you do this, you must do it selflessly and you must do it harmlessly. You have to do it in a way that elevates people.

1:04:20
Don't be an idiot!

1:04:24
So imagine the Anza-Vareta desert. In the Anza-Vareta desert there's tens of thousands of dimensions. There's so many powers and energies that we use. This is the primary of the mystical Siddhartha. This is a place where Rama would walk on the air, jump up to the tops of the mountains, turn invisible, or just turn his head into a light, walking around with a big light. His head is a light. This is the place where we sit, we meditate, we connect with it. And every time that we've seen a teacher do an act of power, we didn't finish death yet. The Bardos. So, I like that movie Jacob's Ladder. There's many, many little signs and symbols of the Siddha Bardo, a little bit about the second Bardo. Very interesting.

1:06:30
Very interesting.

1:06:31
Lots of little symbols and signs.

1:06:36
The movie was done very well.

1:06:37
Yeah. You might want to watch that movie Ghost as well

1:06:40
because that's very second Bardo.

1:06:43
Ghost, he's hanging around, wants to hang out with his girlfriend again. This is something that, you know, beings do. It's an okay movie, but it's all about the second Bardo. Jacob's Ladder was a little bit second, a little bit third, and a lot of fourth. So, one of the things that we have is a kind of control. So there's two Siddhas. through is awareness of the bardo, those transmissions. And to become aware of the bardo, you better read the bardo thadol a lot. You better understand it in the first attention so that you can understand it in the second attention. If you don't understand it in the first attention, you probably won't be effective in it. This takes training. So the second thing is control and blessings. There is something wonderful that we can do to help people in the bar. And that is to shift them or to hold them. So one of my favorite scenes in Jacob's Ladder that reminds me of this is, there's this time where he is going to the hospital and then going through some bad dimension and some doctor's like, you're dead. And he's all like, no I'm not. And he's all, then why are you here? And that doctor is a very good symbol of one of the types of beings that you can run into in the Vardos. Anyway, so all of a sudden, he's in this hospital, and then his chiropractor comes in, right? And his chiropractor is like, what the hell? And then he gets him in a wheelchair and picks up a crutch and starts beating people off to get out of there. And then he takes him to a nice place and then helps him out. So that's the kind of thing that we can do. So people just karmically might end up in a place in the bardos where it's very painful and dark and negative where they're stuck. happens extremely commonly many times for a normal being for planet Earth going through the bardos. So, what we can do is we can do what that chiropractor did. We can use our mind and second attention to take someone from a bad bardo, the experience where they're stuck, they might be stuck on some attachment, some anger, whatever, and then they're in a bad place, and they're stuck, and they're suffering, we can take them and pull them out of it, and get them into a good place. We can direct them to higher we can take them there. So getting somebody out is one thing. Another thing is holding somebody. This is especially important in the third bardo and when you're on the summit in fourth bardo.

1:11:01
So in the third bardo,

1:11:02
when people get to the Buddha families, they're like all, oh look, something cool is happening. And then they go, oh, that light's too bright, I'm going to run. And then you can hold them there. And they go, ah, the light's so bright. It's beautiful, actually. It's beautiful. The light affects you in such a beautiful way. And then you go, that's what you needed to do, dude. Then you pass them on and then they can go. But sometimes a being needs some enlightened light, something, you know, maybe they had like an anger and then the Buddha that takes away anger shows up and as soon as they get hit with that light because they have some karma they try to escape. But you can hold them there and then when you hold them there, they're not going to like it at all. But eventually, they let go, and they learn from that light. 100% of the time. It doesn't kill them. They don't like it, but that's why we have the power to hold them. And then once they learn the lesson, we let them go on. This is very second attention. You have to really understand the bardos in second attention. And when you're working with someone like this, when you're using bardo power, you have to really, in your mind, your second attention, know where they're at and know what is good for them. So, second bardo very important. Fourth bardo, there's that place of the summit. I call it the summit. It's really good to read Enlightened Pregnancy and understand the summit that way. It's a really good way to understand how to help people here. So, when someone's at the summit, we hold them there. And they go through lots of different teachings. And when we can hold them there, they gain a lot of merit and a lot of insight. The Spirit learns a lot of powerful things, gets powerful spiritual gifts that's going to help them in their life. So that's another place where we hold people. We also, with the power of pulling people, when they're heading into a new life, we direct And you'll find intuitively what's the right dharma for them. You can't push somebody into Rose Apple Island if they're not ready for it. That would be wrong. So you have to have seeing. This is a very advanced yoga. This is one where you don't try it until you've really familiarized yourself with the artist at all. I would really look at enlightened pregnancy, watch ghosts, watch defending your life, watch Hellraiser, I know. I remember we were in the meditation center in San Francisco we were watching, we were like, hey, let's watch Hellraiser. Because that's a movie I wanted to show them because of teaching this stuff. And then I was like, yeah. And then we got some Indian food and we're sitting there with lamb curry and lamb kebabs and stuff and then like the movie is like all gruesome, bodies getting torn apart, we're all... so, oh, Razor. And also, what's that called? Pretty Bones? Pretty Bones? Yeah, watch that one too. So watch those movies, because they have some dimensions of the bardo. All these movies don't have, you know, it's not how bardo really is, but they have some dimensions of it. And more importantly, read the Bardo Thaddaal a lot. This is the most advanced yoga. You have to have discrimination. You have to know what you're doing. You can't mess someone up. Don't do it if you don't know what you're doing. It takes a lot of detail, but you've got to figure it out. And then there's the Bardo Blessing, and this is taking someone all the way through the

1:16:41
Bardo.

1:16:42
This is knowing the Bardo, knowing how to hold them in the right place, take him through, not just having the power to do it, but knowing how to do it, knowing a path, dharma. And it takes true seeing. are a condition that occurs after death for most beings, almost all. It's a natural progression

1:17:23
from life.

1:17:24
We go into these

1:17:25
intermediate states. So after death, the spirit goes on. The spirit usually follows a path of karma. And unlike our movies, the spirit usually doesn't get any help. And so the spirit is attracted to certain things, so it experiences some things that it's interested in. The spirit is averse to things, so there's intense fear. And the spirit runs from things. Most people on the planet Earth experience demons. They experience intense energies, and they experience great suffering at times. So most people experience that. If you know how, if you have a seeing, if you have the power, you can help them in the most difficult places. You can bring them light. You can bring them bodhicitta. Bodhicitta is always good. So if you know someone who died and you're not extremely skilled in this yoga, you can just bring them to mind any time and do Bodhicitta for them. And that will be very strong. That will be very strong help, no matter where they're at. But if you have the awareness of where they're at, you can help them along. When they get stuck in the worst places of suffering, you can pull them out. You can direct them to the highest places that help them solve their suffering. You can bring them to a high birth. This is an advanced yoga. You have to have seeding. But you got the power. Is there anything else to talk about? Yeah? Yeah, there's something, but maybe next time. All right, so that's the advanced teachings for today. There was transmissions of siddhas, but again, the most important thing is enlightenment. And enlightenment comes from being very strong in this practice, bringing your energy up, going beyond your karma. The Kalachakra brings you beyond karma. But the fastest way to go beyond your karma is to face your karma, face your deepest karma and you really But the fastest way to go beyond your karma is to face your karma, face your deepest karma and you really face it, then you'll find that you fly into Samadhi really easily.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
