0:00:00
Hello. Alright, well, I wanted to have a special teaching for you this evening in America and morning other places in the world. Why don't we begin with meditation? So we'll do a meditation on the heart. Sit up nice and straight. Let's begin.

0:00:30
So so so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Oh so so So I wanted to give you a very profound teaching on the secrets of enlightened teachers.

0:05:00
So enlightened teachers have a secret that they use to help people develop their medication, their medication, their spiritual insight, to gain spiritual balance and liberation. And this secret is something very, very special and very, very powerful. They have wisdom. They have insight. They have personal peace,

0:05:43
spiritual balance,

0:05:45
because they're free and they're wise and they're liberated from suffering and delusion. That's why we come to them. They can give us knowledge of life. Like, honey. You know honey never goes bad? It never does that. The Egyptians used to put honey, you know, in the pyramids. I mean, the scientists tested it. Yeah, so, see? There we go. Or did you know that all polar bears are left-handed? It's true. So, you know, you go to enlightened teachers because they give you, they can give you knowledge of life and solve life's mysteries. Like, how many licks does it take to get to the center of a Tootsie Pop? The answer is 364. So of course this is all knowledge. You can Google this, especially the Tootsie Pop one. Okay and if you don't know what a Tootsie Pop is, look it up. So this is all information you can Google and find, right? You don't need an enlightened teacher for that. Yeah, your guru is not Google, right? So an enlightened teacher is able to bring you something bigger than just information. Not just knowledge, but a more profound wisdom. So, I'm going to tell you the secret. It's one of the greatest secrets of the spiritual path, and it's true. It's like we're going to them for all this wisdom and stuff and they're stock-raising mad. Really? I'm not kidding. This is one of the greatest truths. So like, I mean, if you went to like a normal person, I mean, they might be a teacher and have a lot of information. And then they can say, hey, here's what the Buddha said. Contemplate that. And you go, oh, that's usable information. That's sensible. That's logical. I understand. Okay, thanks. And then you go to an enlightened teacher, and they're completely radical. They're like, throw away that book about the Buddha. And then they say things that are illogical. They do things that seem weird, and the information that they give you is incomprehensible. So you're like, that's weird, that's like crazy. They say things that don't make any sense. However, if you ponder what they say, if you reflect on it, if you follow it, it actually brings you to a place of greater understanding, of greater wisdom, of greater spiritual balance, and ultimately to liberation. So enlightened teachers are crazy, but they have a crazy wisdom. They have a wisdom that no matter what they do, no matter what it looks like, if you reflect on it from your spirit, it brings you to a higher condition of truth. Now why is this? Because enlightened teachers have this crazy wisdom, being crazy is the best thing in dealing with students, because People are in this thing I call self-mind. It's the ego, limited consciousness, a very fixed description of the world. We think this is good, this is bad. And so the enlightened teacher is coming over to this person who's got a very fixed view of life, is very caught in ideas of the self, likes things, doesn't like things. So, enlightenment is outside of that fixed view. But when you're in self-mind, all you see is self-mind. You're in the bubble of self, the reflection, self-reflection. So, any information that comes up, even if it's wisdom, if you're in self-mind, you'll immediately turn it into self. So like, you can hear the greatest piece of wisdom from the greatest Buddha in the universe, and then if you're in self-mind, you'll go, oh, okay, got it, without even getting it. It's like getting a description of enlightenment. Oh, okay. Got one. I got a one-liner I Got I understand what it is, but you understand it from self mind not from the greatest truth There was a during the Tang Dynasty The there was a guy who was a top politician. He was the prime minister and he was Excellent very impeccable, and he practiced Zen. So he had practiced Zen for many years and he sat down with his Zen master, a true master, and he said, Zen master, really tell me, what is this ego and what is the way out? And then the Zen master gave him a full description of the thinking mind and the limitations of self and self-description and the three poisons, attachments, desires, aversions. He said, this is the self-mind. And then the prime minister listened respectfully and went, okay, got it. He understood every word he said. And then he's like, I understand, thank you. And then they were sitting there having tea. And then the Zen master picked up his teacup, spilled the hot tea on him, and said, an idiot like you will never understand anything. And the Prime Minister, being in a high position, was not accustomed to being treated this way. So he got angry. And then he was like, oh, but this is my Zen master for many years.

0:12:59
And he's like,

0:12:59
oh,

0:13:00
now I just feel bad.

0:13:02
So he went through all these feelings of anger, confusion, frustration, thinking, how can you do this to me? And then thinking, oh, but I should be like this. And then the Zen master said, this is ego. And then he understood. And then the Zen master said, and this is the way out. And he just sat there. And then the prime minister had a satori, an enlightened realization. But it took crazy teaching. Because if you just give an answer, and it could be the perfect answer, then who cares? It doesn't do anything. It only makes that self-mind stronger. The self-mind goes, okay, now I understand what enlightenment is now, I got a definition of it. And then you don't experience it. So the crazy teachings always drive you out of self-mind. It's amazing. Now it's really great. Enlightened teachers are hilarious. See, this is a big humor. Their craziness is a great humor. So an enlightened teacher will, what do they do? They kind of set you up. They set you up to see what you're seeing and do something that's much more powerful. And then when you do that thing that's much more powerful, you say, Whoa, okay, see, I get it. Like, there's a famous story, I'm sure I've told it to you before, about Buddha and the mustard seeds. So a woman lost her infant. He died, you know, when I was under one. And she goes crying to her friends. She's all, Oh my God, my baby's dead. And then she's like, what can I do? And one guy said, and she was like, she's like, I got to fix this problem. And then this one guy who had studied with the Buddha said, you know, you should talk to Buddha. He could probably help you. Oh, he can help me. So she runs over to Buddha and she says, I have this baby who's dead and can you help me? And Buddha's like, yeah. And she's like, can you bring him back to life? And he goes, yeah, okay, so yes. He's like, here's how I can help you. If you go to a home where no one has died in that family, and get five mustard seeds from that home, and then I can bring your baby back to life."

0:16:09
And then she's like,

0:16:10
oh, thank you. She's all, with five mustard seeds? And he's like, yeah, that's all it takes.

0:16:17
So just go to a home,

0:16:18
somewhere in the village where no one's experienced death in the family, and then I'll do it. So she's like, oh thank you Buddha, she runs away. And then Ananda, Buddha's attendant, is like, Buddha, you can bring babies back from the dead? He's all like, doesn't say anything. But see, that's a crazy teaching. With five mustard seeds, he's going to bring a baby back from the dead. Anyway, so she goes around from house to house saying, hey, I need five mustard seeds, but first, I have to make sure that no one's died in your family. And everyone's all, yeah, like my grandma died, my uncle died. So she goes around looking for this solution. She's following this thing. If I do this, this is what I want, this is what's logical to my mind for some reason. And then she comes to understand something greater, that everyone dies. And by going through that process, she sees a bigger picture and understands, and then she's able to let go of the distress and confusion she was in. See, but if we would have just said, hey, everybody does, get over it, then she wouldn't have figured it out. So spiritual teachings aren't just logical. They'll be all like, hey, you should be humble.

0:17:47
Okay, I'm going to be humble.

0:17:53
It takes figuring out at a very deep level. And that's why the crazy teachings work. So, the teacher is a funny person in that they trick you. There's that weird paradox of what you think and what's true. They're all like, they're like, they're all, watch my lightning right, and you're looking at it, and they go, boop, to the left.

0:18:14
That's what they do.

0:18:15
It's the best. So, it's like, in so many ways, you know, there are things logically to learn. And learning the logical things are very important. You have to do them, and you have to do them impeccably. But the greater spiritual teaching comes from what I would call the crazy part. The part that you don't see coming. And enlightened teachers always show you what you don't see coming. Because you can't see it coming. Because if you can see it coming, then the ego blocks it. And then the self-mind makes it part of the self. It agent-smiths it. It does. That's the nature of the self-mind. It takes everything and then somehow turns it into self and pushes out the greater picture. So you could be doing any enlightened teachings. Sometimes it's chanting. Sometimes it's computer programming. Sometimes it's fasting. There's always like, whenever there's a spiritual teaching, it has a first attention. It has tonal. There's something you've got to do. Even meditation. Go sit up, focus on a chakra. That's the first attention. That's a teaching. But the biggest part of the teaching is the second attention. And the second attention brings so much more knowledge, wisdom, power, light than the first attention. And the first attention could seem weird. A lot of people think that meditation is a completely useless endeavor. So you're going to sit around doing nothing, trying to think nothing. What's the point? People could say, you're an idiot. You know, like that's the way that the physical world, the world of self-mind, would look at meditation. But if properly, especially from an enlightened teacher, then meditation is a very powerful teaching. But I have to say, if you do meditation, you're a little bit like an enlightened teacher, a little crazy to a lot of people. Most people in the physical world, a completely useless thing to do. But in spirit, it's the most profound thing that brings liberation. So we engage in the first tension, the tonal, right? We engage in it in all sorts of weird ways that don't make sense. It doesn't make sense in the physical world. And when we do that, something else happens. So all the things that an enlightened teacher teaches, it has first attention which must be done. You've got to sit up, you've got to meditate. You know, you've got to do whatever you've got to do. Whatever the yoga you're working on, whatever the book you're reading, you've got to read the book, right? You know, it's like you've got to do the things. But the bigger part of the teaching is directing you beyond mind. It's something that you're working on something, but something bigger is happening. And then eventually you put the two together and go, wow, and that's a realization. That's when the first attention and second attention come together. Yeah, whoa. But the first attention, the teachings look crazy because spirituality is crazy to the self. Because the self, the ego, the self mind, you can't conceive of it. So then when it looks at it, it looks crazy, or bad, or wrong, or you know, terrible. Something wrong, something difficult. That's why a spiritual student has to be open and see a bigger picture. So in Zen, they have a, so every teaching, even the most powerful teachings, the most enlightened teachings, they have some tone out. They have some first attention. And in Zen, a very powerful teaching is the koan. And this is the teaching of the first attention. What is the first attention of a koan? We have so many stories of people becoming enlightened from the koan. But the koan is a weird question or an ambiguous statement that someone ponders and then becomes enlightened. And then when you read them, you could go on the internet and read every famous koan that made someone enlightened, right? But when you're reading them, you're directly going into self-mind. It's the power of the enlightened teacher to hold the second attention that directs

0:24:07
you to enlightenment.

0:24:10
So that's... but the enlightened teacher needs to have that weird question, like what's the sound of one hand clapping? And then you go, huh? But you're like engaged in the second attention. And if you just looked at the first attention, it would just seem lame and stupid and doesn't mean anything. But if you're fully engaged in the second attention, then you go beyond the self. Go beyond the self-mind and have a true realization. So, there was a Zen master, Joshu, and he had this student student who was very diligent in his zazen practice. He did all his sutras. He was like very very focused on perfect practice. And then one morning he came to Joshu and said, Master, I just finished breakfast. And then Joshu said, so then wash your bowl. And then the monk pondered what Joshu said, which was a completely inconsequential thing. It doesn't mean anything in the physical world, but then the monk had Satori. Enlightenment. Because of that teaching. The teaching in the First Tantra sounds kind of either mundane or practical. So my teacher used to give lots of mundane, practical teachings, but they are very enlightening. And then it's enlightening because the teacher's crazy. They're like, okay, this is going to give me the teaching for enlightenment. Wash your bowl. See, I think it's hilarious. I'm like, I'm going to tell you guys the funniest thing. So, wash your bowl. Now my teacher, you know, lived in America and taught in the American modern world. And so, being enlightened, he was able to bring these kind of very crazy teachings into the Western modern atmosphere. And so he would give these extremely, I think they were very funny. He always had a lot of humor. But they were also quirky or challenging. If you look at it with your tonal, just in the physical world, they seem bizarre. But if you are connected to it in the second intention, then it brings wisdom, power, and liberation. So I remember one time I was with some fellows, some gentlemen, and we were working on a tech project together in New York, and we were just doing a tech project as our yoga. And then we met with our teacher and he said, you guys need to bring up your personal power. He said, so I want you all to go out and get a contract because we are all computer programmers, we're working contractors working on jobs. And he said, I want you to just leave the job that you're on now and go and get a job that's 25% higher. And if you're able to bring your power up like that, then you're able to come to the next level in this project that you're working on. So we were like, okay. And so there were 24 of us in this team working on this project, just trying to develop our minds. And as a practice of developing our minds, we had to get a job making more money. And he said, here's how you're going to do it. And he gave us this teaching. And the tone out of the teaching was, he said, go to Barney's. Now, Barney's is a very upscale, high-end department store on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan. Where it's just really, really like, that's where wealthy people shop for clothing. And he said, go to Barney's and buy an expensive pair of underwear. It has to be very expensive, but it has to be nice, that you like. So, that's what he said, and he left. He said, make more money, buy expensive underwear. And I was like, hmm, interesting. So, I was like, okay, I guess I'll do it. I mean, we all did it. And, you know, we went to Barney's, we went to the men's posery section, and I was looking at different underwear, and then I found this pair of silk boxers. And I was like, and it was very colorful, and it was very expensive. And I was like, this is the one for me. And I bought it. Oh yeah, I had to wear it to the interview. So I wore it to my interview, and then I got this job making a lot more money. And I think for me, I think I asked for 35% more, and I got it. So that sounds ridiculous, right? Some enlightened teacher says, buy expensive underwear and get a job. Okay, it does sound ridiculous. And it is, but it's enlightening. So here's the thing. My teacher did this many times. He would say, you're stuck in a certain state of mind, on a certain anger, on a certain confusion, then he would give you something in the physical world to do. And he would just say, do it. He wouldn't explain. And then what happened is when you start doing it, you start engaging in the first attention to do the thing. What happens is you start to access a bigger picture of the teaching from an enlightened teacher, which is the second attention of the teaching the first of it the first attention looks weird and strange But when you start to get in the second attention, it is perfect and wise profoundly wise and Then as you find yourself in this very upscale Department store with all these blue bloods shopping around. And then you go to the underwear section and you're like picking out a, you know, $180 pair of underwear. And you're like, this is expensive. And somehow I think this is following the spirit of it. And that changes the way that you look at life. It changes your awareness. You do something totally different. So it gets you out of the self mind. I would have never done that. You know, I'm like, that's very strange. So it was something I wouldn't do.

0:32:14
But by doing that, and I was like,

0:32:16
oh, I'm opening up to the second attention more. And then your awareness starts to shift. There are structures in the second attention of the teaching that are carrying you through once you yield and open to it, even though it sounds weird. And you go, huh. And then actually, you're like sitting there and Barney's buying this expensive underwear.

0:32:48
And you're like, I'm

0:32:50
My description of myself is different. I feel differently. I'm not the person who would go To target and buy a six-pack of underwear for $6.99 or something like that, you know You're like, I'm not Trying to just be frugal. I'm trying to I'm totally doing something different and then And then you do that, and then the way that you see the world actually changes. So once you see yourself as a different person, you see the world as a different person, and then when you're sitting there in that interview wearing those underwear, you're like, I did something more and different. And actually it was a fun experience. And then when you have the underwear on in the interview, you know it, and you bring this greater power with you, and you get the job, and you say, wow, this was a spiritual lesson. It wasn't just, buy some expensive underwear because... but actually, it's also that. That's the funny part. But it is a profound spiritual lesson. It taught me that I wasn't who I thought I was. And by doing something different and weird, but with a powerful, insightful, second attention in the teaching, I was able to change. I was able to grow. And when I got that computer programming job, I was a better programmer. I had much more openness. It was something that was a spiritual realization. So these are very powerful mystical practices. So my teacher taught Buddhist mysticism in these funny ways, in very American ways, in ways that are very aligned with American society, and that help you to become stronger, to lift up, to do well, and be successful in this world. And also, the most important part, is that every single weird little teaching like that, the tonality of the teaching, had a very strong second attention. And the second attention brought you wisdom, insight, peace, balance, and spiritual liberation. So these things are... This is why it's crazy, because on the outside, buy underwear. And then that's the koan. You know, that's a tonal that brings realization. Now enlightened teachers, they have a bigger picture. The self always gets fixated in something. So enlightened teachers are always creating a bigger picture. And then, you know, students usually don't see it coming. You can't see it coming. So, in Western Tibet, there was this time where the monks were very serious about their practice. And they did their chanting and their meditation. They were very, very focused. Because the master was like, the strong meditation is where enlightenment comes from. And they were like, okay. So they would meditate, meditate. And they got so self-important and so caught up in just concentrate, like that, that they started to become limited by their frustration with meditation. They hit a certain place, they got frustrated and then they stayed there. So then the master said, you know what? No more meditation. He's like, that doesn't matter. I said that that was the most important thing, but actually the most important thing is this thing we call the Cham dance. So there's this dance. They're usually dancing stories of Padmasambhava. It's considered really spiritual. And he's like, there's this dance. And Buddhist monks do the dance and they play the music. And so he said, we've got to put together this giant production to do for the whole village and that's spiritual. Meditation is not spiritual anymore. And they were like, oh, okay, master. Rinpoche, master, okay. We believe you. So he starts training all of them. He had the tone out. He had the first attention to teach them how to dance. He knew how to do it. So he taught them how to dance. So they were dancing. They have costumes like big masks and like colorful costumes. And then people have to play these weird like, oh, elbows or whatever. It's like with the giant like long horns. They have those in Switzerland too,

0:38:13
you know, those big, oh.

0:38:14
And so they were doing that. They were totally working on it. So they worked on it for like a year. And then there was a certain day where they were supposed to do the festival of Padmasambhava or something. And Padmasambhava is the greatest Buddha of Tibet. He is like this high enlightened being. So they kind of like are going to tell this amazing story of Padmasambhava. And so they work for it and they work for it and work for it and then they get to the day where they're going to do the festival, and the monks get there and they're all ready, and then the master comes over and says, no. So he's like, no more dancing, no more chanting, we're just going to stay. And then they were like, oh, but you said that was the most important thing. He's like, nope, not anymore. And he didn't say there was another important thing. So then they just went back to their rooms in the monastery and then they were like, I guess I'll meditate. And when they meditated, it is said that all of them had the ensemade, this high enlightened experience. They were blocked in their practice. And you can't just say to someone, you know you're meditating not so good. And I thought, how? Because you're thinking too much. How do I stop thinking? It takes a crazy teaching with a bigger, this teacher had a bigger vision, a greater insight. And by getting them to go to the dancing, just the preparation got them to change. So that's kind of crazy. Meditation should be the most important thing. And he's like, no, let's just dance. Let's just dance. So anyway, it's the funniest thing. You gotta dance sometimes. You gotta dance sometimes. Unless you let go of everything, and then Then you could meditate more.

0:40:26
You can't get stuck on things.

0:40:27
And that's why the enlightened teacher has a crazy teaching.

0:40:31
Dance.

0:40:34
The enlightened teacher gets to the heart of the matter, gets right to what actually matters for you to be free. But it's not what you think. You might think, well, I think this and this and this and this. And I hear a lot of spiritual people, here's what I think and think and think, and I ask questions about it and think and think. And the enlightened teacher goes around your expectations and thoughts and tells you to do something that actually is going to work. And you're like, well, does that have to do with anything that I was thinking. Well you're in thinking mind. So this is the wisdom of the crazy enlightened teachers. It's not to do what the thinking mind is expecting. You gotta go around it because if you're in the thinking mind you're never gonna be enlightened. You're always gonna be in the thinking mind. You're just gonna build up more thinking mind until you think everything and then you become Agent Smith for sure. So I remember, I thought some with my teacher once, this gaff had a question for him and she's like, so Rob Ruppesche, I'm struggling. I'm having a hard time. So, you know, I lost my job and I'm trying to get a new job. And it's like, I got a little bit behind the technology, but now I'm working on it. And I'm like, I'm trying and then, you know, go to interviews and somehow it doesn't work out. And they ask me these questions and I'm like, why are they asking me these questions? Because I know and from my experience, she's just all over the place about her resume and her experiences. And she's like, so what should I do to get a job?

0:42:30
And he says, martial arts.

0:42:35
And she's like, well, what about my resume? He's like, karate. And she's like, so is there something wrong with my interview process? And he's like, five times a week she's all but what about like my tech skills and he says two months that's a crazy teacher okay but she listened because she was a student and she's like okay karate and then she started really liking it. And she had a good time with it. And she did it for two months. And then towards the end of the second month, she was like, yeah, this is, I feel strong. And then towards the end of the two months, she got a job. So then she came back and she was like, how did that happen? And he said, you were in a place where your power was very diminished. Something happened to you. She got fired from her previous job for some weird reason. And he said, and then he felt really bad. And he's like, you cannot feel bad. You have to be successful. You have to feel powerful. So you got momentum through just a physical act. And then because you've had that stronger personal power, a job is inevitable. So there's nothing about your resume, nothing about your interviewing. It's all about you having that feeling of power. So now if he explained that to her in the beginning, I don't know if she would listen. She'd go, well, that's illogical because that's karate, and I want a job. This is like the self does. I want this, and you're talking about that. And that's why it's a crazy teaching. Crazy teachings always draw you off into something that you don't see coming and go, hmm? And a lot of times, crazy teachings are things you don't understand at all. It's completely alien to your mind. So when you come to a real spiritual teacher and then they say something that you don't want to hear, you have to say, the ego says, that's stupid, I don't like that, I'm angry about that, judge, judge, judge, judge, judge, I don't understand it. And that's exactly why it can be enlightenment. I remember talking to one of my students a long time ago, and he's a very successful student now, but in the beginning I was giving all these teachings and he was just like, everything you say makes no sense at all. And then I was like, now It's true. That's the way it looks. So, also, teachers couldn't really go against your way of looking at life. See, the thing is that the things you value in your description of the world, is all caught up in ego, self, and limited attention. And so an enlightened teacher could say something that goes against your sensibilities and could make you very bothered. However, if you can kind of look past what you think and actually see the powerful insight that the teacher has, then you might actually see that the self that you suffer is partly your ideas of what's right and wrong. And she, at the first time, she was like, she's like, teacher, I have this horrible anxiety. I wake up in the middle of the night sometimes with this anxious feeling in the pit of my stomach. And once in a while I have panic attacks where I can't control myself. And then she's like, can you give me a meditation or some insight? And he says to her, you need to eat beef. And so immediately when he says this, she's in shock. You know why? Because she was a vegan. And she was sorry for animals who got eaten by people, and she had this whole big idea of oh, it's evil, and she would yell at her family and friends who ate hamburgers. And then this Buddhist teacher is telling her, you need to eat meat, and she's kind of in shock. And he said, the thing is that you're psychically sensitive, and this is what's causing your anxiety and panic. And if you eat beef, beef is a very, it's a heavy thing. That's why most spiritual people who like to meditate high don't eat beef, but it actually will balance you. It'll like, because you're too sensitive, it will bring you back down into a balance. And then from there, you'll be balanced and then you can grow. You know, my teacher was vegetarian so you can grow out of it but you gotta get balanced. And she was bothered. I remember talking to her later, she was so mad. She's like, how can an enlightened person say, eat the holy cow! And then eventually she got over this frustration and said, I will do it. I'm just gonna, this is a spiritual lesson and I recognize it. It's not what I would do. It's not what I would want, but I will follow the lessons. So then she had a steak dinner and started eating beef. And then at the next satsang, a few weeks later, she said, Yeah, my anxiety is totally gone. It's gone.

0:49:25
No more panic attacks.

0:49:26
So the teacher sees more than what you think. And you might think things are super, oh, it must be this way, it's a good thing. And the teacher might go, it's not good. But you're like, but isn't it? It should be. It must be. Oh, not necessarily. And teachers can actually give you a really hard time and cause you great anguish with their craziness. They can give you such a hard time, they can make you infuriated. Some students of the Buddha tried to kill him. So the self, the self-mind, it doesn't like the undoing. It fights for itself. The ego fights for itself. You get self-defensive. And this is why it's very important to understand that the foundation of enlightened teachings is that enlightened teachers are crazy and they give you teaching. Like if you see I'm telling you this because if you think, oh this is just a crazy teaching so I can go along with the humor of it, but ouch! You have to have the right humor. So, in India long ago, there was a yogi who sat by the Ganga, and his tonal of teaching was that he would ask questions. So, he had a lot of followers sit by him, and then someone would come up and they would sit next to him and he would look at them and go, meh. And then he would ask them a question. So this guy comes up, one of his followers for a long time, and he says, are you ready to let go of anger now? And then his follower says, I'm not angry. And he asks again, are you ready to let go of anger now? His follower says, I am not angry. And then the great EOB says, what is it that makes you so angry? What are the things that bother you?" He goes, I'm not so bothered. I mean like, you know, yeah, sometimes, you know, like this guy he does these, he says he thinks of me, but that's cool. I'm not, but I'm not angry. And then also about the other thing that she does, yeah, that and our government, I mean like they have taxes, right? And like, you know, we have big tasks.

0:52:25
I don't know.

0:52:26
You know, he just kept going on about the things that were bothering him. But he kept getting more and more angry until he was shouting about government, people, this guy he met at the Naan and Curry place. He was just complaining impromptu. And so, and then, and then he turns on the, on the, on the yogi master and he's all, and you, he's like, how can you ask me this question? Do you know how many times he'll have done that to me? That's why it's a great humor. Okay, he's like, how can you even ask me this? And all you do is sit here by the river and tell people, hey, what's going on? So he's just like, and then starts yelling at him, and then he exhausts himself. He yelled about everything and everything, got angry, angry, and he finally got super angry at his teacher, and then he's like, and you're just a jerk, you're being rude. And then he's like, and he finished everything, and he's breathing. And then, and then the yogi says, are you ready to let go of your anchor now? And then he goes,

0:53:48
yes.

0:53:52
See, but the teacher will give you a hard time. Absolutely. The teacher might seem like a really nice person. They might just be ready to something, or they might just tell jokes. But if you engage with an enlightened teacher, they bring you into something. The second attention is 99% of the teaching. So the first attention, which is a question, you have to work on a yoga project. You have to learn computer programming. That's the crazy part. That's the part that it's so small, but the enlightened teaching is huge. So this guy, ready to stop being angry? And the second intention of what he taught was it brought this guy through this thing where he finally came to the point where he can understand. Because if you don't have the enlightened teacher with a second attention part of the teaching, then you're still stuck in self-mind, right? And the self-mind is just thinking whatever it thinks and never stops and just keeps building upon the self information that it gets. Now, the tone out of the enlightened teacher can also be wrathful. These are all nice people, right? But the wrathful one I want to point out is Padmasambhava. Padmasambhava was the great enlightened teacher of Tibet. At the time of Buddha's death, his students were like, oh Buddha, we're so sad, because you're this great enlightened one and you're going to die, and then we won't have you. And Buddha said, in 12 years, if you really want a really, you love enlightened teachers, in 12 years, there's going to be a Buddha that is 12 times more powerful and enlightened than I, who's going to be born into that. So go up there. I don't think, there's no record of any of them that did. But I bet you there's one or two. So Buddha foresaw that Padmasambhava would be this even more enlightened teacher. And he was very, very powerful. And he did very magical, mystical things. He had magical powers and great abilities and the greatest, most powerful insight. He created all these roots of tremendous enlightenment, like a foundation for Tibetan Buddhism. So, Padmasambhava was this great master. Everyone was like, oh, great master! You've shown so many miracles, you've given so many beautiful teachings. And then there was this lay couple with their son, and they come over for Darshan, to be seen in the presence of the Enlightened One. They come over and they say, Oh, we are so pious, we've listened to your teachings, we give as much as we can to the monks, and we're so happy to see you, and we want to present our son." And he was like this like 12 year old boy, beautiful little boy. And they come over, they bow, and they said, here's our son. And he goes, and then he, and this is just beautiful, pristine, innocent little boy. And Padmasambhava goes, and punches him in the nose, breaks his nose and disfigures him. His nose is always like... right? And everyone's like, oh! And this is his crazy teaching. The tonal of his teaching was to punch a kid in the nose. And then they're like, what's going on? And then Padmasambhava says, this boy is so perfect and so beautiful that he's going to grow up very egotistical. So me breaking his nose and making him look weird is forever going to give him this teaching that he shouldn't be egotistical. And he can't be because he looks funny. He might have some nice eyes, but that nose is over there. So it's true. And then the parents recognize the truth, because he was a powerful teacher, and then they're all like, oh cool, thank you. If it took one punch to make our son, you know, be able to be more humble, to follow the Dharma, then that's good. Those were nice Those are nice parents. They came from a very Buddhist culture.

0:58:54
Americans would be all like,

0:58:55
what? Jesus, you just punched my kid.

0:58:58
I'm gonna shoot you.

0:59:00
I don't care if you're Jesus anymore.

0:59:02
What are you ready for, Nose? What do you call it? Crazy teachings. Or I just got to tell another crazy teaching story. There was a Zen master in China sitting by a river. And this lay practitioner comes over and says, I've been meditating and I really want enlightenment. I want enlightenment more than anything else. And then the Zen master goes, really?

0:59:39
He's like, yeah.

0:59:40
He's like, come here. So they walk out into the river, about up to here, and then the Zen Master grabs him by his hair and shoves him underwater. And he's like holding him there. And then the guy's like getting to the end, he lets him off. And the guy's all, oh, that was crazy. He said, Master Gus, what did you want when I held you underwater? He's like, I wanted you to let me up so I can breathe. He's like, I thought you wanted the enlightenment. And in that, because he comes with this burning desire for enlightenment, and then he saw this burning desire to get up and breathe and stay alive and not be drowned. And in seeing that, he had Satori, enlightenment. So this is why I say, enlightened teachers are crazy. They can do things that any person in society would see from the self-mind. And everyone can have an opinion, everyone can say, oh that's horrible, oh that's negative, and if they're enlightened shouldn't they be like, blah blah blah? You know? But I have to say from many stories, I can keep going with stories of crazy things that enlightened people have done in the past that helped. But the teaching is crazy in the first attention. And in the second attention, the bigger part of it, in all of these stories, and my experiences with my teacher and seeing many people experiencing these crazy teachings, is that it brings spiritual awareness. It liberates you from a place where you're stuck. And that's one of the greatest things. You would go to my teacher, say, I'm not in a good shape, I've got this problem. And then he'd be like, and then he would tell you something really weird. But then when you do it, it's hard, and he gets you in stuck. Never something you expect. Always, you know, it's like, oh, work on this. Oh, you have a problem with this? How about that? This is the secret of enlightened teachers. So I'm going to give you one last insight on that, and then we're going to do a meditation. And in the meditation, so my last insight is going to be the first attention. And then the meditation is the second attention. And that means that there's a small cue to probably be crazy. And then there's going to be the place where I do just a direct transmission. And that this is all second attention. a little first attention, you got to sit there and go... And the transmission has no words, it's all second attention, it's all the big part. But see, there has to be, for the mind, the thinking mind, the self mind, there has to be all of these points. And even if they seem crazy, you got to go with it and see the truth in it. And then it comes to that direct truth, which is the the demonstration, the transmission. And there's nothing to say there. But if you've developed yourself and walked along and gone through the story and said, yeah, I guess this sounds crazy. And Samara's joke's so bad, but if you just kind of go through it, you're just walking through it and experiencing the bigger truth. This is how all the teachings are. crazy teaching is a man climbs a Himalayan peak, comes into a cave, finds an enlightened master and says, Master, what insight do you have? What is the greatest truth to be happy in life. And the Master says, it's easy. Never argue with anyone. If you argue with anyone, you get caught in their ego and then you've gone into samsara. And then he goes, is that it? I mean, that's it? That's so easy, but shouldn't there be more? Isn't there some other pithy teaching that you can tell me? I mean, that's just simple. So is there something more? And then the master goes, Yeah, sure, you're right, there must be something more. And the guy gets confused and walks away. Alright, focus on the third eye, open eye meditation, look straight towards me and I'm going to do what we call the other part. I'm a crazy teacher. You So

1:05:56
so the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, So so You Thank you. Thank you. Have a good day, a good evening, and be well.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
