0:00:00
So, how are you doing? So it's important to observe as advanced students or advanced to intermediate students how you're

0:00:16
doing.

0:00:17
How is your meditation? How is your mindfulness? How is your bodhicitta? Are you in a difficult time in life and you're like transforming adversity into the pathway of awakening? Are things bright, beautiful, amazing? If so, wonderful, you're practicing properly. If you're not, if you're confused, if you are seeing a lot of Maya, you're seeing a lot of forces that create separation in your life, you're getting frustrated, you're getting angry, getting sad, all these things, if that's happening, then you're not practicing. You're not practicing Dharma. You're caught in confusion. You're caught in the Maya. And if you don't pay attention, if you don't actually figure out how to practice the Dharma again, then you'll be... Like the story of the Buddha where he went to the two sides that were arguing, they didn't listen to the teachings and they didn't... There's no stories of them becoming arhats. So it's very important to listen to the teachings. You gotta follow the practices of dharma. So you just have to be self-honest. If you're confused and angry, if you're not doing good yoga, not doing good practice, you have to start over again. I remember one time we were just, you know, doing our practice like usual. And then Ram Ramesh, he started yelling at us. He was like, you guys screwed up, you guys lost it. And we were like, what are you talking about? And then he said, no, start to be self-honest. Are you really happy? Are you excited? Are you like filled with light and joy in your meditation? Are you mindful? Are you thinking thoughts of Dharma?" And we were like, oh no. And he said, you know, in the beginning there was great transformation that you went through and then the pathway to enlightenment doesn't stop there. In fact, you know, as Buddha said, it is good in the beginning, it is good in the middle and it is good at the end. So there's powerful transformation in the beginning and in the intermediate and powerful transformation at the end. And if all you see is the transformation from the beginning and now you're stuck in a whole bunch of mrmrmrmr, then you're not practicing. So Rama's advice was, do what you did in the beginning. He said, when you were beginners, you had a certain enthusiasm, you had a certain adherence and care for the teachings and the Sangha, you had a certain etiquette that brought you into radical transformation, that brought you into high states of mind. And even though you're enhanced, if you stop doing that, if you're not really throwing yourself into the Dharma, then you stop. And then you start looking at, you start getting jaded, and you're like, I don't like this. You get bothered, you don't see the light, you don't see the power in the Dharma, and then you end up not following the Dharma. And you end up not going in the way of power, transformation.

0:04:29
So you have to be self-honest,

0:04:30
even though you're advanced students, right? Are you practicing dharma? If you're an advanced student, you should be seeing transformation in your life, and you should be self-honest. And you shouldn't get stuck.

0:04:53
You shouldn't fall off.

0:04:54
I understand that it happens, but this is hopefully a wake-up call for you. Now I remember after Ram Rinpoche died, I was practicing meditation every day, but I had lost the spirit. Inside I was kind of like, well, I don't know if I could be enlightened and maybe I could go to Asia and find some other enlightened teacher. I don't know. So my practice was off. And I sat and meditated every day. I spiritual books and stuff, but I was going into negative thinking and it clouded over the spirit of spiritual advancement, even though I was an empowered advanced student. And then after going through Asia and seeing that there were no enlightened teachers like Rama, then I was like, wow, I better really, really take to heart that these teachings were powerful. And so then I started meditating really hard. And then I found the spirit again. And then every single day I was alive with like spiritual insight and spiritual growth and excitement. I was back in the Dharma, but for a period of about six months, even though I sat every day and meditated, I was thinking negative thoughts. I was seeing a lot of illusion. I was doubting myself, and I was just running into separation. And so, it's important if you run into that, not to go that way. You've got to come back in. You've got to come back into the Dharma. So I remember after I had meditated and gone into Samadhi and I was really, really focusing on the light and really, really back in my Dharma practice, I remember running into, I ran into was Mandala, right? Mandala was off. She was out of her practice. She was not in the light. She was in maya. And then I was like, Mandala, remember. And then she was like, wow, okay. And then she started meditating. She got back into the light. And it was like, it was like a switch from being in illusion to being in the Dharma. So you can do that. If you're off, you're an advanced student, you should be mindful. You should say, whoa, something's off. Let's get back to the basics, to the heart, to the spirit of the teachings. Penetrate the teachings to the Dharma. When you say, wow, then your spirit awakens back to when you were a beginner and something worked for you and you saw something powerful and there was growth So that's what you got to see. I also remember Actually Tara was with me so I was already starting to teach and

0:08:15
I

0:08:16
Did a trip to New York and in New York we met with some ST2s, including Agni Kala. And we were having dinner with them and I was looking at them and I could see they were all in the dark. They had all forgot the Dharma, they were all caught in illusion. And I was talking about Agni Kala and I was like, Agni Kala, do you still meditate? And he says, yeah, every day. And I was like, whoa, I'm like, like, like, the meditation Rama taught us? He's like, yeah, of course. And I was like, wow. And I was just like, amazed how even advanced students, awesome people could just be stuck off, caught in maya, not on the practice. So, it happens, but as an advanced student, you've got to wake up. You've got to really take responsibility to see where you're at. Are you in the dark? Or are you on fire with the teachings of the Dharma? If you're not on fire with the teachings of the Dharma, you're definitely doing things wrong. If you're an advanced student, an intermediate advanced student, you should be like excited. You should be like, wow, the things that you're going through, even going through Bodhicitta again, even if this is your third or fourth time going through all the Bodhicitta teachings, it should be inspiring to you. It's unfolding in new ways, more powerful. It should be, you should have greater insight, you should have greater power in your experience of Bodhicitta. So you shouldn't be like, oh, it's Bodhicitta again.

0:10:14
I learned that three years ago,

0:10:15
I learned that 10 years ago, whatever, right? It should be something that empowers you, doesn't make you dull. So this is very, very important. Because you could be on the advanced path and be confused and off. So Dalmajit was looking at what's

0:10:35
going on with you guys, the advanced students.

0:10:38
She's like, wow, you guys are like egomaniacs, totally in your self head about, oh, my enlightenment, my enlightenment, my enlightenment. Right, and I'm like, yeah, that's true, it's kind of funny. It's a step that people go through. But if you focus on the Dharma, then you become strong. So I have a very big teaching on self reliance, right? Your self-responsibility for enlightenment. But that's not to say all of a sudden that you go flip into, well then that means I'm enlightenment and I go my way and I do my thing and all that stuff. So self-reliance and self-responsibility is sobriety. It's really looking at the condition that you're in and saying, is this right? Is this dharma? Is this luminous? Is this spiritually uplifting? And if it's not, then what's wrong? Where did my practice stop? Where did I start getting confused? Where these weird thoughts, these weird feelings, because that's not Dharma. So like Rama said, you have to go back to that feeling, that state of what you did in the beginning, because what you did in the beginning brought you radical change, it brought you brightness. And if you don't experience that, then you're an advanced student. And if you're an advanced student and it's all about you and your pathway to enlightenment, then that's egotism. So you can't forget the three jewels. You can't forget that the Buddha and the Dharma and the Sangha. There's no me in that. There's no I. I'm the fourth jewel. I am enlightenment. So that's kind of what a lot of you are doing. You're like, well, I have to do enlightenment. I am enlightenment. I am enlightenment. And if you do that, then you get into egotism. You're on my way. I do this. I'm doing it for my enlightenment. If you start seeing those thoughts in your head, you're off, and that's why you're confused. So, the three jewels of Buddhism are the Buddha, the Dharma, and the Sangha. Not you. There's no I in Buddhism. Oh, wait a second. So, you So you have to really look at the fact that if you've got a lot of self, I, I, I, me, me, me, then you're not taking the teachings of self-reliance properly or the teachings of responsibility properly. You're going into egotism. You have to adhere to the three jewels So, Sangha is very powerful and in the advanced teachings you're able to mature with the Sangha in very, very beautiful ways. Now, this was something that you were able to see in the stories of the Buddha, where the Sangha was together and they were learning from each other as they were growing. And this is advanced students. This is where an Arhant teaches another student to become an Arhant. So this is something that's very, very powerful, very, very helpful. It's not that, oh, Buddha taught taught me something and screw everybody, I'm going to go get my enlightenment under some tree." There's a very powerful support in sangha. So there's a story of the seven Taoist teacher. And the teacher gave them these amazing teachings for enlightenment, taught them all the things and said, okay, this is advanced teachings, go for it. And they were all, okay, cool. And then the Taoist master says, okay, you guys become enlightened and then, you can meet me in this high dimension once you're enlightened. So then Taoist master goes away. So then the seven students go, all right, and they're all hanging out together. And then they all just split and go different ways. And then they all have these troubles. Then one comes, says, hey, what are you going through? Two of the other gives a little advice, sparks something in each other. And they kind of share the way. And then they all together help each other become enlightened. Then they go back to their master and the master is like, good job. So there's a lot of support in Sangha and that's why, you know, when you look at the enlightened ones of our lineage, even though the Maha Sangha had really broken up because when Rama died, everybody scattered like stray cats. They didn't stay together, but the enlightened ones did something, they came together. So, you know, like Sahaja and Kundalini, they went to Ananda was, you know, kind of like the first of the ST1s to become liberated. And then he helped them. And then Kundalini helped Agni Kala, me, and many others. So we kind of helped each other. And then in my dojo in San Francisco, Mandala was there, Sananda was there, you know. So we helped each other. We all acted within a Sangha structure because it was supportive. It wasn't confusing. So we received, you know, the advanced teachings from our teacher Rama, right? So that is the truth, the power, and the way. So we didn't sit there and go, oh, you know, I'm gonna go to some other random teacher and think that they're gonna, you know, give me the last thing to get over the, you know, to get over the hump and become liberated, right? And we all sitting there confused by each other. So like when I went to Kundalini, Kundalini was supportive and helpful, not in Kundalini's way of enlightenment, but in Kundalini's adherence to the advanced teachings of this Brahma lineage. And then it was something where I was like, oh, that is powerful support. I see, it's helpful. And then I was able to advanced teachings properly in this powerfully transformative way. So it wasn't different. It didn't draw me off into the Kundalini path. It was the Kala Chakra. It was the powerful teachings of our lineage that bring enlightenment. So this is something that you should recognize. You should recognize that the Dharma that I teach is the structure of enlightenment in the school. If you want to go to a different dojo, that's a different thing. But you should not get confused. You shouldn't get confused amongst You should be clear. If you're confused, then you need to get back to basics. You know, I guess I've given all the analogies. Digging a well, you know, trying to get your first black belt, you don't skip into other schools, you don't get confused on the way. So it's very, very important. You know, basically you have to come back to the recognition that in the Dharma there's truth, and you have to see that truth in your life. And if you don't see that, then something's off. Your ego's in the way, you're confused, you're not practicing the Dharma. And it's very important that you get back to practicing the Dharma. So when I'm watching the Lojong teachings, I'm very happy. I'm able to see that you're putting together very structured, positive, insightful teachings on the Lojong. So I'm very happy to see that there's a very beautiful brightness in it. So you guys are doing those things in a very good way. And these are demonstrations of applying your mind and your attention to the Dharma where you share light. Because if you brought to the teaching confusions and this, you're all stuck in Maya and stuff, then there wouldn't be light in it. Now for those of you who are confused and stuck, and stuck, you need, you should probably teach. Do a teaching, because then what you'll do is you'll push out of the way all your confusion, and you'll, and then you'll present a Dharma that you've been trained in. A Dharma will flow through you, and you'll see the Dharma clearly. So one of the wonderful things about teaching is that you're a doorway to the Dharma. And if you're not teaching, you could just be a closed door all confused. But when you open that door and you see all the light come through, and you say, Oh wow, oh wow, it clarifies things for you. It's very, very, very beautiful. And if you ever get confused, go back to that light. Go back to the light of your experience in sharing the Dharma. And for those of you who are confused and not teaching, maybe try teaching. Teaching is very powerful. And if you didn't sign up for one of the Lojong teachings, then do a different teaching. So pretty soon we're going to have signups for the Buddha Dojo. And the Buddha Dojo courses are gonna have teachings for Buddhist mysticism, job yoga, and I think we have 26 bodhicitta teachings. So this is lots of opportunities to teach. So in the Buddha Dojo structure, it's going to be week one of the month. The first Saturday is going to be where students will watch a recorded video of me in the Cowell Theater giving the first teaching or whatever, the teaching of either Buddhist mysticism, job yoga, or bodhicitta, whatever those students are on. And then the second week of the month will be an advanced student who's going to be giving a teaching about the previous week's teaching. So you'll be like, wow, you know, Sambara was teaching about this, this, and this. Here's some information. Here's maybe a story or a way that I experienced it in my life. There's also, he recommended this book and this movie to go along with that lesson. And here's what's good about this book and this movie. So it'll be like things like that and then some questions and answers, so the advanced teacher will be able to give a teaching which is elaborating on my teaching. And then this is something that when you do this in a selfless way, you're able to bring insight to the students and support them through answering questions. So this is a beautiful way to do teachings. So soon, we will have, you know, a sign up for who wants to teach these classes. And I recommend that you teach a class, if you can. There's only a certain number of these ones, but we want to make sure that we bring a high quality of teaching to the new students in the dojo and that you have an opportunity to say, to teach. And if you don't end up teaching one of these primary courses, then you can always teach Introduction Buddhism. And so that's the intro class. Or you can teach the Enlightenment Workbook class. So there's going to be a lot of opportunities to teach, and I recommend that you teach. Because when you teach, you can see that there's lots of light. You can get a little bit of clarity. You can push aside confusion and see where the dharma is. And then, let's see, oh, we also have an upcoming teaching, a new kind. And this is going to be a dance teaching that Chidananda is going to give. So I think this is a good time to dance, because everything's crazy. And Chidananda came up with this cool structure of kind of more like a meditative dance. So it's a really neat structure and he's kind of like a dance DJ, who kind of like walk us through a certain dance experience. So I think that'll be cool. So, that's up and coming. And, oh yeah, additional classes that will happen the Buddha dojo are going to be classes like martial arts, so we're developing a martial arts structure that we're going to formalize for the Buddha dojo for the pandemic and beyond. And let's see. And then we have, you know, scuba diving we could do scuba classes. So people who are going to be students of the Buddha Dojo will also be able to take advantage of these classes, classes that are kind of core competencies of our school. So it's like martial arts and scuba. We might do music. We might do writing or something like that. Very core things to how we do things and how we bring up about the dharma.

0:26:41
But there could be other things too.

0:26:43
Like you might say, you know, I think it would be cool if there was a class where someone talks about etiquette and just the etiquette of how to come to a Zoom meeting, how to come to a Zoom satsang. So if you identify something as an advanced student and you say, hey, it would be really cool to support new students by giving them a class on this information. When you see something that you've learned that you thought would be supportive for others, you can create a class and offer that. So in the Buddha Dojo, there'll be lots of opportunities to teach. It'll be very good. But like the Lojong teachings, they're going really well. Looking forward to hearing the rest of them and for people to continue, you know, what you're seeing everybody doing is a very good job. Good structure, good insight, and the light comes through. It's really beautiful. I was really happy with all the teachings today. I was really inspired by them. I was like, wow, this is cool. And I was like listening and I was like, wow, and this and that. And then the last one was Ketu and Ketu was talking. So he was talking and he said, he was talking about, he was talking and I was like seeing all this light and I was like, yeah, he's talking about praise. And I'm like, yeah, that's right, praise. And then I had to say, yeah, praising is so good. Praising is so amazing, it's so wonderful. And then afterwards, someone here at the Dharma Villa said, I think he wasn't saying praise, I think he was saying place. And I was all like, well, that's you. I'm all like, whatever it is, man, it's good stuff. I can go with the dharma either way, it's so bright. It was suggestive of enlightenment. And it reminds me of the time I was in the Joshua Tree with Ajna. It was his first power trip. And I was like, all right, everyone, gaze at the mountain. And then we're sitting there looking at the mountain and then Ajna like goes over to Sananda and says how does he know there's gaze over there? So there's all light and happiness and brightness, but if you're an intermediate, advanced, and advanced student, you've got to be real. You have to see that there's powerful transformation in your life right now, that life is bright, shiny, gorgeous, fantastic, and wonderful. And if all you're seeing is a bunch of crap, then your head is stuck up your ass. It's true. Then you're not practicing dharma, you're confused and you're in maya, and you're not listening to the teachings. You gotta go. And Rama gave the best advice. Think back to the state of mind that you were in when you were a beginner and you were like excited, that energy, because you were able to change and transform. And if you find yourself not in change and transformation and enlightened transformative upliftment, then you got to go back to that feeling. And then they would call that like beginner's mind, right? It's a beginner's mood that's being open. If you're the advanced student and you have to worry about your enlightenment and everything sucks now and you're all confused and bothered and everything, then you've lost the plot. Come back to the teachings. All right, everybody. I hope you have a wonderful week. Practice the Dharma is a very, very, very tough time, especially because of the political situation. So transform adverse conditions into the pathway of awakening. Practice for real. Practice for real. Okay, thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
