0:00:00
Hello everyone, and happy solstice. All right, so first of all, give yourself a break. It's been tough. We've had, you know, all sorts of crazy things happening in the world, so you can give yourself a break and therefore things can be easier, better. This is the solstice, and the solstice is a time of transformation. So allow yourself to let go of angers and frustrations and sadnesses. Let yourself have the opportunity of the solstice. An opportunity for meditation. An opportunity for transformation. So let yourself, give yourself a break. You know, from yourself. And this solstice can transform you. So let's begin with meditation in this way, in this disposition of giving yourself a break. Just meditate and relax. We're just going to sit for one song, focused on the heart chakra. But it is the solstice time. Still your mind. Don't beat yourself up. Let go of those usual thoughts and be able to still your mind and experience this time and this satsang.

0:02:00
Sit up nice and straight. All right, let's begin. the the the So So So the the the the the the the so You All right, so we're going to be going on a special voyage today. A voyage from illusion into unity. So, today I'm going to give a teaching, but I'm also going to bring you into a shift, and for that part, I need your assistance.

0:04:21
So we're going to be doing what's called a yogic shift, and it's not just me going blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. It's your participation. So it's not like going to a chiropractor and they go, click, all right, you're better,

0:06:59
and go on.

0:07:00
No, you have to participate in this. You have to be more than just the neck. All right, so this is a time that's very difficult, a time of great hardship. And so it's very important for us to bring our focus together, bring our concentration together, to work together, to push beyond dissatisfaction, suffering, all sorts of trouble, to be evolved in this life, you know, in all ways. In the physical way of life, like we want to be healthy, we want to be wealthy, we want to be balanced, and spiritually, we want to be spiritually balanced. We want to have heightened awareness. So it's important for us to recognize the of the times, the hardships, so that we can focus in a positive way. Now these are very tough times, so it's important to be very clear that in the face of adversity you've got to take it seriously. And a lot of you know kind of ups and downs I've noticed one day everything's kind of like ma and then the next day it's horrible and the ma was your up day sometimes people have really high meditations and then five minutes later They're angry about something so you guys are kind of more up and down than an elevator and It's important that you that you focus You know, you're gonna take the right steps to get beyond this transient condition so It's it's a time that really spurs us on to really, really practice, really focus. So we have the pandemic raging on. It's like this is the time, at least in America, where we've got the vaccine just coming out. But we have this whole winter where hardly anyone's going to get it. And then everyone is going home for the holidays to cough on each other. So this is a difficult time. And, you know, here in California at least, they just issued another stay at home order, which we're not doing.

0:10:12
We're not staying at home.

0:10:13
We're connecting over Zoom.

0:10:14
There we go.

0:10:15
We're in cyberspace. You can go into cyber space. So yeah, but when they had the stay at home order, they shut down all the bars and restaurants. Did they shut down the bars and restaurants? Yeah, OK. So people can't go out and do frivolous things. But then they also shut down the beauty parlors and the hair salons and the nail salons and the tanning places and all that stuff. So, you know, that's not happening. So things are getting really ugly out there. So we have difficult times, difficult times. I remember that everyone was like in the first shelter in place. Everyone's like, what do I do with my hair? It was great. I'm like, I don't have that problem. So, you know, when we have hardships, we have to focus. And it's really difficult. I mean, this has been going on a long time. So people just get tired of it. People say, ah, I don't see that many people getting sick around me and I'm just sitting at home, so I want to go out and get coughed on by someone. It's not an immediate awareness of danger anymore. At first it was, but now it's not immediate. So people are kind of, they're so tired of the monotony that they want to go and do things. That happened in the time of the Spanish flu as well. Everyone was at home, everyone was, you know, like, trying to hide out, trying not to get the Spanish flu, and then they came out with the new Charlie Chaplin movie, right? And then everybody went to watch it and then there's a giant spike in the flu. So it's like, they didn't shut down in movie theaters. So here they shut things down. So people are sitting around at home and kind of going a little crazy. They don't have like meditation. So what do they have? They have the internet. So one of my students said, I accomplished something. I said, what? I watched Netflix. And I said, oh, okay, cool. What'd you do? What'd you watch? All of Netflix. I'm like, whoa, okay. That is an accomplishment. That is a Chuck Norris accomplishment. So, these are the amazing things that you can do during the pandemic. So, we have some dogs here. I was walking a dog and I saw a neighbor sitting on her porch, she lives alone. And she's been, you know, kind of sheltering in place. And she's sitting there on her porch, just having a conversation with her cat. And I was like, I was so filled with compassion. I said, I said out loud, oh my gosh, I hope she's going to be okay. And then my dog said, don't worry about it, she's gonna be fine. She's got to relax when the pandemic's over, it's all going to go back to normal. And I said, you know, you're right. So I got to have a sense of humor during these difficult times. I got another one. So, this gray goose walks into a bar and orders a double whiskey on the rocks. And then the bartender looks at the goose and says, I thought you were going to order vodka? And the goose says, why? And then the bartender says, well, you know, there's a premium brand of vodka named after you. And the goose says, there's a brand of vodka named Steve?

0:15:07
Wow.

0:15:09
Cool.

0:15:13
So, you've got to have a sense of humor. You have to laugh, relax. Because this is a time that we would say a time of great maya, a time of illusion, a time where the karmic conditions are so heavy that it's hard to see spirit. It's very, very difficult to get awareness of eternality and of spiritual wonder in life. If you just pay attention to what's going on, you're seeing a whole bunch of difficult things. You're seeing pandemic scares, political scares, war, you know all these difficult things the economy and

0:16:05
All of these things really affect us

0:16:07
So it's important to Connect with the light, but it's hard to in this world So we have to we have to really really really focus on what's important Because if you're just listening to the radio or following the wrong people on Twitter or something like that, you're getting a very, very limited view of what's very finite. So we have to open our awareness. The physical reality is important. It's important that we deal with it in a constructive way, take it seriously, and be impeccable. But you also have to be very, very, very focused your meditation, your faith in enlightenment, your spiritual experiences. You have to really, really go inward to see the light more and to value it. It's important during this time to take seriously the conditions of this world, but also to be very, very focused on your eternal being. Because if you don't see eternality, if you don't see spirit, then you're dead in the world. So this is a time of great illusion, great maya. We would call it diversity. So there's two powerful forces in the universe, diversity and unity. Diversity is a force of maya, of illusion, of samskaric existence. It's a force that creates separation. Separation of attention. It divides awareness. It divides you from being one. It brings you into two. It brings you into an aggregation where you of life, the root of spirit. So, it's very important to recognize that we all have Buddha nature. Enlightenment is within all of us. But when you don't see that, when it's gone and there's just 10,000 other things, that's maya, that's illusion, that's diversity, right? That's what samskara existence is. When you're not enlightened, you experience life in all sorts of ways. I'm angry, I'm sad, I'm confused, all of these different things. And that divides your attention, divides your awareness. And enlightenment is that singular essence of your being, undivided. So diversity, maya, Maya, it's very important for spiritual practitioners to focus on enlightenment because the heaviness of the illusion, the heaviness of the illusion blocks you from seeing your true nature. Now unity is what we always focus on in spiritual practice. Unity is that which brings things together, even the opposites. So it brings us into common agreements, it brings us out of enmity, brings us out of conflict. So, unity is that one factor, the force that brings you into a condition of eternal illumination and awareness. So diversity is a very powerful condition right now. But when we go inwardly, we can experience unity.

0:21:14
And unity is very powerful.

0:21:16
Unity is what brings the opposites together. You could say, there's night and day, they're completely different. But in the mind of unity, they're the same. There's life and death, they're completely different. But in the mind of unity, they're the same. So we have to seek unity. We have to find a way out. I mean, this is the way it is in, let's say, a Zen koan. A Zen koan is all about pointing out a disparate truth. And you say, oh, this can't be. There's diversity in that statement. But if you reflect on it, deeply, you go beyond the mind of duality into an awareness of unity. So, one of the great famous koans is, Mu. Mu means not having. So, this was a student of a teacher in China. He said, Master, if all of us have Buddha nature, if everything has Buddha nature, does a dog have Buddha nature? And there was a little Scotty dog sitting there. But anyway, the master says, Moo, which means no, we're not having. And then the student has to think about this and says, how can this be? All the teachings of Buddha nature is that we are all Buddhas. Enlightenment is in all of us. But the Master says, the dog doesn't have enlightenment. So then the student had to think on it, reflect on it, and go from an awareness of duality into, beyond the duality, into an awareness of unity that resolves that question. So, you know, what is the sound of one hand clapping? Like these are a whole bunch of questions that, you know, that's what a call-in is. It's a question that doesn't make sense. But from the awareness of unity, all of these things that don't make sense are resolved. All of the things that don't make sense are resolved. Life doesn't make sense, but from an awareness of unity, it's resolved. This is why Buddha started the pathway to enlightenment in his lifetime. He was like, oh my gosh, there's death? I don't want to die. I have to resolve this death problem that was just coming. And what he did in his practice that brought him to enlightenment was he resolved the death problem. And he saw that death is life and life is death.

0:24:50
So this is what we must do.

0:24:53
We have to work through seeing this world is so horrible. I don't like that person. I blame this, I suffer that. All of that is an experience in Maya, in illusion. And we will all outwardly experience this karma of illusion. But what matters most is inwardly, in our spirit, that we are free of illusion, that we solve the the koan. His physical body died, but his spirit became free with enlightenment. So this is what our work is. We are here in a difficult time, to have recognition of the difficult times, to now an awareness to deal with it in the most positive ways, and a super strong spiritual drive to see what's beyond it. Because that's satisfaction, liberation, enlightenment is beyond the physical constraints. And this is where we gotta get to. So this is a greater reality and this is what we focus on in spiritual practice. And we find great power in unity. brings everything together. The only thing that separates us is self. So when you find yourself having a concept, a reaction, an idea, a desire, an attached-to-view, these are all views of self. And all those reactions of self kind of murk up the waters so that you can't see you can't see what is in common with all. So we have to let go of the self. See the self, it grapples all the time, it's always wrestling. The self is a constriction, so the ego is always going, taking life and squeezing it, and it takes a lot of energy to do that. And that's what people always do. I think, I feel, and it squeezes life down. Once we can let go of that, then life flows like a river. And life flows. So we want to let things flow. We don't want to start clamping down on things. When you are limiting things with the self, then there's pain, there's suffering. When you let things flow, then there's opening. So, it's important. We have to recognize this deeply in the way that we interact with life. Because with our friends and family, there's many places where we start to constrict. We have reactions. And we have to let go of those reactions. Those reactions only harm us and harm others. So we have to let go. We have to observe that very deep down innate aspect of ourselves that wants to go. Because that will cut you off. The moment you're in that reaction of holding, of attaching, of constricting, then you're outside of expanding and opening You're looking in To make it small You're not looking out To let go and make it large Because being eternal as it is So it's important For you to have a recognition of where are the points, where are the places, where are the things in your mind and your reactions, where you're squeezing it versus letting go. Because in letting go of self-reaction, there's a great peace in your being. In letting go in self-reaction, action, you're able to shift from dissatisfaction to satisfaction. Even in some particular case where there's some suffering. You can be in a case of difficulty and hardship, or something's You were wronged But when you let go you yield that self-reaction Then you experience Luminosity Right, I mean if we look at some enlightened beings that we've heard about Like Buddha Buddha had some people who didn't like him. And he had some people, I think there were three assassination attempts on Buddha. And Buddha never, you know, he never did that. So, we want to be able to let go of everything. Someone said something mean to you, right, something like that. Let go of those things. Someone, you know, someone tries to do something bad to you, but two, let it go. Don't be, hang on to it, don't create enmity. You have to let it go. And you experience eternity. If you're always clinging, you're always bringing it in and clinging, then your consciousness is going down into karma, into all your ideas and your thoughts, and all your reasons why somebody messed you over, did you wrong, and all those things, brings it all in to more and more and more and more and more self. That's why the Buddha said, you know, look how he beat me and hurt me, how he threw me down and robbed me. If you live with such thoughts, you live in hate. And that doesn't mean that you didn't get beat up and thrown down and robbed. But if you live in those thoughts, you live in hate. And so Buddha says, abandon those thoughts and live in love. Just stop thinking that, number one. And number two, direct your mind to other things. Compassion, develop yourself. Learn Judo. learn judo so the next time someone tries to throw you down, you throw them down, softly, compassionately. That's why we do jujitsu. So, this is very important. We're going from of diversity to a condition of unity. And to do it, you have to let go of your angers. You have to let go of your negativity. You have to let go of the past. The past is dust. Did you know that? The past is dust. What are you sitting there, I know that you've got a Santa Claus list of naughty and nice. You're like, this person is naughty, this person is nice, and you're sitting there going, and that naughty person gets three strikes, right? I know that you're doing that right now. And if you're doing that, you're living in karma, you're following your karma, you're living in hate, Santa Claus. But truly, right, if you're sitting there with a scorecard and you've got strikes against someone, you need to forgive. You got a problem. Right? It's true. So, this This is why in Bodhicitta we say, we never blame others. The moment that you're blaming another person, you need to look at yourself. There's something wrong. If Buddha had three assassination attempts on his life, and yet he could forgive and love and keep teaching the Dharma and flourish in his mind with the Dharma, then that little thing that someone did to you, is it worth being so upset about? I think no. So I would say follow the teachings of the Dharma. The teachings of powerful, profound. So the power of unity is that we move beyond the self. So the self stands in our way. a little bit of recognition and awareness of what unites us, then the floodgates open. Then you can see a greater reality. Then all of a sudden there's immediate unity, the self just immediately goes away. That's what you have to look for. So I would say you got to look at your enemy and you have to say hmm how are we the same? And guess what you're you're the same in so many ways and yet we find these little things, land, you know, revenge, things like that. But we have to look at our lives of separativity, of reaction. And then come to see a greater unity. Unity is the path of the spiritual path. Because we start off in diversity. we feel we're separate and we see all these people affecting us in different ways. But someone who's spiritually powerful sees unity and even though there's ups and downs, they can forgive, they can let go. They're bigger than that. They have a connection to life that's more powerful. This is what we have to look for. Because if you're just caught in the surface of life, the finite world, it's a very difficult place to be. So you have to meditate and reflect and practice bodhicitta. Unity has a powerful magic where we're greater than the sum of the parts. When you're just an individual working on something, it's okay, it's good. But when you can be part of a group working on something, there's something more magical about it. That's the power of unity. So we observe that in our group. We observe that. And we observe the thing that, the only thing that stops us, that separates that magic from happening, is our thoughts of, he did this to me, I don't like that, I should be this. Self, self, self, self, self. Right? That's what stops the magic of the group. But the moment that you can have a recognition of connection with a group, then it's powerful, it's magical, it's like this amazing thing. Rosenblum and in 1923 or something like that he was he was a good Jew you know he went to synagogue he was listening to the rabbi the rabbi is like hey guess what the his rabbi kept telling him telling everybody hey the Jews in Europe are having a hard time so we should help them out so so he was a wealthy businessman. He had created his own clothing company but what made him really big was he met, he became I think a partner with Sears and then he grew the Sears Corporation. So he was, he had a lot of money, he was helping out, you know, in Europe, he was bringing, he was helping Jews come over who were being prosecuted and creating a whole bunch of structures for them to come into America. So he lived in Chicago and he was talking to an alderman, this is like a city council person, and you know he was he was creating lots of programs for you know the immigrant Jews and the alderman was Timothy Harris and he was an African-American and said, hey you ever think about helping African-Americans as well? And then and then Rosenblum was like, well, for what? And then Harris explained to him the difficulties that they were having. And Rosenblum listened. And then he saw all these, he says, I saw similarities between what the Jews were going through and the African Americans. So then instead of just focusing his wealth on helping Jews, he started helping African Americans. And he created a very, very, very helpful, like inner city housing was a big thing that he kicked off in Chicago. And then another thing that he kicked off was he created this thing called the Challenge Grant. This is something that became popular since then, but this was back in like 1920. He came up with this idea of challenging the city governments to provide funds for housing or different urban services, where he said, I'll give you half if you come up with the other half. And they were like, wow, how can we turn away that money? Yeah, that's the right thing to do. So he created this whole program of challenge grants and he started in Chicago, but he brought it throughout the United States. And these were programs that were specifically helpful to the African Americans. So the moment that he saw a commonality between the Jews that he was always growing up to help and the African Americans, then all of a sudden he's helping a bigger group. He's very happy about that. So, the moment you see a unity, there's an outpour of energy. This is something serve in our lives? Where are the places where we are focused on ourselves? And when we can see a connection with someone else, even one other person, there's tremendous energy. That's what Bodhicitta is. We tend to be all wrapped up in ourselves, and the moment you have compassion for another person, the moment you see a way to help another person, a tremendous amount of energy comes through. That's what Torecita is, compassion. When you say, oh, wow, a person's suffering just just like I suffer, energy. So this is important for us to observe. We have to see commonality. The more that you see, the bigger your heart, the more unity that you see, the more light comes through you, the more power comes through you and the higher spiritual evolution, your experience. So we seek to find commonalities. That's what Bodhicitta is all about. Where do we become common with others? Where do we connect with others? And what he sees is really funny. It's like, we connect through suffering. We can connect through 10,000 other ways, but what do we all have in common? Ouch. So that's where we have connection. So it's very important to recognize that this is a difficult time. And in this time, we're seeking a greater awareness of spirit. And we have to recognize that in unity,

0:47:04
we can do more, we can be greater.

0:47:07
So there was this great story, this is a great Zen story. Zen, Japan, there was this great enlightened teacher, Hakuin, and he goes to this monastery to give teachings, and everyone's like dying for their enlightenment. They're like, yes! This great enlightened master has come. We're ready to be enlightened. And he gives the teaching and they all go... And they're meditating on it like crazy. And then Hakuen's all, oh my gosh, you guys are... Not... this is bad. This is so bad. It smells. And they're like, oh, what's going on? We're really, really, we're listening to your teaching, really trying." And he's like, so he keeps teaching them and they're like, and he's like, oh no, you guys don't get it. And then he said, okay, he said, I'm going to give you guys a teaching to help you understand how to be enlightened. They said, okay. So they all, so every monk, there was over 100 monks in this monastery, and every monk had their own bowl. And he said, I want you to put your name on your bowl, because the monks, they would show up for mealtime, they had their bowl, food would come, they would eat, right? So they would kind of carry their bowl with them. But he said, put your name on your bowl. So they all put their name on their bowl. He said, now put your bowl into a pile. They all put their bowls down. And then he mixed it up. And then he said, okay, now dinner is in the kitchen and I'm gonna go into the kitchen. And then in 15 minutes, anyone who finds their bowl can come and join me. And I'll give you special teaching in the kitchen. They're all, oh my gosh, this is great. So he goes into the kitchen and there's this 100 bowls and everyone's looking for their bowl. And then no one finds it. No one finds their bowl in 15 minutes. They're all looking for their bowl, one by one, looking at a bowl. Is this me?

0:49:40
No.

0:49:42
And so the next day, he does the same. And the next day, he does the same. So for three days, these monks don't eat. And on the fourth day, the monks are a little stressed out. says, okay, okay, let's give up on you finding your bowl. You can come to meet me in the kitchen for dinner if you give a bowl to the right person. And then they say, okay. And he leaves, walks into the kitchen, and then 10 minutes later, all the monks are in the kitchen. So you get that? When you're looking out for your own enlightenment, if that's all you want, you're going to be looking a long time. But if you're looking out for the enlightenment then enlightenment is everywhere for you. This is what we have to do. This must be our way, because when you're looking for your own enlightenment, you're letting go that self everywhere where everyone is at all times. So we're on a voyage from diversity to unity. And diversity is, this world is crazy. And there's so much hardship and difficulty. And there's suffering. We suffer. And that's the world of diversity. But unity is all this This letting go of suffering and sorrow, letting go of blame, not hating. Instead of hating someone, learning to love them. This is all opening. We're going from a place of illusion to true seeing. If there's someone that you blame, you're in illusion. When you come to a place where you have compassion for them, then you will have love and compassion for that person and no longer blame. And that is unity. That is the dharma of enlightenment. So, we are in a voyage. So our voyage is a construction. And the construction starts with, what is your highest and brightest and most powerful in the study, till now. What is the most powerful thing for you? Or maybe what's the most powerful three things or five things that comes to mind? What comes to mind as being powerful? in the Buddha dharma, what is it from the teachings that work for you? What is it that's real for you?

0:53:47
that we put together.

0:53:49
But you have to be clear.

0:53:51
This is where we get to your yogic feet, the yogic act. This yogic path is that you have to know for yourself to be real with yourself. What is powerful for you here in the study. What works, what's strong, what gives you light, what gives you awareness of your Buddha nature. So what I'd like to do is I'd like to have a focus on that. I'd like you to recall and recollect the most powerful things for you. I'd like you to bring to mind what has been the thing that is spiritually uplifting, that's helped you in practical ways and also just inner ways. What is it? Now this is important. This is the part where you have to do something. You have to bring this to mind. We're going to all sit together with this in mind. In experiences? How have we experienced enlightenment, unity, in this world of diversity? There's so many difficult problems out there, but what is the one thing, or the five things, or whatever that are bright to you, that are powerful and spiritual and uplifting for you. Hold that in your mind. So we're going to sit for one song. And while we sit, we're gonna close our eyes, have a soft focus on the third eye, but we're going to reflect. We're gonna, it's called recapitulate. It's bringing together power and attention of the past. Things that were bright and powerful and spiritual. Bring those to mind. And it doesn't have to be a big earthquake of enlightenment. It could Yeah, I meditated once and then I felt better. That would be beautiful. Or, for my meditation, I was able to have more energy to learn computer programming. That would be beautiful. I was able to forgive someone. That would be beautiful. I was able to practice compassion. That would be beautiful. Anything. There's many teachings. You've gotten them. Any teaching that has helped you, that you see some progress, spiritual, physical, emotional, bring that to mind. That's what our practice is. The highest, brightest, most powerful thing. So sit up nice and straight. We're going to sit just for one song, soft focus on the third eye, and we're going to not just, we're not going to meditate because we're not stopping thought. We are recollecting and bringing to mind the most powerful experiences of spirit that we've had in the study. Okay? Let's begin.

0:58:17
Oh, so so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so so so so Oh, Very nice. The wonderful thing about unity is that it expands you. It multiplies your light. You can come to a situation with your power, your light, and when you come

1:02:57
into unity with it, then all of a sudden there's a greater expansion. Much greater. And you couldn't do that by yourself. So, unity is powerful that way. It's kind of like, I like to think of us all as trumpet players in an orchestra, right? You could be third trumpet in a Mozart symphony, right? And you're just, and if you just play that trumpet part, it's all, bop, bop, bop, bop, bop, bop, bop, bop, bop, bop, bop, bop.

1:03:35
You're like, what is that?

1:03:36
If you just hear the third trumpet part of an orchestra, it's pretty boring. But then when you hear it all together, then you hear the violins, the oboe, the bassoon, the bass, and that trumpet fits in perfectly. And it adds to something much bigger than just that trumpet alone. Even if you're the first trumpet, you're just one part of the symphony. So it's important to know you're part of things. a very famous businessman, a developer, a big developer who made Las Vegas go from a little place in the desert with a few gambling hotels to a big place in the desert with many gambling hotels. The name is Stephen Wynn, and he has some hotels out there, the Wynn Hotels and the Mirage Hotels. Anyway, so Stephen Wynn, he was early on in his career when he had just a small stake. He had a bingo parlor in like Minneapolis, Minnesota or somebody like that. And then he had a small stake of a hotel and then he went to Paris, France on a dream vacation with his family and they stayed at the Four Seasons and they were having this great time. And one morning, they woke up early, they wanted to go on some walk or go to Eiffel Tower or something before tourists got there. And she ate half of her croissant and then they had to go. So they went. And they left the croissant there thinking, hey, when we come back, if she's still hungry after an hour, she can have the croissant. They got back and the croissant was gone. Right. And the first thing he thinks is, oh, okay, well, we'll have to go out, get her something to eat. But then they get a call from concierge, and concierge said, housekeeping noticed that there was only half a croissant eaten on this one plate, and therefore, we have talked to the pastry chef, and we have a fresh croissant ready. And if you would like, we can bring it up." So he said, oh great, yeah, please. And that was a big click for him. Steven went, he said, whoa, what's going on here? He said, so many things come together to make for me, the paying customer on my dream vacation, an amazing experience, right? experience. Right? So housekeeping had to come in and they didn't only just clean things, they also said to concierge, hey guess what? Only half a croissant was eaten on this plate. And so it's a croissant over a croissant. And then they went down to the kitchen and said, hey kitchen, let me talk to the pastry chef. Pastry chef said, yeah, you know what, we can do more. We can keep one ready. You know, all this thing. And then it was this whole organization with many people to make sure that his daughter had a croissant for breakfast. And that for him clicked something off in his mind, and he's like, whoa, this team, this Four Seasons team, creates a powerful service that makes me very happy. And then he said, I'm gonna do that in Las Vegas. And he went from having like a small steak in one hotel to having a T-bone steak. Many hotels. So, yeah, anyway, so when you see how things work together, it's very powerful. I also have to say, we all saw the presentation of the Dharma of the Buddha Dojo. So this was amazing. This reminds me of Four Seasons. So many different things that people worked on that came together, right? So we have the website design, we have the website copy, so much consideration into how are we presenting ourselves? How are we speaking to people? Right speech, right? The learning management system, Kajabi, how we're using it, a lot of focus and thought went into this. How are we going to make our marketing plans and our communications to speak to people in terms of their own interests? Like all of these things have come together in such a beautiful way, a powerful way. It definitely reminds me of the Four Seasons, right? It's like, I might just have this little job, but this little job comes together to mean something. There was this colonel in the Air Force. Which war was he in? Some useless American war, forget it. Anyway, he got shot down and he, I guess it was like World War II or the Korean War, I think the Korean War, and he had to jump out of his airplane with a parachute. And he survived. And then he got back, and then he was just going around his day, and then some guy comes over to him and says, hey, are you Colonel so-and-so? And he says, yeah. He said, I packed your parachute. And the guy goes, whoa, and it worked. And so, you know what, most of them work. Just like, you know, like keeping a croissant fresh is not the hardest thing in the world, but the fact that you do it means something. A croissant means something. A parachute means something. So, we are in the Buddha dojo doing some wonderful things. Some people, a little thought, a little thing, a little thing that they're focused on, it's powerful. Some people, bigger things. But everyone together creates a four season experience of enlightenment. And that's what what we want to do. So we've brought to mind all of these powerful moments, powerful experiences, real strong experiences. And what we're doing it all for is, this is a powerful recapitulation. It is bringing forth from your experience the greatest, strongest spiritual awareness. And then what we're doing is we're creating this as something together that we can then step off from. It becomes a spiritual step that we take. Because we have a collective awareness of, yes, there's something strong that I've gained, something good that's helped my life from the study. And so, if we all bring that together at this time, this solstice, this time of power, we can use this as a step and that step brings us higher. Our step brings us into the Buddha dojo, our next offering of teaching, our next structure of spiritual giving. So bringing that to mind, having that focus and that power in your mind. This gives us the ability to put a structure together, a spiritual structure that we can then lift off from. So I'd And this meditation is Diversity is unity. Unity is diversity. It is that each one of you brings to this experience an experience and awareness of truth and Dharma and power. And we all come with that one little nugget and we put it together and we all put it together. We're all putting it together. So we've had our individual awarenesses of power and spirit in the study. We're bringing it together and we're putting it together. And what we put it together into is what we call the Golden Pyramid. It is our structure, our inner structure of enlightenment. It is our structure, our unity, every individual being diverse takes their enlightenment and we bring it together to make a pyramid, a union. And from that union, we express power and enlightenment to many others in a new way that we haven't before. So I'd like you to sit up nice and straight. We're gonna have a soft focus on the third eye. This will be an open-eye meditation. So look up to here, and we're gonna sit with this awareness of every single one of us having a diverse spiritual experience of light and power coming together into unity.

1:15:17
Let's begin. ♪♪♪ you so so so so You're my everything You're my everything You're my everything You're my everything You're my everything So All right, very nice. All right. So now we're going to take a break. Ten minutes. And we're going to come back. And we're going to move into the intermediate teachings.

1:16:57
So for those of you who, actually everyone on this call should be here, but for those of you who are new to the intermediate teachings, this will be an intermediate empowerment. So this brings you to a new level. And for those of you who've been through this like twice, some advanced students are always been through this, like more intermediate teachings, then, guess what, it's great. It is. It's always informative and better. then, guess what, it's great. It is. It's always informative and better. Okay. And also, what did you miss? All right. So, 10 minutes. We've come back. Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
